304

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

penses out of the assets in the hands of the liquidator,
upon the ground that the court was without jurisdiction
to make such an allowance, any right of the appellants
inder the Federal Constitution has been infringed. The
question is one of state practice and remedy. The motions to dismiss the appeals are granted and the appeals
are dismissed for the want of a substantial federal question. Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393;
Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 280, 281;
McDonald v. Oregon Navigation Co., 233 U. S. 665, 669,
670; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 369, 370; Enterprise IrrigationDistrict v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 166.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CURTISS-WRIGHT EXPORT

CORP.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 98. Argued November 19, 20, 1936.-Decided December 21, 1936.
A Joint Resolution of May 28, 1934, provided: "That ii the
President finds that the prohibition of the sale of arms and munitions of war in the United States to those countries now engaged
in armed conflict in the Chaco may coL pibute to the regstablishment of peace between those countries, and if after consultation
with the governments of other American Republics and with their
cobperation, as well as that of such other governments as he may
deem necessary, he makes proclamation to that effect, it shall be
unlawful to sell, except under such limitations and exceptions as
the President prescribes, any arms or munitions of war in any
place in the United States to the countries now engaged in that
armed conflict, or to any person, company, or association acting
in the interest of either country, until otherwise ordered by the
President or by Congress." Violation was made punishable as a

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

305

Syllabus.

crime. The President issued two proclamations, one on the date
of the Resolution, putting it into operation; the other on November 14, 1935, revoking the first proclamation. Held:
(1) The Joint Resolution is not an unconstitutional delegation
of legislative power to the Executive. Pp. 314, 329.
(2) The powers of the Federal Government over foreign or
external affairs differ in nature and origin from those over domestic
or internal affairs. P. 315.
(3) The broad statement that the Federal Government can
exercise no powers except those specifically enumerated in the
Constitution, and such implied powers as are necessary and proper
to carry into effect the enumerated powers, is categorically true
only in respect of our internal affairs. In that field, the primary
purpose of the Constitution was to carve from the general mass
of legislative powers then possessed by the States such portions as
it was thought desirable to vest in the Federal Government, leaving those not included in the enumeration still in the States. Id.
(4) The States severally never possessed international powers.
P. 316.
(5) As a result of the separation from Great Britain by the
Colonies, acting as a unit, the powers of external sovereignty passed
from the Crown, not to the Colonies severally, but to the Colonies
in their collective and corporate capacity as the United States of
America. Id.
(6) The Conslitution was ordained and established, among other
things, to form "a more perfect Union." Prior to that event, the
Union, declared by the Articles of Confederation to be "perpetual," was the sole possessor of external sovereignity, and in
the Union it remained without change save in so far as the Constitution in express terms qualified its exercise. Though the States
were several their people in respect of foreign affairs were one.
P. 317.
(7) The investment of the Federal Government with the powers
of external sovereignty did not depend upon .the affirmative grants
of the Constitution. P. 318.
(8) In the international field, the sovereignty of the United
States is complete. Id.
(9) In international relations the President is the sole organ of
the Federal Government. P. 319.
(10) In view of the delicacy of foreign relations and of the
power peculiar to the President in this regard, Congressional legislation which is to be made effective in the international field must

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the United States.

299 U. S.

often accord to him a degree of discretion and freedom which
would not be admissible were domestic affairs alone involved.
P. 319.
(11) The marked difference between foreign and domestic
affairs, in this respect, is recognized in the dealings of the houses
of Congress with executive departments. P. 321.
(12) Unbroken legislative practice from, the inception almost
of the national government supports the conclusion that the Joint
Resolution, supra, is not an unconstitutional delegation of power.
P. 322.
(13) Findings of jurisdictional facts in the first proclamation,
following the language of the Joint Resolution, were sufficient.
P. 330.
(14) The revocation of the first proclamation by the second
did not have the effect of abrogating the Resolution or of precluding its enforcement by prosecution and punishment of offenses
committed during the life of the first proclamation. P. 331.
2. Upon an appeal by the United States under the Criminal Appeals
Act from a decision holding an indictment bad on demurrer, this
Court has jurisdiction of questions involving the validity of the
statute on which the indictment was founded which were decided
by the District Court in favor of the United States. P. 329.
14 F. Supp. 230, reversed.

APPEAL, under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment quashing an indictment for conspiracy.
Mr. Mdrtin Conboy, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. Wil-

liam W. Barron and CharlesA. Horsky were on the brief,

for the United States.
There is no unconstitutional delegation of legislative
power. From the beginning of the Government like
delegations have been customary in the field of foreign
relations.

The policy of Congress is clearly stated; the standards
axe simple and definite; and a finding by the President is
required. The case is controlled by Hampton & Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 394, and Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.

649.

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Argument for Appellees.

The objection that the President is allowed to make
simply an estimate of the future efficacy of the law rather
than a finding of present facts rests upon a misconstruction of the Resolution, which requires the finding of a
present fact, viz., whether the prohibition on arms will
contribute to reestablishment of peace in the Chaco now.
Delegations of power to make present determinations
of future effect are commonly upheld, e. g., in rate-cases.
The other grounds urged below in support of the demurrer, and overruled by the District Court, are not properly before this Court under the Criminal Appeals Act.
In any event, they are without merit. By his proclamation the President complied with every requirement of
the Resolution, making all findings of fact that were
necessary.
Nor did the second proclamation, revoking the first,
terminate liability for offenses committed in the interim.
The authority for the prosecution is the Resolution, not
repealed. Moreover, even if the proclamation can be considered as a repeal of the Resolution, the prosecution is
authorized by R. S., § 13.
Mr. George Z. Medalie, with whom Messrs. J. Edward
Lumbard, Jr., and Theodore S. Hope, Jr., were on the
brief, for John S. Allard et al., appellees.
The Joint Resolution attempts an invalid delegation
in at least four respects. First, its going into operation
is made dependent upon the President's determination
whether it may have the capacity to bring about the
result desired by the Congress, to-wit, the restablishment
of peace in the Chaco. Second, its going into operation
is further conditioned upon the President's uncontrolled
discretion. Third, it delegates to the President a power
to repeal the Resolution which is co6rdinate with that
of the Congress itself. Fourth, it grants to the President
the power to except from and limit the statutory prohibi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appelles.

299 1T. S.

tion, as he may see fit, guided by no rule or standard
whatsoever.
The proclamation which was designed to put the Resolution into operation was ineffectual, because of the President's falure to find essenlial jurisdictional facts.
The acts charged in the indictment are no longer an
offense against the laws of the United States. The prosecution is not saved by R. S., § 13 and there is no other
saving clause.
This Court may conisider all grounds urged in support of
the judgment which go to the validity or construction of'
the Joint Resolution.
Mr. William Wallace, with whom Mr. Robert D. Shea
was on the brief, for the Curtiss-Wright Export Corp. et
al., appellees.
The Criminal Appeals Act permits consideration on this
appeal of any ground of invalidity in addition to the one
upon which the court below sustained the demurrers.
United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 398, 400; United States
v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507, 522; United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370, 398; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 606;
United States v. Americani Railway Express Co., 265 U. S.
425, 435; Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 538; United
States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188; United States v. Nixon,
235 U. S. 231; United States v. Shreveport Grain Co., 287
U. S. 77; United States v. Mescall, 215 U. S. 26, 31.
The Joint Resolution was invalid because it was not
to go into operation until after an optiomal proclamation which the President might never make. Making or
refusing to make a law is essentially a legislative function
which may not be delegated or surrendered by the Congress. Mutual Film Corp. v. Ohio Industrial Comn'n,
236 U. S. 245; Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S.
388; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.
495, 538.

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Argument for Appellees.

Some of the cases relied on by the Government, like
Hampton & *Co.v. United States, 276 U. S. 394; Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649, are 'under tariff acts Others deal
with powers confided to the Interstate Commerce Commission on rate regulations, etc. (Louisville & N. R. Co.
v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; New York Central Securities Co.
v. United States, 287 U. S. 12; see also, Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1). Still others have to do
with control of the radio, film and similar industries.
(Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S.
266; Mutual Film Corp. v. Ohio Industrial Comm'n, 236
U. S. 245; see also, Pacific States Box & Basket Co. v.
White, 296 U. 5. 176.) One deals with the functions of
the Secretary of War, confided to him under the constitutional power to control navigable waters. (Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364.)
In all those cases the question arose under legislation
already in operation 'and with respect to delegation of
power over administrative details incident to its enforcement. No one of them involved a determination of a
condition upon the happening of which a law not yet in
effect was or was nof to be put into operation.
Distinguishing alsi: The Aurora, 7 Cranch 382; United
States v. Chavez, 228 U. S. 525; United States v. Mesa,
228 U. S. 533; Talbott v. United States, 208 Fed. 144,
cert. den., 232 U. S. 722; and United States v. Lucas,
6 F. (2d) 327. Cf. Langworth v. Kadel, 141 Kan. 256.
In the present case, the President was under no compulsion to issue his Proclamation unless he should choose
to do so. It seems clear that under the principle of the
Field and Panama cases, such lack of explicit directions
and mandatory force is fatal to the validity of the Resolution.
The Resolution is invalid because its duration, if ever
it went into operation, was left likewise to the uncontrolled discretion of the President.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellees.

299 U. S.

The power to prescribe limitations and exceptions invalidates the Resolution.
The prohibition of the sale of arms and munitions
never went into effect because the President failed to
comply with the conditions prescribed by the Joint Resolution. While the courts will not investigate the manner
in which the President or any other high official has carried out an executive or administrative function (Philadelphia & Trenton Ry. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448), the
rule has no application where a delegation of legislative
power is involved. Panaima Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388, 433.
The rule is well established (Wichita Railroad & Light
Co. v. Public Utilities Cornm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 59; Mahler
v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 44) that, where legislative power
has been delegated, not only a substantial compliance
with the conditions laid down by the legislative body
is required, but also an affirmative showing that this has
been done.
From the proclamation it appears that the President
consulted with the Governments of other American Republics and that he secured assurances of the coS1peratioti
of such Governments as he deemed necessary. There is
no express declaration-no affirmative stateinieiit-that
"such Governments as I have deemed necessary" included
any American Republic.
The phrase "as contemplated by the said Joint Resolution" is not sufficient to indicate unequivocally that the
President was asserting a full compliance.
But even if the proclamation be construed as asserting
such compliance in general terms, or as a conclusion of
the President, this would not resolve the difficulty. The
broader underlying question would still remain, whether
such a general phrase amounts to an affirmative showing
of compliance. This Court has held otherwise in Mahler
v. Eby, supra.

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

The Joint Resolution is not presently valid, or alive
for the purpose of sustaining prosecution for offenses heretofore committed thereunder.
The Joint Resolution was intended as a temporary provision, to be in force during the period between the first
proclamation putting the prohibition into effect, and the
later proclamation removing it. It was to be effective
"until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress." That time lmit was reached when the revoking
proclamation was issued: Having then expired, no further judicial proceedings could be had thereunder, unless
competent authority had kept it alive for that purpose.
Yeaton v. United States, 5 Cranh 281, 283-4; United
States v. Chambers, 291 U. S. 207; The Rachel, 6 Cranch
329..
Revised Statutes, § 13, by its terms, is applicable only
where a statute has been "repealed." The word "repeal"
means the abrogation of one statute by another statute.
Mr. Neil P. Cullom was on the brief for Barr Shipping
Corp. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On January 27, 1936, an indictment vas returned in the
court below, the first 'count of which charges that appellees, beginning with the 29th day of May, 1934, conspired
to sell in the United States certain arms of war, namely
fifteen machine guns, to Bolivia, a country then engaged
in armed conflict in the Chaco, in violation of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 28, 1934, and the
provisions of a proclamation issued on the same day by
the President of the United States pursuant to authority
conferred by § 1 of the resolution. In pursuance of the
conspiracy, the commission of certain overt acts was
alleged, details of which need not be stated. The Joint
Resolution (c. 365, 48 Stat. 811) follows:

,312

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That if the President finds that the prohibition of the sale
of arms and munitions of war in the United States to
those countries now engaged in armed conflict in the
Chaco may contribute to the reestablishment of peace between those countries, and if after consultation with the
governments of other American Republics and with their
co6peration, as well as that of such other governments as
he may deem necessary, he makes proclamation to that
effect, it shall be unlawful to sell, except under such limitations and exceptions as the President prescribes, any
arms or munitions of war in any place in the United
States to the countries now engaged in that armed conflict, or to any person, company, or association acting in
the interest of either country, until otherwise ordered by
the President or by Congress.
"See. 2. Whoever sells any arms or munitions of war
in violation of section 1 shall, on conviction, be punished
by a fine not exceeding $10,000 or by imprisonment not
exceeding two years, or both."
The President's proclamation (48 Stat. 1744). after reciting the terms of the Joht Resolution, declares:
"Now, therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, acting under all(I
by virtue of the authority conferred in me by the said
joint resolution of Congress, do hereby declare and proclaim that I have found that the prohibition of the sale
of arms and munitions of war in the United States to
those countries now engaged in armed conflict in the
Chaco may contribute to the reestablishment of peace between those countries, and that I have consulted with the
governments of other American Republics and have been
assured of the cobperation of such governments as I have
deemed necessary as contemplated by the said joint resolution; and I do hereby admonish all citizens of the

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

United States and every person to abstain from every violation of the provisions of the joint resolution above set
forth, hereby made applicable to Bolivia and Paraguay,
and I do hereby warn them that all violations of such provisions will be rigorously prosecuted.
"And I do hereby enjoin upon all officers of the United
States'charged with the execution of the laws thereof, the
utmost diligence in preventing violations of the said joint
resolution and this my proclamation issued thereunder,
and in bringing to trial and punishment any offenders
against the same.
"And I do hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the
power of prescribing exceptions and limitations to the
application of the said joint resolution of May 28, 1934, as
made effective by this my proclamation issued thereunder."
On November 14, 1935, this proclamation was revoked
(49 Stat. 3480), in the following terms:
"Now, therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare
and proclaim that I have found that the prohibition ,of
the sale of arms and munitions of war in the United
States to Bolivia or Paraguay will no longer be necessary
as a contribution to the reestablishment of peace between
those countries, and the above-mentioned Proclamation
of May 28, 1934, is hereby revoked as to the sale of arms
and munitions of war to Bolivia or Paraguay from and
after November 29, 1935, provided, however, that this
action shall not have the effect of releasing or extinguishing any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under the
aforesaid Proclamation of May 28, 1934, or the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved by the President on the
same date; and that the said Proclamation and Joint Resolution shall be treated as remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture or liability."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Appellees severally demurred to the first count of the
indictment on the grounds (1) that it did not charge
facts sufficient to show the commission by appellees
of any offense against any law of the United States;
(2) that this count of the indictment charges a conspiracy
to violate the joint resolution and the Presidential proclamation, both of which had expired according to the terms
of the joint resolution by reason of the revocation contained in the Presidential proclamation of November 14,
1935, and were not in force at the time when the indictment was found. The points urged in support of the
demurrers were, first, that the joint resolution effects an
invalid delegation of legislative power to the executive;
second, that the joint resolution never became effective
because of the failure of the President to find essential
jurisdictional facts; and third, that the second proclamation operated to put an end to the alleged liability under
the joint resolution'.
The court below sustained the demurrers upon the
first point, but overruled them on the second and third
points. 14 F. Supp. 230. The government appealed to
this court under the provisions of the Criminal Appeals
Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, as amended, U. S. C.
Title 18, § 682. That act authorizes the United States
to appeal from a district court direct to this court in
criminal cases where, among other things, the decision
sustaining a demurrer to the indictment or any count
thereof is based upon the invalidity or construction of the
statute upon which the indictment is' founded.
First. It is contended that by the Joint Resolution,
the going into effect and continued operation of the resolution was conditioned (a) upon the President's judgment as to its beneficial effect upon the reestablishment
of peace between the countries engaged in armed conflict in the Chaco; (b) upon the making of a proclama,

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

tion, which was left to his unfettered discretion, thus
constituting an attempted substitution of the President's
will for that of Congress; (c) upon the making of a
proclamation putting an end to the operation of the resolution, which again was left to the President's unfettered
discretion; and (d) further, that the extent of its operation in particular cases was subject to limitation and exception by the President, controlled by no standard. In
each of these particulars, appellees urge that Congress
abdicated its essential functions and delegated them to
the Executive.
Whether, if the Joint Resolution had related solely to
internal affairs it would be open to the challenge that it
constituted an unlawful delegation of legislative power to
the Executive, we find it unnecessary to determine. The
whole aim of the resolution is to affect a situation entirely
external to the United States, and falling within the category of foreign affairs. The determination which we are
called to make, therefore, is whether the Joint Resolution, as applied to that situation, is vulnerable to attack
under the rule that forbids a delegation of the law-making power. In other words, assuming (but not deciding)
that the challenged delegation, if it were confined to internal affairs, would be invalid, may it nevertheless be
sustained on the ground that its exclusive aim is to afford
a remedy for a hurtful condition within foreign territory?
It will contribute to the elucidation of the question if
we first consider the differences between the powers of the
federal government in respect of foreign or external affairs
and those in respect of domestic or internal affairs. That
there are differences between them, and that these differences are fundamental, may not be doubted.
The two classes of powers are different, both in respect
of their origin and their nature. The broad statement
that the federal government can exercise no powers except

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

those specifically enumerated in the Constitution, and
such implied powers as are necessary and proper to carry
into effect the enumerated powers, is categorically true
only in respect of our internal affairs. In that field, the
primary purl -se of the Constitution was to carve from
the general mass of legislative powers then possessed by
the states such portions as it was thought desirable to
vest in the federal government, leaving those not inciudcd
in the enumeration still in the states. Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 294. That this doctrine applies
only to powers which the states had, is self evident. And
since the states severally never possessed international
powers, such powers could not have been carved from the
mass of state powers but obviously were transmitted to
the United States from some other source. During the
colonial period, those powers were possessed exclusively
by and were entirely under the control of the Crown. By
the Declaration of Independence, "the Representatives of
the United States of America" declared the United [not
the several] Colonies to be free and independent states,
and as such to have "full Power to levy War, conclude
Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce and to do
all other Acts and Things which Independent States may
of right do."
As a result of the separation from Great Britain by the
colonies acting as a unit, the powers of external sovereignty passed from the Crown not to the colonies severally, but to the colonies in their collective and corporate
capacity as the United States of America. Even before
the Declaration, the colonies were a unit in foreign affairs,
acting through a common agency-namely the Continental Congress, composed of delegates from the thirteen
colonies. That agency exercised the powers of war and
peace, raised an army, created a navy, and finally adopted
the Declaration of Independence. Rulers come and go;
governments end and forms of government change; but
sovereignty survives. A political soc'ety cannot endure

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

without a supreme will somewhere. Sovereignty is never
held in suspense. When, therefore, the external sovereignty of Great Britain in respect of the colonies ceased,
it immediately passed to the Union. See Peinhallow v.
Doane, 3 Dall. 54, 80-81. That fact was given practical
application almost at once. The treaty of peace, made
on September 23, 1783, was concluded between his Brittanic Majesty and the "United States of America." 8
Stat.-European Treaties-80.
The Union existed before the Constitution, which was
ordained and established among other things to form "a
more perfect Union." Prior to that event, it is clear that
the Union, declared by the Articles of. Confederation to
be "perpetual," was the sole possessor of external sovereignty and in the Union it remained without change
save in so far as the Constitution in express terms qualified its exercise. The Framers' Convention was called
and exerted its powers upon the irrefutable postulate that
though the states were several their people in respect of
foreign affairs were one. Compare The Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, 604, 606. In that convention,
the entire absence of state power to deal with those affairs
was thus forcefully stated by Rufus King:
"The states were not 'sovereigns' in the sense contended
for by some. They did not possess the peculiar features
of sovereignty,-they could not make war, nor peace, nor
alliances, nor treaties. Conside' ing them as political beings, they were dumb, for they could not speak to any
foreign sovereign whatever. They were deaf, for they
could not hear any propositions from such sovereign.
They had not even the organs or fatculties of defence or
offence, for they could not of themselves raise troops, or
equip vessels, for war." 5 Elliott's Debates 212.1
'In general confirmation of the foregoing views, see 1 Story on the
Constitution, 4th ed., §§ 198-217, and especially §§ 210, 211, 213, 214,
215 (p. 153), 216.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

It results that the investment of the. federal government with the powers of external sovereignty did not de-

pend upon the affirmative grants of the Constitution.
The powers to declare and wage war, to conclude peace,
to make treaties, to maintain diplomatic relations with
other sovereignties, if they had never been mentioned
in the Constitution, would have vested in the federal
government as necessary concomitants of nationality.
Neither the Constitution nor the laws passed in pursuance
of it have any force in foreign territory unless in respect
of our own citizens (see American Banana Co. v. United
Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, 356); and operations of the
nation in such territory must be governed by treaties,
international understandings and compacts, and the principles of international law. As a member of the family
of nations, the right and power of the United States in
that field are equal to the right and power of the other
members of the international family. Otherwise, the
United States is not completely sovereign. The power to
acquire territory by discovery and occupation (Jones v.
United States, 137 U. S. 202, 212), the power to expel
undesirable aliens (Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149
U. S. 698, 705 et seq.), the power to make such international agreements as do not constitute treaties in the
constitutional sense (Altman & Co. v. United States, 224

U. S. 583, 600-601; Crandall, Treaties, Their Making and
Enforcement, 2d ed., p. 102 and note 1), none of which is
expressly affirmed by the Constitution, nevertheless exist
as inherently inseparable from the conception of nationality. This the court recognized, and in each of the cases
cited found the warrant for its conclusions not in the provisions of the Constitution, but in the law of nations.
In Burnet v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378, 396, we said, "As
a nation with all the attributes of sovereignty, the United
States is vested with all the powers of government necessary to maintain an effective control of international relations." Cf. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., supra, p. 295.

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

•319

Opinion of, the Court.

Not only, as we have shown, is the federal power over
external affairs in origin and essential character different
from that over internal affairs, but participation in the
exercise of the power is significantly limited. In this
vast external realm, with its important, complicated, delicate and manifold problems, the President alone has the
power to speak or listen as a representative of the nation.
He makes treaties with the advice and consent of the
Senate; *buthe alone negotiates. Into the field of negotiation the Senate cannot intrude; and Congress itself is
powerless to invade it. As Marshall said in his great
argument of March 7, 1800, in the House of Representatives, "The President is the sole organ of the nation in its
extirnal relations, and its sole representative with foreign
nations." Annals, 6th Cong., col. 613. The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations at a very early day in our
history (February 15, 1816), reported to the Senate,
among other things, as follows:
"The President is the constitutional representative of
the United States with regard to foreign nations. He
manages our concerns with foreign nations and must
necessarily be most competent to determine when, how,
and upon what subjects negotiation may be urged with
the greatest prospect of success. For his conduct he is
responsible to the Constitution. The committee consider this responsibility the surest pledge for the faithful
discharge of his duty. They think the interference of the
Senate in the direction of foreign negotiations calculated
to diminish that responsibility and thereby to impair the
best security for the national safety. The nature of
transactions with foreign nations, moreover, requires caution and unity of design, and their success frequently depends on secrecy and dispatch." U. S. Senate, Reports,
Committee on Foreign Relations, vol. 8, p. 24.
It is important to bear in mind that we are here dealing
not alone with an authority vested in the President by an

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

exertion of legislative power, but with such an authority
plus the very delicate, plenary and exclusive power of the
President as the sole organ of the federal government
in the field of international relations-a power which
does not require as a basis for its exercise an act of
Congress, but which, of course, like every other governmental power, must be exercised in subordination to the
applicable provisions of the Constitution. It is quite apparent that if, in the maintenance of our international
relations, embarrassment-perhaps serious embarrassment-is to be avoided and success for our aims achieved,
congressional leg; ' ion which is to be made effective
through negotiation and inquiry within the international
field must often accord to the President a degree of discretion and freedom from statutory restriction which
would not be admissible were domestic affairs alone involved. Moreover, he, not Congress, has the better opportunity of knowing the conditions which prevail in
foreign countries, and especially is this true in time of
war. He has his confidential sources of information. He
has his agents in the form of diplomatic, consular and
other officials. Secrecy in respect of information gathered
by them may be highly necessary, and the premature disclosure of it productive of harmful results. Indeed, so
clearly is this true that the first President refused to
accede to a request to lay before the House of Representatives the instructions, correspondence and documents
relating to the negotiation of the Jay Treaty-a refusal
the wisdom of which was recognized by the House itself
and has never since been doubted. In his reply to the
request, President Washington said:
"The nature of foreign negotiations requires caution,
and their success must often depend on secrecy; and even
when brought to a conclusion a full disctosure of all the
measures, demands, or eventual concessions which may
have been proposed or contemplated would be extremely

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRTGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

impolitic; for this might have a pernicious muence on
future negotiations, or produce immediate inconveniences,
perhaps danger and mischief, in relation to other powers.
The necessity of such caution and secrecy was one cogent
reason for vesting the power of making treaties in the
President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, the
principle on which that body was formed confining it to
a small number of members. To admit, then, a right in
the House of Representatives to demand and to have as
a matter of course all the papers respecting a negotiation
with a foreign power would be to establish a dangerous
precedent." 1 Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
p. 194.
The marked difference between foreign affairs and domestic affairs in this respect is recognized by both houses
of Congress in the very form of their requisitions for information from the executive departments. In the ease
of every department except the Department of State,
the resolution directs the official to furnish the information. In the case of the State Department, dealirg with
foreign affairs, the President is requested to furnish the
information "if not incompatible with the public interest." A statement that to furnish the information is not'
compatible with the public interest rarely, if ever, is
questioned.
When the President is to be authorized by legislation
to act in respect of a matter intended to affect a situation
in foreign territory, the legislator properly bears in mind
the important consideration that the form of the President's action-or, indeed, whether he shall act at allmay well depend, among other things, upon the nature
of the confidential information which he has or may thereafter receive, or upon the effect which his action may have
upon our foreign relations. This consideration, in connection with what we have already said on the subject,
discloses the unwisdom of requiring Congress in this field

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

'299 U. S.

of governmental power to lay down narrowly definite
standards by which the President is to be governed. As
this court said in Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299, 311,
"As a government, the United States 'is invested with
all the attributes of sovereignty. As it has the character
of nationality it has the powers of nationality, especially
those which concern its relations and intercourse with
other countries. We should hesitate long before limiting
or embarrassingsuch powers." (Italics supplied.)
In the light of the foregoing observations, it is evident
that this court should not be in haste to apply a general
rule which will have the effect of condemning legislation
like that under review as constituting an unlawful delegation of legislative power. The principles which justify
such legislation find overwhelming support in the unbroken legislative practice which has prevailed almost
from the inception of the national government to the
present day.
Let us examine, in chronological order, the acts of legislation which warrant this conclusion:
The Act of June 4, 1794, authorized the President to
lay, regulate and revoke embargoes. He was "authorized" "whenever, in his opinion, the public safety shall so
require" to lay the embargo upon all ships and vessels in
the ports of the United State6, including those of foreign
nations "under such regulations as the circumstances of
the case may require, and to continue or revoke the same,
whenever he shall think proper." C. 41, 1 Stat. 372. A
'prior joint resolution of May 7, 1794 (1 Stat. 401), had
conferred unqualified power on the President to grant
clearances, notwithstanding an existing embargo, to ships
or vessels belonging to citizens of the United States bound
to any port beyond the Cape of Good Hope.
The Act of March 3, 1795 (c. 53, 1 Stat. 444), gave the
President authority to permit the exportation of arms,
cannon and military stores, the law prohibiting such ex-

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

ports to the contrary notwithstanding, the only prescribed guide for his, action being- that such exports
should be in "cases connected with the security of the
commercial interest of the United States, and for public
purposes only."
By the Act of June 13, 1798 (c. 53, § 5, 1 Stat. 566),
it was provided that if the government of France "shall
clearly disavow, and shall be found to refrain from the
aggressions, depredations and hostilities" theretofore
maintained against vessels and property of the citizens of
the United States, "in violation of the faith of treaties,
and the laws of nations, and shall thereby acknowledge
the just claims of the United States to be considered as in
all respects neutral, . . . it shall be lawful for the
President of the United States, being well ascertained of
the premises, to remit and discontinue the prohibitions
and restraints hereby enacted and declared; and he shall
be, and is hereby authorized to make proclamation thereof
accordingly."
By § 4 of the Act of February 9, 1799 (c. 2, 1 Stat.
615), it was made "lawful" for the President, "if he shall
deem it expedient and consistent with the interest of the
United States," by order to remit certain restraints and
prohibitions imposed by the act with respect to the French
Republic, and also to revoke any such order "whenever,
in his opinion, the interest of the United States shall
require."
Similar authority, qualified in the same way, was conferred by § 6 of the Act of February 7, 1800, c. 10, 2
Stat. 9.
Section 5 of the Act of March 3, 1805 (c. 41, 2 Stat.
341), made it lawful for the President, whenever an
armed vessel entering the harbors or waters within the
jurisdiction of the United States and required to depart
therefrom should fail to do so, not only to employ the
land and naval forces to compel obedience. but "if he

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

shall think it proper, it shall be lawful for him to forbid,
by proclamation, all intercourse with such vessel, and
with every armed vessel of the same nation, and the
officers and crew thereof; to prohibit all supplies and aid
from being furnished them" and to do various other
things connected therewith. Violation of the President's
proclamation was penalized.
On February 28, 1806, an act was passed (c. 9, 2 Stat.
351) to suspend commercial intercourse between the
United States and certain parts of the Island of St. Domingo. A penalty was prescribed for its violation. Notwithstanding the positive provisions of the act, it was by
§ 5 made "lawful" for the President to remit and discontinue the restraints and prohibitions imposed by the act
at any time "if he shall deem it expedient and consistent
with the interests of the United States" to do so. Likewise in respect of the Non-intercourse Act of March 1,
1809, (c. 24, 2 Stat. 528); the President was "authorized"
(§ 11, p. 530), in case either of the countries affected
should so revoke or modify her edicts "as that they shall
cease to violate the neutral commerce of the United
States," to proclaim the fact, after which the suspended
trade might be renewed with the nation so doing.
Practically every volume of the United States Statutes
contains one or more acts or joint resolutions of Congress
authorizing action by the President in respect of subjects
affecting foreign relations, which either leave the exercise of the power to his unrestricted judgment, or provide
a standard far more general than that which has always
been considered requisite with regard to domestic affairs.
Many, though not all, of these acts are designated in the
footnote.'
'Thus,.the President has been broadly "authorized" to suspend embargo acts passed by Congress, "if in his judgment the public interest
should require it" (Act of December 19, 1806, c. 1, § 3, 2 Stat. 411),
or if, "in the judgment of the President," there has been such suspen-

U. S. v.-CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

325

Opinion of the Court.

It well may be assumed that these legislative precedents were in mind when Congress passed the joint resolutions of April 22, 1898, 30 Stat. 739; March 14, 1912, 37
Stat. 630; and January 31, 1922, 42 Stat. 361, to prohibit
the export of coal or other var material. The resolution
of 1898 authorized the President "in his discretion, and
with such limitations and exceptions as shall seem to him
expedient" to prohibit such exportations. The striking
identity of language found in the second resolution mentioned above and in the one now under review will be
sion of hostilities abroad as may render commerce of the United
States sufficiently safe. Act of April 22, 1808, c. 52, 2 Stat. 490.
See, also, Act of March 3, 1817, c. 39, § 2, 3 Stat. 361. Compare, but
as to reviving an embargo act, the Act of May 1, 1810, c. 39, § 4,
2 Stat. 605.
Likewise, Congress has passed numerous acts laying tonnage and
other duties on foreign ships, in retaliation for duties enforced on
United States vessels, but providing that if the President should be
satisfied that the countervailing duties were repealed or abolished,
then he might by proclamation suspend the duties as to vessels of
the nation so acting. Thus, the President has been "authorized" to
proclaim the suspension. Act of January 7, 1824, c. 4, § 4, 4 Stat. 3;
Act of May 24, 1828, c. 111, 4 Stat. 308; Act of July 24, 1897, c. 13,
30 Stat. 214. Or it has been provided that the suspension should take,
effect whenever the President "shall be satisfied" that the discriminat-'
ing duties have been abolished. Act of March 3, 1815, c. 77, 3 Stat.
224; Act of May 31, 1830, c. 219, § 2, 4 Stat. 425. Or that the
President "may direct" that the tonnage duty shall cease to be levied
in such circumstances. Act of July 13, 1832, c. 207, § 3, 4 Stat. 578.
And compare Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, § 14, 23 Stat. 53, 57.
Other acts, for retaliation against discriminations as to United
States commerce, have placed broad powers in the hands of the President, "authorizing" even the total exclusion of vessels of any foreign
country so offending (Act of June 19, 1886, c. 421, § 17, 24 Stat. 79,
83), or the increase of duties on its goods or their total exclusion
from the United States (Act of June 17, 1930, c. 497, § 388, 46 Stat.
590, 704), or the exclusion of its goods or the detention, in certain
circumstances, of its vessels, or the exclusion of its vessels or nationals
from privileges similar to those which it has denied to citizens of the
.Urited States (Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, §§ 804-806, 39 Stat.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299"U. S.

seen upon comparison. The resolution of March 14, 1912,
provides:
"That whenever the President shall find that in any
American country conditions of dowestic violence exist
which are promoted b the use of arms or munitions of
war procured from the United States, and shall make
proclamation thereof, it shall be unlawful to export except under such limitations and exceptions as the Presi756, 799-800). As to discriminations by particular countries, it has
been made lawful for the President, by proclamation, which he "may
in his discretion, apply . . . to any part or all" of the subjects
named, to exclude certain goods of the offending country, or its
vessels. Act of March 3, 1887, c. 339, 24 Stat. 475. And compareAct of July 26, 1892, c. 248, 27 Stat. 267. Compare, also, authority
given the Postmaster General to reduce or enlarge rates of foreign
postage, among other things, for the purpose of counteracting any
adverse measures affecting our postal intercourse with foreign countries. Act of March 3, 1851, c. 20, § 2, 9 Stat. 587, 589.
The President has been "authorized" to suspend an act providing
for the exercise of judicial functions by ministers, consuls and other
officers of the United States in the Ottoman dominions and Egypt
whenever he "shall receive satisfactory information" that the governments concerned have organized tribunals likely to secure to United
States citizens the same impartial justice enjoyed under the judicial
functions exercised by the United States officials. Act of March 23,
1874, c. 62, 18 Stat. 23.
Congress has also passed acts for the enforcement of treaties or
conventions, to be effective only upon proclamation of the President.
Some of them may. be noted which "authorize" the President to make
proclamation when he shall be "satisfied" or shall receive "satisfactory
evidence" that the other nation has complied: Act of August 5, 1854,
c. 269, §§ 1, 2, 10 Stat. 587; Act of March 1, 1873, c. 213, §§ 1, 2,
17 Stat. 482; Act of 'August 15, 1876, c. 290, 19 Stat. 200; Act of
December 17, 1903, c. 1, §'1, 33 Stat. 3. Cf. Act of June 11, 1864,
c. 116, § 1, 13 Stat. 121; Act of February 21, 1893, c. 150, 27 Stat.
472.
/ Where appropriate, Congress has provided that violation of the
President's proclamations authorized by the foregoing acts shall be
penalized. See, e. g., Act of June 19, 1886; Act of March 3, 1887;
Act'of September 8, 1916; Act. of June 17, 1930-all supra.

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGEtT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

dent shall prescribe any arms or munitions of war fr9m
any place in the United States to such country until
otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress.
"SEc. 2. That any shipment of material hereby declared unlawful after such a proclamation shall be punishable by fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars, or
imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both."
The third resolution is in substantially the same terms,
but extends to any country in which the United States
exercises extraterritorial jurisdiction, and provides for
the President's action not only when conditions of domestic violence exist which are promoted, but also when
such conditions may be promoted, by the use of such
arms or munitions of war.
We had occasion to review these embargo and kindred
acts in connection with an exhaustive discussion of the
general jsubject of delegation of legislative power in a
recent case, PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S.388,
421-422, and in justifying such acts, pointed out that
they confided to the President "an authority which was
cognate to the conduct by him of the foreign relations
of the government."
The result of holding that the joint resolution here
under attack is void and unenforceable as constituting
an unlawful delegation of legislative power would -be to
stamp this multitude of comparable acts and resolutions
as likewise invalid. And while this court may not,. and
should not, hesitate to deblare acts of Congress, however
many times repeated, to be unconstitutional if beyond
all rational doubt it finds °them to be so, an impressive
array of legislation such as we have just set forth, enacted by nearly every Congress from the beginning of our
national existence to the present day, must be given unusual weight in the process of reaching a correct determination of the problem. A legislative practice such as
we have here, evidenced not by only occaional instances;

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.'
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

but marked by the movement of a steady stream for a
century and a half of time, goes a long way in the direction of proving the presence of unassailable ground for
the' constitutionality of the practice, to be found in the
origin and history of the power involved, or in its nature,
or in both combined.
In The Laura, 114 U. S. 411, 416, this court answered
a challenge to the constitutionality of a statute authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to remit or mitigate
fines and penalties in certain cases, by repeating the language of a very early case (Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch 299,
309) that the long practice and acquiescence under the
statute was a "practical exposition . . . too strong and
obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Of course, the question is at rest, and ought not now to be disturbed." In
Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53,
57, the constitutionality of R. S. § 4952, conferring upon
the author, inventor, designer or proprietor, of a photograph certain rights, was involved. Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, disposed of the point by saying:
"The construction placed upon the Constitution by the
first act of 1790, and the act of 1802, by the men who were
contemporary with .its formation, many of whom were
members of the convention which framed it, is of itself
entitled to very great weight, and when it is remembered
that the rights thus established have not been disputed
during a period of nearly a century, it is almost conclusive."
In Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 691, this court declared
that" . . . the practical construction of the Constitution,
as given by so -many acts of Congress, and embracing
almost the entire period of our national existence, should
not be overruled, unless upon a conviction that such legislation was clearly incompatible with the supreme law of
the land." The rule is one which has been stated and
applied many times by this court. As examples, see

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 469; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 401; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.
244, 286.
The uniform, long-continued and undisputed legislative practice just disclosed rests upon an admissible view
of the Constitution which, even if the practice found far
less support in principle than we think it does, we should
not feel at liberty at this late day to disturb.
We deem it unnecessary to consider, seriatim, the several clauses which are said to evidence the unconstitutionality of the Joint Resolution as' involving an unlawful delegation of legislative power. It is enough to summarize by saying that, both upon principle and. in accordance with precedent, we conclude there is sufficient
warrant for the broad discretion vested in the President
to determine whether the enforcement of the statute will
have a beneficial effect upon the reestablishnent of peace
in the affected countries; whether he shall make proclamation to bring the resolution into operation; whether
and when the resolution shall cease to operate and to
make proclamation accordingly; and to prescribe limitations and exceptions to which the enforcement o. the
resolution shall be subject.
Second. The second point raised by the. demurrer was
that the Joint Resolution never became effective because
the President failed to find essential jurisdictional facts;,
and the third point was that the second proclamation of
the President operated to put an end to the alleged liability of appellees under the Joint Resolution. In respect
of both points, the court below overruled the demurrer,
and thus far sustained the government.
The government contends that upon an appeal by the
United States under the Criminal Appeals Act from a decision holding an indictment bad, the jurisdiction of the
court does not extend to questions decided in favor of the
United States, but that such questions may only be re-

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

viewed in the usual way after conviction. We find nothing in the words of the statute or in its purposes which
justifies this conclusion. The demurrer in the present case
challenges the validity of the statute upon three separate
and distinct grounds. If the court below had sustained
the demurrer without more, an appeal by the government
necessarily would have brought here for our determination all of these grounds, since in that case the record
would not have disclosed whether the court considered
the statute invalid upon one particular ground or upon
all of the grounds alleged. The judgment of the lower
court is that the statute is invalid. Having held that this
judgment cannot be sustained upon the particular ground
which that court assigned, it is now open to this court to
,inquire whether or not the judgment can be sustained
upon the rejected grounds which also challenge the validity of the statute and, therefore, constitute a proper subject of review by this court under the Criminal Appeals
Act. United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188, 192.
In Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, where the decree
of a district court had been assailed upon two grounds
and the circuit court of appeals had sustained the attack
upon one of such grounds only, we held that a respondent
in certiorari might nevertheless urge in this court in support of the -decree the ground which the intermediate
appellate court had rip.pcfted That principle is applicable here.
We proceed, then, to a consideration of the second and
third grounds of the demurrers which, as we have said,
I
the court below rejected.
1. The Executive proclamation recites, "I have found
that the prohibition of the sale of arms and munitions
of war in the United States to those countries now engaged in armed conflict in.the Chaco may contribute to
the reestablishmient of peace between those countries,

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

331

Opinion of the Court.

and that I have consulted with the governments of other
American Republics and have been assured of the co6peration of such governments as I have deemed necessary
as contemplated by the said joint resolution." This finding satisfies every requirement of the Joint Resolution.
There is no suggestion that the resolution is fatally uncertain or indefinite; and a finding which follows its language, as this finding does, cannot well be challenged hs
insufficient.
But appellees, referring to the words which we have
italicized above, contend. that the finding is insufficient
because the President does not declare that the cobperation of such governments as he deemed necessary included any American republic and, therefore, the recital
contains no affirmative showing of compliance in this respect with the Joint Resolution. The criticism seems to
us wholly wanting in substance. The President recites
that he has consulted with the governments of other
American republics, and that he has been assured of the
co6peration of such governments as he deemed necessary
as contemplated by the joint resolution. These recitals,
construed together, fairly include within their meaning
American republics.
2. The second proclamation of the President,
revoking
the first proclamation, it is urged, had the effect of putting
an end to the Joint Resolution, and in accordance with a
well-settled rule, no penalty could be enforced or punishment inflicted thereafter for an offense committed during
the life of the Joint Resolution in the absence of a provision in the resolution to that effect. There is no doubt
as to the general rule or as to the absence of a saving
clause in the Joint Resolution. But is the case presented
one whiph makes the rule applicable?
It was not within the power of the President to repeal
the Joint Resolution; and his second proclamation did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

purport to do so. It "revoked" the first proclamation;
and the question is, did the revocation of'the proclama.tion have the effect of abrogating the resolution or of precluding its enforcement in so far as that involved the prosecution and pqnishment of offenses committed during
the life of the trst proclamation? We are of opinion that
it did not.
Prior to the first proclamation, the Joint Resolution
was an existing law, but dormant, awaiting the creation
of a particular situation to render it active. No action or
lack of action on the part of the President could destroy
its potentiality. Congress alone could do that. The happening of the designated events--namely, the finding of
certain conditions and the proclamation by the President-did not call the law into being. It created the occasion for it to function. The second proclamation did not
put an end to the law or affect what had been done in
violation of the law. The effect of the proclamation was
simply to remove for the future, a condition of affairs
which admitted of its exercise.
We should have had a different case if the Joint Resolution had expired by its own terms upon the issue of the
second proclamation. Its operative force, it is true, was
limited to the period of time covered by the fist proclamation. And when the second proclamation was issued,
the resolution ceased to be a rule for the future. It did
not cease to be the law for the antecedent period of time.
The distinction is clearly pointed out by the Superior
Court of Judicature of New Hampshire in Stevens v. Dimond, 6 N. H. 330, 332, 333. There, a town by-law provided that if certain animals should be found going at
large between the first day of April and the last day of
October, etc., the owner would incur a prescribed penalty.
The tralI court directed the jury that the by-law, being
in force for a y~ar only, had expired so that the defendant
could not be called upon to answer for a violation which

U. S. v. CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP.
304

Opinion of the Court.

occurred during the designated period. The state appellate court reversed, saying that when laws "expire by their
own limitation, or are repealed, they cease to be the law
in relation to the past, as well as the future, and can no
longer be enforced in any case. No case is, however, to
be found in which it was ever held before that they thus
ceased to be law, unless they expired by express limitation in themselves, or were repealed. It has never been
decided that they cease to be law, merely because the
time they were intended to regulate had expired. ... A
very little consideration of the subject will convince any
one that a limitation of the time to which a statute is to
apply, is a very different thing from the limitation of the
time a statute is to continue in force."
The first proclamation of the President was in force
from the 28th day of May, 1934, to the 14th day of November, 1935. If the Joint Resolution had in no way depended upon Presidential action, but had provided explicitly that, at any time between May 28, 1934, and
November 14, 1935, it should be unlawful to sell arms or
munitions of war to the countries engaged in armed conflict in the Chaco, it certainly could not be successfully
contended that the law would expire with the passing of
the time fixed in respect of offenses committed during
the period.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with the foregoing opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS does not agree. He is of
opinion that the court below reached the right conclusion and its judgment ought to be affirmed.
M\R. JUSTICE STONE

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

