OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

of Appeals points out, the Anglo-Belgian treaty there
under consideration had its own history and background-quite different from that which we have hereupon which the case turned. It does not present a persuasive analogy.
Applying, as we must, our own law in determining the
authority of the President, we are constrained to hold
that his power, in the absence of statute conferring an
independent power, must be found in the terms of the
treaty and that, as the treaty with France fails to grant
the necessary authority, the President is without power to
surrender the respondents.
However regrettable such a lack of authority may be,
the remedy lies with the Congress, or with the treatymaking power wherever the parties are willing to provide
for the surrender of citizens, and not with the courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

TENNESSEE PUBLISHING CO. v. AMERICAN

NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI- TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 48.

Argued October 22, 23, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Constitutional questions should not be decided, by anticipation,
upon records not necessarily presenting them. P. 22.
2. Under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, if the plan of reorganization is neither fair nor feasible, the District Judge, upon so finding,
can proceed no further with the plan and is authorized to dismiss
the petition. Id.
81 F. (2d) 463, affirmed.

TENNESSEE PUB. CO. v. AMER. BANK.

19

Opinion of the Court.

18
CERTIORARI,

298 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of

a decree of the District Court which dismissed the Publishing Company's petition for reorganization, filed under
§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
Messrs. A. H. Roberts and Lewis S. Pope for petitioner.
Mr. Cecil Sims for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a decree of the
District Court dismissing the petition of the debtor, Tennessee Publishing Company, and its plans of reorganization, in a proceeding under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy Act.
The court held (1) that the debtor's proposal was not a
workable one and hence had not been presented in good
faith as that phrase was used in the statute; and (2) that
sub-section (b) (5) of § 77 B, as applied to the adjustment of claims of non-assenting lienholders, was invalid
under the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.'
81 F. (2d) 463. We granted certiorari.
1

The provision is as follows:
"(b) A plan of reorganization within the meaning of this section . . . (5) shall provide in respect of each class of creditors of

which less than two thirds in amount shall accept such plan (unless
the claims of such class of creditors will not be affected by the plan,
or the plan makes provision for the payment of their claims in cash
in full), provide adequate protection for the realization by them of
the value of their interests, claims, or liens, if the property affected
by such interests, claims, or liens is dealt with by the plan, either as
provided in the plan (a) by the transfer or sale of such property
subject to such interests, claims, or liens, or by the retention of such
property by the debtor subject to such interests, claims, or liens, or
(b) by a sale free of such interests, claims, or liens at not less than
a fair upset price and the transfer of suoh interests, claims, or liens

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

At the beginning of the proceeding the District Judge
approved the petition for reorganization as having been
filed in good faith, but by an order to show cause reserved
to all persons in interest the opportunity to present their
objections. Answers and motions to dismiss were filed
by bondholders. Three successive plans of reorganization were submitted and opposed. Several hearings were
had. It appears that for more than two years prior to
this proceeding, the affairs of the debtor had been in
charge of a receiver appointed by the District Court upon
a creditors' bill. An appraisal of the debtor's property
showed assets worth about $295,000. Outstanding bonds,
secured by mortgage, were in default and amounted with
interest to approximately $900,000. There were unsecured claims of about $300,000.
We shall not attempt to state the many details of the
various plans. It may be said in a general way that the
first plan, and the second presented "as a supplement to,
or alternate of," the first, contemplated an appraisal of
the property, the determination of the value of the bonds,
and the issue of new bonds and the distribution of the
proceeds of their sale, after payment of costs, expenses
and preferred claims, among the secured and unsecured
creditors and stockholders. By an amendment the debtor
offered to pay in cash the amount of the appraised value
of the property as it might be judicially determined, or
to pay the "actual cash value of all valid interests, claims
or liens" as fixed by the court. The third plan looked to
to the proceeds of such sale; or (c) by appraisal and payment either
in cash of the value either of such interests, claims, or liens, or, at
the objecting creditors' election, of the securities allotted to such interests, claims, or liens under the plan, if any shall be so allotted;
or (d) by such method as will in the opinion of thie judge, under and
consistent with the circumstances of the particular case, equitably
and fairly provide such protection; ... " [48 Stat. 911, 913914.1

TENNESSEE PUB. CO. v. AMER. BANK.
18

21

Opinion of the Court.

the retention of the property by the debtor subject to the
lien of the bonds scaled to 80 per cent. of their face value
or, in the absence of assent, to an amount found by the
court to be due. Provision was also made for the issue of
preferred stock.
In his final opinion, upon the third plan, the District
Judge said that it would "manifestly be unjust to the
bondholders" to undo what had been done in the equity
case; that "the validity and amount of the bonds outstanding" had been established in that case upon the report of the standing master, to which the debtor had not
excepted; and that it was admitted that the debtor was
"notoriously insolvent."
The District Judge was unable to see how the bondholders could realize the value of their bonds, or how
that value could be ascertained "except by a public sale"
of the mortgaged property. He thought that the effect
of the last plan was to disregard what had been done in
the equity suit and to delay a final administration of the
debtor's estate indefinitely. He found that none of the
bondholders were willing to adopt the plan, and that more
than two-thirds of the bondholders and more than fifty
per cent. of the unsecured creditors had affirmatively declined to accept it. He expressed the view that in such
circumstances the adoption of the plan would deprive the
secured creditors of their constitutional rights. While
-again ruling that the petition for reorganization was filed
in "good faith," he saw no alternative "except to dismiss
the petition and let the property be sold in the equity
case."
The Circuit Court of Appeals considered that the District Judge in passing upon the issue of good faith was
guided-mainly by a consideration of the debtor'shonesty
of purpose. The court believed that more was required;
that the statute had in view the submission of a practicable plan with a reasonable prospect for the rehabilita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tion of the debtor, and that hence in the finding of good
faith by the District Judge there was an erroneous application of the law. Despite that, the court recognized that
the decree of the District Court should still be affirmed
if right, however erroneous might be any given conclusion
of law.
Although reaching the conclusion that the plan of reorganization was not a workable one and failed to meet
the statutory test, the Court of Appeals proceeded to consider the constitutionality of sub-section (b) (5) and
held it invalid. This ruling was premature. The constitutional question was not necessarily presented as with
such a plan no case had been made for the application of
sub-section (b) (5). It is a familiar rule that the court
will not anticipate the decision of a constitutional quegtion upon a record which does not appropriately present
it. Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Commissioners, 113
U. S. 33, 39; Cincinnativ. Vester, 281 U. S. 439, 448, 449;
Arizona v. California,283 U. S. 423, 463, 464.
Nor do we need to inquire as to the precise limits of the
concept of "good faith" as required by -§ 77 B. Whatever these limits may be, the statute clearly contemplates
the submission of a plan of reorganization which admits
of being confirmed as "fair and equitable" and as "feasible." However honest in its efforts the debtor may be,
and however sincere its motives, the District Court is not
bound to clog its docket with visionary or impracticable
schemes for resuscitation. Sub-section (f) of § 77 B provides for the confirmation of a plan only if the District
Judge is satisfied "(1) that it is fair and equitable and
does not discriminate unfairly in favor of any class of
creditors or stockholders, and is feasible." These are
prime conditions. Unless the District Judge finds that
the plan has these qualities he need go no further. Unless he so finds, he has no authority to proceed. There is
no occasion for the District Judge to consider the con-

TENNESSEE PUB. CO. v. AMER. BANK.
18

23

Opinion of the Court.

stitutional validity of the application of the clauses of
sub-section (b) (5) if the debtor's proposal is not found
to be "fair" and "feasible." It was the duty of the District Judge in this instance to consider the debtor's proposal in that aspect. He did not find that proposal to
be fair and feasible. On the contrary, he deemed it to be
unjust to the bondholders to override what had been
accomplished in the equity case. He found that it was
impracticable to determine the value of their bonds
except by a public sale and, in view of the financial condition of the debtor, he deemed a sale of its property to be
"inevitable." And along with these considerations, the
proposal encountered what he described as the almost
unanimous opposition of the secured creditors and the
refusal of assent by a majority of the general creditors.
Where the debtor's plan of reorganization is not confirmed the District Judge is authorized to dismiss the
proceeding. Sub-section (c) (8).
The question before the Circuit Court of Appeals was
whether, upon the record, the District Court erred in refusing to confirm the plans and in dismissing the proceeding. The Court of Appeals examined the debtor's
last proposal as its ultimate effort to repel attack upon
the feasibility of reorganization. The court found that
the plan was not understandable in all of its phases, even
after diligent effort "to separate argument from concrete
proposals" and "to reconcile apparently conflicting
clauses." The provisions for a bond issue and for classes
of preferred stock, out of the proceeds of which unsecured creditors and preferred stockholders were to be
compensated, the court found to be "wholly incomprehensible." Certainly the District Court was not bound
to consider such a plan as fair and feasible, or, in view of
the situation which the record disclosed, to continue the
proceeding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

24

Syllabus.

299 U. S.

That was an entirely adequate ground for sustaining
the decree of the District Court without attempting to
determine the constitutional validity of sub-section (b)
(5). Quite apart from that question, upon which we express no opinion, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming that of the District Court, should in turn
be
Affirmed.

MR. JusTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

IN

THE MATTER OF 620 CHURCH STREET
BUILDING CORP. ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 271.

Argued October 23, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals declining jurisdiction of an appeal from an order of the District Court confirming a plan of reorganization under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy
Act, held reviewable by certiorari under § 262 of the Judicial
Code. P. 26.
2. Section 262, Jud. Code, permits the employment of the writ of
certiorari in cases not covered by § 240 and affords ample authority
for using the writ as an auxiliary process and as a means of giving
full force in( effect to existing appellate authority and of furthering justice in other kindred ways. Id.
3. In reorganization proceedings under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy
Act, only claims having some value are entitled to "adequate
protection." P. 27.
4. If no substantial question of law is presented, a refusal by the
Circuit Court of Appeals to allow an appeal from an order confirming a plan of reorganization under § 77 B, supra, is not an abuse
of discretion. Id.
5. A constitutional argument with no showing of injury is unavailing.
Id.
81 F. (2d) 463, affirmed.

