OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

called by that Party. The defendant was none the less
entitled to discuss the public issues of the day and thus in
a lawful manner, without incitement to violence or crime,
to seek redress of alleged grievances. That was of *the
essence of his guaranteed personal liberty.
We hold that the Oregon statute as applied to the particular charge as defined by the state court is repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment of conviction is reversed and the cause is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

WHITNEY v. GRAVES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 21S.

Argued December 18, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. An intangible property right may have a "businest situs" in a
State for tax purposes either because the right grows out of the
actual transactions of a business there localized, or because its
exercise is fixed there, eKelusively or dominantly. P. 371.
2. A non-resident of New York, owning a seat in the New York
Stock Exchange, who, by its rules, is privileged personally to
buy and sell securities in the market it affords only by going upon
tlX floor of the Exchange in New York, is taxable in New York
upon the profits derived by him from the sale of a "right" in a
new membership appurtenant to his old one, although he may
have no office or abode in New York and may fill all the orders
of his customers for purchase or sale of securities by sending the
orders to New York for execution on the floor of the Exchange
by fellow members. P. 372.
271. N Y. 594; :3 N. E. (2d) 201; 271 N. Y. 618, 3 N. E. (2d) 213,
affirned.

N. Y. EX REL. WHITNEY v. GRAVES.
366

Argument for Appellant.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment, 246 App.
Div. 652; 283 N. Y. S. 219, in a proceeding by certiorari,
which sustained a tax assessed by the New York Tax
Commission.

Mr. Marcien Jenckes, with whom Messrs. John L. Hall,
Claude R. Branch, and Richard Wait were on the brief,
for appellant.
The appellant's membership had not acquired a "business situs" in New York.
There can not be a "business situs" where no business
is carried on. Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184,
when analyzed, particularly in the light of subsequent
decisions, does not govern this case. There is no reason
or decision supporting a "business situs" in New York
for the appellant's membership. Bank of America v.
Whitney Bank, 261 U. S. 171. Distinguishing: New
Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington
County, 177 U. S. 133; State Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.
v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Scottish Union & National
Ins. Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611; Liverpool & L. & G.
Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221 U. S. 346.
New York has definitely not fixed the situs of memberships for the purpose of taxation at the place where the
Exchange was located. In fact, New York Stock Exchange memberships are not subject to a personal property tax even to resident owners, because the Personal
Property Tax Law does not attempt to reach them. New
York Tax Law, c. 60, Art. 1, §§ 2 (8) and 4-a; People
ex rel. Lemmon v. Feitner, 167 N. Y. 1, 7; -Matter of
Hellman, 174 N. Y. 254, 256. In the Rogers case a local
statute had determined a situs for property taxation to
both resident and nonresident owners. In that case there
was personal use by the taxpayer of his membership, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellant.

299 U. S.

execute orders, and it did not appear that the membership was involved only in connection with orders for nonresident customers.
Since the decision in the Rogers case, this Court has
ruled that two States cannot tax the same thing at the
same time on inconsistent legal theories. In so far as
the Rogers case stands for the general proposition that,
irrespective of statute determining situs for all concerned,
Minnesota can tax as property owned there an Exchange
membership owned elsewhere, it, like Blackstone v. Miller,
188 U. S. 189, is limited by First National Bank v. Maine,
284 U. S. 312; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,
280 U. S. 204, and Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586.
In the situation at bar the real estate and business of
the Exchange are taxed in New York to the New York
corporation which owns the market place. As one of the
persons for whose benefit are held the shares of this corporation, the appellant bears part of the burden of taxation by New York. The actual business of executing
orders and carrying securities on margin there is taxed to
the New York correspondents of the appellant's firm, who
have the offices and do the business there. The appellant
owned no property in New York and carried on no business there. There is no reason or occasion whatever to
make him share directly in the cost of government there.
Having the orders of nonresident customers executed
in New York by other independent Exchange members
at less than what the customers were charged is not
"business" for taxation, service of process or any other
purpose. It is inconceivable, for instance, that a Massachusetts business man can be said to be doing business
in New York on the sole ground that he had and exercised the rights given him by a contract with a New York
business man for preferential rates for services rendered
in New - ork by that New York man in the name and
with the capital of that New York man. Wheeling Steel
Corr. v. Fox, 298TU. S. 193.

N. Y.
366

EX REL.

WHITNEY v. GRAVES.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Joseph M. Mesnig, Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General,
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question here presented relates to the cQnstitutional validity of a tax imposed by the State of New
York upon the profits realized by a non-resident upon the
sale of a right appurtenant to membership in the New
York Stock Exchange.
The relator, C. Handasyde Whitney, is a resident of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and a member of a
firm doing business in Boston. He and his copartners
own a membership in the New York Stock Exchange.
The membership stands in the relator's name. In 1929,
by virtue of an increase in the number of members of the
Exchange, each member became entitled to a "right" to
one-fourth of a new membership. The relator sold that
right for $108,000. The Tax Commission of New York,
under §§ 351 and 351-a of the Tax Law of that State,
assessed a tax upon the profits derived from the sale,

which were calculated at the difference between original
cost, together with contributions paid in the form of dues,
and the proceeds of the sale. The tax was paid under
protest and the relator sought revision under the pertinent provision of the state law. The Tax Commission
denied the application. The relator then obtained a writ
of certiorari from the state court to review the commission's action and the commission made return embracing
the record of its proceedings. In accordance with the
state practice; the matter was heard by the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court which sustained the determination of the commission. 246 App. Div. 652; 283
N. Y. S. 219. That ruling was affirmed by the Court of

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Appeals, without opinion. Subsequently that court
amended its remittitur by reciting that upon the appeal
the relator contended that the assessment of the tax
under the provisions of the state act "contravenes the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution as
an extraterritorial tax, and such question was presented
and necessarily passed upon but not sustained by the
court." 271 N. Y. 594, 3 N. E. (2d) 201; 271 N. Y. 618,
3 N. E. (2d) 213. The case comes here on appeal.
Aside from a brief statement of facts, the state courts
have not aided us by a discussion or analysis of the nature
of the right involved or the grounds for the assertion of
the -authority to lay the tax. From the record it appears
that the New York Stock Exchange is an unincorporated
voluntary association, limited as to membership and governed by its own constitution, by-laws and rules; that it.
holds the beneficial ownership of the entire capital stock
of a New York corporation which owns the building in
which the business of the Exchange is transacted, with
the land upon which it stands, situated in the city of New
York; that membership or seat in the Exchange carries
with it valuable privileges and has a market value for the
purpose of sale; that the Exchange is supported by dues
and charges paid by its members and that contributions
are also made to a "gratuity fund" which is in substance
an insurance fund for the benefit of the widow and descendants of deceased members; that membership is
evidenced by a certificate in the form of a letter signed
by the secretary of the Exchange; that the membership
can be transferred only through the Exchange and with
its approval; that a member may personally buy or sell
only in the Exchange building; that a member may buy
or sell for the account of other members at a commission
substantially less than that charged to a nonmember; and
that such rights and privileges are valuable and are exer-

N. Y.
366

EX REL.

WHITNEY v. GRAVES.

Opinion of the Court.

cisable only in transactions conducted at the Exchange
building in the city of New York 1
The relator, in challenging the jurisdiction of the State
of New York to lay the tax, stresses the points that the
relator and his copartners have always been domiciled in
Massachusetts; that they have never had an office or
'abode in New York and have never carried on business
there; that while they advertise themselves in Boston as
members of .the New York Stock Exchange and accept
orders from customers at their Boston office for execution on the New York Stock Exchange, none of that business is conducted by the relator or his copartners on the
floor of that Exchange; that they do not buy and sell
securities on the Exchange for their firm account; that
orders requiring execution on the Exchange are telegraphed to members of the Exchange who have business
offices in New York and who execute their orders on the
Exchange in their own names, acting as correspondents,
lending money on the seQurity of the stock purchased and
other collateral delivered to them. This business of relator's firm in 1929 involved approximately $150,000,000
worth of securities. And it appears that by reason of relator's membership in the Exchange, his firm was able to
have their New York correspondents execute orders at
forty per cent. of the commission fixed for non-members.
Relator's firm charges its customers the fixed minimum
commissions which they would have to pay any stock exchange house, and these commissions are divided with their
New York correspondents by mutual agreement.
The relator's argument is that the membership in the
Exchange is intangible personal property, that as a gen1See

Belton v. Hatch, 109 N. Y. 593, 595, 596; 17 N. E. 225;

People ex rel. Lemmon v. Feitner, 167 N. Y. 1, 4, 11, 13; 60 N. E.
205; Meyer, "The Law of Stock Brokers and Stock Exchanges," pp.
13-16, 75-79.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

eral rule property of that sort is taxable only at the domicile of the owner, and that unless the membership has a
"business situs" in New York it is not taxable there.
Farmers Loan &t Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204,
213; Beidler v. South CarolinaTax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1,
8; First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 329, 331;
Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193, 209-211. He
contends that the membership cannot be said to have a
business situs in New York because he and his copartners
reside and transact all their business in Massachusetts.
We think that the argument fails to give adequate consideration to the nature and incidents of the membership.
When we speak of a "business situs" of intangible property in the taxing State we are indulging in a metaphor.
We express the idea of localization by virtue of the attributes of the intangible right in relation to the conduct of
affairs at a particular place. The right may grow out of
the actual transactions of a localized business or the right
may be identified with a particular place because the exercise of the right is fixed exclusively or dominantly at
that place. In the latter case the localization for the
purpose of transacting business may constitute a business
situs quite as clearly as the conduct of the business itself.
Here, we are dealing with an intangible right of a
peculiar nature. It embraces the privilege of a member
to transact business on the Exchange as well as a valuable
right of property which is the subject of transfer with the
approval of the Exchange and may survive resignation,
expulsion or death. In both aspects the right is held and
can be exercised only in subjection to the constitution,
by-laws and rules of the Exchange. The Exchange is a
market place. The privilege which inheres in the mer2 Weston v. Ives, 97 N. Y. 222; Belton v. Hatch, 109 N. Y. 593;
17 N. E. 225; Matter of Grant, 132 App. Div. 739, 742; 116 N. Y. S.
767, 1152; Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523; Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142
U. S. 1, 12; Meyer, op. cit., pp. 115-117.

N. Y. EX IML. WHITNEY v. GRAVES.
366

Opinion of the Court.

bership is the right to conduct transactions at that market place. That privilege of conducting the business of
the buying and selling of securities on the floor of the
Exchange is the dominant feature of the membership or
"seat." Its very nature localizes it at the Exchange. It
is a privilege which can be exercised nowhere else. The
nature of that right is not altered by the failure to exercise it. Wherever the owner may reside he must go to
the Exchange to exercise his privilege to trade upon its
floor. If he prefers to have his customers' orders executed through other members, still they must execute
these orders on the Exchange under its rules. Such
orders are executed on his behalf, and by virtue of his
imembership and of the execution of his orders upon the
Exchange he becomes entitled to the concession in commissions for which the rules provide.
Our decisions do not support the relator's contention.
In Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S.184, the question
related to memberships in the Chamber of Commerce of
the city of Minneapolis. It was urged on behalf of the
citizens of other States that their memberships were intangible rights held at their domicile. But we decided
that they were taxable in Minnesota. While it was said
that the memberships represented rights and privileges
which appeared to have been actually exercised at the
Exchange in Minneapolis, the underlying consideration
was the nature of the right and privilege which made those
transactions possible. In Citizens National Bank v. Durr,
257 U. S. 99, a membership in the New York Stock Exchange, owned by a resident of Ohio, was held to be subject
to taxation at his domicile. But the Court was careful
not to question the jurisdiction of the State of New York
to tax "the membership privileges exercisable locally" in
that State (Id., pp. 109, 111) and what the Court said
with respect to double taxation must be read in the light
of the decisions in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minne-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

sota, supra,and later cases upon that point. See Vheeling
Steel Corp. v. Fox, supra.
We think that the dominant attribute of relator's membership in, the New York Stock Exchange so links it to the
situs of the Exchange as to localize it at that place and
hence to bring it within the taxing power of New York.
Accordingly we hold that in laying the tax upon the profits
derived by the relator from the sale of the right appurtenant to his membership the State did not exceed the
bounds of its jurisdiction. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
EMPLOYERS REINSURANCE CORP. v. BRYANT,
U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 155.

FOR THE

Argued November 20, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. Obtaining removal of a case from a state tO a federal court does
not operate as a general appearance by the defendant. P. 376.
2. Where a suit in the District Court is in personam and not within
any exceptional provision extending the reach of its process, service
on the defendant, to be effective, must be made within the district.
P. 377.
3. An order of the District Court remanding a cause to a state court
is not reviewable by mandamus. P. 378.
4. That part of the Judiciary Act of 1875, § 5, now in § 80, Title 28,
U. S. Code, which provides that if a District Court shall be satisfied at any time during the pendency of any suit brought therein
or removed thereto from a state court that the suit does not really
or substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
its jurisdiction, the court shall proceed no further therein but
shall "dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it was
removed, as justice may require," and that part of the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1887, § 6, now part of § 71, Title 28, U. S. Code,

