HELVERING v. FRIED.
Opinion of the Court.

HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE, v. FRIED.*

INTERNAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 186.

Argued November 17, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

A "'Specialist", on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange held,
on the facts stipulated, to be a "dealer in securities" within the
meaning of Art. 105, Treasury Regulations 74, entitled to inventory
securities for income tax purposes at market value. P. 176.
83 F. (2d) 193, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

t to review the reversal of a decision of the

Board of Tax Appeals, 31 B. T. A. 638, sustaining deficiency income tax assessments.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Sewall Key, Carlton Fox,
and Charles A. Horsky were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John J. Curtin for respondents.
Ma. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents in these two causes were partners as
Albert Fried & Company, brokers, member of the New
York Stock Exchange, with offices at 120 Broadway.
When he undertook to determine their individual taxable
profits during 1931, the Commissioner denied their claim
that the firm's operations on the Exchange as a "Specialist" in thirteen stocks gave it the status of dealer therein,
entitled to the privilege of inventorying such securities
for thx purposes at market value under Article 105, Treasury Regulations 74, Revenue Act 1928.
with No. 187, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Einhorn. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.
t See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
*Together

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Upon stipulated facts the Board of Tax Appeals, although sharply divided, sustained his action. The Court
below held the firm was a dealer within the Regulations,
regarded Commissioner v. Stevens, 78 F. (2d) 713 as
controlling, and reversed the Board's decision. Certiorari
was granted here upon the Commissioner's petition, which
affirms that the question presented is "Whether the respondents were dealers in certain securities in which they
specialized so as to entitle them to inventory the securities
at market value in determining income."
Pertinent provisions of the Revenue Act and Treasury
Regulations are set out in the opinion in Schafer v. Commissioner, this day announced, ante, p. 171.
The stipulated facts showAlfred Fried and Benjamin Einhorn composed the firm,
Alfred Fried & Company,, 120 Broadway, organized in
1929, and membeiof New York Stock Exchange. It is a
"Specialist" in thirteen specified stocks there bought and
sold. A "Specialist" ig -a qualified member who accepts
orders in selected secur ies from other members for
execution.
As such "Specialist" the firm filled orders either by
buying or selling its owvn securities or by matching like
orders of buyer and seller. It leased space on the Exchange floor at an annual rental of $2,000.00, and there
carried on business in the thirteen stocks. The firm was
known to all members as a. "Specialist" and was regularly and consistently engaged in purchases and resales.
It is the practice for a member who desires to. buy or sell
a stock to place his order with the "Specialist" therein.
The firm always had on hand the securities in which it
specialized. The number (from 10,300 to 62,300) of
shares of these owned by the firm at the end of each
month in . the year under review is stated. In one
month-for example-of the 126,200 shares Air Reduction stock sold on the Exchange, 59% was sold by Fried
& Company.

HELVERING v. FRIED.
175

Opinion of the Court.

All stocks bought and sold by the firm were actually
received and delivered. During the tax year it sold
1,762,100 shares of the thirteen stocks. Of other stocks
it sold 119,600 shares.
Since its inception the firm has regularly inventoried
unsold securities at the market and computed tax liability
on that basis. On numerous occasions it purchased and
sold in order to maintain fair and equitable markets and,
-as far as possible, has tried to prevent wide fluctuation in
prices. During the year the partnership sold to 431 customers in amounts ranging from 100 to 5,700 shares.
These customers were other members of the Stock Exchange acting for themselves or their principals.
We think the facts stipulated adequately establish that
Fried & Company had an established place of business;
that it regularly engaged in the purchase of certain specified securities and their resale to customers; that as a
merchant it bought securities and sold them to customers
with a view to the gains and profits that might be derived therefrom. Also that the evidence afforded no adequate basis for a contrary finding by the Board of Tax
Appeals.
The Board's conclusion was announced (1934) prior to
the decision (1935) of Commissioner v. Stevens, supra.
In that cause, also in Vaughan v. Commissioner, 85 F.
(2d) 497, the Circuit Court of Appeals, Second Circuit,
describes the activities of "Specialists" on the Stock Exchange and concludes that they are dealers or merchants,
in respect of the securities wherein they specialize, entitled to the benefit of Article 105 of Treasury Regulations 74.
We accept the conclusions reached below and need not
repeat the adequate arguments advanced to support
Affirmed.
them.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.

