334

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

KENTUCKY WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
RTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
. SIXTH' CIRCUIT.

o. 138.

Argued November 20, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is plenary
and subject to no limitations other than are prescribed in the
Constitution. P. 345.
Congress may prevent interstate transportation from being used
to bring into a State articles which are innocuous in themselves,
but the local traffic in which, because of its harmful consequences,
has been constitutionally forbidden by the State. Hammer v.
Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, distinguished. P. 348.
3. While thd power to regulate interstate commerce resides in the
Congress, which must determine its own policy, the Congress may
shape that policy in the light of the fact that the transportation
in interstate commerce, if permitted, would aid in the frustration
of valid state laws for the protection of persons and property.
P. 347.
4. In the exercise of its control over interstate commerce, the means
employed by the Congress may have the quality of police regulations. P. 346.
5. The Act of July 24, 1935, known as the Ashurst-Sumners Act,
makes it unlawful to transport in interstate or foreign commerce
goods made by convict labor into any State where the goods are
intended to be received, possessed, sold, or used in violation of its
laws, and requires that packages containing convict-made goods
shipped in interstate commerce shall be plainly labeled so as to
show the names and addresses of shipper and consignee, the nature
of the contents, and the name and location of 1he penal or reformatory institution where produced. Violation is punished by fine
and forfeiture. Held:
(1) Within the federal power over commerce and consistent
with due process of law; not an attempt to delegate authority
to the State, nor an usurpation of state power, nor an assumption
of power enlarged by state action. P. 351.
(2) Where the subject'of commerce is one as to which the
power of the State may constitutionally be exerted by restriction
or prohibition in order to prevent harmful consequences, the Con-

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

335

Argument for Petitioner.

gress may, if it sees fit, put forth its power to regulate interstate
commerce so as to prevent that commerce from being used to
impede the carrying out of the state policy. P. 352.
(3) The requirement of labels was appropriate to the prohibition against transportation. P. 352.
(4) The fact that the labeling was required in all shipments of
convict-made goods, regardless of the law of the State 6f destination, does not invalidate the provision, as its scope could reasonably
be deemed to be necessary to accomplish the legitimate purpose
of the Act. P. 354.
84 F. (2d) 168, affirmed.

CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a decree of
the District Court, 12 F. Sul5p. 37, which dismissed a bill
brought by the present petitioner to compel the respondent railroad company to accept numerous shipments of
convict-made goods.

Mr. Charles. I. Dawson, with whom Mr. A. Shelby
Winstead was on the brief, for petitioner.
Congress cannot prohibit the'movement in interstate
commerce of useful and harmless articles of commerce
made by convict labor. Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.
251, 269.
This Court, in a long line of cases, has recognized that
the regulation of interstate commerce in certain articles
and as to certain practices, which are inimical to the
health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public,
can only be accomplished by prohibiting the use of the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce in the transportation of such articles, or in facilitating and making effective such practices.
In every one of those cases the prohibition was justified
by the Court, not because, of any power in Congress to
prohibit movement of ordinary articles of commerce, but
as an exercise of -the power to regulate,-prohibition in
those cases being necessary in order to accomplish regu*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

299 U. S.

lation. As to useful and harmless articles, no regulation will be sustained where the regulation has no reasonable relation to facilitating or protecting interstate
commerce.
Thus it is clear that Congress cannot, as an exercise of
its independent will or in order to accommodate its regulations to state laws, prohibit interstate commerce in
useful and harmless articles. Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland Ry., 242 U. S. 311. In the exercise
of its power to regulate commerce Congress is subject to
the Fifth Amendment. Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank
v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555.
Congress has no power to look beyond the article itself. It can consider only the inherently evil or harmful
uses for which it is designed. It has no power under the
commerce clause, to consider the evils, if any there be, in
the manufacture and production of the article. If any
power resides anywhere to regulate manufacture or production, that power is in the State. It has been so held
by this Court in an unbroken line of decisions almost
from the beginning of the Republic down to and including
the very recent opinions dealing with so-called New Deal
legislation, purporting to have been enacted under the
commerce clause.
Congress was seeking the same end in the Child Labor
Act as was sought in the Act here under consideration,the protection of presumably adequately compensated
labor from competition with cheaper labor. If Congress
cannot close the channels of interstate commerce to goods
manufactured by child labor, how is it so empowered
against goods made by convict labor?
Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431, involved the power
of Congress to divest shipments of their interstate character after receipf by the consignee. In re Rahrer, 140
U. S. 545; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412.

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

337

Argument for Petitioner.

This power of Congress was not considered by the Court
to be confined to those articles which are fit subjects for
the exercise of the State police power. The Rahrer case
contains no language indicating such a limitation. Cf.
Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412.
The two cases last cited clearly establish: First, that
Congress, without being guilty of delegating any of its
power under the commerce clause, may divest an article
shipped in interstate commerce of its interstate character
after its delivery to the consignee and before sale in the
original package; and, second, that the character of the
article has nothing to do with the exercise of the power,
and that therefore the power may be exercised with reference to useful and harmless articles of commerce, as
well as with reference to articles which are commonly
considered as fit subjects for the exercise of the police
power. It is very doubtful if there is any really sound
basis for the proposition that interstate commerce was
intended by the framers of the Constitution to protect the
consignee of an interstate article in the sale thereof in
the original package. Logically, it would appear that an
interstate transaction involving the sale of merchandise
is concluded when the article had been delivered to the
consignee. State regulation of the sale or the use of the
article after its receipt by the consignee can, at most,
only indirectly and incidentally affect interstate commerce in its fundamental essentials. The idea that interstate commerce protects the consignee in original package sales apparently grew out of the opinion of this Court
in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446, 447. In that
case, however, the Court was not dealing with commerce
among the States. See Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123;
Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506. The power of Congress to enact the HawesCooper Act is clear under the Rahrer and Rhodes cases;

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

299 U. S.

it was unnecessary in the Whitfield case to enter into any
consideration of the nature of convict-made goods or the
effect of their competition with the products of free labor;
and we respectfully submit that the discussion of these
questions in the Whitfield case should not be permitted
to weigh against our contentions here. This is especially
true, because if what we consider to be dicta in the Whitfield case is accepted as binding in this case, then this
Court must wholly disregard its well-considered opinions
in Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry., 242
U. S. 311, and Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251.
The opinion in the Clark Distilling Company case
shows that the Webb-Kenyon Act was sustained -solely
because of the nature of the article (intoxicating liquor)
therein dealt with.
Weber v. Freed, 239 U. S. 325; Scharrenberp v. Dollar
Steamship Co., 245 U. S. 122, and Church of the Holy
Trinity v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, involved the
power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign
countries-a much broader power than that over commerce among the States.
Wild animals or birds taken, killed-, possessed or shipped
in violation of state law are, of course, contraband, and
Congress (as by the Lacey Act) may forbid interstate
shipment of them, just as it may forbid interstate movement of stolen or other illegally possessed goods. Griswold v. President, 82 F. (2d) 922, distinguished.
Congress has no power to exclude from interstate commerce convict-made goods because not labeled as such.
The fallacy of the argument that such a label tends to
protect against fraud and imposition is thoroughly exposed in the case of People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1. See
Opinion of the Justices, 211 Mass. 605; People v. Raynes,
120 N. Y. S. 1053, aff'd, 198 N. Y. 539; Ex parte Hayden,
147 Cal. 649; Matter of Foley, 172 Cal. 744; Matei v.
Hecke, 99 Cal. 747. Distinguishing: Pacific States Box

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

339

Argument for the United States.

& Basket Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176; Detweiler v. Welch,
46 F. (2d) 75.
Section 1 of the Act is invalid even if Congress possesses
power to require labeling. The Act not only operates to
require labeling where the laws of the State to which
the goods are shipped require it, but it also operates absolutely to prohibit shipment in interstate commerce to
those States which prohibit the sale of convict-made
goods, if intended to be used in violation of the laws of
such States.
Section 2 must fall, 1st, because Congress is without
power to require the containers to be labeled; and, 2d,
because it is not separable from the other provisions of
the Act..
Mr. Blakey Helm, with whom Messrs. John C. Doolan,
E. C. Craig, and Charles N. Burch were on the brief, for
respondent.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Mr. Hugh B. Cox were on the
brief, for the United States, as amicus curiae, by special
leave of Court.
The history of congressional legislation with respect to
interstate commerce in goods made by convict labor parallels the history of congressional legislation with respect
to interstate commerce in intoxicating liquors. The
Hawes-Cooper Act is similar to the Wilson Act, sustained
in In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; and the Ashurst-Sumners
Act is similar to the Webb-Kenyon Act, sustained in
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311.
The constitutionality of § 1 of the Ashurst-Sumners
Act follows from Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431, and
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311. Two conclusions follow from the opinion in
the Whitfield case: (1) a State may prohibit sale within

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the United States.

299 U. S.

its boundaries of goods made by convict labor if that prohibition does not illegally discriminate against the citizens
of other States, and subject to the paramount power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce; (2) in the exercise of its power to regulate interstate commerce Congress can divest goods made by convict labor of their immunity as objects of interstate commerce and subject
them to state regulation at an earlier point of time than
would be the case in the absence of congressional legislation. In sustaining the constitutionality of the HawesCooper Act this Court relied on the authority of In re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545. If, as this Court said in Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311,
the constitutionality of the Webb-Kenyon Act inevitably
followed from the decision in In re Rahrer, then the conclusion is inescapable that the constitutionality of the
Ashurst-Sumners Act follows from the decision in Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431.
Petitioners' argument assumes without warrant that
the use of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce
for the purpose of violating state laws is legitimate and
proper. There is no merit in petitioner's insistence upon
the harmless and useful qualities of prison-made goods.
It is the character of the traffic and not the character of
the goods which is important, as is indicated by the fact
that stolen motor cars, which do not differ in their inherent characteristics as objects from motor cars not
stolen, may validly be barred from the channels of interstate commerce. Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432.
Whatever the intrinsic character of goods may be, their
transportation in interstate commerce with intent to sell
or to use them in volation of state laws is not harmless
and innocent.
In the exercise of its power to regulate interstate commerce, Congress can restrict or prohibit any use of the
instrumentalities of that commerce for an evil or im-

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R: CO.
334

341

Argument for the United States.

proper purpose; and its power in that respect is not limited to restricting or prohibiting commerce in objects
which are inherently deleterious or. dangerous. This
Court has sustained prohibitions of interstate commerce
in objects which were not intrinsically evil, deleterious, or
dangerous. Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321; Brooks v.
United States, 267 U. S. 432; Weeks v. United States,
245 U. S. 618; Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S.
510; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470; Hoke v.
United States, 227 U. S. 308; Gooch v. United States, 82
F. (2d) 534, cert. den., 298 U. S. 658. These decisions
are not consistent with petitioner's contention that there
is in the nature of the commerce power itself, quite apart
from any question of due process of law, a limitation
which prevents that power from operating upon an article
of commerce unless the article is inherently evil or deleterious as an article.
This Court has often recognized that the use of the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce for the purpose
of evading or violating state laws is an evil which the
power of Congress over interstate commerce may be invoked to destroy. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 205,
and cases supra. The language in Clark Distilling Co.v.
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, upon which
petitioner relies, shows that the Court considered the
qualities of the object regulated not as determinative of
the scope of the commerce power but as relevant to the
question of due process of law. This Court could not have
taken the view in that case that intoxicating liquor was
so intrinsically evil or deleterious that it was not a legitimate object of commerce, without overruling previous
decisions. Both before and after In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.
545, this.Court held that intoxicating liquor was a legitimate object of commerce. See Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100, and Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Cook Brewing
Co., 223 U. S.70. It was only because liquor was a legiti-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the United States.

299 U. S.

mate object of commerce that such legislation as the
Wilson Act and the Webb-Kenyon Act was necessary, in
order to enable the several States to enforce their domestic policies. See Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.
461, 474; Peirce v. New Hampshire, 5 How. 504, 599-600.
Cf. Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
Section 1 of the Ashurst-Sumners Act is a regulation ot
an evil which inheres in interstate commerce; it is not
an attempt to regulate a matter of local concern; hence
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251, has no application.
Section 1 does not violate the due process clause of thp
Fifth Amendment. Its provisions are not unreasonable,
arbitrary, or capricious unless it be assumed that the
state legislation which calls those provisions into operation is itself unreasonable, arbitrary, or capricious. See
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311, 332. The constitutionality of such state legislation was established by the decision of this Court in
Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431, 439-440. Nothing in
the Fourteenth or Fifth Amendment prevents a State or
the Federal Government, when it acts within the scope
of one of its granted powers, from regulating even harmless objects and occupations for the broad purpose of promoting the general welfare. Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, 524. See also Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342, 357; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 633;
Murphy v. California,225 U. S. 623, 628.
Section 2 of the Act is valid. Congress may require
the labeling of goods moving in interstate commerce.
Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S. 510; Weeks v.
United States, 245 U. S.'618. Cf. United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117. The provisions of § 2 are intended to aid in the enforcement of § 1; and they
are reasonable and appropriate means to that end. It is
true that § 2 requires all packages containing goods

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

343

Opinion of the Court.

made by convict labor to be labeled, regardless of the law
of the State of their destination, but "it does not follow
that because a transaction separately considered is innocuous it may not be included in a prohibition the scope
of which is regarded as essential, in the legislative judgment, to accomplish a purpose within the admitted power
of the Government." Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226
U. S. 192, 201. See Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, and
Everard'sBreweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New
York, and Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, on behalf of
the State of New York; Messrs. Harry B. Hawes, Raymond A. Walsh, and Bon Geaslin, on behalf of the Cordage Institute and the American Federation of Labor; and
Mr. Harry H. Peterson, Attorney General of Minnesota,
on behalf of the State of Minnesota, all in support of the
validity of the Ashurst-Sumners Act.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This controversy relates to the constitutional validity of
the Act of Congress of July 24, 1935, known as the
Ashurst-Sumners Act. 49 Stat. 494.
The Act makes it unlawful knowingly to transport in
interstate or foreign commerce goods made by convict
labor into any State where the goods are intended to be
received, possessed, sold, or used in violation of its laws.
Goods made by convicts on parole or probation, or made
in federal penal and correctional institutions for use by
the Federal Government, are excepted. Packages containing convict-made goods must be plainly labeled so
as to show the names and addresses of shipper and consignee, the nature of the contents, and the name and

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

location of the penal or reformatory institution where
produced.' Violation is punished by fine and forfeiture.!
Petitioner manufactures in Kentucky, with convict
labor, horse collars, harness and strap goods which it
markets in various States. It tendered to respondent, a
common carrier, twenty-five separate shipments for transportation in interstate commerce, of which ten were consigned to customers in States whose laws prohibited the
'Sections 1 and 2 are as follows:
"That it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to transport
or cause to be transported, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for or in transporting any goods, wares, and merchandise manufactured, produced,
or mined wholly or in part by convicts or prisoners (except convicts or prisoners on parole or probation), or in any penal or reformatory institution, from one State, Territory, Puerto Rico, Virgin
Islands, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous but
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, or from any foreign country, into
any State, Territory, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, or District of the
Un.ted States, or place noncontiguous but subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, where said goods, wares, and merchandise are intended by
any person interested therein to be received, possessed, sold, or in any
manner used, either in the original package or otherwise in violation
of any law of such State, Territory, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, or
District of the United States, or place noncontiguous but subject to
the jurisdiction thereof. Nothing herein shall apply to commodities
manufactured in Federal penal and correctional institutions for use
by the Federal Government.
"See. 2. All packages containing any goods, wares, and merchandise manufactured, produced, or mined wholly or in part by convicts or prisoners, except convicts or prisoners on parole or probation, or in any penal or reformatory institution, when shipped or
transported in interstate or foreign commerce shall be plainly and
clearly marked, so that the name and address of the shipper, the name
and address of the consignee, the nature of the contents, and the name
and location of the penal or reformatory institution where produced
wholly or in part may be readily ascertained on an inspection of the
outside of such package."
'Id., §§ 3 and 4.

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

345

Opinion of the Court.

sale of convict-made goods within their respective borders, five to States whose laws did not prohibit such sale
but required that the goods should be plainly marked so
as to show that they were made by convicts, and the
remaining ten to States whose laws imposed no restriction upon sale or possession. None of the packages were
labeled as required by the Act of Congress and, in
obedience to the Act, respondent refused to accept the
shipments.
Petitioner then brought this suit for a mandatory
injunction to compel the transportation. The District
Court dismissed the bill and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed, the decree. The District Court declared the Act
to be invalid so far as it prohibited transportation of
convict-made goods into States which proscribed sale or
possession, but sustained the provision which required
labeling. 12 F. Supp. 37. The Circuit Court of Appeals
sustained the Act in its entirety. 84 F. (2d) 168. This
Court granted certiorari.
Petitioner contends (1) that the Congress is without
constitutional authority to prohibit the movement in
interstate commerce of useful and harmless articles made
by convict labor and (2) that the Congress has no power
to exclude from interstate commerce convict-made goods
Which are not labeled as such.
. First. The commerce clause (Art. I, § 8, par. 3)
Confers upon the Congress "the power to regulate, that is, to
.prescribe the rule by which commerce is to be governed."
This power "is complete in itself, may be exercised to its
utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other
than are prescribed in the constitution." Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. By the Act now before us, the
Congress purports to establish a rule governing interstate
transportation, which is unquestionably interstate commerce. The question is whether this rule goes beyond the
authority to "regulate."

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

2"9 U. S.

Petitioner's argument necessarily recognizes that in
certain circumstances an absolute prohibition of interstate transportation is constitutional regulation. The
power to prohibit interstate transportation has been upheld by this Court in relation to diseased livestock,' lottery tickets,4 commodities owned by the interstate carrier.
transporting them, except such as may be required in the
conduct of its business as a common carrier,' adulterated
and misbranded articles, under the Pure Food and Drugs
Act,' women, for immoral purposes,' intoxicating liquors,8
diseased plants,' stolen motor vehicles,"0 and kidnaped
persons."
The decisions sustaining this variety of statutes disclose the principles deemed to be applicable. We have
frequently said that in the exercise of its control over
interstate commerce, the means employed by the Con8

Act of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137. See Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321, 358, 359.
'Act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 963; Champion v. Ames, 188
U. S. 321.
'Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584; United States v. Delaware &

Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 415.
'Act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 768; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45; Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S. 510.
'Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 825; Hoke v. United States, 227
t. S. 308; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470.
'Act of MarchI, 1913, 37 Stat. 699; Act of March 3, 1917, 39
Stat. 1069; Clark Distilling Co. v.. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420; McCormack & Co.
v. Brown, 286 U. S. 131.
'Act of March'4, 1917, 39 Seat. 1165; Oreon-Washington R. &
N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87.
. Act of October 29, 1919 41 Stat. 324; Brooks v. United States,
267 U. S. 432.
11
Act of June 22, 1932,.47 Stat. 326-; Act of May 18, 1934, 48
Stat. 781; Gooch v. United States, 297.U." S. 124.
See, also, Act of May 25, 1900, 31 Stat. 187; Rupert v. United
States, 181 Fed. 87;. Act of July 3, 1918, 40 Stat. 755; Bogle v.
White, 61 F. (2d) 930.

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

347

Opinion of the Court.

gress may have the quality of police regulations. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, 215; Hoke v.
United States, 227 U. S. 308, 323; Seven Cases v. United
States, 239 U. S. 510, 515. The power was defined in
broad terms in Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, 436,
437: "Congress can certainly regulate interstate commerce to the extent of forbidding and punishing the use
of such commerce as an agency to promote immorality,
dishonesty or the spread of any evil or harm to the people
of other States from the State of origin. In doing this it
is merely exercising the police power, for the benefit of
the public, within the field of interstate commerce."
The anticipated evil or harm may proceed from something inherent in the subject of transportation as in the
case of diseased or noxious articles, which are unfit for
commerce. Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.
45; Oregon-Washington R. & N. Co. v. Washington, 270
U. S. 87, 99. Or the evil may lie in the purpose of the
transportation, as in the case of lottery tickets, or the
transportation of women for immoral purposes. Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321, 358; Hoke v. United States,
supra; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 486.
The prohibition may be designed to give effect to the
policies of the Congress in relation to the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, as in the case of commodities
owned by interstate carriers. United States v. Delaware
& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 415. And, while the power
to regulate interstate commerce resides in the Congress,
which must determine its own policy, the Congress may
shape that policy in the light of the fact that the transportation in interstate commerce, if permitted, would aid
in the frustration of valid state laws for the protection of
persons and property. Brooks v. United States, supra;
Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S. 124.
The contention is inadmissible that the Act of Congress
is invalid merely because the horse collars and harness

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

348

Opinion of he Court.

299 U. S.

which petitioner manufactures and sells are useful and
harmless articles. The motor vehicles, which are the subject of the transportation prohibited in the National
Motor Vehicle Theft Act,"2 are in themselves useful and
proper subjects of commerce, but their transportation by
one who knows they have been stolen is "a gross misuse
of interstate commerce" and the Congress may properly
punish it "because of its harmful result and its defeat of
the property rights of those whose machines against their
will are taken into other jurisdictions." Brooks v. United
States, supra, p. 439. Similarly, the object of the Federal Kidnaping Act 13 is to aid in the protection of the
personal liberty of one who has'been unlawfully seized or
carried away. Gooch v. United States, supra; compare
United States v. Wheeler, 254 U. S.281.
On .the same general principle, the Congress may prevent interstate 'transportation from being used to bring
into a State articles the traffic in which the State has constitutional authority to forbid, and has forbidden, in its
internal commerce. In that view, we sustained the acts
of Congress designed to prevent the use of interstate transportation to hamper the execution of state policy with
respect to traffic in intoxicating liquors. This was not
because intoxicating liquors were not otherwise legitimate
articles of commerce. On the contrary they were recognized as such "by the usages of the commercial world, the
laws of Congress and the decisions of courts." Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 110; In re Rahrer, 140 U.. S.545,
556; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co.,
223 U. S. 70, 82. It was because intoxicating liquors
were legitimate subjects of commercial intercourse that
the States were powerless to interfere with their transportation in interstate commerce. Bowman v Chicago &
NorthwesternRy. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 489; Lezsy v. Hardin,
1"

See Note 10.

" See Note 11.

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

349

Opinion of the Court.

supra, pp. 110, 113; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412;
Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., supra.
But because of the effects ascribed to the traffic in intoxicating liquors, the States in the exercise of their police
power in relation to their internal commerce could restrict
or interdict that traffic without violating the Federal
Constitution. Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S."201, 206;
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 657-659. To aid the
States in securing the full protection they desired, Congress brought into play its power to regulate interstate
commerce.
By the Wilson Act of August 8,1890,4 intoxicating liquors transported into any State were subjected upon arrival to the operation of state laws to the same extent as
though they had been produced within the State, although
still in the original packages. This act was upheld in In re
Rahrer, supra. But the statute did not apply until the
transportation was completed by actual delivery to the
consignee. Rhodes v. Iowa, supra,p. 426; Adams Express
Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S.218, 222; Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., supra. As "the right to receive" was not affected by the Wilson Act, "such receipt
and the possession following from it and the resulting
right to use" remained protected by the commerce clause.
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., .242
U. S.311, 323. In this situation the Congress passed the
Webb-Kenyon Act of March 1, 1913,"5 which prohibited
the transportation of intoxicating liquors into any State
when it was intended that they should be "received, possessed, sold, or in any manner used," in violation of its
laws. The Court upheld the constitutional validity of this
Act as a regulation of interstate conunerce. Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., supra. It was
"26 Stat. 313.
"37 Stat. 699.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

supplemented by the Act of March 3, 1917, known as the
Reed Amendment." United States v. Hill, 248 U. S.
420, 424.
The ruling in Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251,
upon which petitioner relies, in no way contravenes or
limits the principle of these decisions.. In the Hammer
case, the Court concluded that the Act of Congress there
under consideration had as its aim the placing of local
production under federal control. Id., pp. 271, 272. Far
from disapproving the decisions we have cited, the Court
expressly recognized their authority. "In each of these
instances," the Court said, "the use of interstate transportation was necessary to the accomplishment of harmful results. In other words, although the power over
interstate transportation was to regulate, that could only
be accomplished by prohibiting the use of the facilities of
interstate commerce to effect the evil intended." Id.
And within a few months after the Hammer case, the
Court in UnitedStates v. Hill, supra, emphatically reiterated the doctrine of these cases and, in particular, that of
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., sustaining the Webb-Kenyon Act.
The course of congressional legislation with respect to
convict-made goods has followed closely the precedents
as to intoxicating liquors. By the Hawes-Cooper Act of
January 19, 1929," the Congress provided that convictmade goods (with certain exceptions) transported into
any State should be subject upon arrival, whether in the
original packages or otherwise, to the .operation of state
laws as if produced within the State. In Whitfield v.
Ohio, 297 U. S. 431, petitioner was charged in the state
court in Ohio with selling convict-made goods in violation
of the state law. It appeared that the goods had been
sold in the original packages as shipped in interstate com" 39 Stat. 1069.

" 45 Stat. 1084.

KY. WHIP & COLLAR CO. v. I. C. R. CO.
334

351

Opinion of the Court.

merce and that there was "nothing harmful, injurious or
deleterious" about them. But this Court said that the
view of the State of Ohio, that the sale of convict-made
goods in competition with the products of free labor was
an evil, found ample support in fact and in the similar
legislation of a preponderant number of other States.
The Court observed that the Congress had prohibited the
importation of the products of convict labor.18 All such
legislation, state and federal, proceeded upon the view
"that free labor, properly compensated, cannot compete
successfully with the enforced and unpaid or underpaid
convict labor of the prison." The Court upheld the
power of the State, so far as the Federal Constitution is
concerned, to base nondiscriminatory legislation upon
that conception, and as it appeared that the Ohio statute
would be unassailable if made to take effect after sale in
the original package, the statute was held to be equally
unassailable in the light of the provisions of the HawesCooper Act. As to the validity of the iatter Act, the
Court followed the decision in In re Rahrer, supra, il
relation to the Wilson Act.
The Ashurst-Sumners Act as to interstate transportation of convict-made goods has substantially the same
provisions as the Webb-Kenyon Act as to intoxicating
liquors and finds support in similar considerations. The
subject of the prohibited traffic is different, the effects of
the traffic are different, but the underlying principle is the
same. The pertinent point is that where the subject of
commerce is one as to which the power of the State may
-constitutionally be exerted by. restriction or prohibition
in order to prevent harmful consequences, the Congress
may, if it sees fit, put forth its power to regulate interstate commerce so as to prevent that commerce from
being used to impede the carrying out of the state policy.
'Act

of June 17, 1930, 46 Stat. 689.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S,

In the congressional action there is nothing arbitrary
or capricious bringing the statute into collision with the
requirements of due process of law. The Congress in
exercising the power confided to it by the Constitution is
as free as the States to recognize the fundamental interests of free labor."0 Nor has the Congress attempted to
delegate its authority to the States. The Congress has
not sought to exercise a power not granted or to usurp
the police powers of the States. It has not acted on any
assumption of a power enlarged by virtue of state action.
The Congress has exercised its plenary power, which. is
subject to no limitation other than that which is found
in the Constitution itself. The Congress has formulated
its own policy and established its own rule. The fact
that it has adopted its rule in order to aid the enforcement of valid state laws affords no ground for constitutional objection.
Second. As the Congress could prohibit the interstate
transportation of convict-made goods as provided in section one of the Act, the Congress could require packages
"In the report of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate,
recommending the passage of the Ashurst-Sumners Act, the Committee said (Sen. Rep. No. 906, 74th Cong., 1st sess.):
"For many years the Congress has considered bills relating to the
sale of prison-made goods. Extensive hearings .have been held on
these measures which have thoroughly revealed the evils attending
the sale of such goods, in the open market, in competition with goods
manufactured and produced by free labor. These evils impelled theCongress in -1929 to enact the Hawes-Cooper law, by virtue of
which prison-made goods, upon their entry and delivery into a
State, became subject to the laws of that State.
"At present 21 States, with a population in excess of 75 millions,
haye enacted laws prohibiting the sale, in the open market, of
prison-made goods. This bill is designed to prohibit the transportation of such goods into the States which have thus legislated, in
cases in which such goods are to be received or used in violation of
the State law. The principle involved in this bill has been frequently sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States."

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
Syllabus.

334

containing convict-made goods to be labeled as required
by section two. The requirement of labels, disclosing the
nature of the contents, the name and location of the penal
institution where the goods were produced, and the names
and addresses of shippers and consignees, was manifestly
reasonable and appropriate for the carrying out of the
prohibition. Seven Cases v. United States, supra; United
States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117; Weeks v. United States,
245 U. S. 618, 622. The fact that the labeling was required
in all shipments of convict-made goods, regardless of the
law of the State of destination, does not invalidate the
provision, as its scope could reasonably be deemed to be
necessary to accomplish the legitimate purpose of the Act.
Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 609; New York ex rel. Silz v.
Hesterberg,211 U. S. 31, 40; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,
226 U. S. 192, 201; Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S.
545, 560.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
DE JONQE v. OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 123.

Argued December 9, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. The practice of substituting for the evidence a stipulation of facts
not shown to have received the approval of the court below, is
disapproved. P. 358.
2. Upon appeal from a judgment of a state supreme court sustaining a conviction, this Court in this case takes the indictment as
construed by the court below. P. 360.
3. Criminal punishment under a state statute for participation in
the conduct of a public meeting, otherwise lawful, merely because
the meeting was held under the auspices of an organization which

teaches or advocates the use of violence, or other unlawful acts

