GULLY v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
105

Syllabus.

endeavor to reimburse a harassed creditor for the damages occasioned by -obstruction and delay. Errors, if
there were any, did not split the controversy into parts,
one civil and one criminal. Cf. Collins v. Miller, 252
U. S. 364, 370. It retained from first to last its unitary
quality. In levying the fine, the court was not acting
sua sponte, or at the instance of the government through
a prosecuting officer. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range
Co., supra; Lamb v. Cramer, supra; Union Tool Co. v.
Wilson, 259 U. S. 107, 112; Michaelson v. United States,
266 U. S. 42, 64; Leman v. Krentler-Arnold Hinge Last
Co., 284 U. S.448, 452. It lent a helping hand to a suppliant for aid.
The order is not final, and there is no error in the ruling that it is not subject to appeal.
Affirmed,
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part' in the consideration
or decision of this case.

GULLY, STATE TAX COLLECTOR
SISSIPPI, v. FIRST NATIONAL
MERIDIAN.

FOR MISBANK IN

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued October 19, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. To cqnstitute a case arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, within the meaning of the removal statute Jud
Code, § 28, 28 U. S. C. 71, a right or immunity created by th
Constitution or laws of the United States must be an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action; the ,ght or iwinunity
must be such that it will be supported if the Constitutionor iaws
of the United States are given one construction or effect,, and.
defeated if they rec3ive another; a genuine and present controversy, not merely a possible or conjectural one, must exist with

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

reference thereto, and the controversy must be disclosed upon the
face of the complaint, unaided by the answer, by the petition for
removal, or by allegations in the complaint itself which go beyond
a statement of the plaintiff's cause of action and anticipate or
reply to a probable defense. P. 112.
2. A suit brought upon a state statute does not arise under an Act
of Congress or the Constitution of the United States because
prohibited thereby, or because permitted thereby. P. 116.
3. In a suit in a state court brought by a state tax collector against
a national bank which, in acquiring assets of another national
bank, had assumed and covenanted to pay the debts and liabilities
of the latter, the complaint alleged that among the debts so
assumed were moneys owing by the insolvent bank for taxes
assessed upon its shares or capital stock, its surplus and undivided
profits, exclusive of the value of its real estate; that in law, all
taxes thus assessed were debts owing by the shareholders of the
insolvent bank which that bank was under a duty to pay as their
agent out of moneys then in its possession; and that the defendant
bank, in violation of its covenant, failed to pay the taxes of the
insolvent one, which it had thus assumed and made its own
liability. Held not removable as a case arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States because
(1) The suit is upon a contract having its genesis in the law
of the State, enforcement of which has no necessary connection
with the existence of a controversy arising under federal law.
P. 114.
(2) While the tax sought to be retovered, to be valid and
therefore within the- contract sued upon, must be consistent with
the federal statute permitting state taxation of national bank
shareholders (R. S. § 5219; 12 U. S. C. 548), just as it must be
consistent with the Federal Constitution, its basis is a statute of
the State. Furthermore, the state statute in this case (Code, Miss.,
§ 3138), is in apparent harmony with the permissive federal Act.
If not in accord with the state statute, the tax would be void for
that reason; and if, on evidence, it were shown that that statute
had been obeyed, there might be no room to cuntend that the
federal law had been infringed. That a federal question may lurk
in the background is not enough to warrant removal. P. 115.
81 F. (2d) 502, reversed.

GULLY v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
109

Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing a suit to recover state taxes. The
suit had been removed from a state court.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. J. C. Floyd for petitioner.

Mr. R. E. lVilbourn, with whom Mr. A. S. Bozeman
was on the brief, for respondent.
MAR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Whether a federal court has jurisdiction of this suit
as one arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States is the single question here.
Petitioner, plaintiff in the court below, sued the respondent in a state court in Mississippi to recover a
money judgment. The following facts appear on the
face of the complaint: In June, 1931, the assets of the
First National Bank of Meridian, a national banking
association, were conveyed to the respondent,, the First
National Bank in Meridian, under a contract whereby
the debts and liabilities of the grantor, insolvent at the
time and in the hands of a receiver, were assumed by the
grantee, which covenanted to pay them. Among the
debts and liabilities so assumed were moneys owing to
the petitioner, the state Collector of Taxes, or now
claimed to be owing to him, for state, county, city, and
school district taxes. In form the assessment was imposed upon the shares or capital stock of the bank, its
surplus and undivided profits, exclusive of the value of
the real estate. In law, so the pleader-states, all taxes
thus assessod( were debts owing by the shareholders,
which the hamk was under a duty to pay as their agert
out of moneys belonging to them, then in its possessic

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The new bank, in violation of its covenant, failed to pay
the taxes of the old, bank, which it had thus assumed and
made its own. Judgment is demanded for the moneys
due under the contract.
A petition was filed by the respondent for the removal
of the cause to the federal court upon the ground that the
suit was one arising "under the Constitution or laws of
the United States." Judicial Code § 28, 28 U. S. C. § 71;
cf. Judicial Code § 24 (1) (a), 28 U. S. C. § 41. The state
court made an order accordingly, and the federal District
Court denied a motion to remand. Later, after a trial
upon the merits, the complaint was dismissed. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the
judgment of dismissal, overruling the objection that the
cause was one triable in the courts of Mississippi. 81 F.
(2d) 502. The decision was put upon the ground that
the power to lay a tax upon the shares of national banks
has its origin and measure in the provisions of a federal
statute (R. S. § 5219, 12 U. S. C. § 548), and that by necessary implication a plaintiff counts upon the statute in
suing for the tax. Because of the importance of the ruling, this Court granted certiorari, "limited to the question
of the jurisdiction of the District Court."
How and when a case arises "under the Constitution or
laws of the United States" has been much considered in
the books. Some tests are well established. To bring a
case within the statute, a right or immunity created oy
the Constitution or laws of the United States must be an
element, and an essential one, of the plaintiff's cause of
action. 'Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248, 257; First
National Bank v. Williams, 252 U. S. 504, 512. The
right or immunity must be such that it will be sdpported
if the Constitution or laws of the United States are given
one construction or effect, and defeated if they receive another. Ibid; King County v. Seattle School District, 263

GULLY v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
109

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 361, 363, 364. A genuine and present controversy,
not merely apossible or conjectural one, must exist with
reference thereto (New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S.
411, 424; Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184,
191; Joy v. St. Louis, 201 U. S. 332; Denver v. New York
Trust Co., 229 U. S.123, 133), and the controversy must
be disclosed upon the face of the complaint, unaided by
the answer or by the petition for removal. Tennessee v.
Union & Planters Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149,; The Fairv.
Kohler Die & Specialty Co., 228 U. S.22, 25; Taylor v.
Anderson, 234 U. S.74. Indeed, the complaint itself will
not avail as a basis of jurisdiction in so far as it goes beyond a statement of the plaintiff's cause of action and anticipates or replies to a probable defense. Devine v. Los
Angeles, 202 U. S. 313, 334; The Fair v. Kohler Die &
Specialty Co., supra.
Looking backward we c~in see that the early cases were
less exacting than the recent ones in respect of some
of these conditions. If a federal right was pleaded, the
question was not always asked whether it was likely
to be disputed. This is seen particularly in suits by or
against a corporation deriving its charter from an act of
Congress. Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9
Wheat. 738, 817-828; Pacific Railroad Removal Cases,
115 U. S. 1, 11. Modern statutes have greatly diminished the importance of those decisions by narrowing
their scope. Gay v. Ruff, 292 U. S.25, 35; Puerto Rico
v. Russell & Co., 288 U. S.476, 483. Federal incorporation is now abolished as a ground of federal jurisdiction
except where the United States holds more than onehalf the stock. Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, § 12,
43 Stat. 936, 941. Partly under the influence of statutes disclosing a new legislative policy, partly under the
influence of more liberal decisions, the probable course
107510'-37-8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

of the trial, the real substance of the controversy, has
taken on a new significance. "A suit to enforce a right
which takes its origin in the laws of the United States
is not necessarily, or for that reason alone, one arising
under those laws, for a suit does not so arise unless it
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy
respecting the validity, construction or effect of such a
law, upon the determination of which the result depends." Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 569. Cf.
First National Bank v. Williams, supra; Hopkins v.
Walker, 244 U. S. 486, 489; Shoshone Mihing Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, 507. Only recently we said after full
consideration that the doctrine of the charter cases was
to be treated as exceptional, though within their special
field there was no thought to disturb them. Puerto
Rico v. Russell & Co., supra. "We should fly in the face
of this legislative policy and disregard precedents which
we think controlling were we to extend the doctrine
now." Ibid. Today, even more clearly than in the past,
"the federal nature of the right to be established is decisive-not the source of the authority to establish it."
Ibid.
Viewing the case at hand against this background of
established principle, we do not find in it the elements
of federal jurisdiction.
1. The suit is built upon a contract which in point of
obligation has its genesis in the law of Mississippi. A
covenant for a valuable consideration to pay another's
debts is alid and, enforcible without reference to a federal law. For all that the complaint informs us, the failure to make payment was owing to lack of funds or to a
belief that a stranger to the contract had no standing
as a suitor or to other objections non-federal in their nature. There is no necessary connection between the
enforcement of such a contract accor(ling to its terms and
the existence of a controversy arising under federal law.

GULLY v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
109

Opinion of the Court.

2. The obligation of the contract being a creation of

the state, the question remains whether the plaintiff
counts upon a federal right in support of his claim that
the contract has been broken. The performance owing
by the defendant was payment of the valid debts, and
taxes are not valid debts unless lawfully imposed. From
this defendant argues that a federal controversy exists,
the tax being laid upon a national bank or upon the
shareholders therein, and for that reason being void unless permitted by the federal law.
Not every question of federal law emerging in a suit is
proof that a federal law is the basis of the suit. The
tax here in controversy if valid as a tax at all, was imposed under the authority of a statute of Mississippi.
The federal law did not attempt to impose it or to confer
upon the tax collector authority to sue for it. True, the
tax, though assessed through 'he acti,n of the state, must
be consistent with the federal statute consenting, subject
to restrictions, that such assessments may be made.
R. S. § 5219, 12 U. S. C. § 548. It- must also be consistent with the Constitution of the United States. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Owensboro National
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664; Baltimore National
Bank v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 209. If there were
no federal law permitting the taxation of shares in national banks, a suit to recover such a tax would not be
one arising under the Constitution of the United States,
though the bank would have the aid of the Constitution
when it came to its defense. Tennessee v. Union &
PlantersBank, supra; Sawyer v. Kochersperger,170 U. S.
303; Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 183 U. S.
185; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, supra.
That there is a federal law permitting such taxation does
not change the basis of the suit, which is still the statute
of the state, though the federal law is evidence to prove
the statute valid.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The argument for the respondent proceeds on the assumption that because permission at times is preliminary to action the two are to be classed as one. But
the assumption will not stand. A suit does not arise
under a law renouncing a defense, though the result of
the renunciation is an extension of the area of legislative power which will cause the suitor to prevail. Let
us suppose an amendment of the Constitution by which
the states are left at liberty to levy taxes on the income
derived from federal securities, or to lay imposts and
duties at their pleasure upon imports and exports. If
such an amendment were adopted, a suit to recover taxes
or duties imposed by the state law would not be one
arising under the Constitution of the United States,
though in the absence of the amendment the duty or
the tax would fail. We recur to the test announced in
Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co., supra: "The federal nature of the right to be established is decisive--not the
source of the authority to establish it." Here the right
to be established is one created by the state. If that
is so, it is unimportant that federal consent is the source
of state, authority. To reach the underlying law we do
not travel back so far. By unimpeachable authority, a
suit brought upon a state statute does not arise under
an act of Congress or the Constitution of the United
States because prohibited thereby. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. "Mottley,supra. With no greater reason
can it be said to arise thereunder because permitted
thereby.
Another line of reasoning will lead us to the same conelusion. The Mississippi law provides, in harmony with
the act of Congress (R. S. § 5219), that a tax upon the
-shares of national banks shall be assessed upon the shareholders, though the bank may be liable to pay it as their
agent, charging their account with moneys thus ex-

GULLY v. FIRST NAT BANK.
109

Opinion of the Court.

pen ded. Code of Mississippi, § 3138. Cf. Home Savings Bank v. De8 Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 518; Aberdeen
Bank v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440; National Bank
v. Commonwalth, 9 Wall. 353. -Petitioner will have to
prove that the state law has been obeyed before the question will be reached whether anything in its provisions
or in adininistrative conduct under it is inconsistent with
the federal rule. If what was done by the taxing officers
in -levying the tax in suit did not amount in substance
under the law of Mississippi to an assessment of the
shareholders, but in substance as well as in form- was an
assessment of the bank alone, the conclusion will be inescapable that .here was neither tax nor debt, apart from
any barriers that Congress may have built. On the
other hand, a finding upon evidence that the Mississippi
law has been.'obeyed may compose the controversy altogether, leaving no room for a contention that the federal
law has been infringed. The most one can say is that
a question of federal law is lurking in the background,
just as farther in the background there lurks.a question
of constitutional law, the question of statd power in our
federal form of government. A dispute so doubtful and
conjectural' so far removed from plain necessity, is unavailing to extinguish the jurisdiction of the states.
This Court has had occasion to point out how futile is
the attempt to define a "cause- of action" without reference to the context. United States v. Memphis Cotton
Oil Co., 288 U. S. 62, 67, 68. To define broadly and, in
the abstract "a case arising -under the Constitution or
laws of the United States" has hazards of a kindred order.
What is needed is something of that common-sense accomnmodation of judgment to kaleidoscopic situations
which characterizes the law in its treatment of problems
of causation. Ohe could carry the search for causes backward, almost without end. Bird v. St. Pau4 F. & M. In-

OCTOBER TER.I, 19:36.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

s'rance Co., 224 N. Y. 47, 51; 120 N. EC. S6; Leylond
Shipping Co. v. 2orwich Fire Insurance Socicly, (1918)
A. C. 350, 369; Jniuraiee Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 117. 130;
Aldwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469,
474. Instead, flhere has been a selective process wh ich
picks the substantial causes out of the web awl lays the
other ones aside. As in probletis of eattsatioi, so here in
the search for the underlyinig law. If we follow the ascent
far enough, countless claims of right can be discovered to
have their source or their operative limits in the provisions of a federal statute or in the Constitution itself
with its circumambient restrictions upon legislative
power. To set bounds to the pursuit, the courts have
formulated the distinction between cotitroversies that are
basic and those that are collateral, between disputes that
are necessary and those that are merely pos'sible. We
shall be lost in a maze if we put that compass by.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remitted to the District Court with instructions to remand
it to the court in Mississippi from which it was removed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

