Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

But viewing the subject in the light of considerations ab inconvenienti, we need not look beyond the consequences of the
ruling, if sustained, of the court below. The doctrine is alike
applicable to civil and criminal actions. There are thirty-eight
States in the Union. The limitations in like cases may be
different in each State, and they may be changed at pleasure,
from time to time. The government of the Union would in
this respect be at the mercy of the States. How that mercy
would in many cases be exercised it is not difficult to foresee.
The constitutional relations of the head and the members would
be reversed, and confusion and other serious evils would not
fail to ensue.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to proceed in conformity with
this opinion; and it is
o~orderedl.

AIRHA.T -v. MASS1EU.
1. A Mexican was not, by the revolution which resulted in the independence of
Texas, or by her Constitution of March 17, 1836, or her laws subsequently
enacted, divested of his title to lands in that State, but he retained the right
to alienate and transmit them to his heirs, and the latter are entitled to sue
for and recover them.
2. The division of a country and the maintenance of independent governments
over its different parts do not of themselves divest the rights which the
citizens of either have to property situate within the terriiory of the other.
S. That Constitution, although declaring generally that aliens shall not hold
lAnd in Texas except by title emanating directly from the government, did
not divest their title; for it adds, that "they shall have a reasonable
time to take possession of and dispose of the same in a manner hereafter
to be pointed out bylaw." Before the title can be divested, proceedings for
enforcing its forfeiture must be provided by law, and carried into effect;
and hitherto they have not been provided.
4. In Texas, the protocol of a Mexican title is an archive which may be deposited
in the General Land-Office at any time, subject to all just implications
arising from delay and the circumstances of its history; and when so
deposited, a certified copy thereof from the land-office is competent prima
fade evidence of the title.
5. Until a title is deposited in the land-office, or duly recorded in the proper county,
bona fide purchasers not having notice- thereof, though claiming under a
junior Mexican grant, will be protected.

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
1ITr. John H. Reagan for the plaintiff in error.
AIr. John D. McPheron, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of trespass to try title to land, being equivalent, in Texas, to an action of ejectment. The defendants in
error were the plaintiffs below, and judgment being given in
their favor, the case is brought here by writ of error. The
petition in the action was filed on the 3d of June, 1872,
and sets out that the plaintiffs are citizens of the Republic of
Mexico, residing in the city of Mexico, and that on the 1st of
July, 1869, they were seised in fee and possessed of a certain
tract of land (containing eleven leagues), situated in the counties of Anderson and Freestone, on the right and left banks of
Trinity River, stating the metes and bounds thereof; and that
on that day the defendant, Airhart (now plaintiff in error),
illegally ousted them, and continues to hold possession of the
tract, to their damage.
The defendant demurred, and pleaded, 1st, not guilty; 2d,
the Statute of Limitations for three years, in virtue of possession
under regular title from the sovereignty of the soil, as to a certain portion of the land, containing 1,855 acres, giving the
metes and bounds thereof, being the south part of E. C. Harris's survey; and the same plea as to another portion of the
tract sued for (containing about 153 acres), giving the metes
and bounds of the same; and disclaiming as to all the rest of
the land sued for. The defendant further pleaded, 3d, the
Statute of Limitations of five years, and payment of taxes as to
the two tracts last named; 4th, the Statute of Limitations of
ten years; and, 5th, adverse possession under an entry of title
since 1850, and the erection of permanent improvements, for
which he claimed compensation. Various amendments of the
pleadings were subsequently added, which it is unnecessary to
notice.
It appears from the various bills of exception taken in the
case that the plaintiffs claimed title, 1st, under an eleven
MR. JUSTIcE BRADLEY

Oct. 1878.]

AMHART V. MASSIEU.

league grant, made by the government of Coahuila and Texas
to one Jose Ygnacio Aguilera, of the city of Mexico, on the
22d of March, 1830, and possessory title executed thereon by
Commissioner Vicente Aldrete on the 26th of November, 1833 ;
2d, an act of sale of the said eleven leagues, passed on the
twelfth day of March, 1886, in the city of Mexico, from the
said Aguilera to Anna Matilda Massieu, a citizen of Mexico,
then an infant, and who died in August, 1851, under age; and,
3d, descent to the plaintiffs as the heirs-at-law of said Anna
Matilda, they being her mother and brothers and sisters, and
all citizens of Mexico.
The defendant claimed title to the tract of 1,855 acres, mentioned in his pleas, under a grant from the State of Coahuila
and Texas to Edward C. Harris, made Jan. 26, 1835, and
through various mesne conveyances from said Harris to himself.
He claimed title to the 153-acre tract (the other tract mentioned in his pleas), under a head-right grant made by the
State of Texas to one Robert S. Patton, on the 4th of February,
1857, and through various mesne conveyances to himself.
The first question raised for the consideration of this court is
that arising upon the alienage of the plaintiffs. This question
was raised by the demurrer to the petition, so far as relates to
their right to maintain an action for land. The subsequent
proceedings raised the further question, whether, being aliens,
they could inherit lands in Texas in 1851 from Anna Matilda
Massieu, who was also an alien; and, if they could, 'whether
they could continue to hold the title thereof without residing in
Texas and becoming citizens. These questions may be conveniently considered together.
Texas, which, with Coahuila, had constituted a State of the
Mexican Republic, declared her independence on the 2d of
March, 1836; but the Mexican or Spanish law, except as to
criminal cases, and except as modified by the congress, was continued as the law of the republic until the 16th of March,
1840, when the common law was adopted. By the common
law an alien could indeed take land by purchase, but it would
be liable to forfeiture to the king; and he could neither take
nor transmit land by inheritance. Co. Litt. 2; 1 Bl. Coin.
372; 2 id. 349; 3 Cruise, Dig. 365; Williams, Real Prop. 53;

AIRHART V. MASSTEU.

[Sup. Ct.

2 Kent, Com. 53. It is conceded, however, by the counsel of
the defendant, that important qualifications of this rule have
always existed in the laws of Texas. The precise question is,
whether a citizen of Mexico, not being a resident of Texas, but
of some other Mexican State, owning lands in Texas at the
time of the revolution, lost his title thereto, or his right to convey the same, or to transmit the same to his heirs, by means of
the revolution, or by reason of subsequent legislation. The
separation of Texas from the Republic of Mexico was the divi.
sion of an empire. Up to the time of such division, all the
citizens of the republic were citizens in every portion thereof,
and had full right to hold property, movable or immovable, in
every~portion. If the revolution in Texas deprived the citizens
of Mexico residing in other Mexican States of the right to hold
and transmit their property situated in Texas, it amounted to
confiscation.
Did such confiscation take place by virtue of
general international law, or by virtue of legislation adopted
by Texas after its independence was declared? That such is
not the general consequence of a division of empire, seems to
be settled. Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of this
court in the case of Jones v. Mclfasters (20 How. 8), which
related to a Texas title, says: "The general principle is undisputed, that the division of an empire works no forfeiture of a
right of property previously, acquired."
The original constitution of Texas, adopted March 17, 1836,
fifteen days after the declaration of independence, did, indeed,
provide as follows: "All persons who shall leave the country
for the purpose of evading a participation in the present struggle, &c., shall forfeit all rights of citizenship, and such lands
as they may hold in the republic."
Gen. Provs., sect. 8.
But this did not refer to Mexicans residing elsewhere. The
tenth section, however, declared as follows: "No alien shall
hold land in Texas except by titles emanating directly from
the government of the republic; but if any citizen of this republic should die intestate or otherwise, his children or heirs
shall inherit his estate; and aliens shall have a reasonable time
to take possession of and dispose of the same in a manner hereafter to be pointed out by law." So that, although it was declared that aliens should not hold lands in Texas, a reasonable

Oct. 1878.]

O IRHART

V. MASSIEU.

time was to be given to them to come in, or dispose of their
lands, - the last clause evidently referring to aliens generally,
and not merely to the "children and heirs" just referred to.
By an act of the congress of Texas, passed Jan. 28, 1840, it
was provided as follows: "In making title to land by descent,
it shall be no bar to a party that any ancestor through whom he
derives his descent from the intestate is or hath been an alien ;
and every alien to whom any land may be devised or may descend shall have nine years to become a citizen of the republic,
and take possession of such land; or shall have nine years to sell
the same before it shall be declared to be forfeited, or before it
shall escheat to the government." Oldham & White, 699, 700.
This statute has continued in force to the present time, being
re-enacted in 1848. The State Constitution of 1845 effected
no change in rights of property, but expressly established existing rights. Art. 6, sect. 20. By an act passed Feb. 13, 1854
(Pasch. Dig., arts. 45-47), it was further provided, in favor of
aliens, that they should have the same rights as are accorded
to American citizens by the laws of the nation to which such
aliens belong; including the right to take and hold property,
real or personal, by devise or descent from any alien or citizen.
This law being passed subsequent to the death of Anna Matilda
Massieu, cannot affect the present case, but is cited for the
purpose of illustrating the spirit and course of Texas legislation on the subject under consideration.
Aguilera became an alien to Texas by virtue of the separation
of that State from the rest of the Mexican Republic. His title
to the lands in question had been lawfully acquired before this
forced alienage commenced, and whilst his rights of citizenship
extended to Texas as a portion of the Republic of Mexico.
At that time, as before stated, the Spanish law, as modified
by the local laws of Mexico and of the State of Coahuila and
Texas, was the general law of the infant State; and in some of
the early cases in Texas, as in the Heirs of iolliman v. Peeble8
(1 Tex. 673), and in Yates v. lams (10 id. 168), it was argued,
though not expressly decided, that by the general Spanish law,
and if not by that law, at least by the colonization laws of Mexico, and of Coahuila and Texas, a non-resident alien could not
hold real estate. The same views were expressed in the case

496

ArPHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct.

of MfcKinney v. Saviego, 18 How. 235. But the laws referred
to had respect to the case of aliens who, when they were such,
acquired, or attempted to acquire, lands in Spain or her colonies, and not to the case of citizens or subjects who, on the
division of an empire, happened to hold lands in the section
in which they did not reside, and therefore had good title
thereto when, by operation of law, they became aliens as to
such section. It must be admitted that aliens of this class
stand on a different footing, in equity at least, from those who,
being aliens, attempt, against the law, to acquire real estate in
a foreign country. It may be a wise policy to prevent the
latter class from acquiring lands, whilst it -would be extremely
unjust to confiscate the lands of the former class, - lands which
they had rightfully and innocently acquired, having only
become aliens afterwards by force of law resulting from events
beyond their control. This precise question came before this
court in the case of Jones et al. v. MeMasters (supra), and it
was decided that the title of such persons is not divested by
their forced alienage resulting from the division of an empire.
In that case the plaintiff was a citizen of Mexico, and owned the
land in controversy situated in Texas, at the period of the Texan
revolution. The defendants claimed under patents from the
State, and contended that the plaintiff must fail in her action.
But it was sustained by the court below and by this court.
Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering the opinion of this court,
said: "Assuming that the plaintiff is an alien, and not a citizen of Texas, the next question is, whether or not she is under
any disability that would prevent her from the assertion of her
title to the premises in question ; in other words, whether her
absence and alienage worked a forfeiture of the estate. The
general principle is undisputed, that the division of an empire
works no forfeiture of a right of property previously acquired.
Kelly v. Harrison (2 J. Cases, 29; 7 Pet. 87). And consequently the plaintiff's right still exists in full effect, unless
the new sovereignty created, within which the lands are situate, has taken some steps to abrogate it. The title remains
after the revolution, and erection of the new government, the
same as before." This case was decided in December Term,
1857, and it is believed that no case in Texas has held the

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

contrary since that time. The same views were expressed, and
many authorities cited in support thereof, in Kilpatrick v.
Sisneros (23 Tex. 180-134), decided in 1859; also in Salriego
v. White (80 id. 581-584), decided in 1868,- all which cases
are recognized in the late case of Andrew8 v. Spear, 48 id.
567.
We think, therefore, it may be regarded as settled that the
severance of Texas from the Republic of Mexico did not divest
the title of- Aguilera to the lands in dispute.
This conclusion disposes of another point in the case,- the
question as to the validity of the act of sale passed on the
twelfth day of March, 1886, from Aguilera to Anna Matilda
Massieu. Notwithstanding the existence of hostilities between
Texas and Mexico, it was competent for one citizen of Mexico
to convey to another, both residing and being in Mexico, lands
situated in Texas. This point was settled by the late decision
of this court in the case of Conrad v. Waples, 96 U. S. 279.
We may assume, therefore, that at the time when the Constitution of Texas was adopted, on the 17th of March, 1886, the
lands in dispute rightfully belonged to Anna Matilda Massieu,
who was then an infant, and a citizen of Mexico residing in
the city of Mexico.
Then did the Constitution which was adopted on the 17th of
March, 1836, divest the title which Anna Matilda Massieu had
acquired? We have already quoted its language, and have seen
that whilst it declared that aliens should not hold lands in the
republic, a reasonable time should be given to them by law to
become citizens or to dispose of their lands.
It seems clear, therefore, that the Constitution itself did not,
propriovigore, divest the titles of aliens, especially the titles of
those Mexican citizens who had become aliens by the course of
events. It was left to future legislation to provide the mode
and manner in which such divestiture should take place. This
view is sustained by the cases already referred to, and by many
others that might be cited on the subject. We may assume,
therefore, that Anna Matilda Massieu continued to hold the
title to the lands in question after, as well as before, the adoption of the Constitution on the 17th of March, 1836.
Then came the act of Jan. 28, 1840, already quoted, removvol. Viii.

32

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct.

ing the bar of alienage in descents, and giving to aliens, and
alien heirs, nine years to become citizens of the republic, and
take possession of their land; or nine years to sell the same
"before it shall be declared to be forfeited, or before it shall
escheat to the government."
This law being passed whilst Anna Matilda Massieu was
lawful owner of the land, gave her nine years to become a citizen, or dispose of the same before it could be forfeited by proceedings at the suit of the government. Of course, after the
nine years should expire, namely, after Jan. 28, 1849, the land
would be forfeitable if the legislature should, in the mean time,
provide a proceeding to be taken for declaring such forfeiture.
The common law, so far as not inconsistent with the Constitution or the acts of Congress, was adopted as a rule of decision
in Texas on the 20th of January, 1840, to take effect on the
16th of March thereafter. But it is not perceived how this
could materially affect the case under consideration, which was
already provided for. The common-law doctrine respecting
alienage as affecting title to land was superseded by the Constitution of the republic and the statute referred to.
The next modification of the law was made by the State
Constitution of 1845, which by art. 13, sect. 4, provided as
follows: "All fines, penalties, forfeitures, and escheats, which
have accrued to the Republic of Texas, under the Constitution
and laws, shall accrue to the State of Texas; and the legislature shall, by law, provide a method for determining what lands
may have been forfeited or escheated."
This provision only renders it still more clear that the legislature must first act before any proceedings can be taken to
annul the title of an alien, or any other escheatable titles.
Under this provision, it has been held that, since its adoption,
no locations can be made upon -lands held by aliens on the
ground of their title being void, since no law has been framed
to provide the means for declaring forfeitures for alienage.
Hancock v. _McKinney, 7 Tex. 384 ; Swift v. Herrera,9 id. 263;
Johnson v. Smith, 21 id. 722; Luter v. Mayfield, 26 id. 325.
The only law which has been passed relating to proceedings
for enforcing forfeitures and escheats is that of March 20, and
which went into effect April 29, 1848. But this only relates

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

to the case of escheat when a person dies without heirs, and
cannot apply to the plaintiffs if they were capable of inheriting
from Anna Matilda Massieu in August, 1851, at the time of
her death.
As to this point, we have seen that the act of January, 1840,
declared that, in making title by descent, it should be no bar
to a party that any ancestors through whom he derives his descent from the intestate is or hath been an alien. This law
would seem to be the legitimate result of the status of aliens
with regard to title to lands in Texas; the prohibition to hold
lands being provisional only, not operative, unless they failed
to become citizens, or to dispose of their lands, within nine
years; and not even then, until regular proceedings should be
provided for, and should be had, to annul the title. The later
cases in Texas have fully established this doctrine. We refer
particularly to the cases of Sabriego v. White, 30 id. 576; Sette
gast v. Sclrimpf, 35 id. 323; and Andrews v. Spear, 48 id. 567.
From this review of the law of Texas, it would seem indubitable that the title of the plaintiffs to the land in question is
free from objection on the score of alienage.
Then, have the plaintiffs a right to vindicate their title in the
courts of justice? Several cases have undoubtedly decided that
an alien cannot sue for lands in Texas. The last case referred
to is that of White v. Sabriego (23 Tex. 243), which presented
the naked question of alienage as a bar. The court, however,
stated that under special circumstances aliens may sue; that
is, under circumstances which entitle them to hold land; as,
where they have a title emanating directly from the government, or where they acquired land by descent or purchase
before the division of the empire and the change of government. In the subsequent case of Sabriego v. White (30 id.
576), involving the same title, the plaintiff showed that the
land was granted to her mother before the revolution ; and that
her mother (with herself) removed to Matamoras during the
revolution, and her mother died there in 1842; and that the
plaintiff had ever since continued to reside in Matamoras,
remaining a Mexican citizen. The court held that the plaintiff lawfully succeeded to her mother's rights, and retained her
title to the property, no office having been found to forfeit it;

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct.

and hence that she was entitled to maintain her action. The
case of Jones v. HcMasters (supra) is also a case in point on this
question, it being there held that alienage was no bar to an
action, if the title of the alien was good; and the title was held
good as against third persons until office found, and a judgment
of forfeiture.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the objection to the right
of the plaintiffs to vindicate their title in the courts, as well as
the objection to the title itself, was properly overruled.
The next question is whether the plaintiffs succeeded in
proving the title by which they claimed the lands in dispute.
To prove the original grant from the government of Coahuila
and Texas to Aguilera, the plaintiffs, at the trial, offered in
evidence a certified copy from the general land-office of the
Spanish title, consisting of Aguilera's petition for eleven leagues
of land on Trinity River or elsewhere, the act of concession,
dated March 20, 1830, the petition for possession in September,
1833, the reference for a survey, the notes of survey, and the
title of possession, dated Nov. 26, 1833, executed by Vicente
Aldrete, commandant at Nacogdoches and general commissioner
of the government, in the presence of two witnesses.
The imperfect condition of the record does not enable us to
understand clearly whether or not, in addition to this certified
copy, a testimonio of the title was also offered in evidence.
From a translated copy, and the fact that the Spanish original
thereof was waived by the parties and not inserted in the
record, we infer that such a testimonio was offered. From the
translation referred to it appears that this testimonio was verified by the signature of Aldrete, and two assisting witnesses,
named Rodriguez and Perez.
This paper purported, by certificates thereon, to have been
recorded in August and October, 1870, in the counties of
Anderson and Freestone, where the land lies. The only authentication of the instrument at the time of recording consisted of an affidavit made by one R. D. Johnson, at Galveston,
in 1857, that the residence of the subscribing witnesses was
unknown to him; and a joint affidavit of one Taylor and one
Edwards, made at Nacogdoches in 1857, deposing to the genuineness of Aldrete's signature.

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

The defendant objected to the admission of this evidence of
the title as an authenticated and recorded instrument. The
objection was overruled.
The admission of this evidence forms the basis of one of the
errors assigned. If the accessary circumstance of the title
having been recorded in the proper counties in 1870 had been
a material fact in the determination of the cause, its admission
as a recorded title would have made it necessary for us to examine the sufficiency of the affidavits in virtue of which the
recording was made. But from the view which was taken of the
case by the court below the recording of the instrument became
immaterial; the learned judge holding that the defendant could
claim no benefit from the fact that the plaintiffs' title was not
properly recorded, inasmuch as both parties claimed the principal tract in question under titles emanating from the Mexican
government, and therefore as between them the recording acts
did not apply. If this position was correct, the recording of
the plaintiffs' title was .certainly immaterial; if not correct,
the judgment should be reversed. It is unnecessary, therefore,
to consider the question whether that title was properly authenticated for recording or not, a question which might give
us some embarrassment. The correctness of the ruling made
by the court will be considered further on.
Whether the testimonio was sufficiently authenticated to
make it competent evidence of the title, as contradistinguished
from its registry, it is also unnecessary to decide. It is clear
that the certified copy of the title from the land-office was
primafacie evidence of its existence; for it -would be presumed
that the original was an archive of the land-office. For the
mere purpose, therefore, of proving title only, without clothing
it with the privileges of registry, the certified copy was sufficient.
But after the plaintiffs had rested, the defendant recurred to
his attack upon their evidence of the grant to Aguilera. He
called as a witness the translator of the land-office, who produced the protocol or original title of said grant, and showed
that it had never been deposited in the land-office until July,
1873, after the commencement of this action. The defendant
further proved by E. A. Mexia that he, as agent of the plaintiffs, had procured the said protocol in June or July, 1873,

502

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. CL

from the governor of the State of Coahuila in the Republic of
Mexico, and had deposited the same in the general land-office
of Texas in July, 1873. The defendant now moved to exclude
the certified copy as evidence on the ground that the protocol
was not an archive of the general land-office of Texas, but was
an archive of the Mexican State of Coahuila, and was put in said
office by a private individual without the authority or sanction of
any law, and that there is no law of the State of Texas or of the
United States authorizing the use of a copy thereof as evidence
in any court or judicial proceeding. This motion was overruled, and the defendant excepted; and the question is again
presented here as to the admissibility of the evidence.
We think the certified copy was admissible in evidence.
By an act of the congress of Texas, passed Dec. 14, 1837, it
was declared" that it shall be the duty of every person or persons
-who may have in his or her possession or control any titles or
documents whatever which relate to lands, and which, by the
laws now or heretofore existing in Texas, have been and are
considered archives, to deliver the same to the Commissioner
of the General Land-Office, on his order, within sixty days
after the final passage of this act." Pasch. Dig., art. 70. The
sixth section of the same act constituted the land-office the
proper depository of all books, records, papers, and original
documents appertaining to the titles of lands denominated
archives. Id., art. 71. There can be no doubt that the protocol
of the title in question belonged to the class of documents here
designated; and it does not appear that any law has ever been
passed to prevent such documents from being deposited in the
land-office at any time. It is true that a door is thereby left
open for the perpetration of frauds; but fraud is always open
to investigation, and if titles which have been long kept back
from the proper public depository, and whose existence has
thereby been unknown, are not allowed to disturb subsequent
titles acquired bona fide in the mean time, the apprehended evil
will be greatly diminished. This consideration renders it important that the position taken by the court below in reference
to the question of registry as between persons holding under
titles issued by the Mexican government should be carefully
considered.

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

The next question to be considered, therefore, is whether a
bonafide purchaser claiming under a Mexican title is bound to
take notice of a prior Mexican title which is neither recorded
in the proper county nor deposited in the land-office.
The defendant, in this case, claimed title to the 1,855-acre
tract in question, under a grant of one league of land, dated
June 26, 1835, from the government of Coahuila and Texas to
one Edward C. Harris, and by the following intermediate conveyances from Harris to himself : 1st, a deed from Harris to
one Hotchkiss, dated June 9, 1840; 2d, a deed from Hotchkiss
to one Vail, dated April 24, 1844; 3d, a deed from Vail to one
Mynott and his wife, dated June 1, 1855; 4th, a deed from
Mynott and wife to one Kimbrough, dated Oct. 30, 1856, in
pursuance of a title-bond executed in June, 1856; 5th, a deed
from Kimbrough to the defendant and another person, dated
Nov. 30, 1868, - all of which deeds were duly recorded. This
chain of title' was duly proved, and there was no evidence that
the defendant or any of those through whom he deraigned title
had, at the times they respectively acquired their titles, any
actual notice of the existence of the said grant to Aguilera.
Some proof was offered to show constructive notice, but the
ruling of the court renders it unnecessary to consider it.
According to the view taken by the court below, none of the
persons who thus acquired title under Harris could claim any
benefit from the fact that Aguilera's title was totally unknown
and unheard of, and that no trace of it was to be found in any
public office of archives or records in Texas. If this be the
law of Texas, the owners of lands in that State hold them by a
very uncertain tenure.
But we cannot believe that this is a correct view of the law.
However, the case may have stood between the original grantees of Coahuila and Texas, namely, Aguilera and Harris (and
of this we express no opinion), we think that the subsequent
bona fide purchasers and possessors under Harris acquired an
unquestionable right to contest the unknown and dormant title
of Aguilera, though antedating that under which they claimed.
The Texas recording acts are not so clear and explicit as
they might be, it is true; but, in our judgment, their tenor and
spirit are sufficient to prevent such great injustice and wrong

504

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct

as must necessarily follow if they do not apply to such a case
as this.

The act of Dec. 20, 1836, "organizing inferior courts," &c.,
provided, amongst other things, as follows: " SECT. 37. Any person who owns or claims land -f any description, by deed, lien, or other color of title, shall, within twelve months
from the 1st of April next, have the same proven in open court, and
recorded in the office of the clerk of the county court in which said
land is situated ; but if a tract of land lies on the county lines, the
title may be recorded in the county in which part of said land lies."
"SECT. 40. No deed, conveyance, lien, or other instrument in
writing, shall take effect, as regards the interests and rights of third
parties, until the same shall have been duly proven and presented
to the court, as required by this act, for the recording of land tiles.
And it shall be the duty' of the clerk to note particularly the time
when such deed, conveyance, lien, or other instrument is presented,
and to record them in the order in which they are presented."
Pasch. Dig., arts. 4980, 4983.

The limit of time prescribed in the thirty-seventh section
was repealed in 1838.
As most original titles in Texas, originating before the revolution, like that of Aguilera in this case, were public archives,
the parties holding only testimonios thereof, the following law
was passed Jan. 19, 1839: "Copies of all deeds, &c., when the originals remain in the public archives, and were executed in conformity with the laws existing
at their dates, duly certified by the proper officers, shall be admitted
to record in the county where such land lies." Id., art. 4984.
It seems to us that these provisions cover the case under
consideration. And such is the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Texas. In the case of Guilbeau v. Mays (15 Tex. 410),
the plaintiff claimed under a grant of a league of land from the
former government; the defendants pleaded prescription for
three years, and that there was no record of the plaintiff's grant
in the general land-office nor in the county where the land was
situated; that they held by patents issued from the government of Texas and locations of valid certificates, without notice
of the plaintiff's title. The proofs corresponded with this de-

Oct. 1878.]

AIRHART V. MASSIEU.

fence, and the court held it to be a valid one. After reviewing
the laws above referred to, and the manifest policy by which
they were dictated, they proceed as follows: "In view of the
legislation on this subject, it is believed not to be susceptible
of a doubt that the grants upon which the plaintiff bases his
right to the lands in question ought to have been recorded, and
their failure so to be recorded, or delineated on the maps, or
other notice, will postpone them to a junior title, derived from
the government, and will place the defendants in the position
before the court as innocent purchasers without notice, and in
principle not distinguishable from the great class of cases of
innocent purchasers without notice of any prior or superior
titles." This case is corroborated by the subsequent cases of
Musquis v. Blake, 24 Tex. 461; Niholson v. Horton, 23 id. 47;
Wilson v. Williams, 25 id. 54.
Had the grant to Aguilera been deposited in the land-office,
the case would have presented a question of very different consideration. It is generally conceded that an archive in the
general land-office is entitled to all the privileges of an instrument recorded in the proper county. In the case just cited the
court say: "Now, in cases of title emanating from the government, where the patent or testimonio had not been recorded in
the county where the land lies, the archives of the general landoffice and the maps of survey, and the records and maps of the
county surveyor, would be regarded as notice that the land was
appropriated, and was not a part of the vacant domain of the
republic." See also Byrne v. Pagan, 16 Tex. 891; Chambers v.Sisk, 22 id. 504; Wilson v. Williams, 25 id. 54. But
here all the transfers of the Harris tract took place before the
Aguilera title was either recorded or deposited in the landoffice. Under these circumstances, the plaintiffs should have
been required to show that the defendant and those under
whom he claimed had either actual or at least constructive
notice of their title at the time when they respectively purchased; but the court required neither, holding in effect that
the elder title was entitled to preference without any notice of
its existence.
Of course, buying with actual notice of a previous title, or
under circumstances which make it a duty to take notice, is a

ATRHART V. MASSIEU.

[Sup. Ct.

fraud, and deprives the purchaser of the immunity arising from
the fact that such title is not recorded nor deposited in the
land-office. Crosby v. Huston, 1 Tex. 203; Grumbles v. Sneed,
22 id. 565.
By a late law, passed Oct. 20, 1866, a title not deposited in
the land-office, and not recorded, will no longer avail as against
certain descriptions of title without actual notice. The act is
as follows

-

"Titles to land which may have been deposited in the general
land-office subsequently to the time when the land embraced by such
titles had been located and surveyed, by virtue of valid land warrants or certificates, shall not be received as evidence of superior
title to the land against any such location or survey, unless such
elder title had been duly recorded in the office of the county clerk
of the county where the land may have been situated, prior to the
location and survey, or the party having such location and survey
made had actual notice of the existence of such elder title before he
made such location and survey." Pasch. Dig., art. 5825.
Whether this law can properly be extended to protect any
other titles than those based on "land warrants or certificates"
may be questionable. But it is not necessary for the defendant
to invoke the aid of this law: he can stand on the fair construction of the laws of 1836 and 1839. The title which he is
called upon to combat was not to be found either in the landoffice or in the records of the counties, the only public depositories to which the people could resort to ascertain what lands
have been granted, and what are vacant and free; and he may
well insist that if he and his several grantors had not actual,
they should at least have had constructive, notice of an elder
title in order to be affected by it, - something beyond the
mere fact of its existence; some legal indicia or evidence of
that existence, deposited in some proper place, which he was
legally bound to find, and which, in the exercise of ordinary
diligence, he might have found and relied on.
Many other questions are made in the record; but as this is
a controlling one, we have thought it unnecessary to discuss
them. We are satisfied that the judgment must be reversed,
with directions to award a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

