BANK V. MCVEIGH.

[Sup. 6%.

BANK V. MCVEIGH.
A Federal question is not presented by the decision of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State of Virginia, that by the general principles of commercial law, if, during the late civil war, an indorser of a promissory note left
his residence in loyal territory and went to remain permanently within the
Confederate lines before the note matured, a notice of protest left at his
former residence was not sufficient to charge him, if his change of residence
was known, or by the exercise of reasonable diligence might have been
known, to the holder of the note when it matured.

to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Appeals of the State of Virginia.
The Bank of the Old Dominion sued the makers, and W. N.
McVeigh, the indorser, of certain promissory notes which were
payable at that bank. At the date of the notes the bank
had its place of business at the city of Alexandria, Va., and
the other parties resided there. Before the paper matured, the
forces of the United States had taken possession of that city,
MOTION

which they retained during the rebellion; and the indorser had,
with the knowledge of the officers of the bank, gone within the
Confederate lines, where his family then was, and where he remained, engaged in business in the city of Richmond, until
1874. The notes were in due time and manner presented at
the bank for payment, and, payment not having been made,
were protested.
Upon the second trial of the case in the Corporation Court
of the city of Alexandria, the controlling question being as to
the sufficiency of the notice of dishonor and protest, the proof
was, that notice in respect to one of the notes was left at the
place of business of the indorser in Alexandria, and that notice
as to the others was left at his former dwelling in that city, "in
the hands of his white servant." The court charged the jury
that "if, on or about the 30th of May, 1861, and prior to the
maturity of said notes, W. N. McVeigh, having previously sent
his family, went himself within the Confederate lines, with the
intention of not returning to Alexandria during its occupation
by the United States forces, and remained with them continuously within the Confederate lines throughout the whole period
of the war, and until the year 1874, and such absence at the

004 1978.

BANK V. MCVEIGH.

natutrity of said notes, respectively, was known, or by the exircise of reasonable diligence must have been known, to the
plaintiff, there is no such evidence of notice of dishonor in the
case as is sufficient to fix his liability as indorser, and the jury
must find for him as to all except the two notes of May 17 and
June 17, as to which notes they will find for the plaintiff."
The jury having found accordingly, judgment was rendered
on the verdict, and the bank took the case to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, where the judgment
below having been affirmed, the bank sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. Conway Robifnson, 31r.Philip Phillips,and Mr. William
A. Maury in support of the motion.
Mr. .0. Claughton, contra.
MR. CHiEF JuSTIcE, WArrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The motion to dismiss this case for want of jurisdiction will
be granted upon the authority of Bethell v. Demaret, 10 Wall.
537; Delmas v. Insurance Company, 14 id. 661;' Tarver v.
.Keach, 15 id. 67 ; Rockchold v. ?oclchold et al., 92 U. S.129 ;
New York Life Insurance Co. v. HUendren, id. 286. All the
court below decided was, that by the general principles of commercial law, if, during the late civil war, an indorser of a
promissory note abandoned his residence in loyal territory, and
went to reside permanently within the Confederate lines before
the note matured, a notice of protest left at his former residence
in the loyal territory was not sufficient to charge him, if his
change of residence was known, or by the exercise of reasonable diligence might have been known, to the holder of the
note when it matured. It is true that, upon a former decision
of the same cause, something was said in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals as to the effect of the ordinance of secession
of Virginia upon the rights of the parties, and that upon the
last trial in the Corporation Court an effort was made by the
plaintiff in error to obtain a ruling upon the constitutionality
of that ordinance; but it is equally trie that the Corporation
Court declined to rule at all upon the question, and that the
Court of Appeals, in the opinion filed with the judgment

334

UNnrD STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R.Co. [Sup. Ct.

brought here for review, says: -The court before refused to
give any opinion on the constitutionality of the ordinance of
secession, as it does now, such question being irrelevant and
not involved, as we think, in the decision of the cause. The decision of this court would be the same, whether it held the said
ordinance of secession to be constitutional or unconstitutional."
A careful examination of the record satisfies us of the correctness
of this statement. The case was decided "upon principles of
general law alone," and it nowhere appears in the record that
the plaintiff in error set up or claimed any "title, right, privilege, or immunity," under the Constitution or authority of the
United States, which was denied him by the decision below.
Writ dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. BURLINGTON AND MISSOUI
RAILROAD COMPANY.

RIVER

1. The grant of lands made to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Com.
pany, by the act of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. 356), embraced ten odd-numbered
sections per mile, to be taken on the line of the road and in equal quantities on each side thereof, which had not been sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and to which, at the time of the definite
location of such line, a pre-emption or a homestead claim had not attached.
2. Lands are, within the meaning of the act, taken on such line when they are
selected along its general direction or course, within lines perpendicular to
it at each end.
3. The grant was made to aid in the construction of the entire road; but the
company, on completing each section of twenty miles, had the privilege to
receive a patent for lands opposite thereto.
4. The grant having no lateral limits, and the Land Department having for years
neglected to withdraw from market lands situate beyond twenty miles from
the road, and the lands opposite to certain portions of it having been patented to other parties, it was held that the grant to the company could be
satisfied by lands elsewhere situate on the line of the road.
5. By the act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489), and by said act of 1864, which was
an amendment thereof, Congress intended to place the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and all its branch companies, upon the same footing as to
lands, privileges, and duties, except where special provision was otherwise
made; and the grant having been enlarged as to the sections and the distance from the road within which they should be selected, by striking out
the numbers in the first act and substituting larger numbers, the first act
must thenceforth be read as against the government and the parties

