UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.

[Sup. Ct.

party might very well be criminally wrong in failing to pay
-when he received it; but Congress could hardly be supposed to
intend to punish as a crime his failure to pay afterwards what
was in law but a debt created five years before.
This answers the fifth question, namely, "Can the defendant
be punished under sect. 31 of the act of March 3, 1873?" These
answers also render unnecessary a reply to the others.
It is, therefore, ordered to be certified to the Circuit Court
that the first and fifth questions are answered in the negative,
and that answers to the others are thereby rendered unnecessary.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.
An indictment against A., found Sept. 15, 1876, charged that on Dec. 24, 1870,
B. demanded of him the sum of $625, which he as her agent and attorney
had collected and received from the United States on account of a pension
awarded to her, and that he then, and continuously thereafter, wrongfully
withheld it from her. Held, 1. That the indictment was barred by sect
1044 of the Revised Statutes. 2. That the crime charged was not a continuous one to the time of finding the indictment.
CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
No counsel appeared for Irvine.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant, Clark Irvine, is charged in the indictment
in this case, that on the twenty-fourth day of December, 1870,
as the agent and attorney of Mrs. Berkely, he wrongfully
withheld from her the amount of her pension, to wit, $525,
allowed her under the pension laws, and continuously withheld it until the time of finding the indictment in September,
1875.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.

The indictment comes within the terms of the act of 1864,
which we have considered in United States v. Benecke, supra,
p. 447.
But the judges have certified to us, among other questions,
whether the act of July 8, 1870, does not repeal the thirteenth
section of the act of 1864.
By the third section of the later act, pensions are forbidden
to be paid to attorneys and agents any more, and are required
to be paid directly to the pensioner. It is not easy to see,
therefore, how the attorney is to get possession of the money,
and how he can withhold it, or why there should be any longer
a law for punishing him for such withholding.
The statute revises the act of 1864 as regards fees of such
attorneys, and increases the punishment for exacting more fees
than the law allows, but totally omits any penalty for withholding. Sects. 7 and 8, act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. 195.
It is argued that this omission was intentional, for the reason
above stated; and as the statute repeals all acts in conflict with
its provisions, it was intended to repeal the penalty for withholding prescribed by the act of 1864. The argument is not
without force; but without deciding that point, we prefer to
answer another question, which will decide the present case.
The defendant pleaded the Statute of Limitations of two years
as a bar to the indictment, and the court, having refused him
the benefit of the bar on trial, now certify other questions on
that subject, namely: 2. Is the crime a continuous one down
to the time of finding the indictment? 3. Does the Statute of
Limitations constitute a bar to this prosecution, the indictment
having been found Sept. 15, 1875 ?
It is not very easy to define for all purposes what constitutes
under the statute a withholding of the pension. It cannot
commence, of course, until the money is received by the party
charged. Nor can it commence then, unless there is a duty of
immediate payment to the pensioner. A reasonable time must
certainly be allowed for this. What that is must depend in
each case on its own circumstances. A refusal to pay on
demand without just excuse would constitute withholding at
once. Such delay as would show an intention to evade payment would constitute a withholding. If there is nothing but

UNITED STATES V. IRVINE.

[Sup. Ct.

careless delay, the party might hold the money for some time
without incurring this severe penalty of two years imprisonment. In short, there must be such unreasonable delay, some
refusal to pay on demand, or some such intent to keep the
money wrongfully from the pensioner, as would constitute an
unlawful withholding in the meaning of the law.
But whatever this may be which constitutes the criminal
act of withholding, it is a thing which must be capable of
proof to a jury, and which, when it once exists, renders the
party liable to indictment.
There is in this but one offence. When it is committed, the
party is guilty and is subject to criminal prosecution, and from
that time, also, the Statute of Limitations applicable to the
offence begins to run.
It is unreasonable to hold that twenty years after this he
can be indicted for wrongfully withholding the money, and be
put to prove his innocence after his receipt is lost, and when
perhaps the pensioner is dead ; but the fact of his receipt of
the money is matter of record in the pension office.
He pleads the statute of two years, a statute which was
made for such a case as this; but the reply is, You received the
money. You have continued to withhold it these twenty
years; every year, every month, every day, was a withholding,
within the meaning of the statute.
We do not so construe the act. Whenever the act or series
of acts necessary to constitute a criminal withholding of the
money have transpired, the crime is complete, and from that
day the Statute of Limitations begins to run against the prosecution.
In the case before us, the judges certify that it appeared on
the trial that the pensioner demanded her money of defendant
on the 24th of December, 1870, and he refused to pay her,
and had never paid her up to the finding of the indictment,
Sept. 15, 1875; that he requested the judge to instruct the
jury to acquit him, because the offence was barred by the
S+atute of Limitations, which the court refused to do.
We think the statute (Rev. Stat., sect. 1044) was a bar; and
we say in answer to the second question, that the crime, as
shown in this case, was not a continuous one to the time of the

Oct. 1878.]

JENNISON V. KIRK.

indictment; and to the third, that the Statute of Limitations
constitutes a bar to this prosecution.
The answers to these two questions dispose of the case, and
will be certified to the Circuit Court, and it is
So ordered.

JENISON V. KIRx.
1. The ninth section of the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, "granting the right
of way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands, and for other purposes," enacted, "that whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the
use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes
have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged by
the local customs, laws, and the decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the same;
and the right of way for the construction of ditches and canals, for the purposes aforesaid, is hereby acknowledged and confirmed: Provided,however,
that whenever, after the passage of this act, any person or persons shaU, in
the construction of any ditch or canal, injure or damage the possession of
any settler on the public domain, the party committing such injury or damage shall be liable to the party injured for such injury or damage." Held,
1. That this section only confirmed to the owners of water-rights and
of ditches and canals on the public lands of the United States the same
rights which they held under the local customs, laws, and decisions of the
courts, "prior to its passage. 2. That the proviso conferred no additional
rights upon the owners of ditches subsequently constructed, but simply
rendered them liable to parties on the public domain whose possessions
might be injured by such construction.
9. The origin and general character of the customary law of miners stated and
explained.
8. By that law, the owner of a mining claim and the owner of a water-right in
California hold their respective properties from the dates of their appropriation, the first in time being the first in right; but where both rights can be
enjoyed without interference with or material impairment of each other,
the enjoyment of both is allowed.
4. By that law, a person cannot construct a ditch to convey water across the
mining claim of another, taken up and worked according to that law before
the right of way was acquired by the ditch owner, so as to prevent the further working of the claim in the usual manner in which such claims are
worked, nor so as to cut off the use of water previously appropriated by
the miner for working the claim, or for other beneficial purposes.
5. Accordingly, where the owner of a mining claim worked by the method
known as "the hydraulic process," cut and washed away a portion of a
ditch so as to let out the water flowing in it, the ditch having been so con-

