GIFFORD V. HELMS.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Womack and Dalton v. Rust were cited and approved.
This is the latest authoritative adjudication in that State upon
the subject to which our attention has been called.
These authorities require no comment. The propositions
which they establish are decisive of the case before us.
Decree affirmed.

GIFFORD V. HELMS.
Purchasers from an assignee in bankruptcy of property transferable to or vested
in him as such, cannot maintain a suit in equity asserting their title to such
property against persons claiming adverse rights therein, if, at the time of the
purchase, his right of action was, under the Bankrupt Act (14 Stat. 517; Rev.
Stat., sect. 6057), barred by the lapse of time.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Montgomery Blair for the appellants.
Mr. C. W. Hornor, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

District courts, though constituted courts of bankruptcy, do
not possess the power under the twenty-fifth section of the
Bankrupt Act to order, in a summary way, the sale of an
estate, real or personal, although the same is claimed by the
assignee, even though the title to the same is in dispute, if it
also appears that the estate in question is in the actual possession of a third person, holding the same as owner, and claiming
absolute title to and dominion over the same as his own property, whether derived from the debtor before he was adjudged
bankrupt, or from some former owner. .Knight v. Cheney,
5 Nat. Bank. Ieg. 305.
Courts of bankruptcy may exercise many of the powers conferred by the first section of the Bankrupt Act in a summary
way, as well in vacation as in term time, first giving notice to
the party opposed in interest to the prayer of the petition, as
in a rule to show cause in an action at law or in a suit in

Oct. 1878.]

GIFFORD V. HELMS.

equity without service of process, the rule being that in such
a proceeding neither party is entitled to a trial by jury, and
that the only remedy for error is to seek a review under the
first clause of the second section of the same act. Smith v.
Mason, 14 Wall. 431.
Power to revise cases and questions which arise in the district courts in such proceedings is conferred upon the circuit
courts by that clause of sect. 2, but it is settled law that the
power so conferred does not extend to any case where special
provision for the revision of the case is otherwise made. Morgan v. 7tornhill, 11 id. 74.
Two trust-deeds were executed by the debtor of the complainant in his lifetime, -one
to each of the two trustees
named in the bill of complaint; the first embracing several
tracts of land which were conveyed to secure his creditors, and
the second consisting of an interest in a tract of two hundred
acres, arising from a verbal contract to purchase the same, and
an advance of $7,000 in part payment of the stipulated consideration, in respect to which the party who agreed to purchase
the same, not being able to pay the balance, determined to
abandon the contract and assert a lien upon the tract for the
amount paid.
Twenty-nine hundred dollars of the amount paid for the
tract by the debtor was the money of his wife, which she derived from the estate of her father, and which, by agreement
between her and her husband, made while the money was still
in the hands of the executor, he was allowed to apply towards
paying for the land, the stipulation between them being that
in taking title to the land such an interest in the same should
be conveyed to her in her own separate right as would be proportionate to the amount of her money applied to the payment
of the consideration.
Abundant evidence to substantiate those facts is found in
the record; and it also appears that the debtor of the complainant, on the 10th of June, 1867, conveyed to his son all of
his equitable interest in the several properties previously transferred to the before-mentioned parties, together with whatever
interest he owned in the turnpike therein described, which
was not included in either of said trust-deeds. Proof of that

GIFFoRD V. HELMS.

[Sup. Ct.

conveyance is placed beyond doubt; but it is equally clear that
the chief object of the same was to secure the repayment to
his mother of the money belonging to her which the father
used and applied towards paying for the prior-described tract
of land, the son becoming bound to her for that amount under
the agreement.
Eight months and a half later, to wit, on the 28th of February, 1868, the said debtor of the complainant filed his petition in bankruptcy, and in the month of February of the succeeding year received his discharge. On the 6th of May next,
after the petition in bankruptcy was filed, the assignee of the
estate was appointed, and due conveyance of all the assets of
the bankrupt was made to him, as required by law. Schedules
of the bankrupt's liabilities were duly filed, but they did not
mention the name of the original complainant as a creditor.
Allegations to the effect that the complainant proved debts
to the amount of $4,500 are contained in the bill of complaint,
which was filed Aug. 31, 1871, and the record shows that his
own deposition given in the cause affirms the allegation; but
the answer of the respondents denies the fact alleged, and the
deposition of the bankrupt fully supports the averment of the
answer.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared and demurred
to the bill of complaint, and they subsequently filed an answer
setting up several defences, including most or all of the causes
shown in support of the demurrer. Hearing was had; and the
court-the district judge presiding- overruled the demurrer
to the bill of complaint. Proofs were subsequently taken; and
the parties having been again heard, the court- the circuit justice presiding- entered the final decree as to the merits in favor
of the complainant, from which the respondents appealed.
Since the suit was commenced new parties have been made,
in consequence of the death of the complainant and the principal respondent, but the questions to be decided are unaffected
by that circumstance.
Three of the errors assigned were fully discussed at the bar.
They are as follows: 1. That the court erred in holding that
the conveyances made by the assignee to the complainant included any of the property sued for in the bill of complaint.

Oct. 1878.]

GiFFORD V. HELMS.

2. That the court erred in holding that ihe said conveyance was
of any validity, even if it did include the property for which
the suit is brought. 3. That the court erred in overruling the
defence that the suit is barred by the Statute of Limitations.
These several assignments of error were discussed at the bar
in the order herein stated; but it will be more convenient to
consider the question of limitation first, for the reason that, if
that is sustained, the other assignments of error will become
immaterial, as sufficiently appears from the prayers of the bill
of complaint, of which the following are the most material:
1. That the conveyance from the bankrupt to his son may be
decreed to be fraudulent, null, and void. 2. That the equities
and personal property therein described may be decreed to the
complainant. 3. That if the court should be of the opinion
that he, the complainant, is not entitled to all of the equities
described, then that his pro rata in the same may be decreed
to him, and that the $4,000 paid by the son, if found to have
been paid out of his own money, may be decreed to have been
paid in fraud and with notice that he is not entitled to recover
the amount. 4. That all debts included in the deed of trust
may be decreed to be invalid as a lien on the estate of the
bankrupt, and that all claims against the bankrupt which are
unproven, whether secured or not, may be decreed invalid as
to the estate of the bankrupt, and not entitled to be paid out
of the same in whole or in part. 5. That the cloud caused
upon the titles by the conveyance to the son may be removed,
and that the titles to the tracts may be decreed to the complainant free from the liens created by -the conveyance.
Actions at law or suits in equity may, in a proper case,
be brought by the assignee against any person to recover interests of the bankrupt held adversely, or by any person against
such assignee touching any property vested in such assignee;
but the same section of the Bankrupt Act provides that no suit
at law or in equity shall in any case be maintained by or against
such assignee, or by or against such person in any court whatsoever, unless the same shall be brought within two years from
the time the cause of action accrued for or against such assignee.
14 Stat. 518; Rev. Stat., sect. 5057.
Deeds of trust, as before explained, were executed to certain

GIFFORD V. HELMS.

[Sup. Ct.

trustees, and on the 10th of June, 1867, the equities in controversy were conveyed by the debtor to the son. On the 28th
of February of the next year the debtor filed his petition in
bankruptcy. Due proceedings followed, and on the 6th of May,
1868, more than two years before the bill was filed, the assignee
was appointed, and conveyance was duly made to him of all the
assets of the bankrupt.
Speedy administration as well as equal distribution of the
assets among the creditors is the policy of the Bankrupt
Act, and the former is almost as necessary as the latter to
accomplish the beneficent ends for which the law was passed.
Impressed with that view, Congress enacted the limitations contained in the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which, like
other statutes of limitation, must receive a reasonable construction. Beyond doubt, it applies to all judicial contests between the assignee and other persons touching the property or
right of property of the bankrupt, transferable to or vested in
the assignee, where the interests are adverse, and have so ex
isted for more than two years from the time when the cause
of action accrued for or against the assignee. Bailey v. Glover,
21 Wall. 346.
Absolute title to the equities in controversy was claimed by
the respondent from the moment the deed to him of the same
was executed by the bankrupt; and if that conveyance was
made in fraud of creditors, as alleged by the complainant, it is
clear that the equities were transferred to and vested in the
assignee when he was appointed, and of course his right of
action to recover the same commenced at the time the instrument of assignment was executed and delivered. Whatever
remedy for the supposed fraud the assignee had, it is evident
he might have pursued and enforced at any time after he acquired title to the bankrupt's estate. Ex parte Currie, 7 Law
Times, N. s. 486 ; Cleveland v. Boerum et al., 24 N. Y. 615.
Ignorance of the state of the title is not alleged, nor is there
any pretence of concealment. Instead of that, the proof is
clear that the assignee knew all the facts, and that he came to
the conclusion that the title of the respondent was valid, and
that the assignee had no just claim to the equities. Terry v.
Anderson, 95 U. S. 632; Clark v. Hackett, 1 Cliff. 280.

Oct. 1878.]

GIFFORD V. HELMS.

Nor is there any thing to benefit the complainant in the suggestion that he does not sue as assignee or creditor, as the
record clearly shows that he claims as purchaser from and
under the assignee.
Pending the proceedings in bankruptcy, the assignee petitioned the court for authority to make sale of the notes, judgments, and accounts of the bankrupt, for the reasons set forth
in the petition, not including the equities which the bankrupt
had previously conveyed to his son. Enough appears to show
that the reason he did not include those equities in the petition was, that he had reported to the court the day previous
that the conveyance to the son was without fraud, and valid.
Reasonable doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained; but
the order entered by the court upon the petition is broader
than the prayer of the petition, and includes the interest of the
bankrupt in the property conveyed to "the son, and all other
property belonging to the estate." Pursuant to that order,
dated May 17, 1871, the assignee, on the 18th of June following, sold all the assets of the bankrupt for the sum of $225 to
the complainant, he being the highest bidder for the same at
the public sale.
Nothing can be plainer in legal decision than the proposition that the complainant did not acquire, by the conveyance
made to him under that sale, any greater rights than those
possessed by the grantor. Whatever rights the assignee possessed, if any, were acquired May 6, 1868, when he was appointed and qualified as the assignee of the estate of the
bankrupt. Throughout the whole period intervening between
that date and the date of the purchase by the complainant,
the respondent held the equities in controversy adversely to
the supposed right of the assignee.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
right, if any, of the assignee was barred by the Statute of
Limitations before purchase of the same by the complainant.
The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint; and
it is
So ordered.

