Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD

Co. v. GEORGIA.

RAILROAD COmPANY

v.

GEORGIA.

1. A provision of the statutory code of Georgia which took effect Jan. 1, 186.3
enacts that private corporations are subject to be changed, modified, or
destroyed at the will of the creator, except so far as the law forbids it, and
that in all cases of private charters thereafter granted, the State reserves
the right to withdraw the franchise, unless such right is expressly negatived
in the charter. Two railroad companies created prior to that date, each
of which enjoyed by its charter a limited exemption from taxation, were
consolidated by virtue of an act of the legislature passed April 18, 1863,
which authorized a consolidation of their stocks, conferred upon the consolidated company full corporate powers, and continued to it the franchises,
privileges, and immunities which the companies had held by their original
charters. Held, 1. That by the consolidation the original companies were
dissolved, and a new corporation was created, which became subject to
that provision of the code. 2. That a subsequent legislative act, taxing
the property of such new corporation as other property in the State is
taxed, was not prohibited by that provision of the Constitution of the
United States which declares that no State shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts.
2. The judgment of the highest court of a State, that a statute has been enacted
in accordance with the requirements of the State Constitution, is conclusive
upon this court, and it will not be reviewed.

ERROR, to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.

This case came before the Superior Court for Fulton County,
Georgia, on an "affidavit of illegality" filed by the Atlantic
and Gulf Railroad Company in regard to an execution for taxes
which had been issued by the comptroller-general of the State,
in pursuance of an act of the General Assembly, approved Feb.
28, 1874, entitled "An Act to amend the tax laws of this State,
so far as the same relate to railroad companies, and to define the
liabilities of such companies to taxation, and to repeal so much
of the charters of such companies, respectively, as may conflict
with the provisions of this act." The affidavit averred that
the company, by the original charters granted to the Savannah,
Albany, and Gulf Railroad Company, and to the Atlantic and
Gulf Railroad Company, or by the act consolidating them under
the name of the last company, was not liable to be taxed more
than one-half of one per cent on its annual net income, and that
said act of Feb. 28, in so far as it authorized the levy and collection of a higher tax on its property, was in violation of the

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States, and therefore void.
The court overruled the affidavit, and gave judgment "that
the execution proceed." That judgment having been affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, the company sued out this
writ of error.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Robert Palligantand Mr. W. S.
Chisholm for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Robert N. Ely,
Attorney-General of Georgia, and Mr. Robert Toombs, for the
defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The single question presented in this case is whether the act
of the legislature of Georgia, approved Feb. 28, 1874, whereby
it was enacted that the property of all railroad companies in
the State should be taxed as other property of the people of
the State, impairs the obligations of the contract contained
in the charter of the plaintiff in error. The question compels
consideration of the inquiry, what was the contract into which
the State entered with the company, and what are the rights
which the company holds under it.
Prior to the eighteenth day of April, 1863, there were two
railroad companies in. the State, one incorporated on the
twenty-fifth day of December, 1847, as the "Savannah, Albany,
and Gulf Railroad," and the other incorporated on the twentyseventh day of February, 1856, with the name, "The Atlantic
and Gulf Railroad Company," the same name now borne by
the plaintiffs. The charter of each of these companies contained a grant of all the rights, privileges, and immunities
which had been granted to, or were held and enjoyed by, any
other incorporated railroad company or companies, or which
had been granted to the Central Railroad and Banking Company, or to the Georgia Railroad Company, or to either of them.
Both these latter companies had been incorporated prior to
1840, and each held by its charter the privilege or immunity of
not being subject to be taxed higher than one-half of one per
cent upon its annual net income in the one case, and in the
other, on the net proceeds of its investments. Consequently,
MR.JUSTICE STRONG

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD

Co.

v. GEORGIA.

the Savannah, Albany, and Gulf Railroad Company, and the
Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company, severally acquired by
their charters an exemption from taxation at any higher rate,
or in any .different manner. And such an immunity they
severally continued to hold down to 1863. This, we think,
admits of no reasonable doubt. If their rights are now the
same as they were when the original charters of the two companies were first granted, it is quite clear the provisions of the
taxing act of 1874 could not be applied to them without impairment of the contracts they had with the State. Neither of the
companies, however, is now existing under or by virtue of its
original charter. On the eighteenth day of April, 1863, the
legislature of the State passed an act whereby they were empowered to consolidate their stocks upon such terms as might
be agreed upon by the directors and ratified by a majority of
the stockholders; and the act enacted, that when so consolidated they should be known as "The Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company," with a proviso that nothing therein contained
should relieve or discharge either of them from any contract
theretofore entered into by either, but that this company should
be liable on the same. By the second section it was enacted
that the stockholders of said consolidated railroad companies,
by such corporate name, and in such corporate capacity, should
be capable in law to have, purchase, and enjoy such real and
personal estate, goods, and effects as might be necessary and
proper to carry out the objects therein specified, and to secure
the full enjoyment of all the rights therein and thereby
granted, and by said name to sue and be sued, plead and be
impleaded, in any court of competent jurisdiction; to have and
use a common seal, and the same to alter at pleasure; to make
and establish by-laws, and generally to exercise corporate
powers.
The third section of the act declared that the several immunities, franchises, and privileges granted to the said Savannab, Albany, and Gulf Railroad Company, and the Atlantic
and Gulf Railroad Company, by their original charters and the
amendments thereof, and the liabilities therein imposed, should
continue in force, except so far as they might be inconsistent
with the act of consolidation.

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

The fifth section repealed all laws and parts of laws militating
against the act.
It is conceded that under this act a consolidation took place.
It is, therefore, a vital question, What was its effect ? Did the
consolidated companies become a new corporation, holding its
powers and privileges as such under the act of 1863 ? Or was
the consolidation a mere alliance between two pre-existing corporations, in which each preserved its identity and distinctive
existence? Or, still further, was it an absorption of one by
another, whereby the former was dissolved, while the latter continued to exist? The answer to these inquiries must be found
in the intention of the legislature as expressed in the consolidating act. We think that intention was the creation of a
new corporation out of the stockholders of the two previously
existing companies. The consolidation provided for was clearly
not a merger of one into the other, as was the case of Central
Railroad & Banking Co. v. aeorgia, 92 U. S. 665. Nor
was it a mere alliance or confederation of the two. If it had
been, each would have preserved its separate existence, as well
as its corporate name. But the act authorized the consolidation
of the stocks of the two companies, thus making one capital in
place of two. It contemplated, therefore, that the separate
capital of each company should go out of existence as the
capital of that company; and, if so, how could either have a
continued separate being? True, the proviso to the first section declared that nothing therein contained should relieve or
discharge either of the companies from any contract theretofore
entered into by either, adding: "But this company [that is,
the company created by the act] shall be liable on the same."
It is thus distinguished between the two original companies
and the one contemplated to be formed by their consolidation.
And the proviso would have been quite unnecessary, had it not
been thought by the legislature that the consolidation would
work a dissolution of the amalgamated companies. Hence it
was considered necessary to preserve the rights of parties who
might have contracted with them. Only their contracts were
mentioned in the proviso, and that in order to authorize a
novation. The third section continued in force the several immunities, franchises, and privileges granted by the original

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD Co.

v. GEORGIA.

charters and the amendments thereof, and the liabilities
therein imposed, but plainly for the benefit of the consolidated
companies. Why speak of original charters, if a later charter
was not intended by the act? That such was the intention
appears still more clearly in the third section. That conferred
upon the consolidated stockholders complete corporate powers.
It granted to them, when consolidated, not only a corporate
name, but the right under that name to acquire and hold prop.erty, to sue and be sued, to have a common seal, to make
by-laws, and generally to do every thing that appertains to corporations of like character. This full grant of corporate power
must have been intended for some purpose. What was it, if
not to create a corporation ? For that purpose it was amply
sufficient. For any other it was unmeaning. If the two
original companies were to continue in being, if it was not contemplated that they should be dissolved by consolidation, a
new grant of corporate power and existence was unnecessary.
They had it already.
Looking thus at the legislative intent appearing in the consolidation act, we are constrained to the conclusion that a new
corporation was created by the consolidation effected thereunder in the place and in lieu of the two companies previously
existing, and that whatever franchises, immunities, or privileges it possesses, it holds them solely by virtue of the grant
that act made. That generally the effect of consolidation, as
distinguished from a union by merger of one company into
another, is to work a dissolution of the companies consolidating,
and to create a new corporation out of the elements of the former,
is asserted in many cases, and it seems to be a necessary result.
In McMahan v. Morrison (16 Ind. 172), the effect of a consolidation was said to be "a dissolution of the corporations previously existing, and, at the same instant, the creation of a new
corporation, with property, liabilities, and stockholders derived
from those then passing out of existence." So in Lauman v.
Te Lebanon Valley Railroad Co. (80 Pa. St. 42), the court
said: "Consolidation is a surrender of the old charter by the
companies, the acceptance thereof by the legislature, and the
formation of a new company out of such portions of the old as
enter into the new." This court, in Olearwater v. Meredith

RAILROAD Co. v. GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

(1 Wall. 40), expressed its approval of what was said in the
former of these cases. It is true these expressions have not all
the weight of authority, for they were not necessary to the
decisions made, but they are worthy of consideration, and they
are in accordance with what seems to be sound reason. When,
as in this case, the stock of two companies is consolidated, the
stockholders become partners, or quasi partners, in a new concern. Each set of stockholders is shorn of the power which,
as a body, it had before. Its action is controlled by a power
outside of itself. To illustrate: The stockholders of the
Savannah and Albany Railroad Company could not, after consolidation, have exercised any of the powers or franchises they
had prior to their consolidation with the stockholders of the
Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company. They could not have
built their road or controlled its management. They could
not, therefore, have performed the duties which by their original charter were imposed upon them. Those duties could
only have been performed by another organization, composed
partly of themselves and partly of others. Their powers, their
franchises, and their privileges were therefore gone, no longer
capable of exercise or enjoyment. Gone where? Into the
new organization, the consolidated company, which exists alone
by virtue of the legislative grant, and which has all its powers,
facilities, and privileges by virtue of the consolidation act.
What, then, was left of the old companies? Apparently nothing. They must have passed out of existence, and the new
company must have succeeded to their rights and duties. But
the new company comes into existence under a fresh g ant.
Not only its being, but its powers, its franchises, and immunities, are grants of the legislature which gave it its existence.
If, then, the old Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company and
the Savannah, Albany, and Gulf Railroad Company went out
of existence when their stocks were consolidated under the act
of the legislature of 1863, their powers, their rights, their franchises, privileges, and immunities ceased with them, and they
have no existence except by virtue of the grant of corporate
powers and privileges made by the consolidation act of 1863.
That act created a new corporation, and endowed it with the
several immunities, franchises, and privileges which had pre-

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD Co. v. GEORGIA.

viously been granted to the two companies, but which they
could no longer enjoy.
It necessarily follows that the new company held the rights
granted to it under and subject to the law as it was when the
new charter was granted. And the code of the State, which
came in force on the 1st of January, 1868, before the charter
was granted, contained the following provision: "SECT. 1051. Persons are either natural or artificial. The latter
are creatures of the law, and, except so far as the law forbids it,
subject to be changed, modified, or destroyed at the will of the
creator; they are called corporations."
"SECT. 1082. In all cases of private charters hereafter granted,
the State reserves the right to withdraw the franchise, unless such
ight is expressly negatived in the charter."

No such right was negatived in the charter granted to
the plaintiffs in error. Consequently the franchise was held
subject to a power in the State to withdraw it, and subject
to be changed, modified, or destroyed. at the will of its grantor
or creator. These provisions of the code became, in substance, a part of the charter. .Railroad Company v. Maine,
96 U. S. 499. It is quite too narrow a definition of the word
"franchise," used in this statute, to hold it as meaning only the
right to be a corporation. The word is generic, covering all
the rights granted by the legislature. As the greater power
includes every less power which is a part of it, the right to
withdraw a franchise must authorize a withdrawal of every
or any right or privilege which is a part of the franchise. So
it was held in The Central .Railroad . Banking Co. v.
Georgia (54 Ga. 401), and so it must be held now, especially
in view of the statutory provision of the code, that private
corporations are subject to be changed, modified, or destroyed
at the will of their creator. Hence the exemption from taxation, except to the extent and in the mode designated in the
charter, could be withdrawn without any violation of the
State's contract with the company, and the act of 1874 was
such a withdrawal.
In regard to the position taken by the plaintiff in error, that
the sections of the code we have quoted were not laws of the

CLEVELAND INS. CO. v. GLOBE INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

State in 1863, because the code was not read three times in
each house of the General Assembly, as required by the State
Constitution, it is sufficient to say the Supreme Court of the
State has decided they were, and its decision of such a question is not open for revision by us in a case brought here from
a State court. Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wall. 190.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -Railroad Company v. Georgia, error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Georgia, was argued at the same time and by the same counsel as was
the preceding case. The question involved was the validity of the tax for the
year 1875, which had been sustained by the court below.
MR.JusTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court affirming the judgment.

CLEVELAND INSURANCE COMPANY
COMPANY.

v.

GLOBE INSURANCE

1. The decision in Sandusky v. National Bank (23 Wall. 289) and Hill v. Tompson
(94 U. S. 322), that this court cannot review the action of the Circuit Court
in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction over a judgment rendered by
the District Court, on a petition praying that a party be adjudged a bankrupt, reaffirmed.
2. No particular form of proceeding is required to remove such a case to the
Circuit Court. It is sufficient if some "proper process" is used.
3. A writ of error, employed as "process" for the purposes of that jurisdiction,
will not deprive the Circuit Court of its power to proceed.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Jacob D. Cox and Mr. John P. Follett, for the defendant
in error, in support of the motion.
.M'.H. L. Terrell and Mr. S. Burke, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the 2d of May, 1872, the Globe Insurance Company, of
Cincinnati, filed a petition in the Dictrict Court of the United

