SLAUGHTER V. GLENN.

[Slip. Ct.

was committed, which, like other errors, may be corrected on
appeal after final decree below.
The case is entirely different from what it would have been
if the only object of the suit had been to enjoin Schwab from
proceeding in the State court. There the question would have
been as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the cause.
But here is clearly jurisdiction of the cause. The assignee in
bankruptcy had the undoubted right to sue Schwab in the
Circuit Court to settle the title to the goods or the fund arising
from their sale. The injunction was a mere incident to the
principal relief he asked. Even if not granted, the suit could
go on.
Being satisfied, by the petitioner's own showing, that the
error, if any, in the court below cannot be corrected by mandamus, we deny the motion for an order to show cause.
MNotion denied.

SLAUGHTER

v.

GLENIN.

1. Lands in Texas belonging to a married woman are termed in that State her
"separate property," and she has in equity all the power to dispose of them
which could be given to her by the amplest deed of settlement.
2. During the absence of her husband, when she had the exclusive management
of her interests, a married woman owning in her own right such lands conveyed them to A. by deed, which she acknowledged before the proper
officer, as if she were a .fere sole. She invested the purchase-money in
another tract, and A. sold the lands to B. Some years afterwards, she and
her husband brought an action to recover them. B. filed his bill, praying
that the action be enjoined and his title quieted. Held, that, in view of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas as to the effect of such a conveyance, he was entitled to the relief prayed for.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. W. S. Herndon for the appellants.
.ir. Isaac C. Collins, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

There is a considerable mass of testimony in the record, but

Oct. 1878.]

SLAUGHTER V. GLENN.

the facts are few, and we think there is nothing material about
which there is any room for doubt.
In the year 1863, and for some years previous, the appellant,
Mrs. Slaughter, had owned in her own right the premises in
controversy in this case. She was a widow when she married
Slaughter, and then possessed the property. It is situated in
Marion County, in the State of Texas. The land was poor and
the place very unhealthy. In the spring of that year, Dunn
& Co. were desirous to put up a packing establishment, and
were looking for property to buy with that view. Tier agent
offered the premises in question. At his request Dunn called
upon her. She asked $8,400. Dunn & Co. agreed to give it,
and paid her in Confederate money. On the 21st of July,
1863, the payment was completed, and she executed a deed to
the purchasers. She was the sole grantor, and the certificate
of acknowledgment was silent as to any separate and privy
examination. The certificate is as if she were a feme soe.
Gray, the officer who took the acknowledgment, testified as
follows "I witnessed and attested said deed at the request of Mrs..
B. J. Slaughter, the maker thereof. I took her acknowledgment to said deed. I asked her if she acknowledged it to be
her act and deed, for the uses, purposes, and considerations as
therein stated and expressed; she answered that she did. I
cannot remember positively what other questions were propounded to her or what answers were made, but I think I
asked all the questions usually asked by county clerks in taking
acknowledgments, as required by the statute. She signed the
deed, after an explanation of its contents made by me to her.
ier husband, M. T. Slaughter, was at that time absent in the
army. After the examination and explanation of the contents
to her by me, she signed the deed, and acknowledged it to be
her act and deed. She acknowledged it, so far as I could tell,
freely and willingly.
"At the time of the making the deed, Ml. T. Slaughter was
absent. Tie had been absent about four months, not less than
four months. He was a soldier in the Confederate army. ie
was absent for more than twelve months; I cannot remember
positively how long."

SLAUGHTER

v.

GLENN.

[Slip. Ct.

About the time the transaction was closed she bought another tract of land situate in the neighborhood, and paid for
it out of the money she had received from Dunn & Co. A
deed to her was duly executed on the 3d of August following.
The tract is fully described in the bill, and a copy of the deed
is in evidence. The property was known as the Culbertson
farm. Before selling and buying, she consulted with her
friends, and they earnestly advised both as highly advantageous.
The firm of Dunn & Co. consisted of Dunn and Price.
Price sold and conveyed to Dunn his share of the premises in
controversy, and Dunn sold and conveyed the entire premises
to Joseph Glenn, since deceased.
On the 26th of May, 1863, the appellant, M. T. Slaughter,
left his home, and entered into the Confederate military service
in the State of Louisiana. He lost an arm by a casualty of the
war, and thereupon returned home and remained there. He
was absent about a year. He had no means. His wife had
considerable property. During his absence she managed and
controlled every thing as if she had been afene sole. His ever
returning depended upon the chances of the war. Upon getting back, he expressed himself as highly gratified by the sale
and purchase she had made. She had constantly done the
same thing. On the 3d of June, 1868, Slaughter and wife
conveyed an undivided half of the premises in controversy to
one of their counsel in the court below, with a special covenant
against all persons claiming under them. By the same instrument it was provided that the learned gentleman should prosecute a suit for the recovery of the premises without any other
compensation, and that in the event of defeat he should pay
all costs and damages and save his clients harmless. An
action of trespass to try title was instituted in the proper
State court, in the name of Slaughter and wife. Glen thereupon filed this bill to quiet his title. Upon his application,
both cases were removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States. That court decreed a perpetual injunction in the
action at law, and the equity case has been brought here for
review.
The controversy between the parties is to be decided accord-

Oct.1878.]

SLAUGHTER

v.

GLENN.

ing to the jurisprudence of Texas. We must administer the
law of the case in all respects as if we were a court sitting
there, and reviewing the decree of an inferior court in that
locality. Olcott v. Bynum, 17 Wall. 44.
The case on the part of the appellants wears the appearance
of a conspiracy to defraud, which, to say the least, does not
commend it to the favorable consideration of a chancellor.
A court of equity must find itself hard pressed in the other
direction to refuse the relief sought by the bill upon the facts
disclosed in the record. We do not find ourselves embarrassed
by any such considerations.
The only objections taken by the appellants to the title of
the appellees' testator are that Slaughter was not a party to
the deed of his wife to Dunn & Co., and that the certificate of
her acknowledgment does not conform to the requirements of
the statute of the State touching deeds by married women
of their own property.
Before considering that subject, it is proper to advert to two
other points which arise upon the record.
All the means, legal and equitable, which Dunn had of protecting his title passed by assignment under his deed to Glenn.
Kellogg v. Wood, 4 Paige (N. Y.), 578.
Mrs. Slaughter paid for the Culbertson farm entirely out of
the proceeds of the property which she conveyed to Dunn & Co.,
and there was an overplus left in her hands. If we were constrained to hold that she is entitled to recover back those
premises, it would then have to be considered whether she
should not be regarded as a trustee ex maleficio, and required
to convey to the appellees, as representing Glenn, the Culbertson farm, in which the money of Dunn & Co. was invested.
Oliver et al. v. Piatt, 3 How. 333 ; Hay v. Le Claire, 11 Wall.
217.
Again, it is the settled law of Texas that if an infant convey, and after coming of age choose to rescind, he must, as a
general rule, restore what he has received, before he will be
permitted to recover; and the same rule is applied to married
women under like circumstances. Womacle v. Fomace, 8 Tex.
397.
But it is necessary to pursue these views, because we find

SLAUGHTER 11. GLENN.

[SUp. Ct.

the propositions of the appellants touching the execution of the
deed to Dunn & Co. wholly untenable.
The common-law rights and powers of feme coverts have been
considerably modified in Texas. There, real estate belonging
to her, whether acquired by descent or purchase in the usual
way, is termed, though not technically so, her "separate property," and she has in equity all the power to dispose of it which
could be given to her by the amplest deed of settlement. The
statute regulating conveyances to pass the legal title is not unlike those of most of the other States. It provides that the
"husband and wife having signed and sealed any deed or other
writing purporting to be a conveyance of any estate or interest in any land, slaves, or other effects, the separate property of
the -Wife, . . .if the wife appear before any judge," &c., "and
being privily examined by such officer apart from her husband,
shall declare that she did freely and willingly sign and seal the
said writing, to be then shown and explained to her, and wishes
not to retract it, and shall acknowledge the said deed or writing
so again shown to her to be her act, thereupon such judge or
notary shall certify such privy examination, acknowledgment,
and declaration, under his hand and seal, by a certificate annexed to said writing, to the following effect or substance,
viz.," &c. The form is then given. 1 Laws of Texas (4th
ed.), p. 261, art. 1003.
In the administration of this statute by the courts of the
State a singular anomaly has grown up. The following adjudications will show the changes in the common law and the
anomaly to which we have referred.
In Wonack v. Womack (supra), a husband and wife conveyed
a slave belonging to her, and warranted the title. There was
no certificate of acknowledgment. The court said the statute
which prescribed the mode of conveying did not declare void
any other mode, and that it seemed, "from its terms, to have
but one object in view, and that was to secure the freedom of
will and action on the part of the married woman. If she was
free to act, and so declared it, and that she did not retract, all
the circumstances concurred which were made necessary to pass
the title to the property." The deed was held to be valid.
In Wright v. Hays (10 Tex. 130), the husband was from home,

Oct. 1878.]

SLAUGHTER V. GLENN.

at a distance, for nearly six years. Daring his absence his wife
visited him. At the end of that time be returned home and
remained there. In the mean time, the wife bought land, took
the title in her own name, and conveyed a part of it to her son
by a former husband. After her death, suit was brought to
defeat the conveyance. The same objections were made to the
deed as here. The court said: "The joining of the husband
in the wife's conveyance, her privy examination and declaration that she acts freely, all presupposes that a husband is
present and may be exercising undue influence over her. But
can these formalities be requisite in cases where the rights of
the wife (and they are acknowledged by law) depend upon the
supposition that de facto she has no husband?" The deed was
sustained, and judgment was given for the defendant.
In .Dalton v. Bust (22 id. 188), the vendors had given a titlebond to the vendee for a tract of land described by metes and
bounds. The vendee died before making full payment. The
vendors filed a petition in the county court for the sale of the
premises and the payment of the balance due. A sale was
accordingly made, and the amount due paid out of the proceeds. The purchaser sued to recover possession, according to
the metes and bounds set forth in the bond. One of the vendors set up as a defence that she was, when she executed the
bond, and had continued to be, a married woman, and that she
did not acknowledge the bond according to the requirements of
the statute. It was held that she was estopped by the proceedings in the county court and the receipt of the purchasemoney from denying the validity of the bond, or the right of
the purchaser to all the lands within the metes and bounds set
forth in the original contract which she had executed. She
was treated in all respects as if she had been a feme sole from
the outset.
In Clayton's Adm'r8 and Others v. Frazier (88 id. 91), the
plaintiff sued the heirs of a married woman for the title to land
which had been her property, and for the conveyance of which,
on the payment of the purchase-money, she and her husband
had given a bond. There had been no examination of the wife
as to her voluntary execution of the bond. It was held that
the case was a proper one for specific performance. Mlomack

GIFFORD V. HELMS.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Womack and Dalton v. Rust were cited and approved.
This is the latest authoritative adjudication in that State upon
the subject to which our attention has been called.
These authorities require no comment. The propositions
which they establish are decisive of the case before us.
Decree affirmed.

GIFFORD V. HELMS.
Purchasers from an assignee in bankruptcy of property transferable to or vested
in him as such, cannot maintain a suit in equity asserting their title to such
property against persons claiming adverse rights therein, if, at the time of the
purchase, his right of action was, under the Bankrupt Act (14 Stat. 517; Rev.
Stat., sect. 6057), barred by the lapse of time.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Montgomery Blair for the appellants.
Mr. C. W. Hornor, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

District courts, though constituted courts of bankruptcy, do
not possess the power under the twenty-fifth section of the
Bankrupt Act to order, in a summary way, the sale of an
estate, real or personal, although the same is claimed by the
assignee, even though the title to the same is in dispute, if it
also appears that the estate in question is in the actual possession of a third person, holding the same as owner, and claiming
absolute title to and dominion over the same as his own property, whether derived from the debtor before he was adjudged
bankrupt, or from some former owner. .Knight v. Cheney,
5 Nat. Bank. Ieg. 305.
Courts of bankruptcy may exercise many of the powers conferred by the first section of the Bankrupt Act in a summary
way, as well in vacation as in term time, first giving notice to
the party opposed in interest to the prayer of the petition, as
in a rule to show cause in an action at law or in a suit in

