RAILROAD

Co. v.

GRANT.

[Sup. Ot.

Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Benbow v. Iowa City,
7 id. 318; Supervisors v. Rogers, id. 175; The Supervisors v.
.Durant,9 id. 415; County of Cass v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360.

The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to issue the writ as
prayed in the petition of the relator; and it is
So ordered.
Non.- Three other cases against the city, on the relation respectively
of Charles Parsons, of William S. Peterkin, and of James Wadick, were argued
at the same time as the preceding case. The city was represented by the same
counsel. Mr. D. H. Chamberlain and Mr. William B. Hornblower appearing for
Parsons, and Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and Mr. Robert Mott for the relator in each
of the other cases.
MR. JusTicR FELD, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, that
each of the cases was, in all essential particulars, similar to that of United States
v. New Orleans; and, upon the authority of the decision therein, the judgment
below must be reversed, and each cause remanded with directions to issue a writ
of mandamus to levy and collect a tax, as prayed by the relator, to pay the judgment described in his petition, with lawful interest thereon; and it is
So ordered.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GRAT.
The jurisdiction conferred upon this court by sect. 847 of the Revised Statutes
relating to the District of Columbia was taken away by the act of Congress approved Feb. 25, 1879, which enacts that a judgment or a decree of
the Supreme Court of that District may be re-examined here "where the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the value of 62,500." This
court, therefore, dismisses a writ of error sued out Dec. 6, 1875, to reverse
a final judgment of that court where the matter in dispute is of the value
of $2,250.
MoTioN to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of

the District of Columbia.
This is a writ of error sued out by the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Company, the defendant below, on the 6th
of December, 1875, to reverse a judgment rendered against it
for $2,250 by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

At that time sects. 846 and 847 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, defining the jurisdiction of
this court in that class of cases, were in force.

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD Co. v. GRANT.

They are as follows: "SECT. 846. Any final judgment, order, or decree of the Supreme
Court of the District may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed
in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of error or
appeal, in the same cases and in like manner as provided by law in
reference to the final judgments, orders, and decrees of the circuit
courts of the United States.
"SECT. 847. No cause shall be removed from the Supreme Court
of the District to the Supreme Court of the United States, by appeal or writ of error, unless the matter in dispute in such cause
shall be of the value of $1,000 or upward, exclusive of costs, except
in the cases provided for in the following section."
On the 25th of February, 1879, Congress passed "An Act to
create an additional associate justice of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, and for the better administration of justice in said District," sects. 4 and 5 of which are as follows: " SECT. 4. The final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia in any case where the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, exceeds the value of 82,500, may be re-examined
and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States,
upon writ of error or appeal, in the same manner and under the
same regulations as are provided in cases of writs of error on
judgments or appeals from decrees rendered in a circuit court.
"SECT. 5. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed."

The defendant in error now moves to dismiss the writ of
error, on the ground that the jurisdiction of this court has been
taken away.
Mr. .Richard T. Merrick and .Mr. William P. Mattingly, for
the defendant in error, in support of the motion, cited McNulty
v. Batty, 10 How. 72; .Norris v. Crocker, 13 id. 429 ; Insurance
Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541; Exyarte McArdle, 7 id. 506;
Steward v. Kahn, 11 id. 502.
Mr. Enoch Totten, contra.
Insurance Company v. Ritchie (5 Wall. 541) and z yarte
NcArdle.(7 id. 506), cited by the defendant in error, are not applicable to this case, because the repealing statute in the former
case expressly prohibited and took away the entire appellate
jurisdiction, and in the latter case was purely a partisan enact-

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GRANT.

[Sup. Ct.

ment, providing that this court should not possess or exercise
any appellate jurisdiction in cases of the character mentioned,
where appeals " have been or may hereafter be taken."
Norris v. Croelcer (13 How. 429) was an action to recover a
severe penalty, imposed by statute for the benefit of the owners
of fugitive slaves; and the statute having been repealed, the
penalty, of course, fell with it.
The sole question seems to be whether the legislature intended by the act of Feb. 25, 1879, to vacate all appeals and
writs of error then pending in causes involving less than the
value prescribed, or only to establish a new regulation applicable to future cases. All that were pending at the passage
of that act were and are here by virtue of the former one.
When the amount involved is $2,500, or upwards, there can be
no doubt about the jurisdiction. Does the last act repeal the
former absolutely, so as to forbid this court to exercise the jurisdiction which had previously vested ? If it does, that result is
brought about by implication only. Repeals by implication
are not favored, and these two acts not being necessarily inconsistent, one may be applied to pending and the other to future
appeals.
One statute is not to be construed as a repeal of another, if
it be possible to reconcile them. McCool v. Smith, 1 Black,
459; Harford v. United States, 8 Cranch, 109; Sedgwick,
Stat. and Const. Law, 127; Bowen v. Lease, 5 Hill (N. Y.),
221; Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 842.
The last act is silent as to pending causes. It seems fair to
conclude that if Congress had intended to interfere with them,
the intention would have been declared in apt and unmistakable terms.
All statutes are to be construed as operating prospectively,
unless the language is express to the contrary, or there is a
necessary implication to that effect. United States v. Heth,
3 Cranch, 399; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 847; Princev. United
States, 2 Gall. 204.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered

the opinion of the

court.
The single question presented by this motion is whether

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GRANT.

there is any law now in force which gives us authority to reexamine, reverse, or affirm the judgment in this case. Nearly
seventy years ago, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said, in Durusseau v. United States (6 Cranch, 807), that this "court implies
a legislative exception from its constitutional appellate power
in the legislative affirmative description of thoge powers.
Thus a writ of error lies to the judgment of a circuit court,
where the matter in controversy exceeds the value of $2,000.
There is no express declaration that it will not lie where
the matter in controversy shall be of less value. But the
court considers this affirmative description as manifesting
the intent of the legislature to except from its appellate
jurisdiction all cases decided in the circuits where the matter
in controversy is of less value and implies negative words."
There has been no departure from this rule, and it has universally been held that our appellate jurisdiction can only be
exercised in cases where authority for that purpose is given by
Congress.
It is equally well settled that if a law conferring jurisdiction
is repealed without any reservation as to pending cases, all
such cases fall with the law. United States v. .Boisdore's
eNulty v. Batty, 10 id. 72; Norris v.
Heirs, 8 How. 113;
Crocker, 13 id. 429; Insurance Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wall.
541; JE parte ZifcArdle, 7 id. 514; Tle Assessor v. Osbornes,
9 id. 567; United States v. T1ynen, 11 id. 88.
Sect. 847 of the Revised Statutes, relating to the District of
Columbia, is in irreconcilable conflict with the act of 1879.
The one gives us jurisdiction when the amount in dispute is
$1,000 or more; the other in effect says we shall not have
jurisdiction unless the amount exceeds $2,500. It is clear,
therefore, that the repealing clause in the act of 1879 covers
this section of the Revised Statutes.
The act of 1879 is undoubtedly prospective in its operation.
It does not vacate or annul what has been done under the old
law. It destroys no vested rights. It does not set aside any
judgment already rendered by this court under the jurisdiction
conferred by the Revised Statutes when in force. But a party
to a suit has no vested right to an appeal or a writ of error
from one court to another. Such a privilege once granted may
vol. vxxI.

26

RAILROAD

Co. v.

GRANT.

[Sup. Ct.

be taken away, and if taken away, pending proceedings in the
appellate court stop just where the rescinding act finds them,
unless special provision is made to the contrary. The Revised
Statutes gave p: rties the right to remove their causes to this
court by writ of error and appeal, and gave us the authority
to re-examine, reverse, or affirm judgments or decrees thus
brought up. The repeal of that law does not vacate or annul
an appeal or a writ already taken or sued out, but it takes
away our right to hear and determine the cause, if the matter
in dispute is less than the present jurisdictional amount. The
appeal or the writ remains in full force, but we dismiss the suit,
because our jurisdiction is gone.
It is claimed, however, that, taking the whole of the act of
1879 together, the intention of Congress not to interfere with
our jurisdiction in pending cases is manifest. There is certainly
nothing in the act which in express terms indica'es any such
intention. Usually where a limited repeal only is intended, it
is so expressly declared. Thus, in the act of 1875 (18 Stat.
816), raising the jurisdictional amount in cases brought here
for review from the circuit courts, it was expressly provided
that it should apply only to judgments thereafter rendered;
and in the act of 1874 (id. 27), regulating appeals to this court
from the supreme courts of the Territories, the phrase is, " that
this act shall not apply to cases now pending in the Supreme
Court of the United States where the record has already been
filed." Indeed, so common is it, when a limited repeal only is
intended, to insert some clause to that express effect in the repealing act, that if nothing of the kind is found, the presumption is always strong against continuing the old law in force for
any purpose. We think it will not be claimed that an appeal
may now be taken or a writ of error sued out upon a decree or
a judgment rendered before the act of 1879 took effect, if the
matter in dispute is not more than $2,500 ; but it seems to us
there is just as much authority for bringing up new cases under
the old law as for hearing old ones. There is nothing in the
statute which indicates any intention to make a difference between suits begun and those not begun. If, as is contended,
the object of Congress was to raise our jurisdictional amount
because of the increase of the judicial force in the District, we

Ot. 1878.]

Boom Co. V.PATTERSON.

see no good reason why those who had commenced their proceedings for review of old judgments should be entitled to more
consideration than those who had not. No declaration of any
such object on the part of Congress is found in the law; and
when, if it had been the intention to confine the operation of
what was done to judgments thereafter rendered or to cases
not pending, it would have been so easy to have said so, we
must presume that Congress meant the language employed
should have its usual and ordinary signification, and that the
old law should be unconditionally repealed.
Without more, we conclude that our jurisdiction in the
class of cases of which this is one has been taken away, and the
writ will accordingly be dismissed, each party to pay his own
costs; and it is
So ordered.

Boom ComTA_,i

v. PATTERSoN.

1. The United States cannot interfere with the exercise by the State of her right
of eminent domain in taking for public use land, within her limits, which
is private property. But when the inquiry whether the conditions prescribed by her statutes for its exercise have been observed takes the form
of a judicial proceeding between the owner of lands and a corporation
seeking to condemn and appropriate them, the controversy is subject to
the ordinary incidents of a civil suit, and its determination does not derogate from the sovereignty of the State.
2. A controversy of this kind in Minnesota, when carried, under a law of the
State, from the commissioners of appraisement to the State court, taking
there the form of a suit at law, may, if it is between citizens of different
States, be removed to a Federal court.
8.In determining the value of lands appropriated for public purposes, the same
considerations are to be regarded as in a sale between private parties, the
inquiry in such cases being, what, from their availability for valuable uses,
are they worth in the market.
4. As a general rule, compensation to the owner is to be estimated by reference
to the uses for which the appropriated lands are suitable, having regard to
the existing business or wants of the community, or such as may be reasonably expected in the immediate future.
6. On the upper Mississippi, where sending logs down the river is a regular
business, the adaptability of islands to form, in connection with the bank
of the river, a boom of large dimensions to hold logs in safety is a proper
element for consideration in estimating the value of the lands on the islands
when appropriated for public uses.

