Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. V. COMMISSIONERS.

the assured. It was his duty immediately to advise his principals and promptly to pay them. 1 Waite, Actions and Defences, 252, 255. This latter duty it appears he performed. He
had then received no notice of the adverse claim subsequently
made, and had no reason to expect it. His parting with the
money is proof of his sincerity and honesty.
Under all the circumstances, we think he is entitled to the
benefit of the principle which in such cases gives immunity to
the agent and refers the party complaining for satisfaction to
the principals who have received and hold the money.
There was error in the instruction given by the court to the
jury.
The counsel on neither side referred to the state of the
pleadings. We have, therefore, not adverted to that subject,
but have considered the case as it was argued, - entirely upon
the merits.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity to
this opinion; and it isS
S'o ordered.

RAItROAD COMPANY V. COMMISSIONERS.
1. In Nebraska, no demand for taxes is required, but it is the duty of every person subject to taxation to attend at the office of the county treasurer and
make payment.
2. Certain lands in that State, the patents for which had been withheld from the
Union Pacific Railroad Company by the United States, having been assessed
for taxation and the taxes remaining unpaid, the tax-lists, with warrants
thereto attached, were issued, authorizing the county treasurer, upon default in the payment of the taxes, to enforce the collection of them by the
seizure and sale of the personal property of the company. The company
paid them, while protesting in writing that they were illegally and wrong
fully assessed and levied, and were wholly unauthorized by law. At that
time, they had not been demanded, and no special effort had been made by
the treasurer for their collection, nor had he attempted to seize the personal
property of the company. Patents for the lands were subsequently issued
to the company. After the decision in Railway Company v. McShane (22
Wall. 444), that the lands were exempt from taxation, the company brought
this action to recover the amount so paid. Held, that there being no statute giving the right to recover in such cases, the action could not be
maintained.

RAILROAD CO. V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. A. J. Poppleton for the plaintiff in error.
lfr. 7. H. Woolworth and MVr. W. H. Hunger, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit to recover back taxes for the years 1870 and
1871, paid by the Union Pacific Railroad Company upon certain lands in Dodge County, Nebraska. The lands were among
those granted by Congress to the company to aid in the construction of its railroad (12 Stat. 489), but the patents were
withheld until after the taxes had been paid, by reason of the
joint resolution of Congress "for the protection of the interests
of the United States in the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and for other purposes,"
approved April 10, 1869. 16 Stat. 56.
The lands were returned by the United States land officers
to the State auditor and by him to the county clerk for taxation,
as required by the General Statutes of Nebraska, and were
placed upon the assessment list of the county. The general and
the local taxes levied for the respective years were carried out
against these lands, with others upon the lists, and the railroad
company designated as owner. In due time the tax-lists, with
warrants attached for their collection, were delivered to the
treasurer of the county. The taxes for the year 1870 became
payable May 1, 1871, and those for 1871, May 1, 1872. The
warrants authorized the treasurer, if default should be made in
the payment of any of the taxes charged upon the lists, to seize
and sell the personal property of the persons making the default to enforce the collection.
No demand of taxes was necessary, but it was the duty of
every person subject to taxation to attend at the treasurer's
office and make payment. During the years 1870, 1871, and
1872, the railroad company was the owner of other lands in the
county, and other property, both real and personal, on which
taxes were properly levied. On the 11th of August, 1871, the
company attended at the treasurer's office, and paid all taxes

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. v. COMMSSIONERS.

charged against it for the year 1870, and on the 20th of July,
1872, all that were charged for the year 1871. Before these
payments were made there had been no demand for the taxes,
and no special effort had been put forth by the treasurer for
their collection. The company had personal property in the
county which might have been seized; but no attempt had been
made to seize it, and no other notice than such as the law implies had been given that payment would be enforced in that
way.
At the time the several payments were made the company
filed with the treasurer a notice in writing that it protested
against the taxes paid, for the reason that they were illegally
and wrongfully assessed and levied, and were wholly unauthorized by law, and that suit would be instituted to recover back
the money paid.
This suit was begun Aug. 20, 1875, and on the trial the
judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion as to the
question, among others, "whether the payment of the said
taxes under the written protests above appearing, without any
demand therefor or effort to collect the same, made the payment a compulsory one in such sense as to give the plaintiff
(the railroad company) the right to recover back the amount
thereof as at common law, there being no statute giving or regulating the right of recovery in such cases." The presiding
judge being of the opinion that the payment was voluntary
and not compulsory, judgment was entered against the railroad
company, and the case has been brought to this court upon a
writ of error for a determination of the question upon which
the judges were divided, and which has been duly certified upon
the record.
We have no difficulty in answering the question in the negative. We had occasion to consider the same general subject at
the last term in Lamborn v. County Commissioners (97 U. S.
181), which came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas. As that was a case from
Kansas, we followed the rule adopted by the courts of that
State, which is thus stated in Wabaunsee County v. Walker
(8 Kan. 431) : "Where a party pays an illegal demand with
a full knowledge of all the facts which render such demand

544

RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

illegal, without an immediate and urgent necessity therefor, or
unless to release his person or property from detention, or to
prevent an immediate seizure of his person or property, such
payment must be deemed voluntary and cannot be recovered
back. And the fact that the party at the time of making the
payment files a written protest does not make the payment
involuntary."
This, as we understand it, is a correct statement of the rule
of the common law. There are, no doubt, cases to be found in
which the language of the court, if separated from the facts of
the particular case under consideration, would seem to imply
that a protest alone was sufficient to show that the payment
was not voluntary; but on examination it will be found that
the protest was used to give effect to the other attending circumstances. Thus, in Elliott v. Swartwout (10 Pet. 137) and
Bond v. Hoyt (13 id. 266), which were customs cases, the payments were made to release goods held for duties on imports;
and the protest became necessary, in order to show that the
legality of the demand was not admitted when the payment
was made. The recovery rested upon the fact that the payment was made to release property from detention, and the
protest saved the rights which grew out of that fact. In Philadelphia v. Collector (5 Wall. 730) and Collector v. Hubbard
(12 id. 13), which were internal-revenue tax cases, the actions
were sustained "upon the ground that the several provisions
in the internal-revenue acts referred to warranted the conclusion
as a necessary implication that Congress intended to give the
tax-payer such remedy." It is so expressly stated in the last
case. p. 14. As the case of Erskine v. Van Arsdale (15 id.
75) followed these, and was of the same general character, it
is to be presumed that it was put upon the same ground. In
such cases the protest plays the same part it does in customs
cases, and gives notice that the payment is not to be considered
as admitting the right to make the demand.
The real question in this case is whether there was such an
immediate and urgent necessity for the payment of the taxes
in controversy as to imply that it was made upon compulsion.
The treasurer had a warrant in his hands which would have
authorized him to seize the goods of the company to enforce

Oct 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. V. COMMISSIONERS.

the collection. This warrant was in the nature of an execution
running against the property of the parties charged with taxes
upon the lists it accompanied, and no opportunity bad been
afforded the parties of obtaining a judicial decision of the question of their liability. As to this class of cases Chief Justice
Shaw states the rule in Preston v. Boston (12 Pick. (Mass.)
14), as follows: "When, therefore, a party not liable to taxation is called upon peremptorily to pay upon such a warrant,
and he can save himself and his property in no other way than
by paying the illegal demand, he may give notice that he so
pays it by duress and not voluntarily, and by showing that he
is not liable, recover it back as money had and received." This,
we think, is the true rule, but it falls far short of what is
required in this case. No attempt had been made by the
treasurer to serve his warrant. He had not even personally
demanded the taxes from the company, and certainly nothing
had been done from which his intent could be inferred to use
the legal process he held to enforce the collection, if the alleged
illegality of the claim was made known to him. All that appears is, that the company was charged upon the tax-lists with
taxes upon its real and personal property in the county. After
all the taxes had become delinquent under the law, but before
any active steps whatever had been taken to enforce their collection, the company presented itself at the treasurer's office,
and in the usual course of business paid in full every thing
that was charged against it, accompanying the payment, however, with a general protest against the legality of the charges
and a notice that suit would be commenced to recover back the
full amount that was paid. go specification of alleged illegality was made, and no particular property designated as
wrongfully included in the assessment of the taxes. The protest was in the most general terms, and evidently intended to
cover every defect that might thereafter be discovered either
in the power to tax or the manner of executing the power.
Three years afterwards, and after the decision in Railway Company v. McShane (22 Wall. 444), which was supposed to hold
that the particular lands now in question were not subject to
taxation, this suit was brought. Under such circumstances, we
cannot hold that the payment was compulsory in such a sense
VOL. v111.

35

HENDRIE V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

as to give a right to the present action. As the answer to this
question disposes of the case, it is unnecessary to consider the
other questions certified.

Judgment affirmed.

HENDRIM V. SAYLES.
Where, before the issue of letters-patent therefor, a party assigns his invention,
and letters are lawfully issued to the assignee in his own name, the latter is
entitled, where the instrument of assignment does not show a different intention, to obtain a renewal of them at the expiration of the original term.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
Lafayette F. Thompson and Asahel G. Bachelder, claiming
to be inventors of a railroad brake, executed, before letterspatent were issued to them therefor, the following assignment, which was duly recorded in the Patent Office: -

" Whereas we, Lafayette F. Thompson, of Charlestown, and
Asahel G. Bachelder, now or late of Lowell, in the State of Massachusetts, have invented an improved mode of operating the brakes
of railway cars, and have applied, or intend to apply, for letterspatent of the United States of America therefor.
"Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, that for and in consideration of $100, in hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, I have assigned and set over, and do hereby assign,
sell, and set over, to Henry Tanner, of Buffalo, in the State of New
York, all the right, title, and interest whatever which we now
have, or by letters-patent would be entitled to have and possess, in
the aforesaid invention, the said invention being described in the
specification as prepared and executed by us, or to be prepared
and executed by us, for the obtaining of said letters-patent; the
whole to be enjoyed and held by the said Henry Tanner and his
legal representatives, to the full extent and manner in which the
same would have been or could be held and enjoyed by us had this
assignment never been made.

"And we do, by these presents, authorize the Commnissioner of
Patents to issue the said letters-patent to the said Henry Tanner

