Ot. 1878.]

Boom Co. V.PATTERSON.

see no good reason why those who had commenced their proceedings for review of old judgments should be entitled to more
consideration than those who had not. No declaration of any
such object on the part of Congress is found in the law; and
when, if it had been the intention to confine the operation of
what was done to judgments thereafter rendered or to cases
not pending, it would have been so easy to have said so, we
must presume that Congress meant the language employed
should have its usual and ordinary signification, and that the
old law should be unconditionally repealed.
Without more, we conclude that our jurisdiction in the
class of cases of which this is one has been taken away, and the
writ will accordingly be dismissed, each party to pay his own
costs; and it is
So ordered.

Boom ComTA_,i

v. PATTERSoN.

1. The United States cannot interfere with the exercise by the State of her right
of eminent domain in taking for public use land, within her limits, which
is private property. But when the inquiry whether the conditions prescribed by her statutes for its exercise have been observed takes the form
of a judicial proceeding between the owner of lands and a corporation
seeking to condemn and appropriate them, the controversy is subject to
the ordinary incidents of a civil suit, and its determination does not derogate from the sovereignty of the State.
2. A controversy of this kind in Minnesota, when carried, under a law of the
State, from the commissioners of appraisement to the State court, taking
there the form of a suit at law, may, if it is between citizens of different
States, be removed to a Federal court.
8.In determining the value of lands appropriated for public purposes, the same
considerations are to be regarded as in a sale between private parties, the
inquiry in such cases being, what, from their availability for valuable uses,
are they worth in the market.
4. As a general rule, compensation to the owner is to be estimated by reference
to the uses for which the appropriated lands are suitable, having regard to
the existing business or wants of the community, or such as may be reasonably expected in the immediate future.
6. On the upper Mississippi, where sending logs down the river is a regular
business, the adaptability of islands to form, in connection with the bank
of the river, a boom of large dimensions to hold logs in safety is a proper
element for consideration in estimating the value of the lands on the islands
when appropriated for public uses.

404

Boom Co. v. PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

ERIROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
The plaintiff is a corporation created by the laws of Minnesota, known as the Mississippi and Rum River Boom Company,
and the defendant is a citizen of the State of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William Lochren for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles -E.--andrau for the defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE FrniD delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error is a corporation created under the laws
of Minnesota to construct booms between certain designated
points on the Mississippi and Rum Rivers in that State. It is
authorized to enter upon and occupy any land necessary for
properly conducting its business; and, where such land is private property, to apply to the District Court of the county in
which it is situated for the appointment of commissioners to
appraise its value and take proceedings for its condemnation.
It is unnecessary to state in detail the various steps required
to obtain the condemnation. It is sufficient to observe that
the law is framed so as to give proper notice to the owners of
the land, and secure a fair appraisement of its value. If the
award of the commissioners should not be satisfactory to the
company, or to any one claiming an interest in the land, an
appeal may be taken to the District Court, where it is to be
entered by the clerk "as a case upon the docket" of the court,
the persons claiming an interest in the land being designated
as plaintiffs, and the company seeking its condemnation as defendant. The court is then required to "proceed to hear and
determine such case in the same manner that other cases are
heard and determined in said court." Issues of fact arising
therein are to be tried by a jury, unless a jury be waived.
The value of the land being assessed by the jury or the court,
as the case may be, the amount of the assessment is to be entered as a judgment against the company, which is subject to
review by the Supreme Court of the State on a writ of error.
The defendant in error, Patterson, was the owner in fee of
an entire island and parts of two other islands in the Mississippi
River above the Falls of St. Anthony, in the county of Anoka,

Oct. 1878.]

Boom Co. V. PATTERSON.

in Minnesota. These islands formed a line of shore, with occasional breaks, for nearly a mile parallel with the west bank
of the river, and distant from it about one-eighth of a mile.
The land owned by him amounted to a little over thirty-four
acres, and embraced the entire line of shore of the three islands,
with the exception of about three rods. The position of the
islands specially fitted them, in connection with the west bank
of the river, to form a boom of extensive dimensions, capable
of holding with safety from twenty to thirty millions of feet of
logs. All that was required to form a boom a mile in length
and one-eighth of a mile in width was to connect the islands
with each other, and the lower end of the island farthest down
the river with the west bank; and this connection could be
readily made by boom sticks and piers.
The land on these islands owned by the defendant in error
the company sought to condemn for its uses; and upon its application commissioners were appointed by the District Court
to appraise its value. They awarded to the owner the sum of
$3,000. The company and the owner both appealed from
this award. When the case was brought before the District
Court, the -owner, Patterson, who was a citizen of the State of
Illinois, applied for and obtained its removal to the Circuit
Court of the United States, where it was tried. The jury
found a general verdict assessing the value of the land at
$9,358.83, but accompanied it with a special verdict assessing
its value aside from any consideration of its value for boom
purposes at $300, and, in view of its adaptability for those
purposes, a further and additional value of $9,058.33. The
company moved for a new trial, and the court granted the
motion, unless the owner would elect to reduce the verdict to
$5,500. The owner made this election, and judgment was
thereupon entered in his favor for the reduced amount. To
review this judgment the company has brought the case here
on a writ of error.
The only question on which there was any contention in the
Circuit Court was as to the amount of compensation the owner
of the land was entitled to receive, and the principle upon
which the compensation was to be estimated. But the company now raise a further que ion as to the jurisdiction of the

406

BooM Co. v. PATTERSON

[Sup.

at.

Circuit Court. Objections to the jurisdiction of the court below, when they go to the subject-matter of the controversy
and not to the form merely of its presentation or to the character of the relief prayed, may be taken at any time. They
are not waived because they were not made in the lower court.
The position of the company on this head of jurisdictioi is
this: that the proceeding to take private property for public
use is an exercise by the State of its sovereign right of eminent
domain, and with its exercise the United States, a separate
sovereignty, has no right to interfere by any of its departments.
This position is undoubtedly a sound one, so far as the act of
appropriating the property is concerned. The right of eminent
domain, that is, the right to take private property for public
uses, appertains to every independent government. It requires
no constitutional recognition; it is an attribute of sovereignty.
The clause found in the Constitutions of the several States
providing for just compensation for property taken is a mere
limitation upon the exercise of the right. When the use is
public, the necessity or expediency of appropriating any particular property is not a subject of judicial cognizance. The
property may be appropriated by an act of the legislature, or
the power of appropriating it may be delegated to private corporations, to be exercised by them in the execution of works in
which the public is interested. But notwithstanding the right
is one that appertains to sovereignty, when the sovereign
power attaches conditions to its exercise, the inquiry whether
the conditions have been observed is a proper matter for judicial cognizance. If that inquiry take the form of a proceeding
before the courts between parties,- the owners of the land on
the one side, and the company seeking the appropriation on the
other, - there is a controversy which is subject to the ordinary
incidents of a civil suit, and its determination derogates in no
respect from the sovereignty of the State.
The proceeding in the present case before the commissioners
appointed to appraise the land was in the nature of an inquest
to ascertain its value, and not a suit at law in the ordinary
sense of those terms. But when it was transferred to the
District Court by appeal from the award of the commissioners,
it took, under the statute of the State, the form of a suit at

Oct. 1878.]

BooM CO.

V. PATTFRISON.

law, and was thenceforth subject to its ordinary rules and invidents. The point in issue was the compensation to be made
to the owner of the land; in other words, the value of the
property taken. No other question was open to contestation
in the District Court. Turner v. Hfalloran, 11 Alinn. 258.
The case would have been in no essential particular different
had the State authorized the company by statute to appropriate
the particular property in question, and the owners to bring
suit against the company in the courts of law for its value.
That a suit of that kind could be transferred from the State to
the Federal court, if the controversy were between the company and a citizen of another State, cannot be doubted. And
we perceive no reason against the transfer of the pending case
that might not be offered against the transfer of the case
supposed.
The act of March 8, 1875, provides that any suit of a civil
nature, at law or in equity, pending or brought in a State
court, in which there is a controversy between citizens of
different States, may be removed by either party into the
Circuit Court of the United States fpr the proper district; and
it has long been settled that a corporation will be treated,
where contracts or rights of property are to be enfdrced by or
against it, as a citizen of the State under the laws of which it
is created, within the clause of the Constitution extending the
judicial power of the United States to controversies between
citizens of different States. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 177.
And in Gaines v. Fuentes (92 U. S. 20), it was held that a
controversy between citizens is involved in a suit whenever any
property or claim of the parties, capable of pecuniary estimation, is the subject of litigation and is presented by the pleadings for judicial determination. Within the meaning of these
decisions, we think the case at bar was properly transferred to
the Circuit Court, and that it had jurisdiction to determine the
controversy.
Upon the question litigated in the court below, the compensation which the owner of the land condemned was entitled to
receive, and the principle upon which the compensation should
be estimated, there is less difficulty. In determining the value
of land appropriated for public purposes, the same considera-

408

BooM Co. v. PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

tions are to be regarded as in a sale of property between private parties. The inquiry in such cases must be what is the
property worth in the market, viewed not merely with reference to the uses to which it is at the time applied, but with
reference to the uses to which it is plainly adapted; that is to
say, what is it worth from its availability for valuable uses.
Property is not to be deemed worthless because the owner
allows it to go to waste, or to be regarded as valueless because
he is unable to put it to any use. Others may be able to use
it, and make it subserve the necessities or conveniences of life.
Its capability of being made thus available gives it a market
value which can be readily estimated.
So many and varied are the circumstances to be taken into
account in determining the value of property condemned for
public purposes, that it is perhaps impossible to formulate a
rule to govern its appraisement in all cases. Exceptional circumstances will modify the most carefully guarded rule; but,
as a general thing, we should say that the compensation to the
owner is to be estimated by reference to the uses for which the
property is suitable, having regard to the existing business or
wants of the community, or such as may be reasonably expected
in the immediate future.
The position of the three islands in the Mississippi fitting
them to form, in connection with the west bank of the river, a
boom of immense dimensions, capable of holding in safety over
twenty millions of feet of logs, added largely to the value of
the lands. The boom company would greatly prefer them to
more valuable agricultural lands, or to lands situated elsewhere
on the river; as, by utilizing them in the manner proposed,
they would save heavy expenditures of money in constructing a
boom of equal capacity. Their adaptability for boom purposes
was a circumstance, therefore, which the owner had a right to
insist upon as an element in estimating the value of his lands.
We do not understand that all persons, except the plaintiff
in error, were precluded from availing themselves of these
lands for the construction of a boom, either on their own account or for general use. The clause in its charter authorizing
and requiring it to receive and take the entire control and
management of all logs and timber to be conveyed to any point

Oct. 1878.]

Boom Co. v. PATTERSON.

on the Mississippi River must be held to apply to the logs and
timber of parties consenting to such control and management,
not to logs and timber of parties choosing to keep the control
and management of them in their own hands. The Mississippi
is a navigable river above the Falls of St. Anthony, and the
State could not confer an exclusive use of its waters, or exclusive control and management of logs floating on it, against the
consent of their owners. Whilst in Atlee v. Paecket Company (21
Wall. 389) we held that a pier obstructing navigation, erected
in the river as part of a boom, without license or authority of
any kind except such as arises from the ownership of the adjacent shore, was an unlawful structure, we did not mean to
intimate that the owner of land on the Mississippi could not
have a boom adjoining it for the reception of logs of his own or
of others, if he did not thereby impede the free navigation of
the stream. Aside from this, we do not think that the State is
precluded by any thing in the charter of the company from
giving a license to the defendant in error to construct a boom
near his lands. Moreover, the United States, having paramount control over the river, may grant such license if the
State should refuse one. The adaptability of the lands for the
purpose of a boom was, therefore, a proper element for consideration in estimating the value of the lands condemned. The
contention on the part of the plaintiff in error is, that such
adaptability should not be considered, assuming that this
adaptability could never be made available by other persons,
by reason of its supposed exclusive privileges; in other words,
that by the grant of exclusive privileges to the company the
owner is deprived of the value which the lands, by their adaptability for boom purposes, previously possessed, and therefore
should not now receive any thing from the company on account
of such adaptability upon a condemnation of the lands. We
do not think that the owner, by the charter of the company,
lost this element of value in his property.
The views we have expressed as to the justness of considering
the peculiar fitness of the lands for particular purposes as an
element in estimating their value find support in the several
cases cited by counsel. Thus, In the Matter of Turman Street
(17 Wend. 669), where a lot upon which the owner had his resi-.

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

dence was injured by cutting down an embankment in opening
a street in the city of Brooklyn, the Supreme Court of New
York said that neither the purpose to which the property was
applied, nor the intention of the owner in relation to its future
enjoyment, was a matter of much importance in determining
the compensation to be made to him; but that the proper inquiry was, "What is the value of the property for the most
advantageous uses to which it may be applied?" In Goodwin v. Cincinnati - Whitewater Canal Co. (18 Ohio St. 169),
where a railroad company sought to appropriate the bed of a
canal for its track, the Supreme Court of Ohio held that the
rule of valuation was what the interest of the canal company
was worth, not for canal purposes or for any other particular
use, but generally for any and all uses for which it might be
suitable. And in Young v. Harrison(17 Ga. 30), where land
necessary for an abutment of a bridge was appropriated, the
Supreme Court of Georgia held that its value was not to be restricted to its agricultural or productive capacities, but that
inquiry might be made as to all purposes to which it could be applied, having reference to existing and prospective wants of the
community. Its value as a bridge site was, therefore, allowed
in the estimate of compensation to be awarded to the owner.
These views dispose of the principle upon which the several
exceptions by the plaintiff in error to the rulings of the court
below in giving and in refusing instructions to the jury were
taken, and we do not deem it important, therefore, to comment
upon them.
Judgment affirmed.

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.
1. The act entitled "An Act for the final adjustment of private land-claims in
the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri," approved June 22, 1860
(12 Stat. 85), provides for presenting all such claims in Florida and Louisiana to the registers and receivers of the several land-offices, within their
respective districts, and in Missouri to the recorder of land-titles for the city
of St. Louis, and for a report on the claims to the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office, and through him to Congress. In all such cases Congress reserved-the right to confirm or to reject the claim.
2. The eleventh section of the act authorizes the claimants in a defined and

