808

LITTLE RocK v. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sutp. Ct.

'I do not believe, sir, that you have made any such order. lot the fact iF.I
am kept in prison ever since Nov. 11, 1864, my fainly suffering and my characiter
defamed, and a trial denied me.
"I am told, sir, there is a United States attorney in Vermont whose duty
it is to investigate such matters, and I respectfully a!-k,sit-,
if tlt matter
is within your jurisdiction, that lie be directed to bring me to trial: atnl if
the government is not ready for trial, I can find any number of respectablc
people who will become my bail until such time as tie government i.read*l to
try me.
" 'Again, sir, I ask you candidly and respectfully to order a complaint to be
made against me, and, if proved guilty, I must suffer the consequences.
Yours respectfully,

"'ANDEiW J. BEAN.'

" That said Bean obtained the intercession at Washington of Mr. Baxter, a
member of Congress from Vermont.
His evidence further tended to show that he learned early in April of an
order for his release having been sent from Washington, and made, as did his
father, urgent efforts to obtain his release, as his wife was then about to be confined; that he did not succeed, though repeated applications were made to hlenry,
until the 26th of April, and after the confinement of his wife, when Ifenry
brought him before a justice of the peace of Windsor, who took bail for his
appearance before a United States commissioner when called on."

LITTLE ROCK V. NATIONAL

BANK.

A city issued its bonds, engraved with vignettes on bank-note paper, of various
denominations, ranging from $1 to $100, and having the form aid appearance
of treasury notes of the United States or bank-bills, and it paid them out to
Its creditors for property sold, materials furnished, and labor performed. It
received them for taxes and other dues, and to some extent reissued them.
They formed a considerable portion of the circulating medium of the city and
vicinity. Under the authority of a statute of the State empowcring the city
council of any city to issue bonds for the purpose of extending te time of
paying its indebtedness, which it was unable to meet at maturity, the city
passed an ordinance providing for the redemption of the bonds first described.
A., the lawful holder of some of them, which had been issued to other parties
in payment of valid claims against the city and were overdue, burrendered
them to the city, and received in lieu of the amount due thereon bonds for
which the ordinance provided, and a credit on the books of the city. The city
failing to pay, A. brought suit against it. A recovery was resisted, on the
ground that the bonds engraved on bank-note paper had been issued in violation of law, and that the surrender of them was not a valuable consideration
for the bonds and the credit received by A. Held, that whether the original
bonds were issued in violation of law or not, - a point which this court does
not decide,- A. is entitled to recover.

Oct. 1878.]

LITTLE ROCK v. NATIONAL BANK.

E ItoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
This was an action brought by the Merchants' National Bank
of Little Rock, Ark., against the city of Little Rock. The
first count of the complaint is upon a bond in the words and
figures following: -

"No. 1.]

STATE

or

AKAN.sAs.

[$500.

"Bond of the City of Little Bock.
"Know all men by these presents, that the city of Little Rock, in
the said State of Arkansas, acknowledges itself to owe and be
indebted unto the Merchants' National Bank, or bearer, the sum of
8500 in lawful money of the United States of America, which sum
the said city promises to pay, for value received, at the office of the
treasurer of said city of Little Rock, one year from the date hereof,
together with interest thereon, at the rate of ten per cent per annuin, until this bond shall be paid.
"This bond is issued under and in pursuance of the provisions
of sect. 3298, c. 72, entitled ' Incorporations,' Gantt's Digest of the
Statutes of Arkansas, and is for indebtedness of said city of Little
Rock, incurred previous to the time of the passage of said act.
In testimony whereof, the said city of Little Rock, by an ordinance of the council of said city, passed Aug. 15, 1873, has caused
this bond to be issued and signed by the president of said council
and attested by the clerk of said city, and to be sealed with his
official seal.
"Dated at Little Rock, in the county of Pulaski, State of Arkansas, this ninth day of October, 1874.
"D. P. UPAxr, President City Council.
[SEAL.]
"C. M. BARNES, City Clerk2'
The bond bears the following indorsement: "Little Bock $100 Ten per Cent City Bond.
" AUDITOR'S O FICE, STATE OF ARKASAS.

"I hereby certify that this bond is registered in my office according to law, that it is regularly and lawfully issued, and that the
signatures thereto are genuine.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of my office, at the city of Little Rock, this twenty-second
day of October, A.D. 1874.
[SEAL.]
"3. R. BERRY, Auditor of State."

LITTLE RocK V. NATIONAL B.\NK.

[-Sllp. Ct.

There are one hundred and fifty-five counts of a similar natur.
describing other like bonds. There is also one count for tie
recovery of certain amounts, for which the bank had received
credit on the books of the city, and which remained unpaid.
The section mentioned in the bond is as follows : "The city or town council of any city or town, br the purpose of
extending the time of payment of any indebtedness herctoflbrc incurred, and which from the limit of taxation such city or town is
unable to pay at maturity, shall have the power to issue the bonds
of such city or town, or borrow money, so as to change, but not
increase, the indebtedness, in such amounts, not less than fifty dollars, and for such length of time, and at such rate of interest, not
more than ten per cent per annum, as such city or town council
may deem proper."
In August, 1867, the city provided for the issue and redemption of its bonds which were printed on bank-note paper, in the
form and having the ordinary appearance of United States
treasury notes, and were in denominations varying from $1 to
$100, payable in one, two, three, five, eight, and ten years
respectively, with eight per cent interest from maturity.
By issuing this currency the city obtained the means with
which it proceeded to build a city hall and school-houses, grade
streets and culverts, purchase cemeteries, improve public landings, provide fire equipments, pay interest to several railroad
companies, and pay salaries of officers and agents.
The city received in payment of taxes and other dues the
bills thus held by others, and to some extent reissued them
when its occasions required. From time to time their value
diminished, until it became merely nominal; but for a considerable period they formed the local circulating medium in
the city and its vicinity in lieu of money.
In 1873, the city council adopted an ordinance "for the redemption of outstanding city bonds on bank-note paper."
The bank was the lawful holder for value of a large number
of overdue bonds of that description, issued to other parties
in payment of valid claims against the city. In accordance
with the provisions of the ordinance, the bonds were surrendered to the council, by whom they were cancelled, and
the bank received in lieu of the amount due thereon the bonds

Oct. 1878.]

LITTLE RocK V. NATIONAL BANK.

on which this suit was brought. The bank had also other
similar bonds, which were surrendered and in like manner cancelled, but for which no new bonds were issued, the city acknowledging its indebtedness by giving the bank credit therefor
on the books of the city.
The city, among other defences, pleaded that the bonds
surrendered were issued in violation of the statute, and that
the bonds given in lieu thereof, as well as the credit entered
upon the city books, which form the ledger account, were
without authority of law or valuable consideration.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the bank for $38,640.40.
The court rendered judgment therefor, with a provision that of
that amount $28,512.16 should bear interest at ten per cent
per annum. The city sued out this writ of error.
The statutes of the State bearing upon the questions involved are set out in the opinion of the court.
Mr. U. H. Rose for the plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John JfClure and Mr. T. -). W. Yonley, contra.
MR. JUSTiCE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not perceive that there is any difference between the
right to recover for the amount issued to the bank in bonds
and for that credited on the books of the city. If the debt was
legally created, the holder had the right to recover the amount
of the bills held by him. If it derived a new validity from the
surrender of an old debt of a disputed character, it is to be
observed that all of the debt was equally given up. New bonds
were issued for a portion, but all of the debt was surrendered.
It was the surrender of what was claimed to be a legal debt,
and the creating a new obligation thereby, that is said to
create the liability. If a city has power to bind itself by substituting a new liability for a cancelled one, it may do so by
any instrument of acknowledgment which affords sufficient
evidence of a debt. We are of opinion that the two classes of
obligations are governed by the same rule.
The statutes of Arkansas upon the subject of notes issued
for the purposes of currency are complicated and hard to be
understood.
On the 25th of November, 1837, was passed the first act to

LITTLE

RocK v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

which we are referred, entitled " An Act to prevent the circulation of private notes in the State," prohibiting the circulation
of all money or bank-notes by persons unauthorized by law,
and of notes of a less denomination than five dollars.
On the 14th of February, 1838, was passed the act entitled
"An Act to compel the payment of change tickets." which provided that the holder of any change ticket, bill, or small note
should have the right to sue the issuer or indorser thereof
before any justice of the peace, and recover the amount held
by him, and providing that the act first above mentioned
should take effect from the first day of March, 1838.
The effect of the two statutes would appear to be that
the general circulation of private notes was prohibited by
law, but the holder of notes thus illegally circulated was
authorized to recover the amount from the party issuing or
indorsing the same, and to have execution without appeal or
delay.
On the 8th of January, 1855, was passed "An Act to restrain the circulation of change tickets," prohibiting the circulation by any person or persons of notes or bills of less
denomination than five dollars, to pass as currency, whether
first issued within this State or not, punishable by fine and
imprisonment.
On the 8th of February, 1859, was passed "An Act to prevent the people from being defrauded with bank paper," and
on the 18th of November, 1861, "An Act to repeal all State
laws that prohibit the circulation of bank-bills of any denomination." The last act is in these words: "All acts or parts
of acts prohibiting the circulation of bank-bills of any denomination or amount and fixing a penalty for such circulation be,
and the same are hereby, repealed; but nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to authorize the issuance of
shin-plasters, change notes, or other irresponsible paper by
individuals, corporations, or others."
"Shin-plasters and change notes" we may assume to be
p aper-money of a less denomination than one dollar, intended
to take the place of small pieces of coin. But what is "other
irresponsible paper" ?
It would seem that shin-plasters and change notes are irre-

Oct. 1878.]

LITTLE ROCK

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

sponsible paper, as not only are they expressly required not to
exist, but they are condemned in the company of "other irresponsible paper."
Nor can we treat this subject as paper or notes issued by
those who are not solvent in their pecuniary affairs, or not able
to respond to the consequences of their actions.
There is no standard known to the law to determine where
responsibility or irresponsibility exists.
We apprehend this expression may have been intended to
apply to fractional paper, which in its form, character, and
nature was considered as a debased and unhealthy circulating
medium.
By an act approved Dec. 14, 1875, it was enacted "that all
city warrants, scrip acceptances, or money shall be receivable
for any city purposes except for interest tax, and for all debts
due the municipal corporation, by whom the same were issued,
without regard to the time or date of issuance of such warrant,
scrip acceptance, or money, or the purpose for which they were
issued."
Upon this state of the law the judge at the circuit was of the
opinion that the original issue of its notes by the city of Little
Rock was illegal. It is not necessary that we concur in this
view, or that we should dissent from it. We have referred to
the statutes that the actual position of the parties towards each
other might be understood, and the point on which the decision
in favor of the bank was made be appreciated.
There was evidence that the bonds sued on, and the ledger
accounts sued on, were given and allowed on the immediate
consideration of the surrender of bonds of the form, character,
and material first issued by the city. The court charged as
follows, viz. :"That the bonds in suit issued by the defendant in lieu of
said bonds on bank-note paper -the last-named bonds having
been originally issued under the circumstances above stated
for valid debts against the city to other creditors of the city
than the plaintiff, and the plaintiff not having been connected
with their issue - constitute a valid ground of action against
the city, and the city is liable thereon to the plaintiff, although
the said city bonds on bank-note paper were of such an appear-

LITTLE ROCK v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

ance and of such a form as to be especially adapted to constitute a circulating mediun, and were, in fact, used in and about
the city as a local circulating medium in lieu of money.
There is also a claim against the city for tie amount of
certain city bonds on bank-note paper surrendered by the
plaintiff to the city at its request, for which the city issued
no new bonds, but placed the amount of the bonds surremdered
by the plaintiff and destroyed by the city to the credit of the
plaintiff on the ledger of the city. The same principles of law
apply to this claim as to the claim on the new bonds."
It can scarcely be doubted that whoever is capable of entering into an ordinary contract to obtain or receive the means
with which to build houses or wharves or the like, may, as a
general rule, bind himself by an admission of his obligation.
The capacity to make contracts is at the basis of the liability.
The first liability of the city was disputed by it. It had gone
beyond its power, as it said, in making a debt in the form of
bank-notes. If it had not denied its power, judgment and an
execution might have gone against it, and the creditor would
have obtained his money. This privilege of non-resistance
every person retains, and continues to retain. He can reconsider at any time and confess, and admit what the moment
before he denied.
In 1874, the city of Little Rock did reconsider. It said, we
will purge the transaction of its illegality. We had the
authority to accept from you in satisfaction of amounts received
by us for legitimate purposes the sums in question. We did
so receive and expend for legitimate purposes. We erred in
making the payment to you in an objectionable form. We
now pay our just and lawful debt by cancelling the bank-notes
issued by us, and delivering to you obligations in the form of
bonds, to which form there is no legal objection.
If the city had borrowed $1,000 of the bank upon its note
at a usurious interest, but the bank had subsequently cancelled
the illegal note, had refunded the excessive interest, and received a new note for a lawful amount, the new note would
be valid and collectible. Kent v. Walton, 7 Wend. (N. Y.)
256. So where the consideration of a contract declared void
by statute is morally good, a repeal of the statute will validate

Oct. 1878.]

BLAKE V. HAWKINS.

the contract. TFashburn v. Franklin, 85 Barb. (N. Y.) 599 ;
s. c. 13 Abb. Pr. 140. If the act of Dec. 14, 1875 (supra),
repealed the restraining laws absolutely as to cities, which we
do not decide, the notes first issued by the city were valid
from that time.
We think the charge as quoted was right. Hitheock v.
Galveston, 96 U. S. 341; The Mayor v. Bay, 19 Wall. 468;
.Police Jury v. Britton, 15 id. 566; Mullarky v. Cedar Falls,
19 Iowa, 24; Sykes v. Laffery, 27 Ark. 407; Wright v. Hughes,
13 Ind. 109, are authorities to the point. See also the numerous cases cited in Dillon, Mun. Corp., sect. 407, note.
Judgment affirmed.

BLAXE v. HAvUs.
1. An appointment under a power is an intent to appoint carried out, and, if
made by the last will and testament of the donee of the power, the intent,
although not expressly declared, may be determined by the gifts and directions made, and if their purpose be to execute the power, the instrument
must be regarded as an execution.
2. A., who had a power to appoint a fund in the hands of B., made her will,
wherein she declared her intention thereby to execute all powers vested in
her, particularly those created in her favor by certain deeds executed in
1839, whereby she became entitled to appoint that fund. Following this
declaration were various gifts ofpecuniary legacies for charitable purposes,
amounting to $28,500, and also provisions for the payment of certain annuities. Special disposition and appropriation were made of her personal
property, which consisted of household furniture, carriage and horses, a
growing crop upon a farm, a small sum of cash in hand, some petty debts
due her, and about sixty slaves, the latter constituting nearly nine-tenths of
the value of the whole. Certain real estate was also to be sold, and the proceeds applied to a specific purpose. The will declared that if it should
appear at her decease that the bequests exceeded the amount of funds left,
the first five only (those to charities) should be curtailed until brought
within the assets. The fund in the hands of B. was not more than sufficient to pay the legacies. Held, 1. That it was the intention of the testatrix that the legacies to charitable purposes and to pay annuities should
be paid, but not from the proceeds of the personal property which she
owned in her own right, and specifically appropriated. 2. That the will
was an execution of the power, and it appointed the whole fund to her
executors.

