REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF

TEE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1878.

PALmE

v. Low.

1. Under Donner v. Palmer (31 Cal. 500), which establishes a rule of property
in California, the courts of the United States accept as competent pri.
mary evidence of alcalde grants of the pueblo land of San Francisco, the
record of them, which, in accordance with the requirements of Mexican
laws, was kept by the alcalde before the date of the incorporation of the
city of San Francisco by that State, and which record, now in the custody
of the city and county recorder, is known as one of the books of the former
alcalde's office, the same having been, pursuant to law, turned over to the
county recoraer's office.
2. A grant appearing in that record is in the following form:"1O. 39.
"Whereas George Donner has presented a petition soliciting for a grant of a title
to a lot of ground as therein described, therefore I, the undersigned alcalde, do
hereby give, grant, and convey unto the said George Donner, his heirs and assigns
for ever, lot number thirty-nine (39), one hundred varas square, in the vicinity of
the town of San Francisco, subject to all the rules and regulations governing in such
cases.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my band as alcalde, this niniteenth
day of July, A.D. 3847.
"GEORGE' HYDE let .lcclde."
Hdd, that the terms used are sufficient to pass a title in fee to the land, and
that, in the absence of any thing to the contrary, the instrument must be
presumed to be sufficient in form to give full effect to the evident intention
of the parties.
8. That grant was made to an infant, but it has remained uncancelled, and was
affirmed before the ordinance of the city council, known as the Van Ness
VoL. MI.
1

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

ordinance, passed June 20, 1855, was approved by Congress. Held, that
his title is superior to that of a party who. without right, entered upon
the land, and whose claim thereto, arising out of his possession thereof, is
grounded solely upon the enacting clause of that ordinance.
4. In ejectment, commenced April 30, 1872, it appearing that the grantors of
the plaintiff entered without title, in 1851 or 1852, and that they and lie
continued until May 8, 1867, in the exclusive and adverse possession of the
land covered by that grant, when said Donner, under whom the defendant
claimed title, was placed in possession by the proper officer, under legal process issued in a suit to which neither the plaintiff nor any of his grantors
deriving title from any party to the suit after the commencement thereof
was a party. Held, that as the title did not pass out of the United States
until the passage by Congress of the act of July 1, 1864 (13 Stat. 332),
to "expedite the settlement of the titles to lands in the State of California," the Statute of Limitations of that State did not run in favor of
the plaintiff, by reason of his own and his grantors' possession, so as to
transfer to him a title which could be asserted against the record title of
the defendant.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action of ejectment, commenced April 30, 1872,
by Daniel Palmer, the plaintiff in error, against Joseph W.
Low, S.0. Houghton, and others, to recover possession of a
portion of a one hundred vara lot No. 39, part of the pueblo
lands of San Francisco, lying east of Larkin Street and northeast of Johnston Street. The city of San Francisco was
first incorporated by the State of California, April 15, 1850,
with certain defined boundaries. Acts of 1850, p. 223. It
was the successor of the Mexican pueblo of Yerba Buena, or
San Francisco. The original charter was repealed, and a new
one granted, April 15, 1851. Acts of 1851, p. 357. The premises in controversy are within the boundaries of the city, as
defined in this last act of incorporation, and constitute part of
the lands claimed from the United States by the city, on
account of its succession to the property and rights of the
pueblo.
On the 20th of June, 1855, the city council of San Francisco
passed an ordinance, known as the Van Ness ordinance, the
sections of which material to the present controversy are as
follows: "SECT. 2. The city of San Francisco hereby relinquishes and grants
all the right and claim of the city to the lands within the corporate

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

limits to the parties in actual possession thereog by themselves or
tenants, on or before the first day of January, A.D. 1855, and to their
heirs and assigns for ever, excepting the property known as the slip
property, and bounded on the north byClay Street, on the west by
Davis Street, on the south by Sacramento Street, and on the east
by the water-line front; and excepting also any piece or parcel of
land situated south, east, or north of the water-lot front of the city
of San Francisco, as established by an act of the legislature of March
26, A.-D. 1851: .Provided,such possession has been continued up to
the time of the introduction of this ordinance in the common council, or, if interrupted by an intruder or trespasser, has been or may
be recovered by legal process; and it is hereby declared to be the
true intent and meaning of this ordinance, that when any of the said
lands have been occupied and possessed under and by virtue of a
lease or demise, they shall be deemed to have been in the possession
of the landlord or lessor under whom they were so occupied or possessed : Provided,that all persons who hold title to lands within said
limits by virtue of any grant made by any ayuntamiento, town council, alcalde, or justice of the peace of the former pueblo of San Francisco, before the seventh day of July, 1846, or grants to lots of land
lying east of Larkin Street and northeast of Johnston Street, made
by any ayuntamiento, town council, or alcalde of said pueblo, since
that date and before the incorporation of the city of San Francisco
by the State of California; and which grant, or the material portion
thereof, was registered, or recorded, in a proper book of record
deposited in the office or custody or control of the recorder of the
county of San Francisco, on or before the third day of April, A.D.
1850; or by virtue of any conveyance duly made by the commissioners of the funded debt of the city of San Francisco, and recorded
on or before the first day of January, 1855, shall, for all the purposes
contemplated by this ordinance, be deemed to be the possessors
of the land so granted, although the said lands may be in the
actual occupancy of persons holding the same adverse to the said
grantees.
"SrCT. 8. The patent issued or any grant made by the United
States to the city shall inure to the several use, benefit, and behoof
of the said possessors, their heirs and assigns, mentioned in the
preceding section, as fully and effectually, to all intents and purposes, as if it were issued or made directly to them individually
and by name:
"SECT. 10. Application shall be made to the legislature to confirm and ratify this ordipance, and to Congress to relinquish all the

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

right and title of the United States to the said lands, for the uses
and purposes hereinbefore specified.
" SECT. 11. Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be construed
to prevent the city from continuing to prosecute to a final determination her claim now pending before the United States land
commission for pueblo lands, for the several use, benefit, and behoof of the said possessors mentioned in sect. 2, as to the lands by
them so possessed, and fbr the proper use, benefit, and behoof of
the corporation as to all other lands not hereinbefore released and
confirmed to the said possessors."
On the 11th of March, 1858, the legislature of the State of
California passed "An Act concerning the city of San Francisco, and to ratify and confirm certain ordinances of the common council of said city," whereby this ordinance was in all
respects ratified and confirmed. Sect. 2 of that act is as follows: "SECT. 2. That the grant or relinquishment of title made by the

said city in favor of the several possessors by sects. 2 and 3 of the
ordinance first above recited shall take effect as fully and completely, for the purpose of transferring the city's interest, and for
all other purposes whatsoever, as if deeds of release and quitclaim
had been duly executed and delivered to and in favor of them
individually and by name; and no further conveyance or other act
shall be necessary to invest the said possessors with all the interest,
title, rights, benefits, and advantages which the said order and
ordinances intend or purport to transfer or convey, according to
the true intent and meaning thereof: Provided, that nothing in
this act shall be so construed as to release the city of San Francisco, or city and county of San Francisco, from the payment of

any claim or claims due or to become due this State against said
city, or city and county, nor to effect or release to said city and
county any title this State has or may have to any lands in said

city and county of San Francisco."

Cal. Acts 1858, p. 52.

Afterwards, on the 1st of July, 1864, Congress passed "An
Act to expedite the settlement of the titles to lands in the
State of California" (13 Stat. 332), sect. 5 of which is as
follows : " SE cT. 5. And be it further enacted, that all the right and title
of the United States to the lands within the corporate limits of the

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER V. Low.

city of San Francisco, as defined in the act incorporating said city,
passed by the legislature of the State of California on the 15th of
April, 1851, are hereby relinquished and granted to the said city
and its successors, for the uses and purposes specified in the ordinances of said city ratified by an act of the legislature of the said
State, approved on the 11th of March, 1855, entitled IAn Act cono.rning the city of San Francisco, and to ratify and confirm certain
ordinances of the common council of said city,' there being excepted
from this relinquishment and grant all sites or other parcels of lands
which have been or now are occupied by the United States fbr
military, naval, or other public uses, or such other sites or parcels
as may hereafter be designated by the President of the United
States within one year after the rendition to the General LandOffice by the surveyor-general of an approved plat of the exterior
limits of San Francisco, as recognized in this section in connection
with the lines of the public surveys: And provided,that the relinquishment and grant by this act shall in no manner interfere
with or prejudice any bona fde claims of others, whether asserted
adversely under rights derived from Spain, Mexico, or the laws of
the United States, nor preclude a judicial examination and adjustment thereof."
Both parties claim title under this ordinance and this legislation of the State and of Congress. A jury was waived on
the trial below, and the court made and filed its finding of facts,
from which it appears, 1. That the grantors of the plaintiff entered into the possession of the premises in controversy, without title, about the
year 1851 or 1852, and they and the plaintiff continued in the
exclusive and adverse possession thereof down to the 8th of
May, 1867, when the grantor of the defendant, S. 0. Houghton,
was placed in possession thereof by the sheriff of the city and
county of San Francisco, under legal process issued in the case
of -Donnerv. Palmer et al., to which suit neither the plaintiff
nor any of his grantors deriving title from any party to the
suit after the commencement thereof was a party.
2. On the 19th of July, 1847, George Hyde was the duly
qualified and acting alcalde of the pueblo of San Francisco,
and, as such alcalde, on the day last mentioned granted the
premises in controversy to George Donner, by a grant thereof
duly made, recorded, and delivered by the alcalde; and the

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

material portion of the grant was registered and recorded in a
proper book of records, deposited in the office and in the custody and control of the recorder of the county of San Francisco,
before the third day of April, 1850, and which book remained
in the office and in the custody and control of the recorder
until and on the third day of April, 1850, and has continued so
to remain from that date.
8. That the defendant, S. 0. Houghton, has, through mesne
conveyances, acquired all the right, title, and interest of Donner in the premises, and that the defendants other than
Houghton were, at the time the action was commenced, in
possession as tenants under him.
4. At the time of the alleged grant to him, Donner was an
infant of about ten years of age.
To prove the grant to Donner, the defendants offered in evidence an entry on "Book A" of original grants, from the custody of the county recorder of the city and county of San
Francisco, which is as follows: "LOT NO. 39.
"Whereas George Donner has presented a petition soliciting fol
a grant of a title to a lot of ground as therein described, therefore
I, the undersigned alcalde, do hereby give, grant, and convey unto
the said George Donner, his heirs and assigns for ever, lot number
thirty-nine (39), one hundred varas square, in the vicinity of the
town of San Francisco, subject to all the rules and regulations
governing in such cases.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand as alcalde,
this nineteenth day of July,

A.D.

1847.
"1GEORGE HYDE,

1st Alcalde."

In connection with this offer, it was satisfactorily shown that
"Book A" was part of the archives of the office of the city and
county of San Francisco, and it was admitted that the book
was the original "Book A" of alcalde grants in the custody of
the city and county recorder, and known in the office as one of
the books turned over to the county recorder's office in pursuance of the directions of the statutes of California, as one of
the books of the former alcalde's office. It was satisfactorily
proved that the signature of George Hyde to the alcalde entry

Oct. 1878.]

PALMFR v. Low.

of grant, or memorandum of grant, is in his handwriting, and
his genuine signature, and that at the date of the entry he was
the acting alcalde of San Francisco.
To the introduction of this entry in -"Book A" plaintiff's
counsel objected, "on the ground that it was incompetent, irrelevant, and immaterial, also on the ground that it is not primary evidence, or the best evidence, of a girant having been
made to George Donner; that it is but secondary evidence, for
the introduction of which no foundation had been laid; that
there has been no proof of the loss or destruction of the original instrument, of which the said entry is a mere memorandum;
that the entry in ' Book A' of original grants is a mere memorandum made by the alcalde; that the grant should have been
made and signed by both parties, the grantor and grantee, and
should have been attested by parties as witnesses of the fact;
that the whole proceeding should have been set out on that
book; that if it be a mere memorandum-book, it was indicative
merely that there was some other instrument which had to be
executed and delivered, and which is primary evidence in the
case."
These objections were overruled by the court, and an exception was then and there taken by the plaintiff.
Sect. 6 of an act of the legislature of California, "defining
the time for commencing civil actions," passed April 22, 1850,
is as follows: "SEcT. 6. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the
recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was
seised or possessed of the premises in question, within five years
before the commencement of such action." Acts of 1850, 844,
sect. 6.
On the 11th of April, 1855, this section was amended by
adding the following proviso "Provided, however, that an action may be maintained by a
party claiming such real estate, or. the possession thereof, under
title derived from the Spanish or Mexican governments, or the
authorities thereof, if such action be commenced within five years
from the time of the final confirmation of such title by the govern-

PALMEP v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

ment of the United States, or its legally constituted authorities."
Acts 1855, 109, sect. 1.
On the 18th of April, 1863, this proviso was repealed, and
the following enacted as a substitute:
-

"SECT. 6.... And providedfurther, that any person claiming
real property, or the possession thereof, or any right or interest
therein, under title derived from the Spanish or M1exican governments, or the authorities thereof, which shall not have been finally
confirmed by the government of the United States, or its legally
constituted authorities, more than five years before the passage of
this act, may have five years after the passage of this act in which
to commence his action for the recovery of such real property, or
the possession thereof, or any right or interest therein, or for rents
or profits out of the same, or to make his defence to an action
founded upon the title thereto ...
"SECT. 7. Final confirmation, within the meaning of this act,
shall be deemed to be the patent issued by the government of
the United States, or the final determination of the official survey
under the provisions of the act of Congress, entitled 'An Act to
amend an act entitled an act to define, &c., approved June 14,
1860.'" Cal. Acts 1863, 827.

Upon this state of facts the court below found as conclusions
of law, -

"1. That defendant, S. 0. Houghton, by virtue of said
grant to said Donner, the said ordinance of the city of San
Francisco, and the said acts of the legis]ature of California
and of Congress, and the said mesne conveyances from said
Donner to him, is the owner of, and has the legal title to, said
demanded premises, and that the defendants are lawfully and
rightfully in the possession thereof.
"2. That the Statutes of Limitations have not run in favor
of the plaintiff, by reason of his own and his grantor's possession, from 1851 or 1852 to May 8, 1867, and that such possession
gives him no title as against defendants."
Judgment having been rendered in favor of the defendants
in accordance with this finding, the plaintiff below sued out
this writ of error, and assigns, in substance, for error the ruling
of the court admitting " Book A" as primary evidence to prove

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

the grant to Donner, and the judgment for the defendants 'upon
the facts as found.
Tr. Walter Hf. Smith and Hfr. James Z. Redington for the
plaintiff in error.
1. Both parties claim under the Van Ness ordinance of June
20, 1855, the California act of March 11, 1858, and the act
of Congress of July 1, 1864, confirming the title of San Francisco to certain lands.
As the plaintiff had actual, adverse, and exclusive possession
of the demanded premises from 1851 to 1867, the enacting
clause of that ordinance relinquished and granted to him the
claim and right of the city to them. He therefore made out
a clear prima facie title to recover.
2. The defendant cannot defeat that prima fade title, unless he produces first a grant of the premises, and, secondly, a
record, showing that the "grant, or a material portion of it,
was registered." These two substantive and independent facts
must be established by legal evidence, to bring his case within
the proviso to that ordinance.
The grant must, of course, be in such form as would possess
intrinsic validity and transfer the title, if the alcalde had been
vested with power to make it, and the grantee must have been
competent to take.
The "Plan of Pitic," founded upon a royal ordinance, was
not pursued in later years by the Mexican alcaldes in San
Francisco, but was partially superseded by a custom which
prevailed in July, 1846, when Upper California was conquered
by the military forces of the United States. Dwinelle, Col.
Hist. of San Francisco, 111. By that custom the only document containing the "entire proceedings" was "signed and
attested in due form by the proper officer," and delivered to
the grantee; whilst the record-book contained a mere condensed copy or summary statement, often not signed at all,
and it omitted the condition that the grantee should build a
house on the land within a year, and conform to the police
regulations. Id. 162-165.. The grant was not produced nor
its absence accounted for; and the pretended grantee, under
whom the defendant claims, was then a child ten years old, and.
consequently incapable of performing the required condition.

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

"Book A" was inadmissible to prove an original grant. It
could only be allowed upon the footing of mere secondary evidence, after the necessary preliminary proof had been made.
It is not like a common-law record of proceedings in court, for
that is itself an original, and supposes no better evidence in
existence; whereas a record or registry of a deed or other instrument is only a copy, and presupposes an original. 2 Phill.
Evid. 490; Brooks v. Marbury, 11 Wheat. 79; Bice v. Cunningham, 29 Cal. 492.
During the time which elapsed between the conquest of
California and the establishment of her State government, an
American officer, who acted as alcalde and granted pueblo
lands, was bound to conform to pre-existing laws and customs
until they were superseded by the conqueror. They made the
delivery of the grant an essential prerequisite to the investiture of title, and in that respect conformed to the common-law
doctrine applicable to the forms of conveyance prevailing in
the United States, which were after the conquest introduced
in California.
The record is not primary evidence of the execution and
delivery of the alleged grant, and if it were, the grant as it
there appears - containing no condition whatever - passed no
right to the land.
8. Plaintiff's possession for the period prescribed by the
Statute of Limitations vested in him a title which he could
affirmatively assert against any adverse right or claim. Shelly
v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 870; Pendleton v. Alexander, 8 Cranch,
469; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 605; Bradstreetv. Huntington, 5 Pet. 402.
This proposition has been repeatedly affirmed by the Supreme Court of California in the construction of the statutes
of that State. Grattan v. Wiggins, 23 Cal. 86; Le .Roi v.
Rodgers, 30 id. 234; Arrington v. Liscom, 84 id. 370, 371;
Cannon v. Stockman, 36 id. 540; San Francisco v. Fulde,
37 id. 852.
4. The Statute of Limitations, set up by the defendants, was
not a bar to this suit. Richardsonv. Villiamson, 24 Cal. 296;
.aris v. De Celis, 51 id. 60; Arrington v. Liscom, supra.
Mr. S. 0. Houghton, contra.

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICEWAITE, after stating the facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The questions presented for decision in this case may be.
stated as follows:-1. Was the entry in original "Book A" of alcalde grants admissible as primary evidence to prove a grant to Donner?
2. Did the record show a grant sufficient in form?
3. Was the grant void because made to an infant?
4. Was the action barred by the Statute of Limitations?
These questions will be considered in their order.
1. As to the admissibility of the evidence.
The point of the inquiry is whether the record of alcalde
grants of the pueblo lands of San Francisco, kept by the alcalde
in accordance with the requirements of Mexican laws before
the incorporation of the city of San Francisco by the State of
California, in the custody of the city and county recorder, and
known as one of the books of the former alcalde's office turned
over to the county recorder's office, pursuant to the statutes of
California, can be used as primary evidence of the recorded
grants, or only as secondary evidence, after sufficiently accounting for the absence of the original certificate of grant issued to
the grantee.
The rank in the scale of evidence which the Mexican archives
occupy has been oftentimes the subject of consideration in the
courts of California. As early as 1859, in the case of Gregory
v. .McPherson(13 Cal. 562), the question arose in reference to
the admissibility of an expediente filed in the archives of the
Mexican government, to prove a grant under the colonizationlaws, a copy of which grant, signed by the governor and eountersigned by the secretary of state, was annexed to and formed
a part of the expediente. The expediente itself consisted of
the petition, plat, reference, report, act of concession, approval,
grant, &c. It was rejected in the court below on the ground
that it was secondary evidence only, and the absence of the
copy of the grant which had been issued and delivered to the
grantee had not been satisfactorily accounted for; but the Supreme Court said (p. 572): "We are at a loss to know upon
what grounds such a document can be denied the weight of
original evidence. It was made, and signed, and authenticated

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. CL.

as a record by public officers in the discharge of public duties.
The papers were retained in the custody of the appropriate
public officer for the purposes of proof, and the highest and
most authentic proof, of their own action. The documents
receive the stamp, and the most satisfactory stamp, of official
authenticity. The signatures are made on this as on the papers
sent out by the department. We cannot see why such papers
should be called copies, or why, in the scale of proofs, they
should stand in any subordinate relation to the paper handed to
the grantee. If not counterparts, or duplicates, it would seem
that the original paper is the record retained by the department
as part of its public records. . . . We cannot presume that any
governmental system of granting land could be so loose as that
no records were preserved by the granting power. And it follows, we apprehend, as a universal rule, that wherever the acts of
public officers are authenticated by their records, these records
are evidence, in all courts of justice, of those acts. If by law,
or usage having the force of law, a California grant was matter
of record, then it would seem to follow that the record is proof
of the grant, especially where, as in this case, the record is
itself an exemplification of the grant, and contemporaneously
signed by the same officers issuing the grant."
Following this, in 1864, was the case of -Downer v. Smith
(24 Cal. 114), where the question arose upon the admissibility
of an entry of a grant of land in the pueblo of San Jos6 made
in the book of alcalde grants; and although it was held that a
statute of the State applicable to the county in which the lands
were located made the entry admissible, it was said (p. 122),
"We think the court was warranted in finding that the book was
one of original entries, and therefore entitled to be admitted as
evidence upon that ground." In Rice v. Cunningham (29 id.
492), decided in 1866, it best suited the purposes of one of the
parties to use the same "Book A" which is now under consideration, as secondary evidence to prove an alleged lost grant,
and thus avoid the effect of an apparent cancellation of the
grant which appeared upon the face of the record ; but the court
said (p. 497), "The argument of counsel for the appellant, in
support of their exception, is grounded upon a false assumption.
They lower ' Book A' to the level of a chance copy-book, and

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

strip it of all its character and dignity as a public record of the
transactions of a government official vested with the exercise of
most important functions, and then seek to use it on a question
not then before the court."
But in Donner v. Palmer (81 id. 500), decided in 1867, the
precise question we are now considering was presented in reference to the identical grant under which the defendants in error
claim, and it was held, after full argument, and with due regard
to both the written and unwritten law of Mexico, including the
".Plan of Pitic," so often alluded to in the argument here, that
the entry was to be received as primary evidence. In the
opinion, after copying the seventeenth section of the "P lan of
Pitic," the court proceeds as follows (p. 508): "In view of this
language, there can be no doubt as to the mode in which grants
of town lots were to be made. The entire proceedings were to
be first entered in the official book required to be kept for that
purpose, signed and attested in due form by the proper officer.
A copy or summary statement of the proceedings as contained
in the official book, also duly signed and attested by the proper
officer, was then to be given to the grantee as evidence of his
title; and in the event of its loss, the officer in whose official
custody the book might be at the time was authorized and
required to give him another ' like copy' of the original proceedings. The record so kept became an official and public
record of the transactions of the alcaldes in the matter of
granting town lots; and, as such, primary evidence of the acts
they recited, under any system of law with which we are acquainted. Entries in such a book, if made in conformity with
the regulations of the 14th of November, 1789, became, under
the Mexican law, what is denominated an authentic instrument,
that is to say, an instrument which proves itself, and, under the
common law, an official record. Under both systems such
entries have always been esteemed the highest and most satisfactory evidence of the facts which they recite, because they
are made by the direction of the law, and are of public concern,
and because they are made under the sanction of an oath, or,
at least, of official duty, and made at or about the time the acts
which they recite transpired. They are retained in the custody
of the functionary or department by which they are required

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

to be kept, and are so retained for the express purpose of
making them permanent and primary evidence of the transactions of the government. I Greenl. Evid., sect. 488 et 8eq."
The result thus reached has never been disturbed, and it is
clear that a rule of property has been established by the courts
of the State, binding as well upon the courts of the United
States as upon those of the State. While the precise question
presented to us was only decided in Donner v. Paner,all the
other cases point directly to the conclusion there reached, and
it needed only the occasion to make the formal declaration.
Certainly, if the Mexican archives possess the character which
the courts have given them, there can be no doubt of the rank
they take as evidence, under our system of jurisprudence. .edrick v. Hughes, 15 Wall. 123. We see no error in the admission of the testimony.
2. As'to the form of the grant.
There can arise here no question as to the payment of municipal fees or the delivery of the grant; for the bill of exceptions
shows that the court below found as facts upon the evidence
contained in the record of the grant and other evidence submitted, that the municipal fees were paid, and that the grant
was actually delivered. Neither does any question arise as to
the power of an American alcalde to make the grant; for the
ordinance under which both parties claim, in terms confers the
title upon grantees holding by such grants.
The only question then is as to the form of the instrument
appearing in the record. It is certain that it does not meet all
the requirements contained in the "Plan of Pitic;" but the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, in their argument here, say it
is "beyond the reach of contradiction, and matter of history,
that the ' Plan of Pitic' was not pursued by Mexican alcaldes
in San Francisco. Grants were made in a very different manner, and quite repugnant to its requirements. A long-established
custom pursued by these alcaldes, under Mexican rule, modified
and superseded the ' Plan of Pitic.'" What these modifications were we have not been informed. No authorities are
cited upon the subject except those which go to show that
after the conquest the American alcaldes usually followed the
American system of conveyancing and registration. Donner

Oct. 1878.3

PALMER v. Low.

v. Palmer,8u2pra; Montgomery v. Bevans, 1 Sawyer, 653. We
are then left- to inquire whether the language of the grant is
sufficient to pass the title, if there was no statute or custom
prescribing the form in which such conveyances should be
made. The government of the United States had not undertaken to regulate this subject, and the Mexican law, whatever
it may have been, whether enacted by statute or established
by custom, was in force; for the rule is well settled that the
laws of a conquered territory, which regulate private rights,
continue in force after the conquest until they are changed by
the ace" of the conqueror. American Insurdnce Co. et al. v.
Canter, 1 Pet. 511.
The language of this grant is: "I, the undersigned alcalde,
do hereby give, grant, and convey unto George Donner, his
heirs and assigns for ever," &c. These are the operative words
of a present grant in fee-simple, and, being found in an official
public record, will be presumed, in the absence of any thing to
the contrary, to be sufficient to accomplish the purpose the
parties had in view. While the alcalde was not the sovereign,
he was the officer designated by law to make distribution of
this kind of property among those to whom, under the Mexican
law, it belonged; and the official record of his official adts,
which the law requires him to keep, carries with it the presumption that his acts were in form such as was necessary to
give full effect to what he was attempting to do.
This same question was presented to the Supreme Court of
California in -Donner v. Palmer (supra), and the same conclusion reached. As the point decided is one which relates to the
effect to be given the statute of the State accepting and confirming the Van Ness ordinance, if not in fact the construction
of a State statute absolutely binding upon us, it ought not to
be disregarded except for imperative reasons.
S. As to the infancy of Donner.
We are not advised that the Mexican law prohibited such a
grant to an infant. The distribution was to be made to "settiers," and was evidently left largely to the "wise judgment"
of the "commissioner in charge." If he erred in his judgment,
it might be cause for setting aside the grant in some appropriate direct proceeding for that purpose; but so long as the grant

PALMER v. Low.

[Sup. Ct.

remained uncancelled and duly recorded, it would certainly be
a grant within the letter of the Van Ness ordinance, and it was
so decided by the Supreme Court of California in Donner v.
Palmer, supra. While infants cannot make grants, they may
accept them. A grant to an infant is voidable, not void. The
grant in this case has never been avoided, but, on the contrary,
affirmed, and that, too, long before the Van Ness ordinance was
confirmed by Congress. The title of Donner, therefore, from
whom these defendants claim, was superior to that of the plaintiff under the ordinance.
4. As to the Statute of Limitations.
The nature of the title of San Francisco to her pueblo lands
has often been the subject of consideration in this court, and
was carefully stated by Mr. Justice Field in Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326, and Grisar v. McDowell, 6 id. 363.
At
the time of the conquest, the pueblo, of which the city of San
Francisco became the successor, did not have an indefeasible
estate in the unconveyed portion of these lands, but only a
limited right of disposition and use, subject in all particulars
to the control of the government of the country. " It was a
right which the government might refuse to recognize at all,
or might recognize in a qualified form." 6 Wall. 373. Upon
the conquest, the United States succeeded to the rights and authority of the Mexican government, subject only to their obligations under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. As before
that time the fee had not passed out of the government of
Mexico, it was transferred to the United States by the conquest
and the treaty which followed. Before, therefore, the estate
of the pueblo could become absolute and indefeasible, some action was required on the part of the United States. It is conceded that this action was not taken until the act of July 1,
1864. Down to that time the city held under its original imperfect Mexican title only. Afterwards it was possessed of
the fee "for the uses and purposes specified" in the Van Ness
ordinance.
In H7enshaw et al. v. Bissell (18 Wall. 255), we held in
effect that the State Statute of Limitations did not begin to run
against the title thus perfected until July 1, 1864; and this
decision was followed by the Supreme Court of California in

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

Gardiner v. Miller, 47 Cal. 576. After the act of Congress
no survey or patent was necessary for the consummation of the
title. Byan et al. v. Carter et al., 93 U. S. 78; Morrow v.
Whitney, 95 id. 551. But independently of this, and looking
only to the statutes of the State, it is clear that, after 1855 until the act of 1863, there was no statute of limitations in California affecting titles derived from the Spanish or the Mexican
government before their final consummation by the government
of the United States. The act of 1863 gave a right of action
upon such titles for five years after the date of its passage; and
within the five years, to wit, May 8, 1867, Donner, under
whom the defendants claim, was put in actual possession of the
premises, and he and they have continued in possession claiming title ever since. The statute runs only so long as the
adverse possession continues. When the possession is ended
the operation of the statute ceases, except in respect to titles
previously acquired under it; for in California it is held that
adverse possession for the requisite length of time transfers a
title to the possessor, which may be asserted affirmatively against
an otherwise valid record title. Arrington v. Licom, 84 Cal.
866.
It follows, then, that Palmer acquired no title by his possession from 1851 to 1867, as against the Donner title, if that
title was derived "from the Spanish or Mexican government,
or the authorities thereof;" and it seems to us clear that it was.
It was so expressly decided by Mr. Justice Field in Montgomery
v. Bevans (eupra); and the cases of Townsend v. Greeley (supra),
Grisarv. McDowell (supra), and Merryman v. Bourne et al. (9
Wall. 592), evidently proceeded upon that assumption. Donner claimed under the city of San Francisco, and the city under
its equitable title derived from the Mexican government, finally
ratified and confirmed by the United States. Whatever rights
the city had under the Mexican title it held for the use and
benefit of the inhabitants; and the United States, by the act of
1864, relinquished and granted all their right and title for the
same uses and purposes. .Clearly, therefore, the act of Congress could not have been intended as the grant of a new right,
but simply as the confirmation of the old one. The title of the
city is the old imperfect title from Mexico, confirmed by the
VOL

VIII.

2

PALMER v.

Low.

[Sup. Ct.

authoritative recognition of Congress. Previous to the passage
of this act, the city had prosecuted its claim against the United
States under the act of March 3, 1851, to ascertain and settle
private land-claims in California, and that action was still pending when this confirmatory statute was passed. The original
claim being for a larger quantity of land than was embraced in
this relinquishment, the suit went on in the courts until March
8, 1866, when the United States, by another statute "to quiet
the title to certain lands within the corporate limits of the city
of San Francisco" (14 Stat. 4), in terms confirmed the claim
of the city to all the lands embraced in the decree of the Circuit Court then pending here on appeal. It is clear, therefore,
that the case is within that part of the statute which relates to
titles derived from the Mexican government.
One other question, arising under the Statute of Limitations,
remains to be considered, and this grows out of the last clause
in the proviso of the act of 1863, in which five years is given
to the holder of a title derived from the Spanish or the Mexican government "to make his defence to an action founded
upon the title thereto." If we understand correctly the position taken by counsel, it is that the holder of a title under a
Mexican grant will not be permitted to set up his grant as a
defence to an action brought against him for the recovery of
the property granted, unless lie makes his defence within five
years after the date of confirmation, whether the suit in which
the defence is to be made was commenced within that time or
not. The courts of California have had no little difficulty in
giving a construction to this and other kindred portions of this
statute; but whatever else it may mean, we think it clear that
it cannot be what the plaintiff claims. The facts in this case
present, in the strongest light, the utter absurdity of such an
interpretation. The plaintiff's grantor entered into the possession of the premises in 1850 or 1851, without a shadow of title,
and remained until May 8, 1867, when he was ousted. He acquired no title by his possession. The title under which he
was ousted was a Mexican grant, not confirmed until July 1,
1864. The owner of this grant remained in peaceable possession, claiming title, until April 30, 1872, when this suit was
begun. This was more than five years after the date of the

Oct. 1878.]

PALMER v. Low.

confirmation of the grant, but less than that time by eight days
from the commencement of possession. As the possession of
the owner had not ripened into a perfect title, he was driven
to his defence under the grant. The plaintiff, a mere trespasser originally, having no right whatever .except that of prior
naked occupancy, purposely delaying his action for more than
five years from the date of the confirmation of the grant, now
seeks to get rid of the grant as a defence to his action, because
it is more than five years old. If this be the operation of the
statute, it has, in a single line, made substantially worthless as
muniments of title all confirmed Mexican grants, and that, too,
in a State where titles are so largely drawn from such sources.
It would be monstrous to suppose the legislature could have
been guilty of such folly.
The pleadings are sufficient to enable the defendants to avail
themselves of their proof. In ejectment, the plaintiff recovers
upon the strength of his own title, and not upon the weakness
of that of his adversary. The plaintiff declared generally upon
his title, without setting out the particulars. The answer of
the defendant was a general denial. The plaintiff undertook to
establish his title under the Van Ness ordinance, by proving
the requisite possession. To rebut the effect of this evidence
the defendants made proof of the grant, under which they
claimed, to show that the title under the ordinance did not
pass to the plaintiff. Until the plaintiff put in his testimony,
there was nothing upon the record to show what his claim of
title was. Certainly, under such circumstances, it was not incumbent on the defendant to state in his answer the matters
on which he relied, to defeat any title that might be developed
upon the trial.
Judgment affirmed.

