Oct. 1878.]

DE TREviLLE V. SMALLS.

As in our opinion the appellant is the owner of the stock in
question, and his brother held it merely as collateral security
for the $5,250 loaned, it is unnecessary to consider what, if any,
effect is to be given to the decree obtained in the former case
of Samuel Brick against the executors of the deceased. Assuming that the District Court never acquired jurisdiction over
the executors resident in the State of New York, the situation
of the parties remains as previously; and upon payment of the
loan with interest, after proper credits for the dividends received, the appellant will be entitled to the possession of the
certificate. The present suit proceeds upon the theory that
the stock belongs to the estate of the deceased, and is not held
as security. It seeks to enforce a claim of ownership to the
property, and not the payment of the loan by its sale.
The decree must, therefore, be reversed, with directions to
the court below to dismiss the bill; and it is
So ordered.

DE TREvnLE v. SmALLs.
1. Where lands have been sold for an unpaid direct tax, the tax-sale certificate
is, under the act of Feb. 6, 1863 (12 Stat. 640), primaface evidence not
only of a regular sale, but of all the antecedent facts which are essential to
its validity and to that of the purchaser's title. It can only be affected by
establishing that the lands were not subject to the tax, or that it had been
paid previously to the sale, or that they had been redeemed according to the
provisions of the act.
2. The ruling in Codey v. O'Connor (12 Wall. 891), that the act of Congress contemplates such a certificate where the United States is the purchaser, reaffirmed.
3 The act of June 7, 1862 (12 Stat. 422), imposing a penalty for default of voluntary payment of the direct tax upon lands, is not unconstitutional. It
reserved to the owner of them the right to pay the tax within a specified time,
and take a certificate of payment by virtue whereof the lands would be discharged. On his failing to do so, the penalty attached.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of South Carolina.
This is an action of trespass quare lau-sum fregit, brought
by William J. de Treville against Robert Smalls, to try the
title to a certain lot of ground in the town of Beaufort, S. C.

[Sup. or.

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

The plaintiff having made out a primafacie case, the defendant offered in evidence the following paper: "UNITED

STATES OF

AMERICA.

"Tax-sale Certificate No. 238.

"This is to certify that at a sale of lands for unpaid taxes, under
and by virtue of an act entitled "An Act for the collection of direct
taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States, and for
other purposes," held, pursuant to notice, at Beaufort, in district of
Beaufort, in the State of South Carolina, on the thirteenth day of
March, A.D. 1863, the tract or parcel of land hereinafter described,
situate in the town of Beaufort and State aforesaid, and described
as follows, to wit: "' Lot B, in block 23, according to the commissioners' plat,' was
sold and struck off to the United States for the sum of fifteen dollars
and cents, being the highest bidder, and that being the high.
est sum bidden for the same; the receipt of which said sum in full
is hereby acknowledged and confessed.
"Given under our hands at Beaufort this second day of April,
A.D. 1863.
"WILIAm

"Wm.

E.

WORDInG,

HENRY BRISBANE,

" Commissioners."

To the introduction of which the plaintiff objected, on the
ground, -

First, It is not in law a certificate, in this, that it does not,
upon its face, show that those proceedings have been taken by
the said commissioners prior to the alleged sale, which are essential to the regularity and validity thereof, and of which the
act of Congress makes a purchaser's certificate prima facie
evidence.
Second, It is not a proper and legal certificate under the act
of Congress, because on its face it shows that the commission-

ers have not sold the plaintiff's lot of land according to the
enumeration of said lot required by the act.
Third, Sect. 13 of the act of June 7, 1862, which, in case of
the concealment or the loss of the records of assessments and
valuation of the respective lots of land to be assessed, authorizes the commissioners to value and assess the same in their

Oct. 1878.]

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

own judgment, does not include the right to make a new and
different enumeration and description of such lots.
Fourth, Said paper was not issued to any person, at said sale,
bidding "the sum of the taxes, penalty, and costs, and ten per
cent per annum interest on said tax," pursuant to the notice
required by the act, nor to any person bidding "a larger sum,"
who, upon paying the purchase-money in gold and silver coin,
or in the Treasury notes of the United States, or in certificates
of indebtedness against the United States, "became entitled"
under the act "to receive from the commissioners their certificate of sale," and said paper on its face purports not to have
been issued by the commissioners to any "purchaser or purchasers," at a sale made under the seventh section of the act, and
is not a purchaser's certificate of sale thereunder, but a mere
memorandum that the land was struck off to the United States,
and as such memorandum is not made evidence by the act, it is
not competent evidence in law of the facts which it recites.
The court overruled the objections and admitted the certificate, to which ruling the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff, in reply to the evidence of the defendant, offered evidence to prove that the commissioners did not apportion and charge the said tax upon the said lot of ground as the
same was enumerated and valued under the last assessment and
valuation thereof made under the authority of the State of
South Carolina previous to the first day of January, 1861, but
did apportion and charge the said tax' upon a lot enumerated
and designated as lot B, in block 28. Upon inquiry by the
court, the plaintiff said that he did not expect to prove that
the records of assessment and valuation of the lot made under
the authority of the State actually came within the possession
of the board of commissioners previous to the making of their
valuation and assessment as aforesaid.
To the introduction of this evidence the defendant objected,
his objection was sustained, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered evidence to prove that in the advertisement and notice of the sale of said lot the same was not'
described as it was enumerated in the last valuation and assessment thereof made under the authority of the State previous to
the first day of January, 1861, and that in said advertisement

DE TREvILLE V. SMTALLS.

[Sup. Ct.

and notice the said lot was not described as the lot of said
owner, nor by its situation and boundaries, nor as enumerated
on the old plat of the town of Beaufort, nor by giving the
streets and numbers thereon by which said lots were known
and recognized, but by the enumeration and designation thereof
as lot B, in block 23.
The court, on the objection of the defendant, excluded the
evidence, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence the following statement
of W. E. Wording, one of the commissioners, to wit: "That
the sales under act of Congress, 1862, for non-payment of taxes
were advertised by the commissioner to be made at Beaufort.
On the Saturday preceding the sale, General Hunter, commanding the military district in which the lands advertised
were situated, issued an order forbidding the sale. The commissioners, notwithstanding the order, proceeded to sell, and
on the day fixed by the advertisement, and at the hour fixed
therein, struck off one lot. They then adjourned the sales
from day to day, meanwhile reporting the matter to General
Hunter, who finally consented not to interfere with the sale,
and to revoke his order, but who did not formally revoke it;
and under these circumstances the sales actually took place
some time in March following, -about the 13th of March,
- and after the first day of sale." He also offered to prove
that during that period Beaufort County was under martial
law.
To the introduction of which evidence the defendant objected, and his objection was sustained by the court; and the
plaintiff thereupon excepted.
The testimony on both sides having been closed, the plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury "that the act of
Congress approved 7th June, 1862, under which the defendant
claims his title, is in conflict with the fourth clause, ninth section, first article, of the Constitution of the United States, in
that the amount of the direct tax theretofore apportioned to
the State of South Carolina is increased by the addition thereto
of a penalty of fifty per cent, and thus is not in proportion to
the census or enumeration directed to be taken in the third
section of the same article, whereby all direct taxes are to be

Oct. 1878.]

DE

TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

apportioned among the several States." But the court declined
so to charge, whereupon the plaintiff excepted.
Judgment was rendered against the plaintiff, who thereupon
sued out this writ, and assigns for error the rulings of the
court below.
Mr. Theodore G. Barker and Mr. James Lowndes for the
plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents for our consideration the several acts of
Congress of 1861, 1862, and 1863, which provided for the levy
and collection of a direct tax, and the contest below was
whether, under those acts, the defendant had obtained a valid
title to the land in controversy. In support of his possession,
he gave in evidence at the trial the tax-sale certificate, to the
reception of which exception was taken, for several reasons,
most of which are now urged in support of the assignments of
error. It is said that the certificate is not evidence of title in
the defendant, because it does not on its face show that those
proceedings had been taken by the commissioners prior to the
alleged sale, which were essential to the regularity and validity
of the sale under the acts of June 7, 1862, and Feb. 6, 1863.
This objection entirely overlooks the provisions of those acts
of Congress. The certificate which by the act of 1863 the
board of tax commissioners was required to give to purchasers
was simply a certificate of sale. The law did not require it
should set forth that a tax had been assessed upon the property;
that the tax was unpaid; that the sale had been advertised for
a specified time or in a particular manner; nor that it should
recite any of the facts which were necessary antecedents to any
sale. It made the certificate of sale equipollent with a deed,
and cast upon the former owners of the land the burden of
showing that the certificate or deed was made without authority. The numerous decisions cited by the plaintiff in error
to support his objection are quite inapplicable to the case. No
doubt it has been decided that statutes which make a tax-sale
deed prima fade evidence of the regularity of the sale, do not
relieve a purchaser from the burden of showing that the pro-

DE TREvILLE V. SMALLS.

[Sup. Ct.

ceedings anterior and necessary to the power to make the sale
actually took place. Such a provision has been held to relate
only to the conduct. of the sale itself. But the act of 1863 declares that the commissioners' certificate shall be prima facie
evidence not merely of the regularity of the sale, but also of
its validity and of the title of the purchaser; and it enacts that
it shall only be affected as evidence of the regularity and validity of the sale by establishing the fact that the property was
not subject to taxes, or that the taxes had been paid previously
to the sale, or that the property had been redeemed. How can
a deed be primafacie evidence of the validity of a sale, unless it
be such evidence of the transmission of the title of the property ?
Is any sale valid which does not pass title to the subject of the
sale? It may be regular in form and in the mode of its conduct, but it cannot be valid, unless authorized by law. Now,
the act of Congress makes a certificate of sale by the commissioners evidence that the title acquired by the purchaser under
the sale was a valid one, assailable only by proof of one or the
other of three things. It is not the certificate of an assessment
or of an advertisement of a sale, followed by an actual sale, to
which such an effect is given, but a certificate of sale alone.
*We are not at liberty to interpolate in the statutes requisites
for the certificate which the statute does not demand.
The second objection to the reception of the tax certificate
is that it was not authorized by the statutes, inasmuch as it
certified a sale to the United States. It is insisted that the
effect of prima facie evidence is given only to certificates of
sale made to the highest bidder, when such bidder was some
person other than the United States, and that no authority was
given to the board of commissioners to certify a sale when the
government was the highest bidder, and when the property was
stricken off to it. To this we cannot assent. The plain object
of the statutory provision was to give confidence to purchasers,
and thereby to enable the government to obtain the taxes due
to it. For these purposes it was quite as important that the
government should have evidence of its title, if it purchased,
as it was that any other purchaser should have such evidence.
Taxes, not lands, were what the government required. If the
United States became the purchaser at the commissioners' sale,

Oct. 1878.]

DE TREVILLE v. SMALLS.

it was only to obtain the taxes by a resale, and such a resale,
resting as it must have done upon the original sale made by
the commissioners, needed the encouragement and support of
a commissioners' certificate equally with a purchase by any
bidder. It is not, therefore, to be admitted that the statute
intended to put the United States in any worse condition than
that occupied by any other successful bidder. The argument
that it is only that highest bidder who shall, upon paying the
purchase-money (and not the United States, who of course do
not pay so much as is claimed for taxes), be entitled to the
certificate, is plausible, but we think it unsound. The words,
"who shall, upon paying the purchase-money,' &c., be entitled
to this certificate, are not descriptive of the highest bidder
entitled, but declaratory of the duty of every purchaser. It is,
however, unnecessary to dwell longer on this part of the case.
In Cooley v. O'Connor (12 Wall. 891), we held that the act of
Congress did contemplate a certificate of sale in cases where
the United States becomes the purchaser, as fully as where the
purchase is made by another. In that case, the point now made
-was distinctly presented, and such was our judgment. We adhere to the opinion -we then expressed.
The other reasons urged in support of the objection to the
admission of the tax certificate of sale may be considered in
connection with the first exception to the rejection of evidence.
In substance, they are that the certificate was not legal, because
on its face it shows the commissioners did not sell the plaintiff's lot according to the enumeration thereof required by the
acts of Congress; and to show that such was the fact, the plaintiff offered evidence which was rejected by the court. What
was sold was lot B, "according to the commissioners' plat."
Now, if it be assumed, as it must be, in view of the evidence
offered, that the enumeration and valuation of lot B was not
in accordance with the last assessment and valuation made
under authority of the State previous to Jan. 1, 1862, we do
not perceive that it affects the validity of the title acquired by
the purchaser at the sale. It was foreseen by Congress that
the State records of assessments and valuation of the lots of
land in insurrectionary districts might be destroyed, concealed,
o lost, so as not to come into the possession of the board of

524

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

[Sup. Ct.

commissioners, whose duty it was to enforce the collection of the
tax, and therefore it was enacted by the thirteenth section of the
act of 1862 that they should be authorized to value and assess
the same upon such evidence as might appear before them, and
it was declared that " no mistake in the valuation of the same,
or in the amount of tax thereon, should, in any manner whatever, affect the validity of the sale of the same, or of any of the
proceedings preliminary thereto." The provisions respecting
the mode of valuation were only directory. But if they were
more, so far as relates to the admissibility of the certificate of
sale, the requisition of the ffirst section of the act was quite immaterial. That certificate was made prima facie evidence of
the regularity and validity of the sale and of the title of the
purchaser irrespective of any recitals it might contain, or of
any evidence which might afterwards be adduced to rebut the
prima facies. It was presumptive evidence of all antecedent
facts essential to its validity, and hence admissible as such.
The only question, then, is whether the evidence offered tended
to rebut this presumption.
Assuming the evidence would have proved that the commissioners did not apportion the tax upon the lot as the same had
been enumerated and valued by the State in the last assessment
prior to Jan. 1, 1862, their action was at most a mere irregularity, and the evidence by itself did not prove that. The act
authorized the board to assess and value lots of ground according to their own judgment, when the State records of valuation
and assessments were destroyed, concealed, or lost, so as not to
come into their possession. It is a fair presumption that they
discharged their duty according to law. The plaintiff did not
offer to show, and disclaimed any intention to show, that the
State records of assessment and valuation came into the possession of the commissioners previous to their making the valuation and assessment; and in view of the history of the times, to
which we cannot close our eyes, it was a reasonable presumption which the jury ought to have accepted, that the State asThey
sessments and valuations were withheld or concealed.
were, of course, in the hands of the insurrectionary State government, and hence inaccessible to the commissioners. The
evidence offered had no tendency to show the contrary. As we

Oct. 1878.]

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

have seen, the act of Cbngress-declared that no mistake in the
Taluation or in the amount of the taxes would in any manner
affect the validity of the sale, or of any of the proceedings preliminary thereto. Besides, all possible attack upon the prima
facies of the certificate was limited by the express provisions of
the act, which enacted, as before stated, that it should only be
affected as evidence of the regularity and validity of sale, by
establishing the fact that the property was not subject to taxes,
or that the taxes had been paid previous to sale, or that the
property had been redeemed. This left to the owner of lands
subject to the tax every substantial right. It was his duty to pay
the tax when it was due. His land was charged with it by the
act of Congress, not by the commissioners; and the proceeding
ending in a sale was simply a mode of compelling the discharge
of his duty. All his substantial rights were assured to him by
the permission to show that he owed no tax, that his land was
not taxable, that he had paid what was due, or that he had
redeemed his land after sale. He was thus permitted to assert
every thing of substance, -every thing except mere irregularities.
We do not feel at liberty to disregard the plain intention of
the acts of Congress. We are not unmindful of the numerous
decisions of State courts which have construed away the plain
meaning of statutes providing for the collection of taxes, disregarding the spirit and often the letter of the enactments, until
of late years the astuteness of judicial refinement had rendered
almost inoperative all legislative provisions for the sale of land
for taxes. The consequence was that bidders at tax sales, if
obtained at all, were mere speculators. The chances were
greatly against their obtaining a title. The least error in the
conduct of the sale, or in the proceedings preliminary thereto,
was held to vitiate it, though the tax was clearly due and
unpaid. Mr. Blackwell, in his Treatise on Tax Titles, says
(p. 71), "that out of a thousand cases in court [of tax sales],
not twenty have been sustained." To meet this tendency of
judicial refinement very many States have of late adopted very
rigid legislation. The acts of Congress we are considering
must have had it in view. Hence the stringent provisions
they contain. They declare, in effect, that the certificate of

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

[Sup. Ct.

the commissioners' sale shall be evidence of compliance with
the preliminary requisites of the sale, and that this evidence
shall be rebutted only by proof of one or the other of three
specified things. There is no possible excuse for not enforcing
such statutes according to their letter and spirit. In Gwynne
v. Neiswanger (18 Ohio, 400), it appeared that the statute of
the State prescribed certain preliminaries to a sale of land for
taxes, and directed a deed to be made to the purchaser, which
should be received in all courts of the State as good evidence
of title, adding, "nor shall the title conveyed by said deed
to the purchaser or purchasers, his heirs, or their heirs, assignee or assignees, be invalidated or affected by any error
previously made in listing, taxing, selling, or conveying said
land." The court held that even if there were irregularities
in the proceedings, they would not justify declaring invalid
a deed which the law under which it was made enacted should
not be invalidated for any error in the listing, selling, or conveying.
In Allen v. Armstrong (16 Iowa, 508), we find a construction of another State statute. It enacted that a county treasurer's deed for land sold by him for taxes should be primafacie
evidence, 1st, that the property conveyed was .subject to taxation ; 2d, that the taxes were not paid; 3d, that the property
conveyed was not redeemed; and should be conclusive evidence
of the following facts: lst,.that the property had been taxed
and assessed as required by law ;. 2d, that the taxes were levied
according to law; 3d, that the property was advertised for sale
in the manner and for the length of time required by law; 4th,
that the property was sold as stated in the deed; 5th, that the
grantee was the purchaser; 6th, that the sale was conducted
as required by law; and, 7th, that all the prerequisites of the
law were complied with by all the officers, from the listing and
valuation of the property up to the execution of the deed, and
that all things whatsoever required by law to make a good
and valid sale, and to vest the title in the purchaser, were
done, except in regard to the three points first above named,
wherein the deed should be prima facie evidence only. This,
it will be noticed, was substantially the same as the United
States statute, and the court ruled that irregularities preced-

Oct. 1878.]

DE TREVILLE V. SMALLS.

ing the sale were inoperative to defeat it. The case is in
many particulars instructive. See also Tharp v. Bart, 2 Sneed

(Tenn.), 569.
In regard to the assignment of the plaintiff, that the court
erred in refusing to admit evidence of the order of General
Hunter and its revocation, as well as of the fact that Beaufort
County was under martial law when the sale was made, it is
sufficient to say that we cannot perceive its possible legitimate
bearing upon any question really involved in the case, and the
assignment has not been seriously pressed.
Nor was there error, of which the plaintiff can take advantage, in refusing evidence to prove that the advertisement and notice' of the sale did not describe the property
sold as it was enumerated in the last preceding valuation.
What we have heretofore said is a sufficient answer to this
objection.
One other assignment only remains. It is that the acts of
Congress were unconstitutional, because the amount of the
direct taxes apportioned to the State of South Carolina was
increased by the addition thereto of a penalty of fifty per cent,
and therefore was not in proportion to the census or enumeration directed to be taken by the second section of the first article of the Constitution.
The assignment rests upon a mistaken construction of the
acts of Congress. It is true that direct taxes must be apportioned among the several States according to the population.
The acts of Aug. 5, 1861, June 7, 1862, and Feb. 6, 1863, did
so apportion the tax. The fifty per cent penalty was no part
,of it. The act of Congress of 1861, which levied the tax, provided for no penalty, except for failure to pay it when it was
due; and the penalty charged by the acts of 1862 and 1863
was also for default of voluntary payment in due time. A
careful reading of the acts makes this very plain. Throughout, a distinction is made between the tax and the added
penalty. It is recognized in the first section of the act of
1862, in the second, and in the third, as well as elsewhere,
By the third section the owner of the lots or parcels of land was
allowed to pay the tax charged thereon (not the tax and Penaltly), and take a certificate of payment, by virtue whereof the

528

HOOPER v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

lands would be discharged. It cannot, therefore, be maintained
that the tax was in conflict with the Constitution.
We have thus considered all the questions presented by the
record, and we discover no error.

cJudgment affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

HOOPER v. ROBnqSON.
1. A policy upon a cargo in the name of A., "on account of whom it may concern," or with other equivalent terms, will inure to the interest of the party
for whom it was intended by A., provided he at the time of effecting the
insurance had the requisite authority from such party, or the latter subsequently adopted it.
2. No proof is necessary that the assured had an insurable interest at that time.
It is sufficient if such interest subsisted during the risk and when the logo
occurred.
3. A policy " lost or not lost " is a valid stipulation for indemnity against past
as well as future losses. A contingent interest may be the subject of suclt
a policy.
4. In an action against A. to recover the amount paid to him by the underwriters, who allege that neither he nor his principal had an insurable
interest in such cargo, the burden of proof is on the plaintiffs to show that
fact.
5. A. having received the money as agent, and promptly paid it over to his
principal, without notice of any adverse claim, or reason to suspect it, the
plaintiffs, having been guilty of laches, must look to that principal.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The British steamer "Carolina" came to Baltimore, consigned to James Hooper & Co. They were also her agents
ERROR to

while she remained in that port. The plaintiff in error was a
member of the firm. Having taken on board her return cargo,
the steamer proceeded on her homeward voyage. While in
the Chesapeake Bay she was injured by a collision with
another vessel, abd put back to Baltimore for repairs. She was
repaired, and Hooper & Co. paid all the bills and made other
disbursements for her. McGarr, the captain, drew on Good

