Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. SHERMAN.

the taxation of the property. They are in no sense contracts,
and are not, therefore, irrepealable. Tucker v. Ferguson, 22
Wall. 527.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITE

STATES V. SHERMAN.

Where, under sect. 8 of the act of July 28, 1866 (14 Stat. 329), the court grants a
certificate that there was probable cause for the acts done by an officer of the
United States, for which the judgment was rendered against him, the amount
payable out of the treasury does not include any interest which had accrued
upon the judgment before such certificate was given.

the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William A. Masry for the relator.
The Attorney- General, contra.

ERROR to

MiR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an application to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a mandamus to John Sherman, Secretary of
the Treasury, commanding him to pay to Alexander McLeod,
the relator, the sum of $4,279.94, with interest from the ninth
day of November, 1874. The facts of the case, as they are
made to appear, are as follows:On the eighteenth day of June, 1869, the relator recovered
a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina against T. C. Callicott, a supervising
special agent of the Treasury Department, for the sum of
$11,700.68, besides $119.30 for costs. On the 5th of July
next following a fl. fa. was issued upon this judgment. The
execution, however, was suspended by a writ of error sent from
this court to the Circuit Court, sued out by direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury. But the writ was dismissed on the
seventeenth day of February, 1871. Nothing further appears
to have been done until June 8, 1874, when the relator applied
to the Circuit Court for a certificate of probable cause under
the act of Congress of March 8, 1863 (12 Stat. 741), and the
act of July 28, 1866 (14 id. 329) ; and the court certified "that

UNITED STATES V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

on the trial of said cause (in the Circuit Court) it appeared
there was probable cause moving the defendant (Callicott), for
the acts done by him whereon the judgment was had and recovered against him," "and, further, that the said acts were done
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury." The
certificate thus obtained was then brought to the Treasury
Department, and on the 4th of November next following the
first auditor adjusted the account, and certified that there was
due from the United States to the relator the sum of $12,039.50,
the amount of the judgment recovered in the Circuit Court,
with interest from June 8, 1874, the time when the certificate
of probable cause was given. This adjustment was confirmed
and certified by the controller, and that sum was received by
the relator on the 9th of the same month.
He now contends that it was an insufficient payment, and
that there is still due to him from the United States the sum
of $4,279.94, with interest from November 9, aforesaid. It
will be noticed that in the adjustment of the account by the
first auditor, and in the payment made, no interest was allowed
for the time which intervened between the rendition of the
judgment and the date when the certificate of probable cause
was obtained. That interest at the rate allowed in South
Carolina amounted to $4,279.94, and the principal question
now raised is whether the United States is under obligation
to pay that. The mandamus asked for is to compel allowance
and payment of that interest.
We have, therefore, to inquire whether the United States is
under obligation to pay interest on the judgment obtained in
the Circuit Court from the time when the judgment was rendered, until the certificate of probable cause was given. To
this question alone we address ourselves. Several objections
to the issue of the mandamus asked by the relator - some of
them grave - have been interposed by the defendant, but we do
not think it necessary to consider them. The twelfth section
of the act of Congress of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 741), relative to suits against revenue officers, enacted that where a
recovery shall be had in any such suit, and the court shall
certify that there was probable cause for the act done by the
collector or other officer, or that he acted under the directions

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. SHERM1AN.

of the Secretary of the Treasury or other proper officer of the
government, no execution shall issue against the collector or
other officer, but the amount so recovered shall, upon final
judgment, be provided for and paid out of the proper appropriation from the treasury. This section was, by the act of July
28, 1866 (14 id. 828), declared to extend to and embrace all
cases arising under the Captured and Abandoned Property Acts
of March 12, 1863, and July 2, 1864, whether then pending or
thereafter brought, "provided that such acts done, or proceedings under the two acts last mentioned, shall have been done
and had under the authority or by the direction of the executive government of the United States."
It was under these acts ostensibly that the certificate of probable cause was obtained.
It was obtained not by the agent of the Treasury Department sued, but on motion of the relator, who was the plaintiff
in the suit. Conceding, however, as we do, that the Circuit
Court was empowered to give the certificate on the request of
either party, it is to be considered what was the liability
fastened thereby upon the United States.
The act of Congress enacts that when the certificate of probable cause is given, the amount recovered shall, upon final
judgment, be paid out of the appropriation from the treasury.
When the certificate is given, the claim of the plaintiff in the
suit is practically converted into a claim against the government. But not until then.
Before that time, the government is under no obligation, and
the Secretary of the Treasury is not at liberty to pay. When
the obligation arises, it is an obligation to pay the amount
recovered; that is, the amount for which judgment has been
given. The act of Congress says not a word about interest.
Judgments, it is true, are by the law of South Carolina, as
well as by Federal legislation, declared to bear interest. Such
legislation, however, has no application to the government.
And the interest is no part of the amount recovered. It
accrues only after .the recovery has been had. Moreover,
whenever interest is allowed either by statute or by common
law, except in cases where there has been a contract to pay
interest, it is allowed for delay or default of the debtor. But

UNITED STATES V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

delay or default cannot be attributed to the government. It
is presumed to be always ready to pay what it owes. Certainly there was no delay in the present case. The government paid the amount recovered against Callicott, viz. the
sum for which the verdict and judgment were given, as soon as
its liability accrued. If there has been a loss of interest, it is
not due to the government. It is due to the dilatoriness of
the relator himself. He might have applied to the Circuit
Court for the certificate of probable cause immediately on the
rendition of the judgment, as is generally done, though commonly by the defendant. But he waited nearly five years,
from June 18, 1869, to June 8, 1874. It would be strange,
indeed, if by his own delay he can compel the United States
to pay interest on a judgment which it was ready to pay as
soon as its liability accrued.
We do not overlook the fact that the plaintiff's execution
was suspended by the writ of error directed by the Secretary
of the Treasury. But the execution did not suspend his power
to obtain the certificate necessary to cast the liability upon the
government, and the writ was dismissed in February, 1871.
Then there was nothing in the way of a second execution
against Callicott. But no step was taken until more than
three years had elapsed, when the certificate was obtained.
It cannot be admitted that the plaintiff, at his option, may impose upon the United States a liability to pay interest, as long
as he pleases, upon a sum of money that, during all the time
in which the interest accrues, the government was not bound to
pay. Such, we think, is not the requirement of the act of Congress. The "'amount recovered," spoken of in the acts of
1863 and 1866, is the sum for which judgment was given, and
it does not include the interest which the judgment may bear
prior to the time when the certificate of probable cause is
made.
It follows that there is nothing due to the relator, and,
therefore, he is not entitled to a writ of mandamus.
Judgment affirmed.

