ORVIS V. POWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

tions pertained. That these powers were legitimately exercised
is plain, upon the authorities cited.
The judgment of the court below was in accordance with
these views; and without going through the several questions
in detail, we answer them in the affirmative, and direct that
the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE MILLER, Mr. JUSTICE FIELD, and Mr. JUSTICE
HARLAN

dissented.

ORVIS v. POWELL.
1. Where lands have been mortgaged, and parcels thereof subsequently sold at
different times to different purchasers, the order in which such parcels shall
be subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage is, where the rule is estab-

lished by a statute or by the decisions of the courts of the State where the
lands lie, a rule of property binding on the courts of the United States sitting in that State.

2. In Illinois, the rule has been established by the Supreme Court of that State,
in Iglehart v. Crane (42 Ill. 261), that the parcels first sold should be last
subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage.
3. The decision in Brine v. Insurance Company (96 U. S. 627), that the decree of

the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in Illinois, in a suit to
foreclose a mortgage of lands in that State, must give effect to the
equity of redemption after sale, as provided by the statutes of that State,
reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. 0. D. Barrett for the appellant, and by Mr. Edward S. Iham and Mr. George L. Paddock
for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in chancery to foreclose a mortgage executed
by Henry H. Walker and Samuel I. Walker to Nathan Powell,
the appellee, covering forty acres of land in Cook County,

Oct. 1878.]

OOVIS V. POWEEi.

Illinois. The mortgage was given April 8, 1869, to secure the
payment of the sum of $40,500. The amount due at the date
of the decree had been reduced by payments to $14,853.83.
As they were made, releases had been executed as to part of
the land; and before the suit was brought, all the land had been
conveyed, in distinct parcels, at different times, to various parties, and among them to Emerson G. Orvis, the appellant.
The court, in its decree, ordered that these parcels should be
sold separately, and in the inverse order of the dates of the
conveyances made by the Walkers, until the amount due, as
ascertained by the decree, was satisfied, so that the parcels
first sold should be the last subjected to the satisfaction of the
debt. The decree made no provision for redemption after sale,
as required by the statute of Illinois.
Three principal errors are assigned here: 1. That the decree should have subjected all the property
on which the mortgage was a lien equally, and without regard
to priority of conveyances by the mortgagors.
2. That the court erred in determining the order of these
priorities.
.3. That the decree made no provision for redemption after
sale.
As regards the question raised by the first of these assignments, we are relieved from any discussion of what is the true,
equitable rule on the *subject,because we consider that when
such rule is adopted it is, within the decisions of this court, a
rule of property affecting the title to real estate, and as such is
to be governed, in its application in this court, by the law of
the State where the land lies. In a case where no statute of
the State makes provision on the subject, and no decisions
of the State court have established a rule, it would be our duty
to inquire what is the doctrine of the equity -courts on the
subject.
The Supreme Court of*the State of Illinois having, in Igehart v. Crane (42 Ill. 261), announced on very full consideration the rule which was followed by the Circuit Court, there
was no error in that court in following it.
In regard to the order in which the parcels of the land
are subjected to sale, it is to be observed that no one can comTOL. VII.

12

ORVIS V. POWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

plain but Orvis, because he is the only party who has appealed
from the decree.
So far as Orvis is concerned, the only error assigned which
seems worthy of notice is that block 18 should have been subjected to plaintiff's debt first, because Walker, the mortgagor,
was still owner of an equitable interest in it. This does not
appear by any written instrument, but so far as it is established at all, it is by Walker's parol testimony. It thus appears, however, that Colbaugh and Powell held the title in
trust to secure money advanced by them on a sale which had
been rescinded, and it was by virtue of this rescission that
Walker had any interest in it. What the amount of the sum
is for which Colbaugh and Powell held it is not shown, nor is
the value of the lot. But appellant's witness, Walker, states
that the debt due these parties is more than the lot is worth,
after paying some liens on it prior to theirs. As the title of
Walker had passed from him to this lot long before that claimed
by Orvis, we do not believe that the court was bound to prosecute an inquiry, through all the ramifications of Walker's
dealing with this lot, dependent solely on conflicting oral testimony, to ascertain if Walker had a possible ultimate interest
in it. Nor does it consist with the general course of equity
practice to order a public sale of a very doubtful contingent
interest, the value of which is incapable of estimation, and
where any price given might do great injustice to the purchaser
or to the party whose interest is sold, and which would lead to
further expensive litigation. Besides, if in the end appellant
has to pay any part of this mortgage, there is nothing to prevent his pursuing this equity of Walker's so far as may be
necessary to indemnify him in an independent suit, where that
matter may be fully investigated without further delaying the
present plaintiff.
On the whole, we see no error to the prejudice of appellant
in the order of sale adopted by the decree.
But we decided in Brine v. -Insurance Company (96 U. S.
627) that a decree of foreclosure in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Illinois, which gave no time
for redemption after the sale, was erroneous and must be reversed. The larger part of the briefs of several counsel in this

Oct. 1878.]

MCKNIGHT V. UNITED STATES.

case is devoted to a consideration of the question there decided.
It is sufficient to say that we are satisfied with the soundness
of the opinion given in that case, and it must govern the one
now before us.
The result of those considerations is, that the decree of the
Circuit Court ascertaining the sum due the plaintiff, and fixing
the order in which the various parcels of land shall be sold,
and in fact all of said decree, will be affirmed, except so far as it
fails to give a time for redemption; and the ease will be remanded
to that court with directions to amend the decree so as to allow
redemption of each parcel which may be sold, as provided by
the statute of Illinois on that subject. As appellant had to
take this appeal to obtain correction of the error in this respect, he must recover costs.
So ordered.
NoT-.- At a subsequent day of the term, Orvis, the appellant, was granted
a reargument because the question of the order in which lands mortgaged, and
sold subsequently by the mortgagor, to different parties at different dites should
be subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage debt, was a new one in this court,
and because the subsequent sales on which the court had to pass in the case were
numerous and, as presented by the record, a little perplexing.
The reargument was had by printed briefs submitted by Mr. Benjamin F.
Butler, Mr. 0. D. Barrett, and Mr. Melville W. Fuller for the appellant, and by
Mr. Julius .osenal and Mr. A. M. Pence, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court, ordering that the same
decree be entered that was made on the former hearing.

MC]IGmT v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES V. MCKNIGHT.
1. Where a claim against the United States was allowed by the proper offcers
of the treasury, and a part thereof paid to the assignees of the claimant,
upon his receipt for the whole sum, the United States, when sued by them for
the balance, cannot, on the ground that the assignment was not executed in
the manner prescribed by law, set up as a counter-claim the amount so
paid.
2. The United States, by paying a'part of the claim to the assignees, did not
waive its right to withhold from them the residue.

