334

UNnrD STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R.Co. [Sup. Ct.

brought here for review, says: -The court before refused to
give any opinion on the constitutionality of the ordinance of
secession, as it does now, such question being irrelevant and
not involved, as we think, in the decision of the cause. The decision of this court would be the same, whether it held the said
ordinance of secession to be constitutional or unconstitutional."
A careful examination of the record satisfies us of the correctness
of this statement. The case was decided "upon principles of
general law alone," and it nowhere appears in the record that
the plaintiff in error set up or claimed any "title, right, privilege, or immunity," under the Constitution or authority of the
United States, which was denied him by the decision below.
Writ dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. BURLINGTON AND MISSOUI
RAILROAD COMPANY.

RIVER

1. The grant of lands made to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Com.
pany, by the act of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. 356), embraced ten odd-numbered
sections per mile, to be taken on the line of the road and in equal quantities on each side thereof, which had not been sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and to which, at the time of the definite
location of such line, a pre-emption or a homestead claim had not attached.
2. Lands are, within the meaning of the act, taken on such line when they are
selected along its general direction or course, within lines perpendicular to
it at each end.
3. The grant was made to aid in the construction of the entire road; but the
company, on completing each section of twenty miles, had the privilege to
receive a patent for lands opposite thereto.
4. The grant having no lateral limits, and the Land Department having for years
neglected to withdraw from market lands situate beyond twenty miles from
the road, and the lands opposite to certain portions of it having been patented to other parties, it was held that the grant to the company could be
satisfied by lands elsewhere situate on the line of the road.
5. By the act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489), and by said act of 1864, which was
an amendment thereof, Congress intended to place the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and all its branch companies, upon the same footing as to
lands, privileges, and duties, except where special provision was otherwise
made; and the grant having been enlarged as to the sections and the distance from the road within which they should be selected, by striking out
the numbers in the first act and substituting larger numbers, the first act
must thenceforth be read as against the government and the parties

Oct. 1878.]

UNxD STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R. Co. 885

claiming under concurrenf"or subsequent grants, as though the larger
numbers had been origtnally inserted in it. The Burlington and .Mi.seonri
River Railroad Company claiming under the act which declared that that of
1862, making the grant to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, should be
thus read, must take its right to the lands subject to the claim of the latter
company.
6. The Land Department, in executing the act, was not authorized to enlarge the
quantity of lands on either side of the road to make up a deficiency on the
other. But, at the suit of the United States, patents embracing any alleged
excess on one side cannot be adjudged invalid as to any lands which are
not identified, so as to be separated from the remainder; nor can any
decree be rendered against the company for their value.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M .Assistant Attorney- General Smitk for the appellant.
Mr. J H. Woolworth for the appellee.
MR. JusT CE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought by the United States to
annul certain patents issued by them to the Burlington and
Missouri River Railroad Company, for lands situated in Nebraska, amounting in the aggregate to one million two hundred
thousand acres. It is founded upon alleged errors made by the
Land Department in the construction of the statute under
which the patents -were issued, and presents several interesting
questions for determination. These questions, however, are so
fully considered by the presiding justice of the Circuit Court,
and the views we entertain are so clearly stated in his opinion,
that we can add but little to what he has said.
By the eighteenth section of the act of Congress of July 2,
1864, amending the act of 1862, "to aid in the construction of
a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the
Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the government the use of the
same for postal, military, and other purposes," the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company, an existing corporation
under the laws of -Iowa, was authorized to extend its road
through the then Territory of Nebraska from the point where
it strikes the Missouri River, south of the mouth of the Platte
River, to some point not further west than the one hundredth
meridian of west longitude, so as to connect by the most

336

UNrED STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R. Co. [Sup. Ct.

practicable route with the main line of the Union Pacific Railroad, or with that part of it which runs from Omaha to the
said meridian. By the nineteenth section of the act, there
%as granted to the company, for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of this road, every alternate section of public land
(excepting mineral land) designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the
road, on the line .bereof, which were not sold, reserved, or
otherwise disposed of by the United States, or to which a preemption or homestead claim had not attached at the time the
line of the road was definitely fixed.
In April, 1869, this railroad company was authorized to
assign and convey to a company to be organized under the laws
of Nebraska, all the rights, powers, and privileges granted to
it by the act of 1864, subject to the same conditions and
requirements. The defendant company was thereafter organized and incorporated under the laws of Nebraska, with power
to build the railroad mentioned; and to it the Iowa company
made the assignment authorized. The new company thereupon proceeded to construct the road from Plattsmouth, on the
Missouri River, to Fort Kearney, where it connected with the
road of the Union Pacific, a distance of two hundred miles.
The work was commenced on the 4th of July, 1869, and was
completed on the 2d of September, 1872.
By the twentieth section of the act of 1864, whenever twenty
consecutive miles of the road should be completed in the manner prescribed, the President of the United States was to
appoint three commissioners to examine and report to him in
relation to it ; and if it should appear that the twenty miles
were completed as required, then, upon the certificate of the
commissioners to that effect, patents were to be issued to the
company for land on each side of the road to the amount
designated. Such examination, report, and conveyance were
to be made from time to time, until the entire road should be
completed.
In compliance with this provision, as each section of twenty
miles of the road was completed, commissioners were appointed
by the President to examine and report upon it; and upon
their reports patents were issued for land within twenty miles

Oct. 1878.]

UNnrn STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R. CO.

887

from the road. But within that distance, on the north and
south side, portions of the land, amounting to one million two
Jiundred thousand acres, had been sold, reserved, or otherwise
dlisposed of by the United States, or homestead or pre-emption
claims had attached to it at the-time the line of the road was definitely fixed. Thereupon the company made application to the
Land Department for land outside of the limit of twenty miles
in lieu of the land thus disposed of; and accordingly, in 1872,
five patents for such land were issued. It is to annul these
patents that the present bill was filed, their validity being
called in question on the ground that the act of Congress limited

its grant to land within twenty miles of the road.
The line of the road was definitely located in June, 1865, and

land embracing the odd sections, within the limit of twenty
miles, was withdrawn from sale in July following; but land
outside of this limit, which was subsequently patented to the
company, was not withdrawn until May, 1872. Between the
definite location of the road in 1865 and the withdrawal of
the land outside of the twenty-mile limit in 1872, the greater
part of the land opposite the eastern sections of the road was
disposed of by the government; and therefore most of the
land covered by the patents lies opposite the western sections.
This constitutes another ground of the alleged invalidity of the
patents, it being contended that the grant was to aid in the
construction of each section of the twenty miles, taken separately, and that it must be of land directly opposite to such
section.
By the act of 1862, the Union Pacific Railroad Company
was authorized to construct a railroad from a point on the one
hundredth meridian of longitude west of Greenwich to the
western boundary of Nevada Territory, the initial point of
which- was to be fixed by the President. To aid in the construction of this road, a grant was made to the company of five
alternate sections of land, designated by odd numbers on each
side of the road, along its line within the limit of ten miles.
By the same act, the company was also authorized to construct
a road from a point on the western boundary of the State of
Iowa, to be fixed by the President, to the one hundredth meridian of longitude, upon the same terms and conditions prescribed
voL. VIII.

22

838

UNITED STATES v. BURLINGTON, ETC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

for the construction of the Union Pacific line. By the act of
1864, the grant of five sections was increased to ten sections,
and the limit within which they were to be taken was increased
from ten to twenty miles. This enlargement of the grant was
not made by the terms of a new and additional grant, but
by enacting that the numbers five and ten in the original act
should be stricken out, and the numbers ten and twenty substituted in their places.
In March, 1864, the President fixed the initial point of the
new road near Omaha, and thereupon the company commenced
its construction. This initial point was distant about twenty
miles only from the defendant company's road, and the roads
of the two companies ran west on nearly parallel lines, so close
that the grants to both could not be satisfied. The Union
Pacific claimed the whole of the odd sections between the tenmile and the twenty-mile limit, and its claim in this respect was
recognized by the Land Department by the issue of patents or
certificates for patents for them. The defendant thereupon selected land more than twenty miles distant from the line of its
road, in order to make up the entire number of sections granted to
it. It is now contended by the government that the act of 1864
did not enlarge the grant made in aid of the Omaha branch by
the original act, and that the defendant was entitled to the odd
sections outside of the ten-mile limit, and could not take land
elsewhere in lieu of them; and that if the act did enlarge the
grant, the defendant, having received its grant by the same
act, was entitled to one-half of the land within the enlarged
limit, and could not therefore take land to that amount elsewhere. Assuming this construction of the act of 1864 to be
correct, these objections are also urged against the validity of
the patents.
It also appears by the allegations of the bill that land to the
extent of one hundred and fifty thousand acres, which should
have been taken, if at all, on the south side of the road, was
selected on the north side of the road beyond the twenty-mile
limit, and included in the patents to the defendant; and this
fact is made an objection to the validity of the patents as to
the land thus taken.
Upon the several grounds stated, the United States ask a

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R. CO.

339

decree for the cancellation of the patents, or, if that cannot
be granted, a decree that they be declared void as to a portion
of the land embraced by them.
The position that the grant to the company was only of land
situated within twenty miles of the road, finds no support in
the language of the act of Congress: that simply declares
that a grant is made of land to the amount of ten sections per
mile on each side of the road. The grant is one of quantity,
and the selection of the land is subject only to these limitations : 1st, that the land must be embraced by the odd sections;
2d, that it must be taken in equal quantities on each side of
the road; 3d, that it must be on the line of the road; and,
4th, that it must not have been sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and a pre-emption or homestead claim must not have attached to it at the time the line
of the road was definitely located. There is here no limitation
of distance from the road within which the selection is to be
made, and the court can make none. The objection, undoubtedly, has its suggestion from the fact that nearly all, perhaps
all, other grants of land in aid of the construction of railroads
prescribe a lateral limit within which the land is to be selected ;
and provide for the selection of land elsewhere to make up any
deficiency arising from the disposition of a portion of it within
such limit between the date of the act and the location of the
road. The reasons for the omission in this case are obvious.
The road was to run through a country already partially settled, and likely to be more settled before the line of the road
would be definitely located. It was doubtful, therefore, whether
any considerable portion of the amount of land intended for
the company would be found undisposed of within twenty
miles of its road. Moreover, the road of the Union Pacific was
to be constructed within a short distance, and its grant would
necessarily preclude a selection of land by the defendant if the
latter's grant were confined within a similar lateral limit.
Congress gave no government bonds to the company: its aid
consisted merely in the grant of land; and that this might not
fail, it allowed the land to be taken along the line of the road
-wherever it could be found. And the land was taken along
such line in the sense of the statute, when taken along the

340

UNITED STATES

v.

BURLINGTON, ETC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

general direction or course of the road within lines perpendicular to it at each end. The same terms are used in the grant
to the Union Pacific company, in which the lateral limit is
twenty miles; and if a section at that distance from the road
can be said to be along its line, it is difficult to give any other
meaning than this to the language. They certainly do not require the land to be contiguous to the road; and if not contiguous, it is not easy to say at what distance the land to be
selected would cease to be along its line.
The position that the grant was in aid of the construction of
each section of twenty miles taken separately, and must be
limited to land directly opposite to the section, is equally untenable. The grant was to aid in the construction of the entire
road, and not merely a portion of it, though the company was
not to receive patents for any land except as each twenty miles
were completed. The provision allowing it to obtain a patent,
then, was intended for its aid. It was not required to take it;
it was optional to apply for it then, or to wait until the completion of other sections or of the entire road. The grant was
of a quantity of land on each side of the road, the amount being designated at so many sections per mile, with a privilege
to receive a patent for land opposite that portion constructed
as often as each section of twenty miles wad completed. If
this privilege were not claimed, the land could be selected along
the whole line of the road without reference to any particular
section of twenty miles. When lateral limits are assigned to
a grant, the land within them must, of course, be exhausted
before land for any deficiency can be taken elsewhere. And
when no lateral limits are assigned, the Land Department of the
government, in supervising the execution of the act of Congress,
should, undoubtedly, as a general rule, require the land to be
taken opposite to each section; but in some instances good
reasons may exist why a selection elsewhere ought to be permitted. If, as in the present case, by its neglect for years to
withdraw from sale land beyond twenty miles from the road,
the land opposite to any section of the road has been taken up
by others and patented to them, there can be no just objection
to allowing the grant to the company to be satisfied by land
situated elsewhere along the general line of the road.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. BURLINGTON, ETC. R.R. Co.

341

That the amendment of the act of 1864, enlarging the grant
.of 1862 to the Union Pacific company, was intended to apply
to the grants made to all the branch companies, there can be
no doubt. All the reasons which led to the enlargement of the
original grant led to its enlargement to the branches. It was
the intention of Congress, both in the original and in the
amendatory act, to place the Union Pacific company and all
its branch companies upon the same footing as to land, privileges, and duties to the extent of their respective roads, except
when it was otherwise specially stated. Such has been the
uniform construction given to the acts by all departments of
the government. Patents have been issued, bonds given,
mortgages executed, and legislation had upon this construction. This uniform action is as potential, and as conclusive
of the soundness of the construction, as if it had been declared by judicial decision. It cannot at this day be called in
question.
Now, the enlargement of the grant by the act of 1864 is not
made, as already stated, by words of a new and additional
grant, but simply by altering the number of sections granted
and the distance from the road within which they are to be
taken. The numbers in the first act, says the amendment,
shall be stricken out and larger numbers substituted, so that
the act of 1862 must thenceforth be read, at least as against
the government and parties claiming under concurrent or subsequent grants, as though the larger numbers had been originally inserted in it. The Burlington and Missouri Railroad
Company received its grant from the same act which declared
that the act of 1862 in its grant to the Union Pacific should be
thus read: it must, therefore, take its rights to the land subject
to the claim of that company.
"This view," as the presiding justice of the Circuit Court
justly observes, "would commend itself to Congress by its
intrinsic equity, for by it each road gets the largest quantity
of land which the statute permits, while the other construction
allows the Burlington and Missouri company to get all it could
under any circumstances, the other road losing what the latter
took within the lap. This comes out of the fact that the
Burlington and Missouri company was not confined within

342

UNITED STATES

v. BURLINGTON,

ETC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. CL

any lateral limits, while the Union Pacific could not go with
out its twenty-mile limit to make up deficiencies." " Besides,"
hiP adds, "both of these roads have acquiesced in the construction given and acted on by the United States, the officers of
the government having prescribed it as the one which should
govern all their rights; the patents have been issued under it
for the full amount of all the land which could be so claimed
under both grants; and innocent purchasers have, no doubt,
become owners of much of the land patented to the Union
Pacific company; and it is certainly all mortgaged, so that an
incalculable amount of injustice would be done by holding all
this void and setting aside the patents."
It only remains to notice the further objection to the patents,
that land to the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand acres
on the north side of the road is included in them in lieu of land
deficient on the south side. It is true the act of Congress contemplates that one-half of the land granted should be taken on
each side of the road; and the department could not enlarge
the quantity on one side to make up a deficiency on the other.
But the answer to the objection as presented by the bill, either
in its original form or as amended, is that it is not shown what
this land was, and the patents cannot be adjudged invalid as to
any land not identified, so as to be capable of being separated;
nor can any decision go against the company for its value without such identification. It is possible that the land to which
the company was entitled is not so described in the patents
that it can be separated from that which should not have been
patented. If such be the fact, the government may be without
remedy ; it certainly could not insist upon a cancellation of the
patents so as to affect innocent purchasers under the patentees.
It is sufficient, however, that it makes no case for relief by the
present bill.
.Decree affirmed.

