Oct. 1878.]

COUNTY OF SCHUYLER v. THOMAS.

169

court below requires the imprisonment to be at bard labor, when the act of Congress under which the indictment was found provides for punishment by imprisonment only. This was not assigned for error on the former hearing, and we
might on that account decline to consider it now ; but as the irregularity is one
which appears on the face of the record, we vacate our former judgment of
atrmnance, and reverse the judgment of the court below for thepurpose of correcting the only error which appears in the record, to wit, in the form of the
sentence. The cause is remanded, with instructions to cause the sentence of the
District Court to be set aside and a new one entered on the verdict in all respects
like that before imposed, except so far as it requires the imprisonment to be at
bard labor.

CouxTY Or SCHUYLER v. THom.s.
1. The court again decides that the authority conferred by the charter of a
railroad company in Missouri upon the county court of any county in
which a part of the road of the company might be, to subscribe to the
capital stock thereof, was not revoked by sect. 14 of art. 11 of the existing Constitution of that State; and where the General Assembly reserved
the right to amend the charter, and the company was consolidated with
another, pursuant to a law passed after the adoption of the Constitution,
the county court of the county through which the road passed might, without submitting the question to a popular vote, lawfully subscribe to the
capital stock of the consolidated company, and issue its bonds in payment
therefor.
2. County of Callaway v. Foster (93 U. S. 567) and Counly of Sotland v. Tomas
(91 id. 682) cited and approved.

E,Rio to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MAr. George W. McCrary for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. . Baker and Mr. F. T. .fuges, contra.

MR. JUSTICE Hum delivered the opinion of the court.
Thomas, the plaintiff below, recovered a judgmeni for the
amount of certain bonds and coupons held by him, which were
issued in the year 1871 by the county of Schuyler, in the State
of Missouri. He was an honest purchaser of the bonds, without kmowledge of vice or defect in their issue.

COUNTY OF SCHUYLER V. THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct.

The following is a copy of one of the bonds: "Know all men by these presents, that the county of Schuyler,
in the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted to the
Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, a corporation
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the States of Missouri
and Iowa, formed by consolidation of the Alexandria and Nebraska
City Railroad Company (formerly Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company), of the State of Missouri, and the Iowa Southern
Railway Company, of the State of Iowa, in the sum of $1,000,
which sum the said county herebypromises to pay to the said Missouri,
Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, or bearer, at the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, in New York, on tjie first day of September, A.D. 1891, together with interest thereon from the thirtyfirst day of December, 1871, at the rate of eight per cent per annum,
which interest shall be payable annually in the city of New York,
on the thirty-first day of December in each year, as the same shall
become due, on the presentation of the coupons hereto annexed.
This bond being issued under and pursuant to orders of the county
court of said Schuyler County, for subscription to the stock of the
Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, as authorized by
an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled
'An Act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company,' approved Feb. 9, 1857.
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Schuyler has executed
this bond by the presiding justice of the county court of said county,
under the order of said court, signing his name hereto, and the
clerk of said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same and
affixing thereto the seal of said court.
"-This done at the town of Lancaster, in the county of Schuyler,
in the State of MissouFi, this first da ' of September, A.D. 1871.
"WILLIAM CASPER,

"Presiding "usticeof the County Court of Schuyler County, Missouri.
D. T. TRUITT,
"Attest:
"Clerk of the County Courtof
SCHUTLER COUNTY
Schuyler County, Missouri.
COURT, MISSOURI.

{SEAL

"Countersigned and delivered this seventeenth day of May, 1872.
"M. BAER, Trustee."
The legality of the bonds is denied.
1st, It is contended by the county of Scbuyler that there
was no authority in the company, as incorporated in 1857, to

Oct. 1878.]

CouNTY op ScHUYLER v. THOmIAS.

locate its track through or in the county of Schuyler; that as the
authority to sqbscribe and issue bonds depended on the power
to locate, there was no authority to subscribe for stock or issue
the bonds of the county.
The act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, approved Feb. 9, 1857, contained the following
provisions:

-

"It shall be lawful for the county court of any county, in which
any part of the route of said railroad may be, to subscribe to the
stock of said company,. . . and issue the bonds of said county to
raise funds to pay the stock thus subscribed."
"SEcT. 8. Said company shall have full power to survey, locate,
and construct a railroad from the city of Alexandria, in the county
of Clark, in the direction of Bloomfield, in the State of Iowa, to
such point on the northern boundary line of the State of Missouri as shall be agreed upon by said company, and a company
authorized on the part of the State of Iowa, to construct a
railroad to intersect the road authorized to be constructed by
the provisions of this act, at the most practicable point on said
State line,.., and may select such route as may be deemed most
advantageous."
Bloomfield, as we learn by the maps in evidence, lies in a
northwesterly directioh from Alexandria.
Schuyler County is also in a direction from Alexandria northwesterly as to a portion of it, and more nearly northerly as to
another portion of it. As a matter of fact, an inspection of
the maps furnishes evidence (and they make a part of the
record on which our judgment is to be formed) that there is
authority to include a portion of Schuyler County in the
Rescription of a course northwesterly from Alexandria and in
the direction of Bloomfield. These maps and the geography
of the State inform us that this road could be so located as to
reach the immediate vicinity of Bloomfield, with but little less
variation from a direct course than the line through Luray and
Upton, which was first adopted.
But a straight line is not required by the statute, nor a line
having the fewest curves or angles, nor is the point of crossing the State line fixed or prescribed. The most practicable
and advantageous line is to be adopted, depending upon all

COUNTY OF SCHUYLER v. THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct.

the elements entering into the economy, productiveness, and
local advantages which would be sought by prudent men in
determining such a question.
This subject was discussed in County of Callaway v. Foster,
93 U. S. 567. As there intimated, we are of the opinion that
the legislature, by the expression, "any county in which any
part of the route of said railroad may be," used as it was with
reference to a road not yet surveyed or located, intended to
give a broad latitude, and to embrace all the counties through
or into which it was possible that the said road could be
located. These statutes are to be construed as they were intended to be unUerstood when they were passed, twenty years
since. The after-wisdom, obtained by unfortunate results,
cannot justly be applied in their interpretation. A construction may now be sought which will avoid the payment of
the debts contracted for building the road. Then every inducement was presented to make subscriptions and obtain the
money. Little respect would have been paid to the careful
legislator or the strict interpreter of the law, who, twenty
years ago, had doubted the power of these counties to make the
subscription in question.
We see nothing in the law or in the necessary facts of the
case, affecting the power in the first instance of the county of
Schuyler to subscribe to the stock of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, and to issue its bonds to raise the
funds to pay such subscription.
2d, It is further alleged that in the year 1866 the Alexandria
and Bloomfield road was permanently located through the towns
of Luray and Upton to the north boundary line of Missouri,
and that no part of the line thus located was in or through the
county of Schuyler, and that the same was continued into the
State of Iowa by another company organized in that State; that
the name of said Alexandria and Bloomfield road was in that
year changed by an act of the legislature to that of Alexandria
and Nebraska City Railroad, and that in its second section that
act provided "that said railroad company may extend said road
from a point at or near Luray to Nebraska City, in Nebraska
Territory, on the most practicable and direct route by way of
or near Rockport, in Atchison County, Missouri; that the

Oct. 1878.]

CouNTY

OF SCHUYLER

v. THOMAS.

name -was again changed to that of the Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railroad Company; that the road was thereupon and
by virtue of said act constructed through Schuyler County
into the State of Iowa, and that this is the only line thus constructed through Schuyler County. It is then added, that when
Schuyler County made its subscription and issued its bonds,
as set forth in the complaint, to aid in the construction of
this road, it was done without a submission of the same to
a popular vote, and that the same was made without the
previous assent of a majority of two-thirds of the voters of
the said county, and it is contended that such subscription is
void.
The question on this branch of the case arises upon art. 2,
sect. 14, of the Constitution of the State of Missouri, -which
took effect in July, 1865, and yet remains of force. It is in
these words :

"The General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockholder in or to loan its credit to any company, association, or corporation, -unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election
to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
By the terms of the charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company, the counties upon the route on which it
might be located, and of which Schuyler is one, were authorized in the year 1857 to subscribe to its stock, and issue their
bonds in payment therefor.
It has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court of Missouri, as well as by this court, that the constkutional provision
referred to was prospective only in its effect. The General
Assembly was not permitted thereafter to authorize any
county or city to make subscriptions and to issue its bonds,
except upon the terms prescribed. But what it had previously authorized remained unaffected. The authority given to
Schuyler County eight years before the Constitution took effect
remained of the same force as if the Constitution had never
been adopted.

County of Scotland v. 1%omas, 94 U. S. 682,

and cases cited.
It is also established by the same authority that the consoli-

COUNTY OF SCHUYLER v. THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct.

dation of one railroad company with another company does not
extinguish the power of a county to subscribe, or the privilege
of the company to receive subscriptions; and this although the
consolidation be made by authority given after the Constitution
took effect, and although the subscription be made to the stock
of such newly organized company, and the bonds be issued
after the same period. These are held to be features constituting alterations merely of the charter, and not affecting the
rights or powers of the companies to receive subscriptions or
of counties to issue their bonds.
Much weight is given in argument to the allegation that the
route of the Alexandria and Bloomfield road, as first established
and partly built, did not touch any portion of the county of
Schuyler. It is contended that, when the route was selected
and the terminal point fixed at Upton, the power of the company was exhausted, and the line was fixed, as certainly as if
it had been described in the charter. Without considering
that general proposition, we are of opinion that it does not
govern the present case.
The legislature, in terms, retained the authority to alter
or amend each one of these railroad charters. It did amend
the charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield road and its
successors so as to authorize a location extending entirely
through Schuyler County. It deemed this addition important
to the interest of the public, and its exercise changed what
may be termed the ordinary rule, that a location once fixed
and a road partly constructed could not be changed. That
this was within the reserved power of the legislature, if
assented to by the company, and that it was a legitimate
exercise of the power of amendment, whereby the original
charter, with its powers and privileges, was continued and extended, the cases of Callaway and Scotland County sufficiently
establish.
It is said, also, that this subscription was rendered void by
the act of 1861, prohibiting such subscription. The case of
State, ex rel. Wilson, v. Garoute is cited from the" Central Law
Journal" to sustain this proposition.
We do not think it necessary to discuss the question. It
was fully considered in Smith v. County of Clark (54 Mo. 58),

Oct. 1878.]

COUNTY op SCHUYLER v. THOMAS.

175

and the validity of the bonds, so far as this statute affected
them, was sustained. In the subsequent case of State v. Garoute, one judge expressed a contrary opinion. The other
judges expressed no approbation of the doctrine, and a deliberate opinion of the court cannot thus be disturbed.
The questions in the County of Scotland v. Th omas (supra)
arose upon the same charter of the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company, the same consolidation forming the Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, -with the same
original location through Luray and Upton, the same extension
and change thereof through the counties of Scotland and
Schuyler, and the issue of the same form of bonds at about the
same time to the same company to build the same extension of
the road as in the case before us.
The court, in delivering its opinion in that case, says: "The
amending act, therefore, which authorized a consolidation with
the Iowa Southern Railway Company, and thereby constituted
the Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, -was in
perfect accord with the general purpose of the original charter
of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company; and if
the other rights and privileges of the latter company passed
over to the consolidated company, we do not see why the
privilege in question should not do so, nor why the power
given to the county to subscribe to the stock should not continue in force."
We are of the opinion that the Scotland County case and
the Callaway County case were well decided, and that they
dispose of the present case. It is neither necessary nor wise to
repeat a review of the authorities there discussed. We are satisfied with the cases as they stand.
The county of Schuyler was authorized to make a subscription by virtue of its original charter, and no submission of the
question to a popular vote was necessary. That the company
might establish a location, and change it by authority of the
legislature. That it might be authorized to build a branch or
extension in furtherance of its general object as originally chartered. That this might be and was accomplished by a new
organization, to which, as the transferee of the original privileges, the right to receive and of the county to make subscrip-

ORVIS V. POWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

tions pertained. That these powers were legitimately exercised
is plain, upon the authorities cited.
The judgment of the court below was in accordance with
these views; and without going through the several questions
in detail, we answer them in the affirmative, and direct that
the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE MILLER, Mr. JUSTICE FIELD, and Mr. JUSTICE
HARLAN

dissented.

ORVIS v. POWELL.
1. Where lands have been mortgaged, and parcels thereof subsequently sold at
different times to different purchasers, the order in which such parcels shall
be subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage is, where the rule is estab-

lished by a statute or by the decisions of the courts of the State where the
lands lie, a rule of property binding on the courts of the United States sitting in that State.

2. In Illinois, the rule has been established by the Supreme Court of that State,
in Iglehart v. Crane (42 Ill. 261), that the parcels first sold should be last
subjected to the satisfaction of the mortgage.
3. The decision in Brine v. Insurance Company (96 U. S. 627), that the decree of

the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in Illinois, in a suit to
foreclose a mortgage of lands in that State, must give effect to the
equity of redemption after sale, as provided by the statutes of that State,
reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. 0. D. Barrett for the appellant, and by Mr. Edward S. Iham and Mr. George L. Paddock
for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in chancery to foreclose a mortgage executed
by Henry H. Walker and Samuel I. Walker to Nathan Powell,
the appellee, covering forty acres of land in Cook County,

