COUNTY OF DAVIESS V. HUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct. '

The decree of the court below will be reversed, with directions to enter a final decree in conformity with this opinion;
and it is
So ordered.

COUNTY OF DAVIESS v. HUIDEKOPER.
Where, pursuant to the assent given by two-thirds of the qualified voters of a
county in Missouri, at an election therein, stock in a railway company, which
afterwards constructed its road through the county, was subscribed for by
the county court, and the county exercised its rights as a stockholder, and
issued its bonds to pay for the stock,- Held, that the bonds are not, in the
bands of a bona fide holder for value, rendered void by the fact that, at the
time of such election, the company was not created according to law.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Willard P. Hall for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph Shippen, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff below brought this suit to collect from the
County of Daviess, Missouri, the amount of forty-four interestcoupons for $35 each, formerly attached to bonds issued by the
county to the Chillicothe and Omaha Railroad Company, to aid
in the construction of its railroad. A demurrer to the amended
petition was overruled, and final judgment for the amount of
the coupons was rendered by the court below, which also certified a division of opinion on points presented.
The questions certified are as follows: First, Whether the bonds, for the collection of the interestcoupons of which the suit was brought, were issued without
due authority of law, and are void in the hands of a bona fide
purchaser for value, because the railroad company to which
said bonds were issued, in payment of capital stock by it subscribed, was not created according to law until subsequent to
the favorable vote of the qualified voters and the order of
subscription.

Oct. 1878.]

COUNTY OF DAVIESS V.'HUIDEKOPER.

Second, Whether the former judgment recovered by the plaintiffs in a former suit in this court against the defendant, upon
interest-coupons from the same bonds again set forth in this
suit, estops the defendant from pleading in bar to the merits
herein.
The Constitution of Missouri (1 Wagn. Stat. 62), sect. 14 of
art. 11, provides as follows, viz.: "The General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election
to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
The General Statutes provide (1 W-hgn. Stat. 295) how railroad companies may be formed, and fther provide (id. 805): "SECT. 17. It. shall be lawful l- the county court of any
county, the city council of any cit"etr the trustees of any incorporated town, to take stock for suc'o.t, city, or town in, or loan
the credit thereof to, any raild .4Wpany duly organized under
this or any other law of the S_
:ornded,that two-thirds of the
qualified voters of such counf-c yor town, at a regular or special
election to be held therein falissent to such subscription."
Having paid his mAijla good faith for the bonds issued by
this county, and tlQnerest becoming payable, it is not unnatural that the holder and owner should demand payment of
such interest. The subscription by the county to the railroad
stock, the receipt and holding of the stock by the county, the
assent by two-thirds of the qualified voters of the county that
such subscription should be made, the actual issuing of the
bonds, -and the purchase of the same by the plaintiff below,
without knowledge of any objection to them, are conceded.
It is said, however, that these things vwere not done in their
proper order; that the vote of the citizens assenting to the subscription was taken before the organization of the railroad company was complete, and that although that act was not under
the control or direction of the holder of the bond, but an irregularity of the county, if it is an irregularity, the county is thereby
relieved from the payment of its debts, which would otherwise
be not only just and honest, but lawful. This is the point that

COUNTY

OF DAVIESS

V.

IIUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

is made in the first of the questions presented by the certificate
of the judges. The facts on which this branch of the case rests
are these: The articles of incorporation of the road in question,
which bear date June 18, 1867, contain the statements required
by the statute, giving the length of the road, the amount of the
capital stock, and the names of the directors, and were subscribed by the subscribers for the amounts indicated. The
amount subscribed was not then as large as that required by
the statutes of Missouri, to wit, $1,000 per mile for the length
of the road. This sum was, however, obtained as early as the
eleventh day of July, 1868, when the articles were filed in the
office of the secretary of state, and the incorporation became
perfect. On the 1st of July, 1869, the county court made its
subscription, issued and sold its bonds, and with the proceeds
paid for and received the stock. The road was built through
the county; and for several years the county levied and collected
taxes to pay the interest of the bonds, and did pay the interest
for those years.
The precise question now presented has never been decided
in this court, but its determination depends upon principles
which are well settled. These bonds are securities which pass
from hand to hand with the immunity given by the common
law to bills of exchange and promissory notes. The persons
who execute and deliver them - the officers of the county court
in this instance -are the agents of the municipal body authorizing their issue, and not of the persons who purchase or receive
them. If these agents exceed their authority as to form, mailner, detail, or circumstance, if they execute it in an irregular
manner, it is the misfortune of the town or county, and not of
the purchaser; the loss must fall on those whom they represent, and not on those who deal with them. There must,
indeed, be power, which, if formally and duly exercised, will
bind the county or town. No bona fides can dispense with
this, and no recital can excuse it. Thus, if the constitution
or the statute should peremptorily prohibit a municipal body
from loaning its credit to or subscribing for stock in a railroad
corporation, a subscription or a loan made subsequently to the
passage of the act would give no right against the county,
although the bond should recite that there was such authority,

Oct. 1878.]

COUNTY OF DAVIESS v. HUIDEKOPER.

and the purchaser should pay full value in the belief of its
truth. There is no difficulty in appreciating the distinction
stated; and we are now to ascertain whether the error we are
considering, assuming it to be one, arises from an irregularity
in the exercise of an existing power, or whether there is total
want of authority to act.
The case concedes that the question of subscription to the
stock of this very company was submitted to the voters of
Daviess County, that two-thirds of the qualified voters of that
county assented to the making of that subscription, and that the
bonds, the coupons from which are here in suit, were issued
pursuant to an order of the county court of Daviess County,
made under authority of the Constitution and General Statutes
of the State of Missouri.
After admitting that it made a contract with this company
to take its stock, and not with some other company, and that
the contract with this identical company was authorized with
the forms and solemnities set forth, and that it received, and,
so far as known, has ever since held and enjoyed, and now holds
and enjoys, the profits of the stock of this very company issued
for such bonds; and also admitting that when the bonds were
so issued and delivered by it the incorporation had been completed in form and detail for one year, - can it now be permitted to urge as a defence that such company was not a legally
organized corporation when the election was held, and did not
become such until after that period?
The Missouri statute already quoted shows that the municipal body, in regard to its privileges, liabilities, and responsibilities as a taker and holder of railroad stock, stands like an
individual subscriber. Its eighteenth section is as follows: "SECT. 18. Upon the making of such subscription by any county
court, city, or town, as provided for in the previous section, such
county, city, or town shall thereupon become, like other subscribers
to such stock, entitled to the privileges granted, and subject to the
liabilities imposed, by this chapter or by the charter of the company
in which such subscriptions shall be made; and in order to raise
funds to pay the instalments which may be called for from time
to time by the board of directors of such railroad, it shall be the
duty of the county court, or city council, or trustees of such town

COUNTY OF DAVIESS V. IIUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

making such subscription, to issue their bonds or levy a special tax
upon all property made taxable by law for county purposes, :nd
upon the actual capital that all nerch:nts and grocers and other
business men may have invested in business in the county, city, or
town to pay such instalments, to be kept apart from other flntl,
and appropriated to no other purpose than the payment of such
subscription ; but the total amount of tax levied for railroad purposes in one year in any county, city, or town shall not exceed
thirty per cent of the subscription made by such county, city, or
town."

It shows, also, that it devolved upon the county court,
subject to the question of power before stated, to determine
whether a subscription had been made, and to raise money for
its payment. This included a determination of the questions
whether an assent had been given by the voters, and whether
a subscription had in fact been made by the county court. It
did determine both of these questions in the affirmative, and so
certified in the bonds issued by the same authority, and which
are now in suit.
Under these circumstances, the authorities in this court and
in the State of Missouri hold that the decision of the voters
and the action of the county court in issuing the bonds in
question, and their subsequent action in receiving and retaining their benefits, gave validity to the bonds, and that they are
now to be taken as valid instruments.
Among these authorities are the following: Town of Colomna
v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, 491; County of Randolph v. Post,
93 id. 502; County of Leavehworth v. Barnes, 94 id. 70;
Commissioners of Douglass County v. Bolles, id. 104 ; Conindssioners of Johnson County v. Thayer, id. 631; County of ('ass
v. Johnson, 95 id. 860; City of St. Louis v. Shields, 62 Mo.
247 ; Smith v. Clark County, 54 id. 58, 81.
These authorities show that if the county had made a contract with the railroad company in April, 1868, it would not
have been permitted, under the circumstances stated, to deny
it. But here was no contract. It was a simple indication of
the pleasure or wish of the voters of the county that aid should
be furnished to this railroad. The statute was intended as a
guard against hasty action in this respect, and makes no requi-

Oct. 1878.]

COUNTY

OF DAVIESS v. HUIDEKOPER.

sition that the corporation shall be so perfected that a quo
warranto could not reach it. If assent is given to a specified
aid to a railroad named, we are of the opinion that a perfection of the corporation before the subscription is made and the
bonds issued is a compliance with the statute.
Ruby v. Shain (54 Mlo. 207) is cited to the contrary.
There are several reasons why that case does not control the
one we are considering..
1. The question of the legality of the subscription was never
properly reached. Whether the tax which was levied to pay
the county subscription for stock was legal or illegal, it was
certain that the collector, who had a warrant for its collection
valid on its face, and who was the defendant in that suit, was
not liable for enforcing it. That an officer in such case is protected by his writ, and that to protect himself he need not
even produce the evidence of a judgment, was held as long ago
as in Holmes v. Neweaster (12 Johns. (N. Y) 395), and has been
so held from that time to the present. Such, too, is the express
holding of the court in Ruby v. Shain, and an examination of
the merits of the case was unnecessary.
2. It differed from the present case in the fact that not
only the township vote of assent, but the subscription to the
stock and the issuing of the bonds, all occurred before the organization of the company. The vote was taken in June, 1869,
the subscription ordered and the bonds issued on the 9th
of November, 1869, while the articles of association were executed on "the 10th, and filed with the secretary of state on
the 12th of the same month and year. In the present case, the
election was held April 7, 1868, the articles were filed July 14,
1868, the subscription made and the bonds dated July 1, 1866.
The organization was complete for a year before the subscription was made.
8. In that case, the subscription was needed to complete the
organization. In this case it was not. The court, in _uby v.
Shain, say, "that it is not intended that counties, cities, or
towns shall, by their subscription, form the basis on which a
future corporation is to be erected, a nucleus around which aid
is to be gathered from other quarters, to construct roads, but
that they may, by their subscriptions or loans, aid corporations

BRADLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

already in existence." There is a broad difference between the
eases where the subscription is actually made and the bonds are
issued in fact after the corporation is complete, and where
these things are done while the corporation remains incomplete.
Upon the whole matter, we are of the opinion that the case
was well decided. The first question certified is answered in
the affirmative, and as that disposes of the entire controversy,
no attention need be given to the second question.
Judgment affirmed.

BRADLEY V.

UNITED STATES.

A. and the Postmaster-General executed an indenture, whereby the former
leased to the United States, for the use of the Post-office Department, at
an annual rent of $4,200, payable quarterly, a building in Washington, for
three years from and after June 5, 1873, with the privilege of renewing the
term for the further period of two years. It was thereby "understood and
agreed" by the parties that the indenture was made subject to an appropriation by Congress for the payment of the stipulated rent, and that no payment
should be made to A. on account thereof until such appropriation should be
available, when the arrears then due. would be paid in full, and thereafter
the payments be made at the time and in the manner stipulated. Congress
made the requisite appropriations to pay the specified rent to the end of
the second year of the term. By the act of March 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 367),
making appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1876, Congress
appropriated for the rent $1,800, with a proviso "that the above sum shall
not be deemed to be paid on account of any lease for years of said building: Provided, however, that at the end of the present fiscal year the Postmaster-General be directed, upon the demand of the lessor, to deliver up
the possession of said premises." No such demand by the lessor was made.
A. having received no rent for the third year, sued the United States therefor, and claimed $4,200.
Held, 1. That the parties to the indenture, by
their expressed understanding and agreement, intended to incorporate into
the instrument the substance of the act of Congress which prohibits any
department from "involving the government in any contract for the future
payment of money in excess of the appropriations." 2. That the appropriations for two years of the term were not such a recognition by Congress of the
validity of the contract as bound the United States to pay the stipulated
rent for the third year. 3. That by the said proviso A. had seasonable notice
that no more than $1,800 would be paid to him as rent for the third year, and
that he, not having demanded the possession of the premises, must be held to
have assented to the terms offered by said act.

