Oct. 187/8.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.
1. To sustain an action for malicious prosecution, the failure of the proceedings
against the plaintiff must be averred and proved; but such failure is not
evidence of the defendant's malice or want of probable cause in instituting
them.
2. Malice, the existence of which is a question exclusively for the jury, and
want of probable cause must both concur to entitle the plaintiff to recover;
and although the jury may infer malice from the want of probable cause,
proof even of express malice will not justify the inference that probable
cause did not exist.
8. The question as to what amounts to probable cause is one of law in a very
important sense. It is, therefore, generally the duty of the court, when
evidence has been given to prove or disprove the existence of probable
cause, to submit to the jury its credibility, and what facts it proves, with
instructions that the facts found amount to proof of probable cause, or
that they do not.
4. A seeming exception to this rule may grow out of the nature of the evidence, as when the defendant's belief of the facts which are relied on by
the plaintiff to prove want of probable cause is a question involved. What
that belief was is always a question for the jury.
5. In an action by A. to recover damages for the alleged wrongful and malicious institution of proceedings in bankruptcy against him, by B. & Co,
the defendants asked the court to charge, that if the jury believed from
the evidence that they, in prosecuting an action of debt against him, had
acted on the advice of counsel, and upon such advice had an honest belief
in the validity of the debt sued for and of their right to recover it; and in
the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings had acted likewise on such
advice, and under an honest belief that they were taking and using only
such remedies as the law provided for the collection of what they believed
to be a bona fide debt, they having first given a full statement of the facts
of the case to counsel, -then there was not such malice in the wrongful
use of legal proceedings by them as would entitle A. to recover. The
court declined so to charge. Hdd, I. That the instruction should have
been given. 2. That the facts therein stated constituted in law a probable
cause, and being such, the existence of malice, if such there was, would
not entitle the plaintiff to recover.
The jury, if they find for the plaintiff, cannot, in estimating his damages, consider the fees of counsel in prosecuting the suit.

ERRo. to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Alabama.
This was an action brought by Meyer Sonneborn, the plaintiff below, against A. T. Stewart & Co., to recover damages for
an alleged wrongful and malicious institution of proceedings
in bankruptcy against him. The record shows that in the
years 1865 and 1866 Sonnebbrn was a member of the firm of

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

E. Leipzeiger & Co., in New York, and that while he was thus
a member the firm bought goods on credit from A. T. Stewart
& Co. Some time in 1866 he withdrew from the firm; but
no notice of his withdrawal was published, and the firm continued business in its old name without any apparent change.
In the spring of 1867 the defendants sold other goods on
credit to E. Leipzeiger & Co., as they allege, without any
notice that Sonneborn had previously withdrawn from the
firm. On the other hand, he alleges that he did give personal
notice of his withdrawal to one of the clerks in the defendants'
store before the purchases of 1867 were made. No payment
for these latter purchases having been made, the defendants in
1869 sued the plaintiff to recover the debt in the Circuit Court
for Barbour County, Alabama, and after trial a verdict and
judgment were given against them. This was at the August
Term, 1871. From the verdict and judgment the defendants
prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, where
the judgment was reversed and a new trial was ordered. On
the 12th of May, 1873, before the case came on for a second
trial, one Jonas Sonneborn, a brother of the plaintiff, brought suit
against him in the Eufaula city court, and one month afterwards
recovered a judgment by default for $6,944.43 (the present
plaintiff having made no resistance), and thereupon an execution was issued and levied. This proceeding having come to
the notice of A. T. Stewart & Co. (and they having been advised by legal counsel that an act of bankruptcy had thereby
been committed by Sonneborn), on the 15th of August, 1873,
they filed their petition in the District Court, praying that he
might be declared a bankrupt, and that a warrant might issue
to take possession of his estate. They represented themselves
to be creditors for the sales made to E. Leipzeiger & Co. in
1867, of which firm they averred Sonneborn was a member;
and the act of bankruptcy alleged was that on the 12th of
June, 1873, he suffered and permitted a judgment to be recovered against him by default in favor of Jonas Sonneborn,
in the city court of Eufaula, upon which an execution had
issued, whereon a levy had been made. Upon this petition
a rule to show cause, &c., was awarded, an injunction issued,
and a warrant for provisional seizure granted, which on the 19th

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

of August, 1878, was executed. Such was the situation when
the case of the defendants against the plaintiff came on for
the second trial in the Barbour County Circuit Court. The
result of that trial in November, 1878, was a judgment for
Sonneborn, which was subsequently affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State at its June Term, 1874. It thus having
been determined that the defendants were not creditors of
Sonneborn, the proceedings in bankruptcy were dismissed and
the present suit was brought, alleging that they bad been
prosecuted maliciously and without probable cause.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff for $21,000 and costs;
and judgment having been entered thereon, Stewart & Co. sued
out this writ of error. So much of the charge of the court
below as was excepted to by the defendants, and also the instructions requested by them and refused, are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
Mr. .Roscoe Conkling for the plaintiffs in error.
This action cannot be maintained without averring and
proving malice. Benson . Co. v. Mc Coy, 86 Ala. 710; McKellar v. Couch, 84 id. 386; MeLaren, Ragan, & Co. v. Bradford, 26 id. 616; Lindsay v. Earned, 17 Mass. 191; McCu,lough v. Grishobber, 4 Watts & Serg. (Pa.) 201; Stone v.
Swift, 4 Pick. (Mass.) 389; Garrardv. Willett, 4 J. J.Marsh.
(Ky.) 680 ; White v. -3ingley, 4 Mass. 483 ; Turner v. Walker,
3 Gill & Johns. (Md.) 377; Morris v. Corson, 7 Cow. (N. Y.)
281; Ives v. Bartholomew, 9 Conn. 309; Marshall v. Betner,
17 Ala. 882 ; Tatumn v. Morris, 19 id. 302; lFandryen v. Lin,
derman, 10 Johns. (N. Y.) 106; Je Medina v. Grove, 10 Ad.
& Ell. x. s. 152; Churchill v. Liggerm, 3 Ell. & Bl. 987;
Olinger v. Mc Chesney, 9 Leigh (Va.), 660.
The mere wrongful resort to legal process affords no ground
of action. It is damnum absque injuria,the costs being cast
upon the unsuccessful party, "as a satisfaction to the defendant
for the inconvenience of being held to defend a groundless
suit."
Kellar v. Couch, supra.
The misuse of legal process must have been both wrongful
and malicious; but the whole charge of the court ignores the
essential requisite of proof of malice, while those particular portions of it to which exception was taken assert Sonneborn's

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

right to recover actual damages, although the misuse of legal
process against him was not malicious.
Costs are the only damages allowed to the successful defendant in a civil suit, when there is no malice on the part of the
plaintiff ; except where other damages are expressly allowed by
special statute, - such as in suits on attachment, injunction,
detinue, and other bonds.
Counsel fees expended by the plaintiff in proseouting or defending his cause cannot be allowed as part of the damages.
Arcambel v. Wseman, 3 Dall. 306 ; Day v. Woodworth et al., 13
How. 363; Teese et al. v. .Huntingdon et al., 23 id. 2; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 429; Blanchard Gun-stock Turning
Factory v. Warner, 1 Blatchf. 258; Pacific Insurance Co. v.
Conard, Baldw. 138; Simpson v. Leiper, 2 Whart. Dig. 414;
Stimpson v. The Railroads, 1 Wall. Jr. 164; Oelrichs v.
Spain, 15 Wall. 211.
Mr. _Philip Phillips, contra.
The judgment of the State court in favor of Sonneborn
is conclusive that Stewart & Co. were not his creditors.
They had, therefore, no probable cause for instituting proceedings in bankruptcy against him. What constitutes probable cause is a question of law, and the want of it implies
legal malice.
Malice in fact differs from malice in law in this: the former
denotes ill-will to an individual; the latter, a wrongful act,
intentionally done, without just cause. Bronage v. Prosser,
4 Barn. & Cress. 321; Watson v. Mioore, 2 Cush. (Mass.) 140.
The law implies malice when there is not proof to extenuate
an act which has been rashly and indiscreetly done. Long v.
Rodgers, 19 Ala. 821.
It results from this distinction : that when the malice is only
such as is inferred from a groundless act, and there is no proof
of actual malice, none but compensatory damages are allowed;
and they include actual injury to property, loss of time, pecuniary expenses, counsel fees, and any other loss suffered. Burnett v. Reed, 51 Pa. St. 190.
In all cases, unless the trespass was caused by inevitable
accident, the party in default must respond in damages, the intent being only material in aggravation or mitigation of them.

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

Sedgwick, Damages, 660; Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 80;
Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204.
The court, having limited the counsel fees to those incurred
in resisting the proceeding in bankruptcy, was not required to
instruct that they should not be allowed in another and different proceeding.
The court thus disposed of that question fairly and distinctly,
and was not bound to charge the jury in the manner that
counsel might suggest. Indianapolis, &c. Railroad Co. v.
Horst, 98 U. S. 291; Railroad Company v. McCarthy, 96 id.
258.
MR.JUSTICE STROiG, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The errors now assigned are exclusively to the charge given
by the court to the jury. The instruction given was (inter
alia) as follows: "But if they (the defendants) had no legal
claim or demand against the complainant (Sonneborn), then,
whether they had probable cause or not, they had no right to
institute the proceedings (in bankruptcy). They cannot go
back and allege that, though they had no legal claim against
him, they thought they had; in other words, that they had
probable cause to believe that they had such a demand.
Unless they had a debt, they cannot allege probable cause for
proceeding in bankruptcy at all. Their defence cannot stand
on two probable causes, one on top of the other. .

.

. As it

has been adjudicated by the Circuit Court of Barbour County,
and affirmed by the State Supreme Court, that the defendants
never had a legal claim against the plaintiff, and therefore
had no right to institute proceedings in bankruptcy against
him, the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action the damages he has sustained by those unlawful proceedings. The
court therefore rules that the defence in this case cannot be
sustained by proving that the defendants had probable cause to
believe that the plaintiff had committed an act of bankruptcy;
but it being shown by judicial determination that they had no
legal claim or debt against the plaintiff, and had, therefore, no
right to institute bankruptcy proceedings, they are liable for
the damages sustained by the plaintiff thereby, and the only

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

question for the jury will be the amount of the damages, under
the circumstances of the case. . . .We charge you, therefore,
that the plaintiff is entitled to recover his actual damage, or the
events.". . . And again:
loss he has actually sustained at hL11
"The actual damages sustained by the complainant, that you
'will give him a verdict for at all events."
This construction, we think, was erroneous, and emphatically
so in view of the facts which appeared in evidence. It ignores
totally the question whether the conduct of the defendants had
been attended by malice, though the plaintiff's declaration
charged malice, and it denied all importance to the necessary
inquiry, whether they had probable cause for their action.
More than this, it disregarded entirely evidence of facts which
have been determined to be in law a perfect defence to an action for a malicious prosecution. The jury were positively
instructed to return a verdict for the plaintiff independently of
any consideration of malice in the institution of the bankruptcy
proceedings, or want of probable cause therefor. If the charge
was correct, then every man who brings a suit against another,
with the most firm and reasonable belief that he has a just
claim, and a lawful right to resort to the courts, is responsible
in damages for the consequences of his action, if he happens to
fail in his suit. His intentions may have been most honest, his
purpose only to secure his own, in the only way in which the
law permits it to be secured; he may have had no ill-feeling
against his supposed debtor, and may have done nothing which
the law forbids. Such is not the law. It is abundantly settled
that no suit can be maintained against an unsuccessful plaintiff
or prosecutor, unless it is shown affirmatively that he was actuated in his conduct by malice, or some improper or sinister
motive. Malice is essential to the maintenance of any such
action, and not merely (as the Circuit Court thought) to the
recovery of exemplary damages. Notwithstanding what has
been said in some decisions of a distinction between actions for
criminal prosecutions and civil suits, both classes at the present day require substantially the same essentials. Certainly an
action for instituting a civil suit requires not less for its maintenance than an action for a malicious prosecution of a criminal
proceeding. Nicholson v. Coghill, 4 Barn. & Cress. 21; Webb

Oc.1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

v. Hill, 3 Carr. & P. 485; Burham8 v. Sanford, 19 Wend.
(N. Y.) 417; Cotton v. Huidecoper, 2 Pa. 149.
In Farmerv. Darling (4 Burr. 1791,) one of the earliest reported cases, if not the earliest, Lord Mansfield instructed the
jury that "the foundation of the action was malice," and all the
judges concurred that "malice, either express or implied, and
the want of probable cause, must both concur." From 1766 to
the present day, such has been constantly held to be the law,
both in England and this country. See a multitude of cases
collected in Vol. 8, U. S. Digest, first series, 942, pt. 95. And the
existence of malice is always a question exclusively for the jury.
It must be found by them, or the action cannot be sustained.
Hence it must always be submitted to them to find whether it
existed. The court has no right to find it, nor to instruct the
jury that they may return a verdict for the plaintiff without it.
Even the inference of malice from the want of probable cause
is one which the jury alone can draw. Wheeler v. Nesbit et al.,
24 How. 545; Newell v. Downs, 8 Blackf. (Ind.) 523; Johnson
v. Chambers, 10 Ired. (N. C.) L. 287; Voorhees v. Leonard,
I N. Y. Sup. Ct. 148; Schofield v. Terrers, 47 Pa. St. 194. In
Mitchell v. eenlifns (5 Barn. & Adol. 588), Lord Denman
said: "I have always understood the question of reasonable
or probable cause on the facts found to be a question for the
opinion of the court, and malice to be altogether a question for
the jury." He added, that inasmuch as in that case the question of malice had been wholly withdrawn from the jury, there
ought to be a new trial. In the case we have in hand, the
question was withheld from the jury, and nothing was submitted to them but an estimate of damages.
There was also error in the charge in so far as it took away
from the defendants the protection of probable cause for their
instituting the proceedings in bankruptcy. The court ruled
that the defence could not be sustained by proving they had
probable cause for believing the plaintiff had committed an
act of bankruptcy, because, after the proceedings had been
commenced, it was established by a verdict and a judgment
thereon that the plaintiff was not indebted to themi and consequently that they had no right to institute bankruptcy proceedings against him. It was further charged that "if they had no
VOL. vii:.

13

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

legal claim or demand against the plaintiff, then whether they
had probable cause or not, they had no right to institute the
proceedings. They cannot go back and allege that though they
had not a legal claim or debt against him, they thought they
had, or that they had probable cause to believe they had such a
demand. Unless they had a debt they cannot allege probable
cause for proceeding in bankruptcy at all." To this we cannot
assent. The existence of a want of probable cause is, as we
have seen, essential to every suit for a malicious prosecution.
Both that and malice must concur. Malice, it is admitted,
may be inferred by the jury from want of probable cause, but
the want of that cannot be inferred from any degree of even
express malice. Sutton v. Johnstone, 1 T. R. 493; Murray v.
Long, 1 Wend. (N. Y.) 140; Wood v. Weir J- Sayre, 5 B.
Mon. (Ky.) 544. It is true that what amounts to probable
cause is a question of law in a very important sense. In the
celebrated case of Sutton v. Johnstone, the rule was thus laid
down: "The question of probable cause is a mixed question of
law and of fact. Whether the circumstances alleged to show
it probable are true, and existed, is a matter of fact; but
whether, supposing them to be true, they amount to a probable
cause, is a question of law." This is the doctrine generally
adopted. Me Cormick v. Sisson, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 715 ; Besson
v. Southard, 10 N. Y. 236.
It is, therefore, generally the duty of the court, when evidence has been given to prove or disprove the existence of
probable cause, to submit to the jury its credibility, and what
facts it proves, with instructions that the facts found amount
to proof of probable cause, or that they do not. Taylor v.
Willans, 2 Barn. & Adol. 845. There may be, and there
doubtless are, some seeming exceptions to this rule, growing
out of the nature of the evidence, as when the question of the
defendants' belief of the facts relied upon to prove want of
probable cause is involved. What their belief was is always a
question for the jury.
The Circuit Court thought in the present case, and so
charged, that the fact that after the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings a judgment was given in the Barbour Circuit Court against the defendants, thus determining that the

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORX.

plaintiff was not indebted to them, precluded them from setting
up that they had probable cause for their action. That was
giving undue effect to the judgment. The conduct of the defendants is to be weighed in view of what appeared to them
when they filed their petition in the bankrupt court,- not in
the light of subsequently appearing facts. Had they reasonable cause for their action when they took it? Not what the
actual fact was, but what they had reason to believe it was.
Faris v. Starke, 3 B. Mon. (Ky.) 4, 6; Baulston v. Jackson,
1 Sneed (Tenn.), 128.
In every case of an action for a malicious prosecution or suit,
it must be averred and proved that the proceeding instituted
against the plaintiff has failed, but its failure has never been
held to be evidence of either malice or want of probable cause
for its institution; much less that it is conclusive of those
things.

Cloon v. Gerry, 13 Gray (Mass.), 201; 1 Hilliard,

Torts, and cases there collected. The final judgment in the
Circuit Court of Barbour County did not, therefore, justify
the court in charging either that there was no probable cause
for the bankruptcy proceedings, or that the presence or absence of such cause was immaterial. If when they fied their
petition to have the plaintiff declared a bankrupt, the defendants believed, and had reasonable cause to believe, that the
plaintiff was indebted to them for the goods sold to E. Leipzeiger & Co. in 1867, and had reasonable cause to believe that
he had committed an act of bankruptcy, there was probable
cause for their action, and the .plaintiff was not entitled to recover. That they had reasonable cause to believe an act of
bankruptcy had been committed must be conceded in view of
the manner in which the judgment of Jonas Sonneborn against
him had been obtained on the 12th of June, 1873, and in view
of the decision of this court in Buch anan v. Smith, 16 Wall.
277. If, therefore, they had an honest and reasonable conviction that the plaintiff was their debtor, that he was liable to
them for the bills of goods sold by them in 1867 to E. Leipzeiger & Co., they had probable cause for instituting the proceedings in bankruptcy, and their defence was complete. The
jury should have been so instructed.
We think, also, there was error in refusing to charge the

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. 01.

jury as requested in the defendants' first point, which was as
follows: "If the jury believe, from all the evidence, that A. T.
Stewart & Co. acted on the advice of counsel in prosecuting
their claim against Sonneborn in the Circuit Court of Barbour
County, and upon such advice had an honest belief in the
validity of their debt, and their right to recover in said action ;
and in the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings acted
likewise on the advice of counsel, and under an honest belief
that they were taking and using only such remedies as the law
provided for the collection of what they believed to be a bona
fide debt, they having first given a full statement of the facts
of the case to counsel, -then there was not such malice in the
-wrongful use of legal process by them as will entitle the plaintiff to recover in this form of action." This the court refused
to affirm, "except as contained and qualified in the preceding
charge." An examination of the charge, however, reveals
that the instruction was not contained in it, nor alluded to.
The defendants, we think, had a right to have it affirmed as
presented. There was enough in the evidence to justify its
presentation. It was proved that, before they commenced their
suit in the Circuit Court of Barbour County, the defendants
were advised by an eminent lawyer of Alabama, of twenty-five
years' standing in the profession, respecting their legal right
to recover the debt from the plaintiff, that, in his opinion,
the plaintiff was liable therefor. It was further testified that
the same lawyer advised them that, in his opinion, the plaintiff
had rendered himself liable to involuntary bankruptcy proceedings by suffering his brother's judgment to go against him by
default, and by advertising his entire stock of goods at and below
New York cost. It was not until after this advice had been
given that the petition in bankruptcy was prepared and filed.
That the facts stated in the point proposed, if believed by
the jury, were a perfect defence to the action ; that they constituted in law a probable cause, and being such, that malice
alone, if there was such, was insufficient to entitle the plaintiff
to recover, - is, in view of the decisions, beyond doubt. Snow
v. Allen, 1 Stark. 502 ; .avenga v. Mackintosh, 2 Barn. & Cress.
693; TWalter v. Sample, 25 Pa. St. 275; Cooper v. Utterbach,
37 Md. 282; Olmstead v. Partridge, 16 Gray (Mass.), 881.

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

These cases, and many others that might be cited, show that if
the defendants in such a case as this acted bona fide upon legal
advice, their defence is perfect.
The remaining exceptions to the charge require but brief
notice. They relate to the assessment of damages, under the
positive instruction to find for the plaintiff. Of these but a
single one need be noticed. The court was asked to charge
that the jury, if they found for the plaintiff, could not, in
estimating the damages, consider the fees of counsel in prosecuting the case. The instruction was not given. It was refused, and erroneously, as we think. The fees of counsel in
prosecuting this case were no part of the consequences naturally resulting from the action of the defendants in suing out
the decree and warrant in baukruptcy. They were not what
the defendants ought to have foreseen. That such fees are
not recoverable, and why they are not, was clearly shown in
Good v. Mylin, 8 Pa. St. 51; vide also Alexander v. Herr, 11
id. 537; Stopy v. Smith, 71 id. 285; Hicks v. Foster, 13 Barb.
(N. Y.) 424. The rule asserted in these cases we think is
correct, and it should have been given to the jury in the
present case. The defendants were the more injured by the
refusal to give it, because evidence was given of the cost
of prosecuting the suit calculated immensely to influence the
damages,- evidence which should not have been offered or
received.
The other exceptions to the charge require no notice.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
case remanded with instructions to award a venire de novo;
and it is
So ordered.
AR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissenting.
I am obliged to dissent from the judgment of the court in
this case. It hardly needs any reference to authorities to
establish the familiar doctrines laid down in the opinion.
As applied to ordinary cases of actions for malicious prosecution and arrest, they are elementary law. It cannot be
gravely supposed that when the court below instructed the
jury that the question of malice and probable cause was not
before them except on the question of vindictive damages, it

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

meant to ignore or to dispute the law as laid down by the
court.
The question, as viewed by the court below, was not as to
what is incumbent on the plaintiff to prove in an ordinary action for malicious prosecution, but whether the defendant in
this particular case stood in the category that entitled him to
require such proof.
No one doubts that in an ordinary action of this kind malice
must be proved, and that probable cause for the prosecution is
a defence. The sole question was whether this was such an
ordinary action, or not; and this question has not been met by
the counsel at the bar, and I do not think it is met in the opinion of the court.
What are the grounds and reasons for the stringent rules
imposed upon a plaintiff in an action for malicious prosecution?
Why is he obliged to prove actual malice, and why is it that
the defendant may justify by probable cause? The reason
undoubtedly is, that every man in the community, if he has
probable cause for prosecuting another, has a perfect right, by
law, to institute such prosecution, subject only, in the case of
private prosecutions, to the penalty of paying the costs if be
fails in his suit. If this were not so, it would deter men from
approaching the courts of justice for relief. Prosecutions may
fail from many causes independent of the justice of the case;
and it would be very hard to visit a man with heavy damages
for making a complaint, or bringing a suit, when he had probable cause for it. Hence the law gives to every man a right
to complain of or sue another, if he has probable cause to believe
he has ground for such complaint or suit. For the exercise of
this right he cannot be made accountable in damages, except
so far as the law, for the discouragement of private suits, imposes upon him the costs of the litigation. In the case of
criminal charges, this right of making complaint is given to
every man, for all are interested in the preservation of public
order. It is not necessary that the complainant or prosecutor
should show any private interest in himself. But in the case
of a civil suit, the prosecutor must base his demand upon some
claim due, or supposed to be due, to himself. Without any
claim, or pretence of claim, a suit brought in his own name, or

Oct. 1t878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

in the name of another, would be of itself unlawf ul, malicious,
and without probable cause.
In short, upon probable cause, every man has a right to
bring a charge against another for a public offence; and every
man supposing himself to be wronged by another, may bring
suit for the redress of that wrong. The law gives this right,
and protects it in an action brought for malicious prosecution
or malicious arrest.
But suppose that, in any class of cases, the law did not give
this right; could the party then stand, for his defence, upon
the question of malice and probable cause? Most assuredly
not. He could not bring himself within the proper category.
He would then be liable, at all events, for the actual damage
caused by an unjust prosecution; just as much so as the man
who should assault and wound another, or take and carry away
his goods. And if an action should be brought against him
for such unjust prosecution, a charge of malice, or want of
probable cause, introduced in the declaration, would, at most,
be regarded as surplusage; or the prosecution would, per se,
be regarded as malicious. The allegation of malice would no
more prejudice the right of recovery than did similar allegations of fraud and intent to deceive and injure, in the old action of assumpsit. If a man does not bring himself within the
category of right to sue given by the law, then it is clear that
he cannot avail himself of the indulgence allowed by the law
of showing probable cause for the suit.
That was precisely the question in this case. The court
below did not pretend to say that if Stewart & Co. had a right
to institute proceedings in bankruptcy against Sonneborn, they
could not, if unsuccessful, have availed themselves of all the
defences applicable in ordinary cases of actions for malicious
prosecution. But, whether right or wrong in its views, it held
that Stewart & Co. did not come within the category of persons
having such right. It held that the bankrupt law gave such
right to creditors only,- not to those who only believed themselves to be creditors, but were not such. It held that the
fact of their being creditors was a condition precedent to their
right to institute bankrupt proceedings. The words of the law
as found in sect. 39 of the Bankrupt Act are, that a person

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. CL.

owing debts, and doing certain things enumerated in the section,
"shall be deemed to have committed an act of bankruptcy,
and subject to the conditions hereinafter prescribed, shall be
adjudged a bankrupt, on the petition of one or more of his
creditors, the aggregate of whose debts provable under this
act amount to at least $250." In construing this section the
court held that, whilst the law did not require that a man
should establish his debt by a judgment before instituting proceedings in bankruptcy, it nevertheless required that he should
be, in fact, a creditor; and that, if his debt was disputed by
the debtor, the responsibility was on him (the creditor) to establish it. If this were not so, then, a man prosecuting an old
disputed claim against another, which the latter had always
repudiated, and which was still contested in the courts, could
effectually ruin his antagonist by simply swearing to his claim
and throwing him into bankruptcy; and the latter, though
finally successful in demonstrating to the courts the invalidity
of the claim, would be without any redress except the petty
satisfaction of recovering the costs of the suit. The court
below held that this was not the law; and that a man who
assumes the responsibility of throwing another into bankruptcy,
and drawing down upon him all the consequences of breaking
up his business and ruining his prospects for life, must be
prepared to show that at least he is in fact a creditor of his
victim, and therefore in the category of those who have a right
to institute such proceedings.
In the present case, Stewart & Co. claimed to be creditors of
Sonneborn; but the claim was disputed and in litigation when
the proceedings in bankruptcy were commenced. It seems to
me that the court was right in holding that the issue of the
litigation of the claim was at Stewart & Co.'s risk, so far as
the question of their right to institute proceedings in bankruptcy was concerned; and that, if they failed to establish
their claim against him, they could not excuse themselves for
the outrageous wrong of breaking up his business, and blighting his life, by showing that they had probable cause to believe
that their claim was valid.
This position does not in the least disaffirm the right of a
creditor-one who is really such- to plead, or show, prob-

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

able cause for instituting bankruptcy proceedings against his
debtor, where those proceedings are dismissed for want of
sufficient ground, or for any other cause. A creditor has the
right, by the law, to institute such proceedings upon probable cause. But, in my judgment, one who is not a creditor in
fact has no such right. The law does not give him any such
right.
The power to throw a man into bankruptcy and thus destroy
his business, and all hope for the future, is one of great magnitude to be given to one man over another. A wealthy man or
firm, with extensive business connections, having this means of
destruction in his hands, wields a tremendous power. The
indiscriminate exercise of the power by many heavy capitalists
throughout the country, as a means of collecting their debts,
or holding it in terrorem over their debtors for that purpose,
was one of the causes which made the late law odious to the
community, and produced its repeal. In my judgment, the
construction given to it by the court below, on the point in
question, was a wise and proper one; calculated to prevent, or
at least to moderate, that reckless resort to the law which made
it so odious and tyrannical in its effects. It did not trench
upon any of the acknowledged principles of the law of malicious prosecution: it distinguished the case from those which
came under that head of law, and simply held that one who
is not, in fact, a creditor cannot lawfully institute proceedings
in bankruptcy; and if he does so to the prejudice of the alleged
bankrupt, he is responsible for the damages caused to him
thereby.
In the rightful prosecution of their alleged claim, whatever
injury they may have caused to Sonneborn, Stewart & Co.
could well have pleaded probable cause of believing their claim
to be just; and Sonneborn could not have recovered damages
without showing malice as well as want of probable cause.
But in instituting proceedings in bankruptcy, they must at
least be in fact creditors, as a condition precedent of their right
to do so. If they had been in fact creditors, then they would
have been entitled to all the privileges awarded to a defendant
in an ordinary action for malicious prosecution, whatever the
result of the proceedings might have been.

STEWART V. SONNEBORN.

[Sup. Ct.

Putting the matter into a summary form, the result of my
views is briefly this:1st, That in criminal matters every person, being interested
in the public order, has a right by law, upon probable cause, to
make complaint against a supposed offender.
2d, That any person believing himself to have a claim
against another, having probable cause for such belief, has a
right, by law, to sue therefor, subject only, if his claim be adjudged false, to pay the costs of suit.
3d, That any creditor of another may institute proceedings
in bankruptcy against his debtor, if he have probable cause to
believe that his debtor has committed an act of bankruptcy;
but a condition precedent to such right is, that he be, in fact,
a creditor.
Counsel, on argument, and it seems to me the court, in its
opinion, takes for granted in this case the contrary of the last
proposition, without considering the question itself. Assuming
that a petitioning creditor is not under any condition precedent
to be, in fact, a creditor, then I would agree to all that is laid
down in the opinion. But that is the very question, and the
only important question, in the case.
The exception in regard to allowing counsel fees in the suit
by way of damages was not founded in truth. The court below
expressly confined the jury to three specific grounds of damage,
and this was not one of them. Hence the request to charge
on the subject was not relevant, and the court did no wrong to
the defendants in refusing to so charge.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.

