SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

dence was injured by cutting down an embankment in opening
a street in the city of Brooklyn, the Supreme Court of New
York said that neither the purpose to which the property was
applied, nor the intention of the owner in relation to its future
enjoyment, was a matter of much importance in determining
the compensation to be made to him; but that the proper inquiry was, "What is the value of the property for the most
advantageous uses to which it may be applied?" In Goodwin v. Cincinnati - Whitewater Canal Co. (18 Ohio St. 169),
where a railroad company sought to appropriate the bed of a
canal for its track, the Supreme Court of Ohio held that the
rule of valuation was what the interest of the canal company
was worth, not for canal purposes or for any other particular
use, but generally for any and all uses for which it might be
suitable. And in Young v. Harrison(17 Ga. 30), where land
necessary for an abutment of a bridge was appropriated, the
Supreme Court of Georgia held that its value was not to be restricted to its agricultural or productive capacities, but that
inquiry might be made as to all purposes to which it could be applied, having reference to existing and prospective wants of the
community. Its value as a bridge site was, therefore, allowed
in the estimate of compensation to be awarded to the owner.
These views dispose of the principle upon which the several
exceptions by the plaintiff in error to the rulings of the court
below in giving and in refusing instructions to the jury were
taken, and we do not deem it important, therefore, to comment
upon them.
Judgment affirmed.

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.
1. The act entitled "An Act for the final adjustment of private land-claims in
the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri," approved June 22, 1860
(12 Stat. 85), provides for presenting all such claims in Florida and Louisiana to the registers and receivers of the several land-offices, within their
respective districts, and in Missouri to the recorder of land-titles for the city
of St. Louis, and for a report on the claims to the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office, and through him to Congress. In all such cases Congress reserved-the right to confirm or to reject the claim.
2. The eleventh section of the act authorizes the claimants in a defined and

Oct. 1878.]

3.

4.
6.

6.

7.

8.

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

limited class of cases to sue by petition in the District Court of the United
States within whose jurisdiction the land is situate.
The title on which such a suit can be sustained inutit be one which had been
perfected under the Spanish or the French government before the cession
to the United States, and the lands separated from the mass of the public
domain by actual survey, or which are susceptible of such separation by
a description which will enable a surveyor to ascertain and identify them
by the boundaries found in the grant, or in an order of survey or investiture
of possession.
No person can bring suit under that act who by himself, or by those under
whom he claims, has not been out of possession over twenty years.
The act thus intended to provide a suit in the nature of ejectment against
the United States whether out of possession or in possession, and to remove
the bar of the Statute of Limitations.
The claim under the grant in this case covers over seven million acres, and it
has never been actually surveyed or located; nor do the claimants present
any actual survey, or ask for one, to ascertain if it be practicable under the
description in the grant made in 1793.
An inspection of the maps presented by them, copied from the public surveys
extended over the region to which the grant refers, .shows that the calls for
the boundary of the grant are impossible calls; that the royal surveyor was
not on the ground, and was mistaken as to the locality of the natural objects
on which he relied for description; and that no surveyor can by those calls
locate or identify the land.
The suit was not, therefore, authorized by said act of 1880.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an appeal from a decree dismissing, on demurrer, the
bill of the complainants, who, with the exception of one, their
alienee, claim to be the heirs-at-law of Captain Don Joseph
Valliere, who died intestate in the city of New Orleans in the
year 1799. The suit was brought under the act entitled "An
Act for the final adjustment of private land-claims in the States
of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri, and for other purposes,"
approved June 22, 1860. 12 Stat. 85.
The claim in this case is founded on three instruments of
writing, of which translations are given in the record.
1. An order of Baron de Carondelet, Spanish governor of
Louisiana: -

"11thJune, 1793, to Captain Don Joseph Valliere, in the District of Arkansas, a tract of land, situated on the White River, extending from the rivers Norte Grande and Cibolos to the source
of the said White River, ten leagues in depth.
" BARON DE CARONDELET."

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

2. A certificate of survey by Charles Trudeau: CARLOS TRUDEAU, -oyal and Private Surveyor of the
Province of Louisiana.
"I certify having measured, in favor and in presence of Don
Joseph Valliere, captain of the stationary regiment of Louisiana,
a portion of land situated in the jurisdiction of Arkansas, on the
north and south banks of Rio Blanco; bounded on the east, or on
the inferior limit, by the Rio Norte Grande, the Rio Blanco, and
the Rio Cibolos; on the west, or superior limit, by the fountainhead or origin of the most western branch of the said Rio Blanco
and by vacant lands of his majesty; separated from said vacant
lands by a line beginning at the said fountain-head of the most
western branch of Rio Blanco, running southwest ten leagues in
depth; on the north by the lands of his majesty, separated from
these by a drawn line, beginning at the Rio Norte Grande, commencing at a point ten leagues distant in a direct line from its
mouth or confluence with the Rio Blanco, running in a course
nearly west until it meets the fountain-head or origin of the most
western branch of the Rio Blanco, and on the south side by vacant
lands of his majesty, separated from these by a line drawn apart,
beginning at a point where ends the southwest limit, ten leagues
from the fountain-head or origin of the most western branch of the
Rio Blanco, running on a parallel line with said Rio Blanco descending, ten leagues in depth, until it meets Rio Cibolos, at a
distance of ten leagues in a direct line from Rio Blanco. All of
which is now fully demonstrated in the figurative plan which precedes, -in which are shown the dimensions and courses of the
boundaries, the trees and monuments serving as artificial and natural boundaries. The lines and limits have been made at the request
of the grantee and in compliance with the order of the governorgeneral, Baron de Carondelet, of the of June of the present
year. All of which I certify that it may be everywhere valid. I
give these presents, together with the figurative plan which precedes, on the 24th of October, 1793.
" CARLOs TRUDEAU, Surveyor-General."
"DON

The figurative plan is in the form following: -

Oct 1878.]

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

LOUISIn.A,

1793.

PU!iSTO DE A RKA

SAS.

ScuLL v. UNITED STATES.

3. A cession or grant by Carondelet:

[Sup. Ct.

-

"For the benefit of the public, and for the greater encouragement
of agriculture and industry of the country, I have judged it expedient to take steps for the surveying and granting the royal lands
of the provinces:
Therefore, I grant to Don Joseph Vallicre, captain of the regiment stationed iii Louisiana, a portion of land in the jurisdiction of
Arkansas, situate on both banks of the White River, ten leagues on
both banks, beginning at the origin of the most western branch or
source of the White River, and running southwest ten leagues,
descending from thence on the south by parallel line with White
River, at the distance often leagues, until it intersects the Buffalo
River at a point ten leagues in a direct line with White River,
from thence descending the Buffalo River to its confluence with the
White River; following this as far as the mouth of the Great North
Fork of the White River, up the same to a-point ten leagues in a
direct line from its mouth, from thence ascending the White River
to the north in a westerly direction ten leagues from the same as
far as its source, which will be better seen on the figurative plan
made by my order by the surveyor-general, Don Carlos Trudeau,
of this province, 24th of October last (it being impossible for the
royal surveyor to make an actual survey at this time), and in virtue
of my order in June, of the current year, by which I made him a
grant and ordered the surveyor-general to put him in possession,
according to the usual form, in consequence of the power which has
been conferred on me by our lord the king (God preserve), I
grant, in his royal name, to the said Don Joseph Valliere, captain
of the regiment of infantry of Louisiana, the said portion described
above, in order that he may dispose of it, he and his legitimate successors, as property belonging to him. Done in New Orleans, 22d
of December, 1793.
"EEL BARON DE CARONDELET."
A diagram, made in 1876, is filed with the bill as an
exhibit, accompanied by an affidavit of Mr. George H. Day,
"a practical city surveyor, duly appointed as such by the city
of Brooklyn," that it is a true and faithful diagram description
and extent of the lands covered by the grant. The description
as therein set forth is that the tract is " situated on both sides
of White River (or Rio Blanco), in the States of Missouri
and Arkansas, extending from the north fork of White River

Oct. 1878.]

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

(or Rio Norte Grande) westerly to its source 37$ miles in
depth on both sides (or ten leagues).
"Beginning at the origin or terminal of main fork of White
River in Madison County, Arkansas, in township 18 north,
range 25 west, from thence south 87$ miles (or ten leagues)
to a point in township 7 north, range 25 west; thence continuing on a line drawn parallel with the main courses of the
said White River and at a distance of 37J miles therefrom
(or ten leagues) on a line drawn north of west 88- miles
to a point in township 8 north and range 81 west; thence
northwesterly 52-15 miles to a point in the Indian Territory
or Cherokee County near Flint Creek; thence north by east
46- miles to a point in township 28 north, range 34 west,
in McDonald County, Missouri; thence northeasterly 60A-,
miles to a point in township 28 north, range 26 west, in Lawrence County, Missouri; thence easterly 48 miles to a point
in township 29 north, and range 18 west, and distant from a
point on White River 87$ miles (or ten leagues); thence
southeasterly 45A miles to a point on the Big North Fork of
White River in township 24 north, and range 12 west, distant
87$ miles (or ten leagues) northerly in a direct line from the
mouth of the north fork of said White River; thence southerly down the north fork of White River (or Rio Norte Grande)
to its mouth in township 18 north, range 12 -vest; thence
southwesterly up the White River to the mouth of Buffalo
Fork of White River; thence westerly, following said Buffalo
Fork (or Rio Cibolos), to its source in township 14 north, range
24 west; thence southwesterly to the terminal or source of
White River, the place of beginning, as more fully shown on
the map annexed, containing 11,370 square miles."
The complainants allege that "Rio Blanco" is the White
River of the State of Arkansas, having its source in the most
westerly part thereof, running through the southwesterly portion of the State of Missouri, and thence through the said
State of Arkansas, and emptying into the Mississippi River;
that Rio Cibolos is the Buffalo River, a branch of the said
White River; that Rio Norte Grande is the Great North Fork
River of the State of Arkansas, and a branch of the said White
Riverf; that neither they nor any parties holding title under

SCULL V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

the original claimant have possessed and cultivated any of said
lands for the period of twenty years prior to the filing of the
petition; that the lands are partly situated in the counties of
Ozark, Douglass, Taney, Christian, Stone, and Barry of the
State of Missouri, and are within the jurisdiction of the court
below; and that all or nearly all of them have been disposed
of by the United States. The complainants pray that they
may be allowed upon the trial to show by competent evidence
what portion of the lands now remains undisposed of and
claimed by the United States; that a patent may be issued
therefor; and that warrants or scrip be awarded to them and
their legal representatives, as an equivalent for the lands, portion of the said grant, which have been disposed of by the
United States; and for such other decree as to the court may
seem just.
Mr. William IT. Duryea and Mr. J. Warren Greene for the
appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The history of the relation of the government of the United
States to the claims for lands asserted under rights derived
from the Spanish and French governments, prior to the cessions of Louisiana and Florida to our government, as it is found
in the treaties, the acts of Congress, and the judicial decisions
of the American tribunals, is given very fully and with accuracy in the opinion of this court in the case of The United States
v. Lynde (11 Wall. 632), and will be referred to now without
repeating it. The necessity and the policy of the act of 1860
are there fully considered. It declares that the registers and
receivers of the public land-offices in Florida and Louisiana,
within their respective districts, and the recorder of land-titles
for the State of Missouri, shall be commissioners to hear the
evidence and make report to the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office concerning this class of claims. They are directed
in their reports to divide the cases into three classes, two of
which were to be reported as valid and the third as invalid.
The nature and character of these claims, and the evidence on
which they are to be held valid or invalid, are fully set out in

Oe~t. 1878.]

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

the statute. After the reports of these officers are filed with
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, they are to be
subject to the examination of that officer, who is to report
thereon directly to Congress. In all cases where he and the
local commissioner concur in the rejection of the claim, that
action is to be final ; but where he concurs with these comnmissioners in holding a claim valid, he shall report the same to
Congress for its action. And in cases where he disapproves
the report of the commissioners, he shall in like manner report
the whole matter to Congress for final action. It will thus be
seen that in all cases brought before any of these officers, under
this act, except when the Commissioner of the General LandOffice concurs with them in rejecting the claim, the whole proceeding amounts merely to a report to Congress, and the final
action of confirming or rejecting the claim rests with that body.
The eleventh section, however, enacts that in a much more
limited class of cases, which it specifically defines, the claimants
"may at their option, instead of submitting their claims to the
officer or officers hereinbefore mentioned, proceed by petition
in any district court of the United States within whose jurisdiction the lands or any part of the lands claimed may lie,
unless such claim comes within the purview of the third section
of this act." It declares that the United States may be made
defendant to such a suit, and an appeal allowed prescribes the
mode of executing a final decree in favor of the claimant, and
provides for other matters. So much of it as excludes claims
coming within the purview of the third section evidently has
reference to the proviso of that section, that no case shall be
reported favorably by the commissioners which has already
been twice rejected on its merits by previous boards, or has
been rejected as fraudulent, or as having been procured or
maintained by fraudulent or improper means.
The difference in these two modes of procedure, and in the
results which followed them, are obvious and important. The
first, as already observed, is merely a mode of placing before
Congress the result of an investigation by the local commnissioner, and the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, with
their opinion on the merits of the claim. On these reports
Congress either rejects or confirms the claim, as.it may think
VOL.VIM.

27

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0t.

right. Until such action by Congress, nothing is concluded;
and if it fails to act, the previous inquiry amounts to nothing.
The suit in the District Court, on the other hand, has all the
elements of any other judicial proceeding, among which are the
conclusiveness of the judgment on both parties, and the right
to an appeal to this court for final decision. Considering the
more valuable results which may be obtained in the courts, and
the better-defined course of procedure there, it is not strange
that parties who have faith in the validity of their claims
should prefer that tribunal.
But Congress did not intend to refer all the cases embraced
in the act to the courts, at the option of the claimant. It was
only claims of a class defined by the eleventh section of the
act, which the claimant might bring either before the court or
before the commissioner, at his election. If the case before us
does not belong to this class, the court did right in dismissing
the petition, whatever may be its merits, and though it may be
a case which, if brought before a commissioner, would be entitled to a favorable report.
We must, therefore, examine the case in the light of the provisions of the eleventh section, which defines this class in these
words: -

"Any case of such a claim to lands as is bereinbefore in the first
section of this act mentioned, where the lands claimed have not
been in possession of and cultivated by the original claimant or
claimants, or those holding title under him or them, for the period
of twenty years aforesaid, and where such lands are claimed by
complete grant or concession, or order of survey duly executed, or
by other mode of investiture of the title thereto in the original
claimant or claimants, by separation thereof from the mass of the
public domain, either by actual survey or definition of fixed natural
and ascertainable boundaries or initial points, courses, and distances,
by the competent authority prior to the cession to the United States
of the territory in which said lands were included, or where such
title was created and perfected during the period while the foreign
governments fiom which it emanated claimed sovereignty over, or
had the actual possession of, such territory."
A careful examination shows three distinguishing elements
necessary to a suit in the court : -

Oct. 1878.]

SCULL V. UMTED STATES.

1. The claimant or those under whom he holds must have
been out of possession for twenty years or more.
2. The land must be claimed by a complete grant or concession, or order of survey duly executed, or other mode of
investiture of the title in the original claimant by separation
from the mass of the public domains, either by actual survey
or defined fixed natural boundaries or initial points and courses
and distances, by the competent authority, prior to the cession
to the United States.
8. Where such title was created and perfected during the
period of the actual possession of the prior government under
which the claim is asserted.
This is substantially an action of ejectment, with the bar of
the Statute of Limitations removed, the United States having
a constructive possession for the defendant.
The title must be complete under the foreign government.
The land must have been identified by an actual survey with
metes and bounds, or the description in the grant must be such
that judgment can be rendered with precision by such metes
and bounds, natural or otherwise.
There must be nothing left to doubt or discretion in its location. If there is no previous actual survey which a surveyor
can follow and find each line and its length, there must be
such a description of natural objects for boundaries that he can
do the same thing de novo. The separation from the public
domain must not be a new or conjectural separation, with any
element of discretion or uncertainty.
The right to sue here given is not on an inchoate or imperfect title. It is not on a perfected grant for an unknown location, or for a given quantity within defined out-boundaries. All
these are left to be pursued, if at all, before the commissioners
appointed by the statute. They could pass upon the equities
aising from imperfect or incomplete grants. An order of survey was sufficient before them, if otherwise sustained by proof.
Permission to settle on the land, or any other written evidence
of title emanating from the foreign government prior to the
cession. This required no completed title, no actual survey,
no twenty years out of possession, no prior segregation from
the public domain. In all this class of cases, Congress, which

420

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

reserved the right to decide, only required evidence of some
equitable claim arising under the former government, on which
it could make an intelligent decision.
But in the cases brought before the courts, while removing
the bar of the lapse of time, and the want of a defendant in
possession, and the defence of a better title by patent from the
United States, the act still requires a title completed under
the foreign government, evidenced by written grant, actual
survey, or investiture of possession, and, in short, evidence of
a title on which recovery of possession could be had when these
defences were out of the way. This view is confirmed by the
provision that the petitioner must have been out of possession
for twenty years. The only reason that occurs to us for this
is, that having the superior legal title, he could recover from
any one in adverse possession without the aid of the statute,
where he was not bound by twenty years' limitation.
Does the case before us come within this class?
There was no actual survey. The order of survey made by
Governor Carondelet is very indefinite. It is thus translated
in the record: 1 1th June, 1793, to Captain Don Joseph Valliere, in the District of Arkansas, a tract of land situated on the White River, extending from the rivers Norte Grande and Cibolos to the source of
said White River, ten leagues in depth.
"BARON

DE CARONDELET."

On the strength of this order, Trudeau, the surveyor-general,
proceeded to make what he calls in his certificate of survey "a
figurative plan" by conjecture, and from this gives a certificate
of survey. It appears by the paper called a grant and signed
by Carondelet that this plan was made by his order because it
was impossible for the royal surveyor to make an actual survey
at the time.
Based upon this figurative plan, the concession or grant
makes an attempt to describe the land granted by certain natural objects, and some general but not specific directions as to
the courses and distances. It does not appear that any actual
survey has ever been made locating this grant. It does not
appear that any attempt has ever been made to do it. We

Oct. 1878.]

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

have in the record copies of Trudeau's sketch. We have a
copy of the official map of the surveys of the land into congressional subdivisions, made for the purpose of selling these lands,
wvhich have been extended over all the area in which this grant
could possibly be found; and we have a map of the State of
Arkansas, with county and township subdivisions; and in both
these latter the general course of the White River,.its branches
and affluents, are laid down.
On this latter map we have what Mr. Day, a civil engineer,
swears to be a correct location of this grant according to boundaries given in Carondelet's cession. This was not made by
any actual survey, but simply taking the sectional map of the
State of Arkansas, Mr. Day has made lines on it, which he declares to be a location, on that map, of Valliere's grant. He
does this by assuming a point in township 13 north, range 25
west, in Arkansas, to be the origin of the White River, and
proceeding directly south from this point ten leagues, or 87J
miles, he makes a series of arbitrary lines, with a corresponding number of angles and changes of course, tending first
northwest, and then northeast, and then southeast, until he
reaches the Great North Fork of said river. He then descends
said fork until it intersects the river, descends the main river
until he reaches Buffalo Fork, ascends Buffalo Fork until he
comes near the initial point or source of White River, and then
makes a straight and arbitrary line southwest to the beginning.
As regards this survey, the straight lines and the changing
courses and distances are wholly arbitrary and artificial, having
no natural objects to establish them, and nothing in the descriptive language of the grant. They are intended to be the conjectural or average distances of ten leagues from the White River.
That is to say, in a distance of nearly three hundred miles on one
side of White River, in order to ascertain definitely what lands
are within ten leagues of that river, - one of the most tortuous
ever known, - the surveyor makes six new departures and
courses, and, running these by straight lines, declares that he
has solved the problem and made an accurate survey.
But let us compare this survey with the calls of the grant.
The latter describes the land as "situated on both banks of
White River, ten leagues on both banks, beginning at the origin

SCULL v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of the most western branch or source of the White River, and
running southwest ten leagues, descending thence on the South
by parallel line wvith White River, at the distance of ten leagues,
until it intersects Buffalo River at a point ten leagues in a direct line with White River, from thence descending the Buffalo
River to its confluence with White River; following this as
far as the mouth of the Great North Fork of the White River,
up the same to a point ten leagues in a direct line from its
mouth, from thence ascending the White River to the north in
a westerly direction, ten leagues from the same, as far as its
source, which will better be seen on the figurative plan," &c.
Assuming that Day's survey has located the original source
of White River as the initial point correctly, the first call in
the grant is southwest ten leagues. Mr. Day's line is ten
leagues directly south; the next departure in the grant is descending thus on the south by parallel with the White River
at the distance of ten leagues, until it intersects the Buffalo
River at a point ten leagues in a direct line with White River.
Here Mr. Day utterly disregards the call, makes a due west
line, taking him directly away from the Buffalo River, and
making his artificial courses and distances nearly three hundred miles, not on the south, but on the west and north, of
White River, and never gets to Buffalo River until he has run
the reverse course of the call, and meets it near the last of his
survey at its junction with White River. The reason of this is
obvious. The call in the grant is an impossible call. The
Buffalo River is not in the direction supposed by Trudeau and
Carondelet, and the source of White River is not where it is
supposed to be.
The next call in the grant is to descend the Buffalo to its
confluence with White River. But the Buffalo would never be
reached by the call of the grant. In short, looking at the calls
for material objects, courses of streams, and distances, that
which might have been predicted occurred. In attempting to
make a grant described by rivers of whose courses and location
they were ignorant, by given distances which could not be
made to conform to the natural objects, making a grant of over
seven millions of acres of land by specific boundaries of which
they knew nothing, they made a total failure, and gave no

Oct. 1878.]

SCULL V. UNITED STATES.

description by which any surveyor could, without the aid of a
lively imagination, make any location.
This is clearly manifest by a comparison of Trudeau's plan
with Day's location, and with the actual locality and course
of the streams as they are now ascertained.
Trudeau's plan and the calls of the grant make the initial
point and source of White River in the northeast corner of the
plat; Day makes the source of the river and the initial point
in the middle south part of his survey. Trudeau runs a waving
line in a southeastern direction to Buffalo River, where he supposed it to be; Day runs in a reverse direction northwest,
until he meets the North Fork, and comes down it.
Trudeau was mistaken if the source of the river is where
Day locates it. But this destroys all Trudeau's plan, and
locates the grant in a very different place from where he and
Carondelet intended it to be, and where it can never be
reached by any survey following the description of the grant.
But on what evidence Mr. Day relies to fix the source of the
river, the beginning point of his location, is unknown. He did
not go on the ground or trace the stream. He merely takes
the map of Arkansas, and says, here on this map I find the
origin of the river to be a point in township 13 north, range 25
west, in Madison County.
Whether this map gave the origin of the most western branch
of that river correctly is wholly uncertain. How far a surveyor
must pursue such a branch or stream to find the fountain from
which it flows is left in the dark. If Mr. Day had gone on the
ground, ordered to make the survey under oath, he might have
felt bound to locate this point many miles from where he finds
it on the map. It is almost absurd to suppose .that in an ordinary traveller's map of a State, made to be folded into a pocketcase, any reliance can be placed on its location of the source of
a stream which would justify its acceptance as a warrant for
locating with precision a grant of over seven millions of acres
of land. The combined exhibits E and F, which are certified
copies of the official surveys of the United States, call this
most western branch Buffalo Fork, and do not locate the origin
of this western branch within thirty miles of the point which
the Arkansas map does, and where Mr. Day does.

UNITED

STATES v. BALTIMIORE.

[Sup. Ct.

We are of opinion that for want of any actual survey at the
time the grant was made, or at any other time, by the Spanish
government, for want of any other separation of the land granted
from the mass of the public domain, and for want of any description of the land granted in the instrument of cession, or
order of survey, by which the land can be surveyed and identified, the claim does not come within the eleventh section of the
act of 1860, and that the District Court properly rejected it.
.Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES

v.

BALTIMORE.

A mere permission by the commandant to settle on land in Florida, not followed
by a grant or by other evidence of title under the Spanish government, will
not sustain a claim in a suit in the District Court, brought under the eleventh
section of the act of June 22, 1860, 12 Stat. 85.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. Edward Janin, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree confirming as valid a claim
of the cities of Baltimore and New Orleans to land in that
part of the State of Louisiana which constituted the former
Spanish province of West Florida.
The suit was brought under the eleventh section of the act
of June 22, 1860, which we construed in Scull v. United States,
supra, p. 410.
The foundation of the claim is a petition of Philip Robinson
to the commandant Don Thomas Estevan, dated Jan. 20,
1804.
This petition recites that Robinson had, in the year 1797,
by the permission of Estevan's predecessor, established himself
on a tract of land, which he describes, and that he had unfortunately lost the permit by the burning of his house. Fearing

