Amy v. DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Or.

and workings. It is on this line that claims will naturally be
laid, whatever be the character of the surface, whether level or
inclined.
If these views are correct, the Titus claims, belonging to
the defendant in error, were located along the vein or lode in
question in a proper manner; and the Flagstaff claims, belonging to the plaintiff in error, were located across it, and can only
give the latter a right to so much of the vein or lode as is included between their side lines. The court below took substantially this view of the subject, and ruled accordingly.
As this is really the whole controversy in the case, it is unnecessary to examine more minutely the different points of the
charge, or the instructions asked for by the plaintiff in error.
The question was presented in different forms, but all to the
same general purport.
Judgment affirmed.

Amy v. DUBUQUE.
The Statute of Limitations of Iowa begins to run against coupon interest warrants from the time they respectively mature, although they remain attached
to the bond which represents the principal debt.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. James Grant for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. 0. P. Shiras for the defendant
in error.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN- delivered the opinion of the court.
The question of limitation presented for our consideration
upon this writ of error depends for its solution upon the statutes of Iowa. "It is not to be questioned,'.' said this court in
Hawkins et al. v. Barney's Lessee (5 Pet. 457), "that laws limiting the time of bringing suit constitute a part of the lex fori
of every country: they are laws for administering justice, one4

Oct. 1878.1

AO1y..

tDUBUQUE.

of the most sacred and important of sovereign rights." 2MfcElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 812.
It as is little to be questioned that "the courts of the United
States, in the absence of legislation upon the subject by Congress, recognize the statutes of limitations of the several States,
and give them the same construction and effect which are given
by the local tribunals." Lefflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599;
Green v. Lessee of Neal, 6 Pet. 291; Harpending v. The Dutch.
Church, 16 id. 455; -Davie v. Briggs, 97 U. S. 628.
Guided by these established rules, we proceed to the consideration of the question before us, in the light both of the
statutes of Iowa and of the construction given to them by the
highest court of that State.
Our first inquiry is as to the cause of action set out in the
petition. The plaintiff in error seeks to recover the amount
of sundry interest-coupons annexed to bonds issued by the city
of Dubuque in 1857, in payment of a subscription to the capital
stock of a railroad company. The bonds are in the usual form
of municipal securities, and were made payable on the 1st of
January, 1877, at a bank in the city of New York, together with
interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable
semi-annually on each first day of July and January, on the
presentation and surrender of the coupons at such bank as they
should respectively become due by the terms thereof. Each
bond was secured by a pledge of the shares of stock received
in exchange therefor; and the stock pledged was placed in
the hands of authorized trustees, who were empowered and
required, at the request of the holder of the bond, and when
the city was in default in the payment of either principal or
interest, or any part thereof, to sell it, at public or private sale,
in discharge of the unpaid principal or interest. The coupons
sued on had not, at the institution of this action, been severed
from the bonds to which they were annexed. Judgment is
asked for the several instalments of interest, with interest on
each instalment from the time it became due. The city contends that the action is barred by the Iowa Statute of Limitations. In that view the circuit judge concurred, and judgment was rendered for the city.
The code of Iowa declares that actions "founded on written

AmY v. DUBUQUE.

[Slip. Ct.

contracts" may be brought within ten years "after their causes
accrue, and not afterwards." Code of 1873, sect. 2529. Such
had been the law of that State for many years prior to the
adoption of the code of 1873. We find the same provision in
the code of 1851. Code of 1851, sect. 1659. What actions
are founded on written contracts, and when causes of action
accrue, within the meaning of the Iowa code, may be gathered
from decisions of the Supreme Court of that State. The earliest decision to which we are referred is Bahr v. Arndt, 9 Iowa,
39. That was the case of a mortgage executed to secure a note
payable ten years after date, with interest, at the rate of ten
per cent per annum from date, payable annually. The court
held that a foreclosure could be had before the maturity of the
note for an instalment of interest due. In Mann v. Cross
(9 id. 327), which was a suit to foreclose a mortgage, given
to secure a note bearing ten per cent interest, payable annually, the court said: " Was he [the mortgagee] entitled to
six per cent interest upon the interest annually due ? We
think he was. The respondent was under a legal obligation
to pay this interest at the end of the year; it was a sum of
money then due, without a contract fixing the rate of interest
upon it, and for which he might have been sued. He was,
therefore, bound to pay its legal value, which by our law, in
the absence of a written agreement reserving more, is fixed at
six cents on the hundred." Hershey v. Hershey (18 id. 24)
was the case of a written agreement to purchase an interest in
mill property at a valuation by appraisers, and "to pay the
principal sum of such purchase on or before five years from
the date of the appraisement, and in the mean time to pay interest for the full sum at the rate of seven per cent per annum,
the interest to be paid semi-annually." It was held that an
action at law could be maintained for any unpaid semi-annual
instalment of interest. Said the court: "The payment of interest periodically is expressly stipulated for, and for a breach
of this contract plaintiff may recover, just as clearly as for the
non-payment of an instalment of principal. By their agreement the parties have made this interest, when it matures, not
simply an incident of the debt, but pro tanto the debt itself.
And plaintiff was not, therefore, bound to wait the expiration

Oct. 1878.]

AmY v. DUBUQUE.

of the five years from the date of the award to recover for the
semi-annual instalment of interest." The court said further:
"The plaintiff sues at law for the interest precisely as if
he had separate notes for the same, and as he might do in
case of an ordinary bond." To the same general effect is
Preston v. Walker, 26 id. 205. In the subsequent case of
Baker v. Johnson County (33 id. 151)i the inquiry arose as to
the time when limitation commenced to run upon a contract
whereby Baker was employed to render services in behalf of
the county in connection with its claim against the general
government for swamp-land money and land scrip. The court
held that Baker had a right of action from the date when his
services were completed, and that his cause of action accrued at
that date. Callanan v. The County of Madison (45 id. 561)
was an action to recover back taxes which had been improperly
exacted. The defence of limitation being interposed, the court
said that "the cause of action accrues at the very moment of
payment of the taxes, if at that time the tax was erroneous or
illegal. The right of the plaintiff and the liability of the
county do not depend upon the future acts to be done or suffered by either; their relation as creditor and debtor is fixed
by the illegality of the tax."
It seems from these authorities to be the settled law of Iowa:
1st, That where interest is, by contract, made payable at stated
times, an action may be maintained therefor in advance of the
maturity of the principal debt, and legal interest upon such interest recovered. 2d, That within the meaning of the Iowa
Statute of Limitations the cause of action accrues when suit
may be commenced for the breach of such contract. Both of
these propositions are in line with the former decisions of this
court. We have held in numerous cases not only that suit may
be maintained upon unpaid coupons, in advance of the maturity
of the principal debt and without producing the bonds, but that
the holder of such coupons is entitled to recover interest thereon
from their maturity. Commissioners of Xnox County v. Aspinwall et al., 21 How. 539 ; Gelpcke v. City of .Dubuque, 1 Wall.
175; The City v. Lamson, 9 id. 477; City of Lexington v. Butler,
14 id. 282; Clark v. Iowa City, 20 id. 583; Town of Genoa v.
Woodruff,92 U. S. 502. This court has also had occasion to

AMY v. DUBUQUE.

[Sup. Ot.

consider the question as to when, upon principle, limitation
commences to run. In Wilcox v. Plummer'8 -Executors (4 Pet.
172), it was said: "The ground of action here is a contract to
act diligently and skilfully; and both the contract and the
breach of it admit of a definite assignment of date. When
might this action have been instituted is the question; for from
that time the statute must run." Angell, Limitations, sect.
42; 2 Saunders, P1. and Evid. 309.
This action is, beyond question, founded upon written contracts. The coupons in suit matured more than ten years prior
to its commencement. Upon the non-payment, at maturity, of
each coupon, the holder had a complete cause of action. In
other words, he might have instituted his action to recover the
amount thereof at their respective maturities. From that date,
therefore, the statute commenced to run against them. The
premises conceded, as they must be, there is no escape from the
conclusion stated.
But it is insisted that this conclusion is in conflict with the
former decisions of this court in The City v. Lamson, supra;
City of Lexington v. Butler, 8upra; and Clark v. Iowa City,
supra. In this counsel are mistaken. They misapprehend
altogether the doctrines settled in those cases. The first arose
under the Wisconsin Statute of Limitations, while the second involved the construction of a Kentucky statute. The decisions
in those cases, as we declared in the third case, only established
the doctrine that coupons were not mere simple contracts, but,
under the local statutes of particular States, were to be regarded as specialties and separate contracts, like the bonds to
which they are attached. After an examination of the preceding cases, we said that "it was not the intention of the
court to decide that an action upon a coupon, detached from
the bond, and negotiated to other parties, was not subject to
the same limitations as an action upon the bond itself; much
less to bold that the coupons remained a valid and subsisting
cause of action not only for the period prescribed for actions
on the bond after its maturity, but for the additional period
intervening between the maturity of the coupon and the maturity of the bond, however great that might be. The question
before the court in those cases was only whether the time

Oct. 1878.]

AmY v.

DUBUQUE.

the statute ran against the coupon was the longest or shortest
period ; - was it six or twenty years in the Wisconsin case, or
-was it five or fifteen years in the Kentucky case; - and the
court held that the statute ran for the longest period, because
the coupons partook of the nature of the bonds, and the statute
ran for that period as to them."
The case of Clark v. Iowa City arose under the same Statute
of Limitations which is invoked by the city of Dubuque for its
protection in this case. It is cited by counsel for plaintiff in
error in support of the proposition that limitation, under the
Iowa statute, does not commence to run against a coupon until
it is detached from the bond. There are some expressions in
the opinion in that case which, standing alone, would seem to
sustain that construction of the statute. But it is quite obvious, from the whole opinion, that the conclusion reached, upon
the point necessary to be decided, did not rest upon the isolated
fact that the coupons sued on had become severed from the
bond. It did rest, mainly, upon the ground that the coupons
sued on were specialties, separate written contracts, capable of
supporting actions after their maturity, without reference to
the maturity or ownership of the bonds. We distinctly held
that all statutes of limitation begin to run when the right of
action is complete. We said: "Every consideration, therefore,
which gives efficacy to the Statute of Limitations, when applied
to actions on the bonds after their maturity, equally requires
that similar limitations should be applied to actions upon the
coupons after their maturity." Our answer to the specific
question certified to us was, "that the statute of Iowa, which
extends the same limitations to actions on all written contracts,
sealed or unsealed, began to run against the coupons in suit
from their respective maturities." So far, then, as that case
bears upon the defence of the city, it is an express authority
for the position that the limitation of ten years prescribed by
the Iowa statute applies equally to bonds and their coupons.
The only material respect in which this case differs from that,
is that the coupons in suit here have never been severed from
the bonds, and are held by the owner of the latter, while in
that case they were severed from bonds which had been previously paid off. But this difference cannot logically, or in

HARKNESS V. HYDE.

[Sup. Ct.

view of the Iowa decisions, affect the construction of the statute under examination. The right of the plaintiff in error to
sue upon the coupons was complete after their non-payment at
maturity, whether they had been previously severed or not
from the bond. Upon principle, his failure or neglect to detach the coupon and present it for payment at the time when,
by contract, he was entitled to demand payment, could not
prevent the statute from running from that date. Such a construction of the statute would defeat its manifest purpose, which
was to prevent the institution of actions founded upon written
contracts after the expiration of ten years, without suit, from
the time "their causes accrue;" that is, from the time the right
to sue for a breach attaches. We adhere, therefore, to our
decision in Clark v. Iowa City, that the Statute of Limitations began to run, under the Iowa statute, from the time the
coupons respectively matured.
Judgment affrmed.

HARKNESS V. HYDE.
1. Process from a district court of Idaho cannot be served upon a defendant on
an Indian reservation in that Territory.
2. Illegality in the service of process by which jurisdiction is to be obtained is
not waived by the special appearance of the defendant to move that the
service be set aside; nor after such motion is denied, by his answering to
the merits. Such illegality is considered as waived only when be, without
Zaving insisted upon it, pleads in the first instance to the merits.

ERRon to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Idaho.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George H. Williams for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. 1B. P. Lowe for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover damages for maliciously and
without probable cause procuring the seizure and detention of
property of the plaintiff under a writ of attachment. It was
brought in September, 1873, in a district court of the Territory
of Idaho for the county of Oneida. The summons, with a copy

