Oct. 1878.]

FOSTER V. MORA.

lest some intruder might encroach upon his rights, he begs a
renewal of the order or permit.
The reply to this is as follows:
"GALvESTO.W, Jan. 20, 1804.
"This party may remain in the possession of the land settled by
him under the permit of my predecessor, and he will apply to the
intendant-general for his formal title.
"Tno rAs ESTEVAN."
1o other title, grant, cession, survey, or order of survey was
ever issued on this claim. It was a mere permit for possession
and settlement, and no more. There was here no perfected
title. There was no title at all, nor any thing which purported
to give title. The title remained in the Spanish government
until transferred to ours; and except the part which has been
patented to others, it remains there now. There is nothing on
which the claimant, under the eleventh section of the act, as
we understand it, is entitled to recover in this suit.
If there is any just claim in this case, it belongs to the class
of imperfect, incomplete, equitable rights over which Congress
has reserved control, and which could only be confirmed in the
mode pointed out before the commissioners under the act of
1860.
The decree of the District Court confirming the claim will
be, therefore, reversed, with directions to dismiss the petition;
and it is
So ordered.

FOSTER V. MORA.
In ejectment in the courts of the United States the strict legal title prevails.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.-Edmond L. Goold for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John T. -Doy/le, contra.

MIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejeetment brought originally in the Cir-

FosTE

v. MORA.

[Sup. Ct.

cuit Court for the District of California, by the defendant in
error, in which he recovered judgment against the plaintiffs
inerror.
The parties waived a jury, and the court made a finding of
the facts, on which its judgment was rendered. Those which
set out plaintiff's title are as follows -"1. The lands in controversy are the ancient mission buildings and quadrangle, and the gardens and orchards, of the
ancient Mission of San Juan Capistrano, as formerly occupied
by the priests of the mission ; area, forty-six acres and seventyfour hundredths of an acre (46-7).
"2. That on the nineteenth day of February, A.D. 1853,
Joseph S. Alemany, Roman Catholic Bishop of Monterey, filed
with the board of commissioners to ascertain and settle private
land-claims in California, appointed under the act of Congress
of March 8, 1851, his petition in writing, a copy of which
(omitting the description of the several parcels of land herein
described and claimed) is hereto annexed and made part hereof,
and marked ' Schedule A;' and thereupon such proceedings
were had before the said board, that the said board, on the
18th of December, A.D. 1855, made a decree confirming to said
petitioner the lands described in his petition, to be held by him
for the uses and purposes in said petition described. A copy
of the decree (omitting the description of the several parcels
of land) is hereto annexed and made part hereof, marked
' Schedule B.' That afterwards the United States appealed
from the said decree to the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of the State of California, and thereafter the Attorney-General of the United States, having given
notice that he would not prosecute such appeal, the same was
thereupon, afterwards, on the fifteenth day of March, A.D.
1858, at a regular term of the said court, by its order duly
entered, dismissed, and the said Joseph S. Alemany, bishop as
aforesaid, was adjudged and decreed to have leave to proceed
in the premises under the decree of the land commissioners as
under final decree.
"3. That on the eighteenth day of March, A.D. 1865, letterspatent were duly issued by the United States of America
to the said Reverend Joseph S. Alemany, bishop aforesaid, a

Ot. 1878.]

FOSTER V. MORA.

copy whereof is annexed, and made a part hereof, marked
Schedule C.'
"4. Afterwards, and before the commencement of this suit,
the title of the said Joseph S. Alemany, Roman Catholic bishop
as aforesaid, to the said premises became vested in the plaintiff
herein, and that they are the same premises described in the
complaint and here in controversy."
It also appears that this land had been in possession of the
mission ever since the year 1796.
The defendants were admitted to be in possession at the
commencement of the action, and their claim of title is in
substance founded on these facts, as stated by the court:A grant by Pio Pico, governor of California, of the premises in controversy, dated Dec. 6, 1845 ; a petition to the
board of commissioners of private land-claims, dated Oct. 23,
1852; a decree of confirmation of that board, dated July 7,
1855; an appeal, which was dismissed; and a survey of the
lands so confirmed by the surveyor-general of the United
States.
No patent has been issued to the claimants under these proceedings.
It thus appears that plaintiff has the only title founded
on a patent from the United States. The act of Congress of
1857, to ascertain and settle the private land-claims in California, required that every claim to land arising under the Mexican
government should be presented to the board of commissioners
appointed under it, and that they should reject or affirm the
claim.
It also contemplated as the final evidence of title that a
patent should issue to the claimant or his representatives when
the claim was established, in whole or in part. This patent is
declared by the statute to be conclusive between the United
States and the said claimants only, and shall not affect the
interests of third persons.
The patent to Bishop Alemany in this case and in this
action is conclusive as against the United States that the
bishop had a meritorious claim derived from the Mexican government to the land in question, and that the United States
conveys to him the legal title to the land.

428

UNITED STATES V. PEROT.

[Sup. Ct.

In actions of ejectment in the United States courts the strict
legal title prevails. If there are equities which would show
the right to be in another, these can only be considered on the
equity side of the Federal courts.
This record shows that plaintiff holds the only legal title
which the courts of the United States can recognize. The
oldest claim, the oldest possession, the oldest legal title, and
the only patent from the United States are with the plaintiff,
and in this action these must prevail.
We are invited by plaintiffs in error into the discussion of
the canon and civil laws of Mexico concerning the titles to
lands held by missions and other ecclesiastical bodies. We
must decline to follow this lead.
If there is any equitable reason why the only strict legal
title and the older Mexican claim and possession should not
prevail, it is not available in a court of law.
Judgment affrmed.

UNITED STATES V. PEROT.
1. Spanish grants made in Texas for lands in the "Neutral Ground," east of
the Sabine, from 1790 to 1800, are valid.
2. The Mexican league applicable to grants of such lands, being a square of
6000 varas on each side, has always been estimated at 4428.4 acres, the
vara being considered 331 American inches.
The true Mexican var is slightly less than 33 American inches; but by use
in California it is estimated at 33 inches, and in Texas at 33J inches.
4. The common usage of a country in reference to its measures should be
followed in estimating them, when mentioned in grants taking effect there.
6. Where countries have been acquired by the United States, its courts take
judicial notice of the laws which prevailed there up to the time of such
acquisition. Such laws are not foreign, but those of an antecedent government.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor- General for the United States.
Mr. Thomas T. Durant and Afr. C. W. ifornor, contra.

