OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

BINGAMAN, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE, ET AL.
v. GOLDEN EAGLE WESTERN LINES, INC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 520. Argued March 5, 1936.-Decided March 30,,1936.
1. Upon the question whether a state gasoline tax is exacted as compensation for use of the highways or is a general excise on the use
of gasoline, the construction by the state supreme court controls in
a federal court. P. 628.
2. Statutory provisions carried forward without material change into
a new statute are continuations and not new enactments. Posadas
v. National City Bank, 296 U. S. 497. P. 628.
3. As respects a carrier by motor vehicle engaged exclusively in interstate commerce, a State has no power to license and tax the
importation and use of gasoline for operating the motors. P. 629.
14 F. Supp. 17, affirmed.

from a decree of the three-judge District Court
which enjoined appellants, state officers, -from enforcing
certain gasoline taxes and attendant penalties.
APPEAL

Messrs. J. R. Modrall and Quincy D. Adams, Assistant
Attorneys General of New Mexico, with whom Mr. Frank
H. Patton, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Ivan Bowen, with whom Mr. E. R. Wright was on

the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellee, a corporation organized under the laws of
Delaware, is a common carrier operating a line of busses
over the public highways of several states, including New
Mexico, its business being limited to interstate transportation. It does no intrastate business in New Mexico,
and expressly disclaims any intention of doing any such

BINGAMAN v. GOLDEN EAGLE LINES.
626

627

Opinion of the Court.

business in the future. The busses are propelled by gasoline, which, so far as this case is concerned, is purchased
in another state, placed in tanks attached to the busses,
and transported and used exclusively in interstate commerce.
A statute of the state (Chapter 176, § 2, Session Laws
of 1933) imposes "an excise tax of five cents (5¢) per
gallon upon the sale and use of all gasoline and motor
fuel." Section 3 of the act prohibits any "distributor"
from importing, receiving, using, selling or distributing
any motor fuel, unless such distributor is the holder of
an uncancelled annual license issued by the state Comptroller. For the license a fee is exacted of $25 for each
distribution station or place of business or agency. A
"distributor," as defined by § 1 of the act, includes a
corporation consuming and using in the state any motor
fuel purchased in and brought from another state. For
failure to comply with the statute penalties are incurred.
The effect of the statute is to compel a common carrier
engaged exclusively in interstate transportation to procure a license as a "distributor" and pay an excise tax
upon the use of motor fuel purchased in, and brought
from, another state and used only in such transportation.
By an act, passed in 1931, Laws 1931, c. 31, provision
is made for refunding taxes collected upon the purchase
of gasoline in certain specified quantities and used for
other purposes than the operation of motor vehicles upon
the streets and highways of the state.
This suit was brought against appellants, state officers,
to enjoin the threatened enforcement of the foregoing
statutory provisions, together with the penal provisions
connected therewith, on the ground, among others, that
they constitute a regulation of interstate commerce in
contravention of the commerce clause of the federal Constitution. The case was heard by the lower court, con-

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

sisting of three judges as the federal law requires, and a
-decree entered in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
The case turns upon the question whether the pertinent
statutory provisions exact a charge as compensation to
the state for the use of its highways, or impose an excise
tax for the use of an instrumentality of interstate commerce: If the former, the tax should be sustained; if the
latter, it clearly contravenes the commerce clause and
must be held bad. Helson and Randolph v. Kentucky,
279 U. S. 245, and cases cited. The state supreme court
has construed the provisions in Geo. E. Breece Lumber
Co. v. Mirabal,34 N. Mex. 643; 287 Pac. 699, and Transcontinental& Western Air, Inc. v. Lujan, 36 N. Mex. 64;
8 P. (2d) 103; and the court below, rightly concluding
that it was bound by this construction,* thought that it
settled the matter against the validity of the tax. With
this view we agree.
The New Mexico decisions dealt with an earlier act, the.
terms of which, however, without material change, were
carried forward into the act of 1933, with the result that
the new act became a continuation of the earlier one.
Bear Lake IrrigationCo. v. Garland, 164 U. S. 1, 11-14.
Compare Posadas v. National City Bank, 296 U. S. 497.
In the Breece case the state court held that the exaction
was a general excise tax upon the use of all gasoline in
the state, and that it was not imposed for the use of the
state roads. The court considered the suggestion that the
entire proceeds of the tax were devoted by law to the
building and improvement of the state highways, but
said that this would not alter the fact that the tax was
not exacted for the privilege of using these highways.
The Lujan case reached the same conclusion. The state
* United States v. Kombst, 286 U S 424, 426; Frost Trucking Co.
v. Railroad Comm'n, 271 U. S. 583, 591-592.

PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO. v. JENKINS. 629
626

Syllabus.

court drew a sharp distinction between the excise tax
on the sale and that on the use of gasoline, holding the
first to be valid and the second to be repugnant to the
commerce clause of the federal Constitution as applied
to an interstate air carrier. Both cases definitely refused
to accept the view that the tax was a charge for the use
of the highways.
Appellants contend that the refund provisions of the
later 1931 statute, supra, nevertheless, demonstrate that
the state legislature intended that the excise tax now in
question should constitute compensation for the use of
the highways. But the so-called refund provisions apply
only in the case of taxes collected upon the purchase of
gasoline, not of taxes collected for its use. Moreover, the
state court in the Lujan case, p. 74, considered a like
contention and rejected it as without substance.
As applied to appellee, an interstate carrier doing no
intrastate business of any description, § 3 of the act,
which exacts license fees from distributors, is plainly invalid as imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 58-59; International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 108-113.
Decree affirmed.

PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO.

ET AL.

V. JENKINS.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 386.

Argued February 7, 10, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.

1. Under its power to prescribe the provisions of charters of corporations organized under its.laws and to impose conditions for
the admission of foreign corporations to do local business, and
under power reserved in its constitution to amend corporate charters iand to impose like rules upon such foreign corporations, a
State may, consistently with the equal protection clause of the

