216

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

DUPARQUET HUOT & MONEUSE CO. L

.297 U.S.

AL. v.

EVANS ET AL.I
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 533.

Argued January 17, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.

1. A receivership in a foreclosure suit, for the purpose of conserving the mortgaged property and collecting the rents pendente lite
for the benefit of the lienholder, is not an "equity receivership,"
within the meaning of § 77B (a) (i) of the Bankruptcy Act.
P. 218.
2. An equity receivership, within the meaning of § 77B, is a receivership for the purpose of conserving and reorganizing or winding up
the business of the corporation. P. 218.
3. Under § 3 of the Bankruptcy Act, appointment of a receiver for
the.debtor's property is not an act of bankruptcy. if not done while
the debtor is insolvent. P. 224.
78 F. (2d) 678, affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

296 U. S. 569, to review a decree affirming

a decree of the District Court, which dismissed a petition
of three creditors for a reorganization of a debtor corporation under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.

Mr. Harold Harper, with whom Mr. Mark M. Horblit
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Daniel A. Shirk, with whom Mr. Edwin R. Wolff
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CAnDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The question is whether a receivership for the collection
of rents and profits, in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage is an "equity receivership" within the meaning of

§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act providing for the reorganization of debtor corporations in involuntary proceedings.
In 1934 and afterwards, "2168 Broadway Corporation"
was the owner of a large hotel in the City of New York,

DUPARQUET CO. v. EVANS.
216

Opinion of the Court.

and of the fixtures and furniture contained therein. It
had no other property. The holder of a mortgage on the
hotel began an: action of foreclosure and procured the
appointment of receivers to collect the rents and profits.
Soon after that appointment, three creditors of the corporation, holding claims a little in excess of $1,000, filed
a petition in a District Court of the United States for
the reorganization of the corporate debtor in accordance
with § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, alleging that the value
of the assets was largely in excess of the liabilities, but
that the debtor was unable to pay its debts as they matured. The District Court dismissed the petition on the
ground that submission to the receivership in the suit for
foreclosure was nbt an act of bankruptcy and did not relieve the creditors from showing in their petition that such
an act had been committed. 11 F. Supp. 404. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the.Second Circuit affirmed,
78 F. (2d) 678, declining to follow a decision in the Seventh Circuit which upheld a different conclusion. In re
GranadaHotel Corp., 78 F. (2d) 409; affirming 9 F. Supp.
909. Because of this conflict and because of the importance of removing doubt as to the meaning of the statute
a writ of certiorari was granted by this court.
Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, which took effect
as law on June 7, 1934 (Act of June 7, 1934, 48 Stat. 911,
912; 11 U. S. C., § 207) provides for two classes of proceedings, voluntary and involuntary. Any corporation,
with exceptions not now important, may file a petition
stating that it is insolvent or presently unable to meet
maturing obligations, and that it desires to effect a plan
of reorganization. If the petition is approved, the court
assuming jurisdiction shall have and may exercise all the
powers, unless specially. withdrawn, "which a Federal
court would have had it appointed a receiver in equity
of the property of the debtor by reason of its inability to
pay its debts as they mature." § 77B (a). But juris-

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

diction is not confined to proceedings initiated by the
debtor. The statute makes provision by the same section
for the reorganization of a corporate debtor at the instance of the creditors. Three or more creditors who
have provable claims against a corporation aggregating
$1,000 or more in excess of the value of securities may file
"a petition stating that such corporation is insolvent or
unable to meet its debts as they mature and, if a prior
proceeding in bankruptcy or equity receivership is not
pending, that it has committed an act of bankruptcy
within four months," and that such creditors propose that
it shall effect a reorganization. § 773 (a). A later subdivision, § 77B (i); 11 U. S. C., § 207 (i), rounds out the
statutory scheme. "If a receiver or trustee of all or any
part of the property of a corporation has been appointed
by E Federal, State, or Territorial court, . . . a petition
. . . may be filed under this section at any time thereafter
by the corporation, or its creditors as provided in subdivision (a) of this section," and upon the approval of
the petition by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, "the
trustee or trustees appointed -under this section, or the
debtor if no trustee is appointed, shall be entitled forthwith to take possession" of the property, displhaing in so
doing the possession of the trustee or receiver theretofore
appointed.
To fix the meaning of these provisions there is need to
keep in view the background of their history. There is
need to keep in view also the structure of the statute,
and the relation, physical and logical, between its several
parts. History and structure will be found to teach together that a receivership in a foreclosure suit is not an
equity receivership within the meaDing of the law.
The evils and embarrassments that brought I 77B into
existence are matters of common knowledge. Corporations not insolvent in the statutory sense (United States
v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 260, 261), but presently

DUPARQUET CO. v. EVANS.
216

Opinion of the Court.

unable to discharge maturing obligations, were without a
statutory method for winding up their business without a
sacrifice of assets. If they had recourse to voluntary
bankruptcy, the forms and methods of administration
were rigid and often wasteful, leaving little opportunity
for coperative endeavor on the part of all concerned.
See Report of Solicitor General Thacher to the President
of the United States submitted to the Congress February,
1932; Senate Document 65, 72nd Congress, 1st Session,
p. 90. If they held aloof from courts and put their trust
in time and effort, there was the danger of disruptive
judgments, which wbuld give a preference to a few, with
involuntary bankruptcy little, if at all, deferred. The
"equity receivership" flourished in this soil. At the suit
of friendly creditors, embarrassed corporations joined in
the prayer for the appointment of receivers to stave off
other creditors more selfish or impatient, and foster whatever value was latent in the assets. There is little doubt
that many of these receiverships were legitimate and helpful. None the less there resided in the practice a capacity
for abuses, which will be found reflected in the decisions
of this and other courts. At times the receivership was
used as an instrument of fraud or covin. Harkin v.
Brundage, 276 U. S. 36; Shapiro v. Wilgus, 287 U. S. 348;
cf. First National Bank v. Flershem, 290 U. S. 504, 517,
518. At times, however fair in its beginnings, it was inordinately prolonged. Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co.,
286 U. S. 334. At times it had a tendency to intrench
delinquency in power, and to stifle inquiry into acts of
waste or spoliation. Whatever the importance of these
abuses or the defects of the existing remedies, the demand
became insistent for a practice more open, more responsible, more efficiently and closely regulated, and withal
more surely valid, under the supervision of a court of
bankruptcy.
Section 77B, enacted in 1934, was born of that demand.
The remedy to be supplanted or more efficiently con-

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

trolled had no relation to receiverships for the collection
of rents and profits in actions of foreclosure. The remedy
in view was the one generally known as an "equity receivership," whereby-.the assets of a corporation were
committed to the custody of a court until the time should
arrive when they could be returned to the rehabilitated
debtor, or if that should be impossible, divided among
creditors. The receivership might come into being at
the instance of a stockholder (cf. Bryan v. Welch, 74 F.
(2d) 964) or oftener a creditor, but always the end to
be served was essentially the same. The end was reorganization or liquidation or something akin thereto.

Cf.

Continental Illinois Nat. Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 294 U. S. 648, 672; Gordon v. Washington, 295 U. S.
30, 38. Neither the members of the legal profession nor
the legislators were in danger of confusing decrees directed
to such an end with the sequestration of rents in an action
of foreclosure. Bar associations had their special committees on "equity receiverships," with elaborate reports
which were submitted to Congressional Committees.1
Witnesses, appearing in support..of one statute or another,
discoursed to Congressional Committees on the failings
of "equity receiverships," and on the measures needed for
correction.2 However colloquial and uncertain the words
had been in the beginning, they had won for themselves
finally an acceptance and a definiteness that made them
fit to play a part in the legislative process. They came
into the statute through an amendment proposed when
the bill which was adopted as § 77 B was passing through
:Annual Report of the Special Committee on Equity Receiverships, Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Year Book
(1927) 299, 301; id. (1930) 407; Hearings before the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives, 71st Congress, 2nd
Session, April 11, 1930, H. R. 9997, 9998, 9999, 10,000, p. 29.
*'Hearings, supra, at pp. 1-28. Cf. Senate Report 482, Corporate
Reorganizations, March 15, 1934, 73rd Congress, 2nd Session.

DUPARQUET CO. v. EVANS.
216

Opinion of the Court.

the Senate. Congressional Record, vol. 78, part 7, 73rd
Congress, 2nd Session, p. 7889. They came there
freighted with the meaning imparted to them by the mischief to be remedied and by contemporaneous discussion.
Humphrey's Executor v. United States, 295 U. S. 602,
625. In such conditions history is a teacher that is not
to be ignored.
Passing from the setting of the statute to a view of its
internal structure, we are brought to the same conclusion,
but with added firmness of conviction. A receivership in
a foreclosure suit is limited and special. The rents and
profits are impounded for the benefit of a particular mortgagee, to be applied upon the debt in the event of a deficiency. Freedman'sSaving & Trust Co. v. Shepherd, 127
U. S. 494; Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S. 56, 62;
Sullivan v. Rosson, 223 N. Y. 217; 119 N. E. 405. The
corporation retains its other property, if it has any, .unaffected-in its power of disposition by the decree of sequestration. The creditors retain their remedies except
against the income subjected to the lien. There is neither
winding up of the business nor attempt to reorganize it
and set it going anew. This is not the equity receivership of which the lawmakers were thinking if context and
analogy have capacity to deliver up a lesson.
In our scrutiny of the context, we turn to the beginning
of the section with its statement of the powers to be exercised after the approval by the court of a voluntary petition. The powers are to be those "which a federal court
would have had it appointed a receiver in equity of the
property of the debtor by reason of its inability to pay
its debts as they mature." § 77 B (a). But plainly
there is no description here of the powers incidental to
the appointment of a receiver in foreclosure. On the
contrary, the words describe with aptness an equity receivership to wind up or reorganize. We cannot doubt
that the same concept persisted through the section. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

few sentences thereafter, in the self-same subdivision,
Congress used the words in controversy, speaking compendiously of an "equity receivership" as of something
ascertained and known. Surely it was not thinking of a
different kind of equity receivership from that explained
already, about'a score of lines before. The words had
been defined. In reason there could be no need to expand
or redefine them.
Still scrutinizing the context, we pass to a later subdivision, § 77 B (i), and mark its implications. We learn
from this that a petition may be approved if a receiver
or trustee of all or any part of the property of a corporation has been appointed by any court in the United
States and that thereupon the possession of the receiver
shall be displaced and superseded. But plainly this direction, though fairly applicable to an 6quity receiver in
the sense already indicated, was never meant to apply to
a receiver in foreclosure. It is common learning that an
equity receiver in suits to conserve the assets or divide
them among creditors must yield to a trustee in bankruptcy. Gross v. Irving Trust Co., 289 U. S.342. On
the other hand, it is also common learning that not even
a trustee in bankruptcy may override a valid mortgage
lien or supersede a receiver who has been put into possession in fulfilment of the mortgage contract. Straton v.
New, 283 U. S. 318, 322, 327; Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S.
165; Lincoln Savings Bank v. Realty Associates Security
Corp., 67 F. (2d) 895; In re Berdick, 56 F. (2d) 288;
Russell v. Edmondson, 50 F. (2d) 175; In re Brose, 254
Fed. 664; Carlingv. Seymour Lumber Co., 113 Fed. 483,
491. Section 77 B does not make these precedents inapposite. True, the suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage may be stayed or enjoined upon a showing of necessity, § 77 B (c) (10); the lien may be transferred to
the proceeds of a sale, § 77 B (b); at times the holder of
the lien may have his security modified or reduced by the

DUPARQUET CO. v. EVANS.
216

Opinion of the Court.

plan of reorganization when finally approved, § 77 B (b),
(e), (f), (h). Cf. Continental Illinois Nat. Bank v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., supra, pp. 675, 676, 677;
Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, 585. Nowhere
does the statute say, however, that those results or any
of them shall follow automatically upon the approval of
the petitition as properly filed. § 77 B (a). Only by
excluding a receiver in foreclosure from the scope of subdivision (i) can we avoid anomalous encroachments upon
vested rights and interests.
Such a reading of the act will help at the same time in
the avoidance of other consequences too harsh or incongruous to have been intended by the Congress. The statute speaks, § 77 B (i), of a receiver "of all or any part of
the property of a corporation." These words will have a
proper office if the receivership is understood to be a general one for liquidation or for cognate purposes. They
will take care of a situation where only part of the property is within the jurisdiction, so that not even an "equity
receivership" will be competent always, without ancillary
orders, to give possession of the whole. But the situation
is very different if the receivership in view is one for the
foreclosure of a mortgage. In its norm~al operation such
a receivership does not connote possession bf all the property of the debtor or even all the property within the
appointing jurisdiction. The mortgage may be a lien
upon one parcel or a few, leaving other property of abundant value for payment of the debts. Indeed, the cases
must be many where the owner of a mortgaged building,
not personally liable for the payment of the mortgage
debt, will hold it the part of prudence, whether he is
solvent or insolvent, to let the building go. True indeed
it is that in this case it so happens that the property sub,
ject to the mortgage is everything the debtor has. All
that is but an accident, which has little, if any, bearing
upon the meaning of the act. True it is also that a court

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

receiving a petition for reorganization in invitum may
approve or disapprove it, and that any hardship growing
out of extreme or unusual situations may thereby be
averted. Even so, the search at the moment is for a
definition of an equity receivership that will tend to minimize anomalies, and give consistency and coherence to the
statutory rule. There is little persuasion in an argument
that in despite of all anomalies the system, if it is well
adry : _istered, may manage to survive.
The suggestion is faintly made that under § 3 of the
Bankruptcy Act (11 U. S. C., § 21) the respondent corporation has committed an act of bankruptcy, and hence
may be declared -a debtor, irrespective of the meaning of
an "equity receivership" in § 77 B. An act of bankruptcy results inter aliaif a "person," natural or corporate,
has made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if "while insolvent, a receiver or a trustee has been
appointed, or put in charge of his property." Bankruptcy Act, § 3 (a) (5), 44 Stat. 662, 663; 11 U. S. C.,
§ 21 (a) (5). There is support for the view that to satisfy this provision the receivership must be general, as
contrasted with a receivership incidental to the enforcement of a lien. StandardAccident Insurance Co. v. E. T.
Shef tall Co., 53 F. (2d) 40, 41. We need not go into that
question now. Enough for present purposes that the
receiver was not appointed or put in charge "while" the
debtor was "insolvent." By the petitioners' admission
the value of the assets far exceeds the liabilities. In re
Edward Ellsworth Co., 173 Fed. 699; In re William S.
Butler & Co., 207 Fed. 705; Meek v. Beezer, 28 F. (2d)
343; Standard Accident Insurance Co. v. E. T. Sheftall
& Co., supra.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case,

