464

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

There is no foundation for petitioner's claim that it was
denied hearing.
The judgment below will be reversed and the case remanded with directions for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

~Reversed.

CALLAGHAN

RECEIVERS, v. RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORP.*
ET A.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 539.' Argued February 13, 14, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
1. Where a bankruptcy proceeding is superseded by a reorganization proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, the allowances
to trustees for services in the bankruptcy proceeding are nevertheless limited by § 48 of the Act. P. 466.
2. This limitation is not removed by § 77B (i), which authorizes the
judge in the reorganization proceeding to order payment of "such
reasonable administrative expenses and allowances in the prior
proceeding as may be fixed by the court appointing" the prior
trustee. P. 467.
3. Trustees in bankruptcy are officers of a court, and, like public
officers generally, must show clear warrant of law before compensation will be owing to them for the performance of their public
duties. P. 468.
4. In recognition of the policy of Congress that proceedings in bankruptcy and under § 77B be economically administered, the limitations upon expenses prescribed by §§ 40 and 48 have been strictly
construed, even when the compensation allowed in the particular
case was materially less than that which otherwise might hate been
considered reasbnable. P. 468.
5. A reorganization under § 77B is not a confirmation of a composition, and a referee in a proceeding in bankruptcy which was superseded by a reorganization prqceeding is not entitled to have his
* Together with No. 540, Stitt v. Reconstruction Finance Corp.

Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

CALLAGHAN v. RECONSTR. FINANCE CORP.
464

465

Opinion of the Court.

compensation computed according to § 40 (a) as in the case of
a confirmation of a composition. P. 470.
6. Section 40 (c) of the Bankruptcy Act, relating to the allocation
of fees allowed under § 40 (a) in the event that the reference is
revoked or the case is specially referred, held inapplicable. P. 471.
79 F. (2d) 187, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 570, to review a judgment modifying and reversing orders of the District Court.
Mr. Percival E. Jackson for petitioners in No. 539.
Mr. Theodore Stitt, pro se.
Mr. Eli W. Debevoise, with whom Solicitor General
Reed and Messrs. James B. Alley and Max O'Rell Truitt
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Nos. 539, 540.

In these cases certiorari was granted because of the
public importance of the questions involved, to reView
the interpretation by the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, 79 F. (2d) 187, of the provisions of § 77 B of the
Bankruptcy Act governing allowances to trustees and
referees -in bankruptcy for their services in bankruptcy
proceedings when superseded by reorganization proceedings under that section. Number 539, which relates to
the allowances of the trustees in bankruptcy, and No..
540, which relates to the compensation of the referee in
bankruptcy, will be separately considered.
No. 539.-Allowances to Trustees in Bankruptcy.
Petitioners were trustees in a bankruptcy proceeding
which was superseded by a proceeding to reorganize the
debtor under § 77 B. The referee in bankruptcy fixed
their compensation at $60,000, which the district judge

OCTOBER TERM. 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

sitting in bankruptcy increased to $90,000. The same
judge sitting in the reorganization proceeding ordered
payment of this allowance. The Court of Appeals reduced it to $14,628.50, computed, as provided by § 48
(a) and (e) of the Bankruptcy Act, upon the basis of
cash disbursed by them. It held that § 77 B (i) requires
that allowances to trustees, for their services in the bankruptcy proceeding, be fixed in conformity to § 48, and
that the reorganization court, in so far as it finds them
reasonable, direct their payment from the property of
the debtor.
Section 77 B (i) provides: "If a receiver or -trustee
of . . . the property of a corporation has been appointed
by a federal, state or territorial court," and appropriate
proceedings for a reorganization are afterward had under
§ 77 B, the trustee or receiver appointed in the reorganization proceedings, or the debtor if no trustee is appointed, "shall be entitled forthwith to possession of
such property and vested with its title," and, "the judge
shall make such orders as he may deem equitable for the
protection of obligations incurred by the receiver and
prior trustee, and for the payment of such reasonable
administrative expenses and allowances in the prior
proceeding as may be fixed by the court appointing said
receiver or prior trustee."
It is the contention of petitioners that § 77 B (i), when
bankruptcy is superseded by reorganization, authorizes
the bankruptcy court to fix reasonable allowances for
trustee's services, unrestricted by § 48 or other provision
of. the Bankruptcy Act, and that it requires payment of
the allowances thus fixed except that the reorganization
court may reduce them if it finds them excessive.
Petitioners thus construe § 77 B (i) as substituting the
test of reasonableness for all other statutory restrictions
upon the authority of the prior court to compensate trustees, a result which is reached by reading "reasonable" as

CALLAGHAN v. RECONSTR. FINANCE CORP.
464

467

Opinion of the Court.

qualifying the authority to fix compensation given by
§ 77 B (i) to the appointing court. They argue that
§ 48 was intended only to apply to bankruptcies in which
liquidation results; that when, because of the intervening
reorganization proceeding, liquidation does not result,
§ 77 B (i) makes a new grant of power to the court appointing the trustee to fix reasonable allowances without
reference to the limitations of § 48; that the interpretation of the court below is inadmissible because of the
hardship of inadequate allowances which would ensue in
some instances if it were accepted.
We think these arguments ignore the words of § 77 B
(i), the policy disclosed by its legislative history, and
the policy as well of the Bankruptcy Act, of which it is
an integral part. It is the judge in the reorganization
proceeding who is to order payment of such reasonable
administrative expenses and allowances in the prior proceeding as may be fixed by the court appointing the
"prior trustee." Plainly the word "reasonable" seems
designed, by qualifying the action of the judge ordering
the payment, to enable him to require that allowances,
which the statute permits the prior judge to fix, shall not
exceed .the limit of reasonableness. Compare Taylor v.
Sternberg, 293 U. S. 470; Gross v. Irving Trust Co., 289
U. S. 342; Hume v. Myers, 242 Fed. 827. Only by a
strained construction can it be read as a new grant of
power to the latter, by qualifying his action and impliedly
relieving him of existing limitations upon his authority
to make allowances for services rendered by officers of his
own court.
That such a grant of power was not intended is evident
from the fact that the section applies to the administrative expenses incurred in state court proceedings as well
as in bankruptcy. It would require compelling language
to justify the conclusion that Congress has undertaken
to enlarge or alter the powers of state courts to fix allow-

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

ances for their own administrative expenses because payment of them is to be effected by a federal court to which
the proceeding has been transferred.
In interpreting the section, it is of importance that it
is a part of the Bankruptcy Act, to be read with the other
sections relating to allowances, and that the allowances
are compensation for officers of the court and for expenses
incurred in the course of a judicial proceeding conducted
for the purpose, among others, of protecting the interdsts
of creditors in the debtor's property. Trustees in bankruptcy are public officers and officers of a court, and the
officers of a court, like public officers generally, "must
show clear warrant of law before compensation will be
owing to them for the performance of their public duties."
Realty Associates Securities Corp. v. O'Connor, 295 U. S.
295, 299.
It has been the consistent policy of Congress that proceedings in bankruptcy and under § 77 B be economically administered. This is evidenced by explicit limitations in § § 40, 48 of the Bankruptcy Act on fees of referees, trustees and receivers. To exact strict compliance
with these sections, § 72 commands: "Neither the referee,
receiver, marshal or trustee shall in any form or guise
receive, nor shall the court allow him any other or further
compensation for his services than that expressly authorized and prescribed in this Act." In recognition of this
policy, the limitations upon expenses prescribed by § § 40,
48, have been strictly construed, even when the compensation allowed was, in special circumstances, materially less than that which otherwise might have been
considered reasonable. See Realty Associates Securities
Corp. v. O'Connor, supra; In re Detroit Mortgage Corp.,
12 F. (2d) 889; American Surety Co. v. Freed, 224 Fed.
333; compare In re Consolidated Distributors,Inc., 298
Fed. 859; In re Curtis, 100 Fed. 784, 792. Occasional
hardship to the individual is a consideration outweighed
by the public interest and the declared policy of Congress.

CALLAGHAN v. RECONSTR. FINANCE CORP.
464

469

Opinion of the Court.

One of the controlling reasons for the enactment of § 77
B was the desire to reduce the costs of reorganization.
See Continental Illinois National Bank v. Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648, 685; Report No. 194, House
Judiciary Committee, June 2, 1933, 73rd Cong., 1st Sess.;
Report No. 482, Senate Judiciary Committee, March 15,,
1934, 73rd Cong., 2d Seas. Section 76, enacted at the same
time as § 77 B, provides: "The compensation allowed'...
a trustee shall in no case be excessive or exorbitant and
the court, in fixing such compensation, shall have in
mind the conservation and preservation of the estate of
the bankrupt, and the interest of the creditors therein."
Where the attempted reorganization results in liquidation, §§ 40, 48, regulating the fees of referees, receivers
and trustees in bankruptcy, are incorporated by reference
in § 77 B (k), and are likewise made to control the fees
of such officers in the reorganization proceedings.
In all this we find convincing evidence that the settled
policy of the Bankruptcy Act, and its specific restrictions
upon the allowances to officers, were not to be disturbed
by the inclusion, in a new provision for the transformation of an insolvency proceeding into one for reorganization, of permission to the judge in the former to fix
allowances. Only amendatory language plainly indicating
a purpose to disregard the restrictions of §§ 40, 48, would
justify a different conclusion.
No. 540.-Allowances to the Referee in Bankruptcy.
Petitioner was the referee in the proceeding in bankruptcy which was superseded by the reorganization proceeding. The district judge allowed him $25,000 for his
services in the bankruptcy proceeding, and the same judge,
sitting in the reorganization proceeding, ordered it paid.
The Court of Appeals reduced the allowance to $1,038.00,
computing it in accordance with § 40 of the Bankruptcy

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Act. As there had been no disbursement to creditors,
the allowance was limited by § 40 to a filing fee and
commissions on creditors' claims filed. Adopting the same
conclusion which we have reached in No. 539, petitioner
does not contend that § 77 B (i) is authority for disregarding the limitations of the other sections of the Bankruptcy Act upon allowances for administration expenses.
But he insists that reorganization under § 77 B is a confirmation of a composition so that he is entitled to the
allowance authorized by § 40 (a) of "one-half of one per
centum on the amount to be paid to creditors upon the
confirmation of a composition."
He also relies on § 40 (c), which provides, "In event of
the reference of a case being revoked before it is concluded,
and when the case is specially referred, the judge shall
determine what part of the fee and commissions shall
be paid to the referee."
In view of the requirement, already discussed, of strict
construction of sections of the Bankruptcy Act fixing fees
and allowances of officers, we think neither of the. contentions of petitioner is admissible. Section 40 was enacted
long before § 77 B, when § 12, dealing eo nomine with
compositions in bankruptcy, was a part of the Act. Reorganizations now permitted under § 77 B present certain resemblances to compositions-under § 12, which have
been commented upon as supporting the constitutionality
of the reorganization provisions of § 77 or § 77 B. qontinental Ill. Nat. Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
supra; In re Central Funding Corp., 75 F. (2d) 256;
Campbell v. Alleghany Corp., 75 F. (2d) 947. But
§ 77 B contemplates a procedure and results not permissible under § 12. Reorganizations are nowhere referred
to in the statute as compositions. Section 77 B (c) (11)
applies a different standard of compensation for the master appointed in a reorganization proceeding, with duties
corresponding to those of a referee in bankruptcy, from

N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
464

471

Syllabus.

that established by § 40. If reorganization is abandoned
in favor of liquidation, a referee may be appointed to
whose compensation § 40 is expressly made applicable by
§ 77 B (k). These are persuasive reasons for concluding
that neither § 40 nor § 77 B is to be construed as recognizing that a reorganization is the equivalent of a composition for the purpose of fixing referees' fees under
§ 40 (a).

Section 40 (c) relates only to the allocation of fees
allowed under § 40 (a) in the event that the reference is
revoked or the case is specially referred. But here the
reference has not been revoked nor the case specially re-

ferred, and, for reasons already given, no fees to the referee
in addition to those allowed by the court below are

authorized under § 40 (a).
Affirmed.

NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. NEBRASKA STATE RAILWAY COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM, THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 350. Argued February 6, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
1, The record failing to disclose what, if any, federal questions were
presented to the state supreme court, review here is accordingly
confined to those which are discussed in the opinion of that court.
P. 473.
2. Upon aplreal from a judgment of a state supreme court affirming
an order of the state commission directing a telephone company
doing local and interstate business to use, for purposes of accounting and reporting to the commission, for the year 1934, a composite
depreciation rate of 3 % upon all of its depreciable property
within the State, held:
(1) Assuming, without deciding, that due process requires that
the commission's order be upon notice to the company and opportunity to be heard, the procedure followed by the commission in
this case satisfied that requirement. P. 473.
(2) The Interstate Commerce Commission not having prescribed
rates of depreciation pursuant to § 20 (5) of the Interstate Com-

