TUTTLE v. HARRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

TUTTLE

ET AL.

v. HARRIS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 428. Argued January 17, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.
A mortgagee let into possession in foreclosure proceedings, under the
law of Illinois, is not an equity receiver within the meaning of
§ 77B (a) of the Bankruptcy Act. Duparquet Huot & Moneuse
Co. v. Evans, ante, p. 216. P. 226.
78 F. (2d) 409, reversed.

296 U. S. 567, to review a decree affirming
one of the District Oourt, 9 F. Supp. 909, which denied a
motion of the present petitioners to dismiss an application under § 77B (a) of the Bankruptcy Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. George T. Buckingham, with whom Messrs. Don
Kenneth Jones and Vincent O'Brien were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Mr. Maurice Walk, with whom Messrs. Frank E. McAllister and William J. Grace were on the brief, for

respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy here, as in Duparquet Huot & MoneuseCo. v. Evans, decided at the same time, ante, p. 216, is one
as to the meaning of the words "equity receiverships" in
the statute for the reorganization of debtor corporations.
Bankruptcy Act, § 77 B (a); 11 U. S. C., § 207 (a).
A mortgagee brought suit against Granada Hotel Corporation in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois,
to foreclose a second mortgage upon real property of the
corporation located in that state. A receiver was appointed to collect the rents and profits. Thereafter a
prior mortgagee, the trustee under a deed of trust to

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

secure an issue of bonds, brought suit to foreclose the
prior mortgage, and in accordance with the law of Illinois
laid claim to the possession of the property as owner after
condition broken. In response to that claim the state
court made an order discharging the receiver, and directing that the prior mortgagee be let into possession.
While possession was so held, respondents brought a proceeding under Bankruptcy Act, § 77 B, contending that
the possession of the mortgagee was that of an equity
receiver or at least equivalent thereto. The District
Court upheld that contention, denying a motion by petitioners, who had intervened in the proceeding, to dismiss
the application, 9 F. Supp. 909; and the Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit affirmed. 78 F. (2d) 409. A writ
of certiorari issued from this court.
An equity receivership within the meaning of the statute does not rsult from the appointment of a receiver for
the collection of the rents in a suit to foreclose a mortgage. Duparquet Huot & Moneuse Co. v. Evans, supra.
But here there was no receiver either for the collection of
rents or for any other purpose. A mortgagee after condition broken under the law of Illinois is the owner of a
legal estate, and as such entitled as of right to the possession of the mortgaged premises. Wolkenstein v. Slonim,
355 Ill. 306; 189 N. E. 312. The grantee under the deed
of trust was in possession not as receiver, but as owner.
The decree should be reversed, and it is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE VAN DEVANTER took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

