NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
Syllabus.

NOBLE

ET AL.

V. OKLAHOMA CITY.*

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 335.

Argued February 4, 5, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. The Act of Congress of February 18, 1888, and the amending Act
of February 13, 1889, authorizing a railroad company to locate and
construct a railroad across a portion of the Indian Territory then

still held in trust for the Creek Indians, but which was afterwards
acquired from them by the United States and opened to settlement,
did not make a grant in praesenti of a right of way, but granted
only a franchise and authorized a taking of land only upon compensation secured or made. Pp. 489, 494.
2. Subsequent related legislation examined and found not to require
a different conclusion. P. 491.
3. In view of the nature of the title of the Indians, an intention to
grant or impose a servitude upon their lands without compensation
to them cannot be imputed to Congress. P. 493.
4. Even if it be assumed that the Act of 1888 granted the railroad
a base or limited fee, title nevertheless could not have vested until
plats of the location of the line were filed with the Secretary of
the Interior for his approval, as required by the Act; and, therefore, the mere staking of a location of a proposed line was ineffectual to prevent the acquisitioxi of superior rights by settlers and
occupants under the homestead and townsite laws. P. 494.
5. The provisions made by 43 U. S. C. 912 for transfer of title of
abandoned railroad lands relate to such lands as were granted to
the railroad by the United States, and do not apply to land which
was conveyed to the railroad, subject to reverter, by an entryman
who acquired title under the public land laws. P. 495.
6. Whether a. habendum clause in a private deed to a railroad
operated to revest title in the grantor's heirs upon abandonment
of the railroad, held a question not of federal but of state law,
to be decided by the state court. P. 495.
172 Okla. 182; 44 P. (2d) 135, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 560, to review a judgment of the
state supreme court which affirmed judgments of the trial
* Together with N. 336, Higgins et al. v. Oklahoma City.
tiorari to the Sunreme Court of Oklahoma.

Cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

court in favor of the city in two cases involving title to
lands.
Messrs. Charles H. Garnett, Warren E. Libby, and
Joe T. Rogers, with whom Messrs. Henry L. Goddard,
Fred E. Suits, and Fred Ptak were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Messrs. Harlan T. Deupree and W. H. Brown for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These were actions in ejectment tried in a state court.
The petitioners in No. 335 sued as the heirs of Naoma
Noble, the petitioners in No. 336 as the heirs of Robert
W. Higgins. Title to a town lot and a portion of another parcel of land located in the respondent city was
in dispute.
The tracts formerly were part of the tribal lands of the
Creek Indians. Pursuant to treaties the Creeks removed
from east of the Mississippi River to a large area in Indian Territory, now in the State of Oklahoma,' and a
patent was issued by the President of the United States,
granting them the lands "to have and to hold . . . so
long as they shall exist as a Nation and continue to occupy the Country hereby conveyed to them."2 By the
Treaty of Washington' the tribe ceded to the United
States the western half of their domain, which included
the site of what is now Oklahoma City, in trust, to be
sold and used as homes for civilized Indians whom the
United States might desire to settle thereon. This and a
prior treaty vested in Congress power to grant railroad
rights-of-way through the Creek country. The United
'7 Stat. 366; 7 Stat. 417; 11 Stat. 699.
Vol. 4 of Indian Deeds, in the Office of Indian Alfairs, pp. 446-447.
'June 14, 1866, 14 Stat. 785.

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

States did not sell any portion of the ceded area to Indians or permit white settlement in the region of Oklahoma City ahd the land remained vacant.
By Act of February 18, 1888," Congress authorized the
Choctaw Coal and Railway Company to locate and construct a railroad traversing the southeastern portion of the
Indian Territory, through lands of the Choctaw Nation
whose title was similar to that of the Creek Nation.'
The President, on January 19, 1889, negotiated a treaty
with the Creeks' by which they ceded to the United
States full and complete title to the entire western half
of their lands, thus freeing the area from the trust under
which it had theretofore been held. This treaty was subject to ratification by the council of the Tribe and by Congress. It was confirmed by the former January 31, 1889.
Pending the ratification of the treaty, Congress, on
February 13, 1889, amended the Act of February 18, 1888,
to authorize the railway company to construct a branch
extending from its main line northwestwardly through
Choctaw and Creek country.7 The road so authorized
now traverses Oklahoma City. The Creek Tribe then
owned the eastern portion of the Creek country through
which the branch line was to run, and retained an interest
in the western portion. March 1, 1889, Congress ratified
the treaty of January 19, 1889, and, in the act of ratification, provided that "the lands acquired by the United
States under said agreement shall be a part of the public
domain." '
By Act of March 2, 1889,' Congress directed that the
lands acquired from the Creek Nation should be disposed
'25
'See
' 25
' 25
'25
- 25

Stat. 35.
Treaty of June 22, 1855, 11 Stat. 611.
Stat. 757.
Stat. 668.
Stat. 757.
Stat. 980, 1004-1005.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of to actual settlers under the homestead laws but that
no person should be permitted to enter thereon until the
territory was opened for settlement. The release, conveyance, and extinguishment of the Indians' rights was
not to inure "to the benefit of or cause to vest in any
railroad company any right, title, or interest whatever
in or to any of said lands... and all grants or pretended
grants of said lands or any interest or right therein now
existing in or on behalf of any railroad company, except
rights of way and depot grounds," were declared forfeited
for breach of condition.
March 23, 1889, the President issued a proclamation
opening a portion of the lands to settlement at noon April
22, 1889. Before the latter date the railway company had
surveyed the line of its proposed railroad through what
is now. Oklahoma City and inarked it by stakes along
the centre line of the right-of-way and by signs warning
that the land was claimed for right-of-way and station
purposes. It appears to have been then known that a
town site would be laid out on the quarter-section in
which the Noble tract is located. Prior to the opening of
the land a plat had been made and, at 12 o'clock April 22,
1889, surveyors began to run lines and drive stakes to
locate the lots and blocks of the town site. On that
day many settlers, amongst whom was Naoma Noble, arrived and staked and occupied lots. As the survey proceeded they adjusted their claims And boundaries to the
survey lines. In surveying and staking out lots both the
surveyors and the ancestor of the petitioners in No. 335
disregarded the right-of-way marks. All the' lots in the
the original town site, comprising the quarter-section
in which the Noble land is situated, were occupied on the
day of opening. On the same day Robert C. Higgins,
the ancestor through whom the petitioners in No. 336
claim, settled upon the quarter-section adjoining the

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

town site on the west, and undertook to file a homestead
entry thereon.
July 13, 1889, the railway company filed with the Secretary of the Interior a map of definite location of its
line as staked out through Oklahoma City. The road
ran diagonally through the town site quarter-section, included the whole of the Noble lot, and traversed diagonally Higgins' adjoining quarter-section.
The Act of May 2, 1890,'" organizing the Territory of
Oklahoma, provided that "No part of the land embraced
within the Territory hereby created shall inure to the use
or benefit of any railroad corporation, except the rights of
way and land for stations heretofore granted to certain
railroad corporations. Nor shall any provisions of this act
or any act of any officer of the United States, done or
performed under the provisions of this act or otherwise, invest any corporation owning or operating any railroad in
the Indian Territory, or Territory created by this act, with
any land or right to any land in either of said Territories,
and this act shall not apply to or affect any land which,
upon any condition on becoming a part of the public domain, would inure to the benefit of, or become the property of, any railroad corporation." Not until May 14,
1890,11 did Congress pass a town site act applicable to
Oklahoma. In the meantime, the citizens had established
a form of government and elected officials. A plan of the
town site was filed in the office of the City Recorder and
provision made by ordinance for recording transfers of the
plotted property. The Recorder issued certificates to the
occupants of lots and transfers were made by quit-claim
deeds. After the passage of the town site act trustees
were appointed and the entire quarter-section constituting the original town site was patented to the trustees
-26 Stat. 81, 91.
" 26 Stat. 109.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

without exception, limitation, or reservation.

297 U. S.

In due

time the trustees issued their deeds for the various lots,
including the Noble tract.
From 1889 to 1893 the railway company and the lot
claimants were in disagreement, the former contending
that the acts of Congress vested it with title to the rightof-way, the latter insisting that their occupation before,
the filing of the company's plot with the Secretary of the
Interior gave them the superior title.' The dispute was
amicably settled by the company's relinquishing its claim
to the diagonal three hundred foot right-of-way as
plotted, and relocating it, one hundred feet wide, parallel
to the streets and alleys shown on the city plan. The lots
or portions of lots required for the relocation were obtained from the owners by. deeds or condemnation. March
28, 1891 Naoma and George Noble executed a deed to the
railway company containing the following clause:
"Being intended for the use -and occupation of said
party [grantee], its successors and assigns, as and for its
right-of-way for the constructing, operation and maintenance of its railroad and business at or upon the land
hereby released and quit claimed: Provided, that in case
of abandonment of said premises by said second party,
its successors or assigns for the purposes above mentioned,
the same shall revert to the grantors, their heirs or
assigns."
The right of Higgins to make a homestead entry being
involved in a land office contest, the company constructed
its road across his quarter-section and was operating trains
thereover in 1892. After the contest eventuated in his
favor he conveyed to the railroad, in 1898, for a pecuniary
consideration, a strip of land one hundred feet wide across
his quarter-section "for a right of way for its railroad,
Telegraph and Telephone Lines, and for Railroad or Station purposes." The habendum clause was:

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

"To have and to hold the same by the said Choctaw
Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Company, together with all
and singular the rights, privileges and appurtenances
thereunto belonging and all the rights and privileges
which said company is authorized to have, hold and exercise under and by virtue of the Act of Congress granting
the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company a right of way
through the Indian Territory, approved February 18th,
1888, and subsequent Acts of Congress amending and extending said Act together with all the rights and privileges granted unto said Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf
Railroad Company by an Act of Congress approved August 24th, 1894, and the Act of Congress approved April
24th, 1896, and unto its successors, and assigns forever."
The road constructed on the right-of-way so acquired
in Oklahoma City was operated by the railway and its
successors until December 4, 1930. Pursuant to an
agreement made with the city, the then owner and operator secured the approval of the Interstate Commerce
Commission of the abandonment of the line,1 2 and executed a quit-claim deed to the city for the abandoned
portion. A decree was obtained from, the United States
District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma adjudging that the land had been abandoned for railroad
purposes and that the company's title had passed to the
city under an Act of Congress of March 8, 1922.1' None
" The railway was reorganized as Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf
Railroad Company and the reorganized company given the same
rights as its predecessor. 28 Stat. 502; 29 Stat. 98. At the time of
the abandonment the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company was operating the line in question under a lease for 999 years.
42 Stat. 414, 43 U. S. C., § 912: "Whenever public lands of the
United States have been or may be granted to any railroad company
for use as a right of way for its railroad or as sites for railroad structures of any kind, and use and occupancy of said lands for such purposes has ceased or shall hereafter cease, whether by forfeiture or by

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opiffion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of the petitioners was a party to this proceeding. The
city took possession and has since held the strip. These
suits were filed shortly thereafter. Petitioners asserted
that the Act of February 18, 1888, and the amending Act
of February 13, 1889, made no grant in praesenti of a
right-of-way but merely authorized the company to acquire one by purchase or condemnation; that these statutes applied only to Indian country and not to the public
domain; and that on February 13, 1889, the land in question was Creek Indian land and the only title the company acquired to its right-of-way, so far as the tracts in
controversy are concerned, was that conveyed by the
deeds of petitioners' ancestors under both of which the
title, on abandonment for railroad purposes, reverted to
their heirs and assigns. The defense to this claim was
that the acts presently invested the railway with title to
the right-of-way subsequently located, obtained and used,
which, upon abandonment of the use, reverted to the
United States and was, by the Act of March 8, 1922,
conveyed to the respondent.
Petitioners further urged that, even if the acts of Congress operated as grants in praesenti, the estate of the
abandonment by said railroad company declared or decreed by a court
of competent jurisdiction or by Act of Congress, then and thereupon
all right, title, interest, and estate of the United States in said lands
shall, except such part thereof as may be embraced in a public highway legally established within one year after the date of said decree
or forfeiture or abandonment be transferred to and vested in any
person, firm, or corporation, assigns, or successors in title and interest
to whom or to which title of the United States may have been or may
be granted, conveying or purpdrting to convey the whole of the legal
subdivision or subdivisions traversed or occupied by such railroad or
railroad structures of any kind as aforesaid, except lands within a
municipality the title to which, upon forfeiture or abandonment, as
herein provided, shall vest in such municipality, and this by virtue
of the patent thereto and without the necessity of 'any other or
further conveyance or assurance of any kind or nature whatsoever: ..."

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court..

-company -endured only so long as the land was devoted
to railroad use, with a right of reverter, either vested in
the Creek Tribe and conveyed to the United States by
the cession effective March 1, 1889, or vested directly in
the United States; and the right of reverter passed from
the United States by patent to the petitioners' ancestors
and from them, by deed and inheritance, to the respective petitioners. Upon the extinguishment of the railroad's estate by abandonment, full title, so they claimed,
reverted to them. They alleged the Act of March 8,
1922, does not apply in the circumstances and, if held
applicable, is unconstitutional as depriving them of property without due process.
The trial court entered judgments in favor of the city
and, on appeal, the Supreme Court of Oklahoma consolidated the cases for hearing and affirmed the judgments."'
In their applications for certiorari the petitioners asserted
that the state court's construction of the Acts of 1888 and
1889 conflicts with the decision of a federal court in respect of an act identical in terms, 5 and stressed the importance of a final adjudication as affecting not only their
titles but many others in Oklahoma City, the subject of
threatened suits in state and federal courts. On this
showing the writ was granted.
First. The Act of February .18, 1888, does not purport
to grant lands for right-of-way and station purposes. The
title is "An act to authorize the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company to construct and operate a railway through
the Indian Territory." By the first section the company
is "invested and empowered with the right of locating,
constructing, owning, equipping, operating, using, and
maintaining a railway." Section 2 provides that the corporation "is authorized to take and use" for railway, but
U

172 Okla. 182; 44 P. (2d) 135.
United States v. Fort Smith & Western 1. Co., 195 Fed. 211, 214.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

for no other purpose, a right-of-way and "to take and use"
land for station purposes. Section 3 requires that, before
the road shall be constructed through land held by any
individual occupant according to Indian usage, full compensation must be made to the occupant, prescribes the
method of securing compensation, and creates a tribunal
for ascertaining and awarding it, from whose decision a
right of appeal to a federal court is given. Section 5 lays
on the company the obligation to pay to any tribe through
whose unallotted lands the line may run a fixed compensation per mile. If the tribe be dissatisfied with the
amount specified in the act the just measure of compensation is to be ascertained by the same procedure as is
direpted in the case of an individual allottee. The company is permitted to survey and locate its railway immediately; and, by § 6, is required to cause maps, showing
the location of its lines, to be filed with the Secretary of
the Interior and with the chiefs of the nations or tribes
through whose lands they run. The section adds: "After
the filing of said maps no claim for a subsequent settlement and improvement upon the right of way shown by
said maps shall be valid as against said company." The
Secretary of the Interior is to approve of the location before any construction may be begun. Section 13 enacts:
"The right of way herein and hereby granted shall not be
assigned or transferred in any form whatever prior to the
construction and completion of the road, . . ." Except
for the words just quoted from § 13 upon which respondent relies the act plainly grants an authority or a franchise
rather than physical property. The expression used in
that section is not sufficient to enlarge the limited scope
of the act disclosed by the enacting sections.
The respondent, and the court below, refer to decisions
holding certain right-of-way acts to be grants in praesenti,
but those acts not only affect the public lands of the
United States which are subject to unrestricted disposition

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

by the Government," but explicitly state that "a right of
' 17
way is hereby grant
The Act of 1888, considered in its entirety, evinces the
intent that the company is to compensate for all lands
taken for its use, whether those of individual allottees or
of the tribe. No provision for compensation to white
settlers was made because at the date of the passage of
the statutes none were permitted. within the area to be
traversed by the railroad. The acts in question were construed by Assistant Attorney General (now Mr. Justice)
Van Devanter in an opinion rendered to the Department
of the Interior in 1898,18 as not making grants inpraesenti,
but conferring only the right to locate a railroad and take
the necessary land upon making just compensation to its
owners or those having an inchoate right of ownership.
A similar conclusion was announced by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit ' 9 in respect of the act
authorizing the building of the Fort Smith and Western
Railroad," which is identical with that under review except for the name of the company and the termini of, the
projected railroad.
Later statutes respecting the railroad are said to support respondent's view of the nature of the original grant.
We think, however, the subsequent legislation is, at best,
of doubtful aid in the construction of the Act of 1888.
The Act of February 13, 1889, amended § 1 of the orig"Ruddy v. Rossi, 248 U. S. 104, 106.
" See, e. g., Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Kansas Pacific Ry. Co.,
97 U. S. 491; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426; United States v.
Southern Pacific R. Co., 146 U. S.570; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Townsetd, 190 U. S.267; United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379.
The general railroad act of 1875 (18 Stat. 482) also grants a right-ofway in pfaesenti: Jamestown & Northern R. Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S.
125; Stalker v. Oregon S. L. R. Co., 225 U. S. 142.
27 Land Office Decisions, 414.
United States v. Ft. Smith & Western R. Co., 195 Fed. 211, 214.
30 Stat. 1368.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

inal act by authorizing the construction of the branch
line extending westwardly and northwestwardly from. the
main line, which branch now runs through the respondent city. It made no other alteration in the provisions
of the earlier legislation. The Acts of February 21, 1891,21
and January 22, 1894,22 extended the time originally
granted for constructing the railroad. The latter act
added: "And for such purpose the said company shall
have the right to take and occupy the right of way and
depot grounds heretofore granted to it by said acts." We
think, in the light of the clear provisions of the original
authorization, no inference favorable to the respondent's
contention is to be drawn from this phrase in the extending act.
On the other hand, Congress has indicated its view that
the original act merely authorized the exercise of the
right of eminent domain. By the Act of August 24, 1894,"
the creditors and stockholders of the railway, which had
become insolvent, were reorganized into a new corporation, the Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Company. Section 4 provides: "That it shall and may be
lawful for such new corporation to construct and operate
branches from its said railroad and for such purpose to
take and use rights of way... upon making compensation
therefor as provided in the case of taking land for its
main line..."
Respondent also cites a portion of § 18 of the Organic
Act for the Territory of Oklahoma quoted supra to support the claim that by the Act of 1888 Congress intended
to grant in praesenti. For the same purpose the court
below quoted and relied on one sentence found in the
section. We think, however, that the provision was
26 Stat. 765.
"28 Stat. 27.
28 Stat. 502. And see § 2 of the Act of April 24, 1896, 29 Stat.
98; § 2 of the Act of March 28, 1900, 31 Stat. 52.

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

493

Opinion of the Court.

merely intended. to preserve the status quo and does not
aid in the construction of previous legislation respecting
the rights of railroads in the Territory.
Were the Act of 1888 of doubtful import the conditions existing when it and the amending act of 1889 were
adopted would be conclusive of the legislative intent..
The main line authorized by the first act ran for the
greater portion through the lands of the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Indians. The title of these tribes was substantially similar to that of the Creeks; and while, in
the treaty by which their title was confirmed, there was
provision that rights of way for railroads might be
granted through their territory, the condition was added
that full compensation should be made for any property
taken or destroyed in the construction of any such road.
The branch line authorized by the Act of 1889 extended
westward through the eastern portion of the Creek lands
which was unaffected by the treaty of 1866. The treaty
of 1856 with this tribe contained a provision similar to
that found in the Choctaw Treaty securing compensation
for lands taken for. railroad rights of way. The branch
line also was to traverse the western portion of the Creek
Nation's territory but, at the time the branch was authorized (February 13, 1889), that area was not public
land of the United States and was held in trust for the
settlement of other Indians. The restriction was not
removed until March 1, 1889, at which time these lands
were declared to be part of the public domain and intended for white settlement.
Both the original and the amending act contemplated
that the right-of-way would run through lands owned
by Indian tribes or claimed by Indian allottees and none
other. In view of the nature of the title of the Indians,
we cannot impute to the Congress a purpose by the Act
of 1888 to grant any portion of the lands to the company
or to impose a servitude without compensation.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

For these reasons we are unable to agree with the construction of the act by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
in the present case and in earlier decisions.2' We hold
the legislation granted a franchise, authorized a taking
upon compensation secured or made, and was not a grant
of land.
Second. Assuming, for the sake of argument, that the
Act of 1888 granted the railroad a base or limited fee,
as does the general railroad act of March 3, 1875,25 we
think the marked similarity of this special act to the
general statute requires that they be given the same construction. It is well settled that the title to right-of-way
and station lands conferred by the general railroad act
does not accrue to the company until a map of definite
location is filed with the Secretary of the Interior for
his approval, or the road is actually constructed, and the
rights of one claiming by settlement or occupancy antedating such filing or construction, are superior to those
of the railroad. 2' Like the general railroad law, the act
in question required the filing of plats of the location of
the line for the Secretary's approval and, in addition,
expressly subordinated to the railroad's rights any claim
based on a settlement subsequent to such filing. This
was a clear recognition of the principle applied to rightsof-way acquired pursuant to the general law, which was
that the staking of a location of the proposed line was
ineffectual to prevent the acquirement of rights by settlers and occupants under the homestead and town site
laws.2" It is not to be supposed that a different rule was
" United States v. Choctaw 0. & G. R. Co., 3 Okla. 404, 41 Pac.
729; Churchill v. Choctaw Ry. Co., 4 Okla. 462, 46 Pac. 503.
C. 152, 18 Stat. 482; 43 U. S. C., §§ 934-939. See Rio Grande
Western Ry. Co. v. Stringham, 239 U. S. 44, 47, and cases cited.
"Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Doughty, 208 U. S. 251;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Steinke, 261 U. S. 119..
Ibid.

NOBLE v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

intended by the Act of 1888. The petitioners entered
upon their tracts April 22, 1889. Th6 company's map
was not filed with the Secretary of the Interior until
July 13th of the same year. Whatever the quality of
the statutory grant to the railroad company, its rights had
their inception after the assertion of, and were inferior
to, those of the petitioners' ancestors.
Third. It follows from what has been said that the
railroad derived title to the Noble lot by the deed of
Naorna and George Noble of March 28, 1891. As no
question is made but that the reverter clause in that deed
became operative upon abandonment of the line, the
Noble title is superior to that of the respondent. It is
equally true that when Higgins made his deed to the railroad company in 1898 he had good title to the premises
conveyed and by that conveyance the railroad obtained
whatever estate it had. The petitioners insist that the
habendum clause in the deed operated to clothe them
with full title on abandonment of the right of way. They
say tflat the Supreme Court of Oklahoma so held. The
opinion seems to .proceed on this assumption, but 'n the
view the court took, a decision of the question was unnecessary, and we find no direct ruling upon the point.
We express no opinion as to the effect of the habendum
clause, since this is a question of state law and appropriately may be decided by the state court.
The grounds stated for our decision make it unnecessary to consider or to decide the other questions raised by
the petitioners. The judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma must be reversed and the causes remanded
to that Court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

