CHANDLER v. PEKETZ.
Opinion of the Court.

CHANDLER, RECEIVER, v. PEKETZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO.

No. 583.

Argued March 4, 1936.Decided March 30, 1936.

1. A judgment in Minnesota rendered upon application of the receiver of a Minnesota corporation and levying an assessment upon
the stockholders pursuant to Minnesota Constitution, Art. 10, § 3,
and Mason's Minnesota Statutes, §§ 8025-8028, binds nonresident
stockholders not served with process in Minnesota and must be
given full faith and credit by the courts of the States of their
residence in actions brought by the receiver to collect the assessments. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, and other cases
followed. P. 610.
2. Jurisdiction of a court in Minnesota in such a proceeding attaches
when -the petition of the receiver is filed in accordance with the
Minnesota statute, and the resulting judgment of assessment cannot be attacked collaterally for mere errors or procedural irregularities. P. 611.
97 Colo. 268; 49 P. (2d) 425, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 571, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing the complaint in an action by lhe
receiver of a corporation to enforce an assessment against
a stockholder.

Mr. Thomas Vennum, with whom Messrs. G. Dexter

Blount, Harry S. Silverstein, and Harold F. Collins were
on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
Mr. A. D. Quaintance,with whom Mr. E. B. Evans was

on the brief, as amici curiae by leave of Court, in support

of the judgment of the court below.
PER CURIAM.
By order of the District Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota, petitioner was appointed receiver of the Diamond Motor Parts Company, a Minne-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

sota corporation. In the same suit, on the receiver's
application, the court ordered an assessment of 100 per
cent. upon the shares of stock of the corporation, in order
to enforce the provisions of the Minnesota constitution
and laws relating to the double liability of stockholders.
Minn. Const., Art. 10, § 3; Mason's Minn. Stat., § § 80258028. The order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Saetre v. Chandler, 57 F: (2d) 951.
The receiver brought the present suit in the state court
of Colorado against respondent John Peketz, a resident
of that State and alleged to be a stockholder in the corporation. Respondent demurred to the complaint upon
the -ground that the action of the District Court in Minnesota was not binding upon him. The demurrer was
sustained, the suit was dismissed, and the judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Colorado against the
contention of the receiver that full faith and credit had
been de.ied to the order of assessment. Compare Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, 645. The
state court held that since respondent was not served
with process in Minnesota, the court ordering the assessment acquired no jurisdiction over his person, and that
the procedure provided by the laws of Minnesota in the
interest of nonresident stockholders had not been followed.
This Court granted certiorari.
The legislation of Minnesota with respect to the liability of stockholders has been reviewed and its constitutional validity has been sustained by this Court. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243; Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U. S. 652, 660;
Matin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142. We have held that the
Minnesota provisions constituted a reasonable regulation
for enforcing the liability assumed by those who became
stockholders in corporations organized under the laws of
that State; that the order levying the assessment is made
conclusive as to all matters relating to the amount and

CHANDLER v. PEKETZ.
609

611

Opinion of the Court.

propriety thereof, and the necessity therefor; that it is
thus conclusive, although the stockholder may not have
been a party to the suit in which it was made or notified
that an assessment was contemplated, as the order is not
in the nature of a personal judgment against him and
he must be deemed, by virtue of his relation to the corporation and the obligation assumed with respect to its
debts, to be represented by it in the proceeding; and, further, that one against whom the order of assessment is
sought to be enforced is not precluded from showing that
he is not a stockholder, or is not the holder of as many
shares as is alleged, or has a claim against the corporation which in law or in equity he is entitled to set off
against the assessment, or has any other defense personal
to himself.
These defenses respondent was entitled to assert in the
suit brought against him by the receiver in Colorado.
But the present question relates not to any such defense,
as none was asserted, but to the binding quality of the
order of assessment. The particulars of procedure in the
Minnesota suit, which the court in Colorado found faulty,
were these. The petition for assessment was filed by
the receiver in the Minnesota suit on July 10, 1931. The
proceeding was entertained and the court entered an order setting the matter for hearing on August 31, 1931.
Notice was mailed on July 25, 1931, to all stockholders,
including respondent, the notice being sent to his address at Denver. On August 18, 1931, the court in
Minnesota made an order continuing the hearing to September 10, 1931. On August 19, 1931, notice of the hearing on the adjourned date was mailed to each stockholder, including respondent. The state court in Colorado took the view that the Minnesota statute required
that the court in proceedings for an assessment shall
ccappoint a time for hearing, not less than thirty nor
more than sixty days" after the order appointing the

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

hearing, and that by reason of the adjournment the hearing was not had within the time which the statute prescribed. Another objection was that the Minnesota laws
required the court in ordering an assessment to designate
a period for payment, that is, that payment should be
directed "within the time specified in such order." Mason's Minn. Stat., supra. The order in question required
the stockholders to pay the assessment "forthwith" and
directed the receiver "forthwith" to institute suits to recover the amounts assessed, with interest to run from
thirty days after the date of the order.
The Court is of the opinion that neither of these
objections go to the jurisdiction of the District Court in
Minnesota in making the assessment. That jurisdiction
attached when the petition of the receiver was filed in
accordance with the statute. Neither the order for continuing the hearing, nor the provision directing payment,
can properly be regarded as ousting that jurisdiction.
Errors or procedural irregularities, if any, were subject
to correction by the court itself or upon appeal, but afforded no warrant for collateral attack upon the order.
Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch 241, 278; Thompson v. ToImie,
2 Pet. 157, 163; Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 234,
235, 237; Briscoe v. District of Columbia, 221 U. S. 547,
553, 554; Matin v. AugedahI, supra.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.

