MATSON NAV. CO. v. STATE BOARD.
431

441

Syllabus.

3. That the Hawes-Cooper Act does not constitute a
delegation of Congressional power to the states is made
clear by In re Rahrer, supra, pp. 560-561, and by what
we have already said under subdivision 2.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREYand MR. JusTIc7 STONE concur in the result.

NOLDS,

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. ET AL. v. STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION OF CALIFQRNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 346.

Argued January 17, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. The commerce clause does not prevent a State from imposing
upon her corporations, for the privilege of exercising their corporate franchises within the State, a tax measured on the net
income justly attributable to their business done within the State,
though part of the income so attributable be from interstate and
foreign commerce. P. 443.
2. A tax thus laid held consistent with due process. Hans Rees'
Sons v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123, distinguished. P. 444.
3. A state tax on the privilege of exercising corporate franchises
within the State, measured at a uniform rate on net income attributable to business within the State, does not discriminate unconstitutionally against corporations deriving such income from
interstate and foreign as well as from intrastate business because
other corporations, having no interstate business, are taxed only
on intrastate income, or because foreign corporations engaged in
interstate and foreign business exclusively are exempt from the
tax. P; 445.
4. A foreign corporation whose sole business in a State is interstate
and foreign commerce, cannot be subjected to a privilege tax.
P. 446.
5. A discrimination i state taxation required by the commerce
clause cannot be held to violate the equal protection clause of the
Fourteent h Amendment. P. 446.
3 Cal. (2d) 1; 43 P. (2d) 805, affirmed.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL

297 U. S.

from a judgment sustaining, on review, a state

tax.
Mr. Maurice E. Harrison,with whom Messrs. Herman
Phleger and Gregory A. Harrison were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The. California Bank and Franchise Tax Act declares:
Every business corporation, with exceptions not here material, "shall annually pay to the state, for the privilege
of exercising its corporate franchises within this state, a
tax according to or measured by its net income" to be
computed at the rate of four per cent. upon that income
for the preceding year. § 4. If all the corporation's
business is done in California, the tax shall be computed
on its entire net income; if not, on that portion which is
derived from business done within the State. § 10. Net
income is the revenue from all sources less expenses, losses,
bad debts, taxes, depreciation, depletion, etc. §§ 6, 7
and 8.*
Appellants were incorporated under the laws of California and, for purposes of taxation, are deemed affiliated.
§ 14. Matson Navigation Company and the Oceanic
Steamship Company, in addition to doing substantial intrastate business in California, were engaged in transportation between ports on the Pacific coast in the United
States and ports in Hawaii, the South Sea Islands, Australia and New Zealand. The Matson Terminals, Inc.,
had no 1930 net income from interstate or foreign com* Act approved March 1, 1929, Cal. Stats. 1929, p. 19, as amended

June 11, 1929, Cal. Stats. 1929, p. 1555.

MATSON NAV. CO. v. STATE BOARD.
441

443

Opinion of the Court.

merce. In March, 1931, appellants made a consolidated
return showing for 1930 net income from intrastate business of $730,357.81 and from interstate and foreign
business of $2,526,148.22. They maintained that the tax
should not be more than four per cent. of their net income
from intrastate business. But the tax commissioner held
that there should be included in the computation the part
of their net income from interstate and foreign commerce
that was attributable to California, found to be 22.2%,
and on that basis he assessed an additional tax. The state
board of equalization sustained the additional assessment.
The case was taken on writ of review to the state supreme
court and there, contrary to appellants' contentions, it
was held that the act as construed by the tax commissioner is not repugnant to the commerce clause of the
federal Constitution or to the due process or equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 3 Cal. (2d)
1; 43 P. (2d) 805.
The only question here is whether consistently with
these constitutional provisions there may be included in
the base, to which the rate of four per cent. was applied,
any part of net income derived from appellants' interstate and foreign commerce.
1. Does the tax burden interstate commerce? There
is no controversy as to the amount, if any, that may be
apportioned to California for the purpose of computing
the tax. The state supreme court held that the act imposes a tax for the privilege of exercising corporate franchises and extends to every corporation, foreign or domestic, which is engaged in interstate or foreign commerce "so
long as such corporation is doing some intrastate business." Appellants' franchises, including the right to be
corporations empowered to do business in corporate form
in accordance with California law, were granted to them
by the State, and undoubtedly the State may tax the
privilege -ofexercising the franchises. St. Louis S. W. Ry.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 366-367. Detroit Bridge Co.
v. Tax Board, 287 U. S. 295. Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Corp.
v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218, 224. Unquestionably annual
profits, gains or net income derived from business done
within the State is an indication sufficiently significant to
be deemed a reasonable base on which to compute, the
value of that use. Cf. Air-Way Corp. v. Day., 266 U. S.
71, 83. Our decisions demonstrate that a state tax on
gross earnings derived from interstate commerce is a burden upon that commerce and repugnant to the commerce
clause. Philadelphia & Soutern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217. Meyer v. Wells, Fargo& Co., 223
U. S. 298, 300. New Jersey Telephone Co. v. Tax Board,
280 U. S. 338, 346. Cf. Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261
U. S. 330, 338. They also definitely show that a State
may tax net income derived from a domestic corporation's business-intrastate, interstate and foreign. U. S.
Glue, Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 328. Shaffer v.
Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 57. Atlantic Coast Line v. Daughton, 262 U. S. 413, 420, 422. Cf. Peck & Co. v. Lowe,
247 U. S. 165. National Paper Co. v. Bowers, 266 U. S.
373, 377. And net income justly attributable to all classes
.of business done within the State may be used as the
measure of a tax imposed to pay the State for the use
therein of the corporate franchises granted by it. Bass,
Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd., v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S.
271, 277. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,
254 U. S. 113, 120. Cf. Hans Rees' Sons-v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123, 129 et seq. The act as construed below does not violate the commerce clause.
2. Appellants suggest that the additional tax has no
relation to the privilege of exercising their corporate
franchises and that the State, by enforcing it, would deprive them of property without due process of law. They
rely on Hans Rees' Sons v. North Carolina, supra. We

MATSON NAV. CO. v. STATE BOARD.
441

445

Opinion of the Court.

there held that a method of allocating, for taxation, to
a State that part of the income of a foreign corporation
which bears the same ratio to its entire net income as
the value of'its tangible property within that State bears
to the value of all its tangible property works an unconstitutional result if the part of the income thusattributed to. the State is out of all appropriate proportion
to the business there transacted by the corporation.
There is nothing in that decision to support appellants'
contention. In thac case the question was as to apportionment of income to the taxing State. The controversy
now before us concerns the amount to be paid for the
privilege of using in California corporate franchises
granted by that State to appellants. No question of
apportionment is here involved. The tax commissioner's
determination, 22.2%, was not disturbed by the board
of equalization or the supreme court and appellants do
not in this court challenge the use of that ratio. As
above shown, net income from appellants' intrastate,
interstate and foreign business attributable to California
may be taken into account in computing the tax. As
the taxing jurisdiction of California extends to that income, the use thereof to compute the tax may not be
said to be arbitrary, capricious or in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
3. Appellants insist that by enforcement of the tax
in question the State would deny them the equal protection of the laws. They say: The tax is on the doing
of business; it would be void if imposed on the doing of
interstate and foreign business and can only be upheld
as to intrastate business. Many corporations subject to
the tax do only the latter. Others do both. The basis
of the tax imposed on members of the class first mentioned is net income from intrastate business while the
basis of that exacted from members of the other class is
net ineome from all business. The act imposes no tax

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

on corporations engaged exclusively in interstate and
foreign business.
The differences portrayed in the argument of appellants do not deny them equal protection of the laws. The
measure of the tax is the total net income attributable to
California; it does not depend upon the net derived from
business wholly within or that partly within and partly
without the State. Gains from intrastate business may
be wiped out by losses sustained in interstate or foreign
business and vice versa. The basis of the classification
is not the kind of business-whether intrastate or otherwise-from which the income is derived; it is the exclusion of all income attributable to business done outside
the State. - The measure of the exaction does not lack
uniformity because of differences in the amounts of net
incomes attributable to California. Appellants' contention is not supported by the fact that there are or may
be substantial differences between amounts and sources
of net incomes of corporations subject to the tax. The
rate is uniform; no discrimination results from its appli-

cation.
There is no merit in the suggestion that failure of the
act to extend to foreign corporations exclusively engaged
in interstate or foreign commerce in California constitutes
an unconstitutional discrimination against appellants. A
foreign corporation whose sole business in California is
interstate and foreign commerce cannot be subjected to
the tax in question. Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,
268 U. S. 203, 216 et seq. Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Corp.
v. Alab'ama, supra. The submission by the State to the
commerce clause cannot be held to violate the equal protection clause. Des Moines Nat. Bank v. Fairweather,
263 U. S. 103, 116.
Judgment affirmed.

