650

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U. S.

FISHER'S BLEND STATION, INC. v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM4 THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 628. Argued March 9, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.
1. The owner of a radio broadcasting station, in conducting under
federal license the business of broadcasting advertising "programs"
for customers for hire, to listeners within and beyond the State, is
engaged in interstate commerce and cannot be subjected to a state
occupation tax measured by the entire gross receipts of the
business. P. 651.
2. Even though the sounds making up the performances or programs
broadcasted are furnished by the customers, it is the broadcaster
who effects their transmission by supplying and operating the
broadcasting apparatus whereby electro-magnetic waves, vibrating
in correspondence with the spoken sound waves, are generated and
transmnitted to the receiving instruments of the listeners for whom
the programs are intended, there to be converted again into sound
vibrations. P. 653.
3. There is no basis in this case fo. holding that the broadcaster
merely furnished the customers the broadcasting facilities and that
it was the customers who did the broadcasting. P. 653.
4. The communications broadcasted are no less complete and effective,
nor any the less effected by the operator of the transmitting station, because he does not own or command the apparatus by which
they are received. P. 655.
5. The tax in question is not levied upon or measured by the generation of electro-magnetic waves by the station operated, but by the
gross receipts for the service it performs, which includes both the
generation of the energy and its transmission as a means of communication interstate; it is therefore unnecessary to decide whether
the State could tax the generation of such energy, or other local
activity of the operator. P. 656.
182 Wash. 163; 45 P. (2d) 942, reversed.
from a judgment of the state supreme court
which reversed a judgment enjoining the enforcement, as
against appellant, of a state tax.
APPEAL

FISHER'S BLEND STATION v. TAX COM'N.
650

651

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Godfrey Goldmark and Donald G. Graham,
with whom Messrs. R. J. Venables and James B. Howe
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. E. P. Donnelly, Assistant Attorney General of
Washington, with whom Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of Washington, Judicial Code, § 237, presents
the question whether a state occupation tax, measured
by the gross receipts from radio broadcasting from stations within the state, is an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce.
Appellant brought suit to enjoin appellees, the State
Tax Commission, from collecting the tax, laid by § 2
of Chapter. 191 of the Washington Laws of 1933, as an
infringement of the commerce clause of the federal Constitution. On demurrer to the bill of complaint, and on
stipulation of the parties that the cause might be decided
upon the facts there alleged, the state Supreme Court
gave final judgment for the appellees.
Appellant maintains, within the state, two broadcasting stations licensed by the Federal Radio Commission
(now the Federal Communications Commission). One
is licensed to operate with power and a radio frequency
enabling it to broadcast throughout the "fifth zone,"
which comprises eleven western and northwestern states,
including Washington, and the Territories of Alaska and
Hawaii. The other is licensed to operate as a "clear channel" station, that is to say, a station to which the Commission has assigned a radio frequency to be used at such
times and'with such power as will enable it to broadcast
throughout the United States without interference by

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

other stations. §§ 2, 4, 5, Federal Radio Act of 1927,' 44
Stat. 1162; Regulations, Federal Radio Commission, File
No. 5-R-B-63 and Official No. 63; File No. 5-R-B-67
and Official No. 67, Nos. 70-75, No. 111, Nos. 116-124.
These stations broadcast over the areas for which they are
licensed, and the adjacent high seas and a part of
Canada.
Broadcasting, according to the allegations of the complaint, is accomplished by the generation, at the broadcasting station, of electro-magnetic waves, which pass
through space to receiving instruments which amplify
them and translate them into audible sound waves. The
essential elements in the broadcasting operation are a
supply of electrical energy, a transmitter, the connecting
medium or "ether" between the transmission and receiving instruments, and the receiving mechanism.
Appellant's entire income consists of payments to it
by other broadcasting companies or by advertisers for
broadcasting, from its Washington stations, advertising
programs originating there or transmitted to them from
other states by wire. Appellant "sells time" to its customers at stipulated rates, during which it broadcasts
from its stations such advertising programs as may be
agreed upon. During such time as is not sold, it broadcasts, at its own expense, "sustaining" programs, as required by the regulations of the Federal Radio Commission. The customers desire the broadcasts to reach the
listening public in the areas which appellant serves, and
a large number of persons, many of them in other states,
listen to the broadcasts from appellant's stations.
The state Supreme Court recognized that state taxation of gross income derived from interstate commerce is
forbidden by the commerce clause. But it upheld the
tax on the ground that the business*from which appelI This Act has been superseded by the Act of June 19, 1934, 48
Stat. 1081.

47 U. S. C. § 301ff.

FISHER'S BLEND STATION v. TAX COM'N.
650

653

Opinion of the Court.

lant receives its income is not interstate commerce. Ii
conceded, as it had previously held, Van Dusen v. Department of Labor and Industries, 158 Wash. 414; 290 Pac.
803, that broadcasting is commerce, and that the broadcasting by appellant of its own programs for which it
does not receive pay is interstate commerce. But it
concluded that appellant's remunerative business is not
interstate commerce because it consists of furnishing,
within the state, the facilities of its stations to customers
who use them for broadcasting their programs, and the
business of providing such facilities, like that of providing a bridge for the use of others in crossing state
lines, is not commerce. See Detroit InternationalBridge
Co. v. Corporation Tax Appeal Board, 294 U. S. 83;
Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 510.
We may assume, although. it is not alleged, that appellant's customers produce the sounds which are broadcasted. But it sufficiently appears, although the complaint does not specifically so state, that appellant, and
not the customer, generates the electric current and controls the apparatus (generator, transmitter and their controls) by which the sounds are broadcasted. The complaint states that appellant operates its stations and conducts the business of broadcasting in the manner already
described, and that the license to operate ihem is granted
to appellant by the Federal Radio Commission under the
Federal Radio Act. These allegations, read in the light
of the statute, which forbids any save licensees to operate broadcasting apparatus, § 1, Federal Radio Act of
1927, 44 Stat. 1162, and of the facts of which we have
judicial knowledge, see Buck v. Jewel-LaSalle Realty Co.,
283 U. S. 191, 200; DeForest Radio Co. v. General Electric Co., 283 U. S. 664, 670, et seq., must be taken to state
that the broadcasting of radio emanations, as distinguished from the production of the sounds broadcasted,
is effected by appellant and not by its customers.

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

The sounds broadcasted are not transmitted from the
microphone to the ears of listeners in other states. They
do hot pass as sound waves to the receiving mechanisms.
They serve only to enable the broadcaster, by the use of
appropriate apparatus, to modulate the radio emanations
which he generates. These emanations as modulated,
are projected through space to the receiving sets. There,
by a reverse process, they so actuate the receiving mechanisms as to produce a new set of sounid waves, of frequencies identical with those produced at the mircro-"
phone. On the argument it was conceded that, in broadcasting for its customers, appellant, by generating the
necessary electric power and controlling the transmitter,
produces the radio emanations which actuate the receiving mechanisms located in other states. Upon the facts
alleged, we see no more basis for saying that appellant's
customers do the broadcasting than for saying that a
patron of a railroad or a telephone company alone conducts the commerce involved in his railroad journey or
telephone conversation.
Appellant is thus engaged in the business of transmitting advertising programs from its stations in Washington to those persons in other states who "listen in"
through the use of receiving sets. In all essentials its
procedure does not differ from that employed in sending
telegraph or telephone messages across state lines, which
is interstate commerce. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Speight, 254 U. S. 17; New Jersey Bell Tel. Co. v. State
Board of Taxes, 280 U. S. 338; Cooney v. Mountain
States Tel. & Tel. Co., 294 U. S. 384; Pacific Tel. & Tel.
Co. v. Washington, ante, p. 403. In each, transmission is effected by means of energy manifestations
produced at the point of reception in one state which
are generated and controlled at the sending point in another. Whether the transmission is effected by the aid of
wires, or through a perhaps less well understood medium,

FISHER'S BLEND STATION v. TAX COM'N.
650

655

Opinion of the Court.

"the ether," is immaterial, in the light of those practical
considerations which have dictated the conclusion that
the transmission of information interstate is a form of
"intercourse," which is commerce. See Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 189.
Similarly, we perceive no basis for the distinction urged
by appellee, that appellant does not own or control the
receiving mechanisms. The communications broadcasted are no less complete and effective, nor any the
less effected by appellant, because it does not own or
command the apparatus by which they are received. The
essential purpose and indispensible effect of all broadcasting is the transmission of intelligence from the broadcasting station to distant listeners. It is that for which
the customer pays. By its very nature broadcasting
transcends state lines and is national in its scope and
importance-characteristics which bring it within the
purpose and protection, and subject it to the control, of
the commerce clause. See Federal Radio Comm'n v.
Nelson Bond & Mortgage Co., 289 U. S. 266, 279.
It is unnecessary to determine whether, as the court
below suggested and appellee argues, like considerations
would require us to hold that the exposure of a sign
board, in one state, to the view of dwellers in another,
is likewise interstate commerce. Whether the practical
and scientific aspects of such an operation bring it within
the range of those factors which we deem controlling here,
may well be left for decision when such a, case is presented. See Pantomimic Corporation v. Malone, 238
Fed. 135.
As appellant's income is derived from interstate commerce, the tax, measured by appellant's gross income, is
of a type which has long been held to be an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, Philadelphia &
Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Leloup
v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Galveston, H. & S. A.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U; S. 217; Crew-Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292. But appellee further contends,
as the state court thought, that, even though broadcasting involves interstate conunerce, the maintenance and
operation of appellant's stations includes intrastate activities which may be subjected to state taxation, as was the
generation of electricity, transmitted to points outside
the state, in Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.
165. There the tax was measured by the amount of current generated at the taxpayer's hydro-electric plant,
from which electric power was supplied to consumers in
other states. This Court held that the operation of generating electrical power, although .virtually simultaneous
with its transmission, is so distinct and separable from
the operation of transmission, in interstate commerce, as
to be the appropriate subject of a state tax. The argument now made overlooks the fact that the present tax
is not levied upon or measured by appellant's generation
of electro-magnetic waves, but, by its gross receipts for
the service it performs, which includes both the generation of the energy and its transmission as a means of
communication interstate.
Whether the state could tax the generation of such
energy, or other local activity of appellant, as distinguished from the gross income derived from its business,
it is unnecessary to decide. See Atlanta v. Oglethorpe
University, 178 Ga. 379; 173 S. E. 110. It is enough that
the present is not such a tax, but is levied on gross receipts from appellant's entire operations, which include
interstate commerce. As it does not appear that any of
the taxed income is allocable to intrastate commerce, the
tax as a whole must fail, Cooney v. Mountain States Tel.
& Tel. Co., supra; cf. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Washington, supra, andthe judgment of the state court must be
reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

