VIOLET TRAPPING CO. v. GRACE.
Opinion of the Court.

VIOLET TRAPPING CO., INC. v. GRACE, REGIS-

TER STATE LAND OFFICE,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 302. Argued January 10, 13; 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.
Lands which a State had acquired by adjudication for nonpayment
of -taxes were leased by it for a term limited to end if the lands
were redeemed by the former owner or sold by the State. Held,
that a later statute, permitting redemption on terms less onerous
than those in force when the lease was made, did not impair the
lessee's rights under the contract clause of the Constitution or the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 120.
182 La. 405; 162 So. 26, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a

suit in which a mandamus was sought to cancel certificates of redemption of land from tax sales, and an injunction against assertions of title thereunder.
Mr. Edward Rightor, with whom Messrs. Eugie V. Parham and Edwin J. Prinz were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Emmet Alpha, George A. Dreyfous, and Claude
L. Johnson were on the brief for appellees.
By leave of Court; Messrs. Bentley G. Byrne.s and M.
C. Scliarff filed a brief on behalf of the Trappers & Fishermen's Union of St. Bernard and Plaquemines Parishes,
as amicus curiae, supporting the position of appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Appellant is a sub-lessee of lands leased by the State of
Louisiana in 1924 to the Terre aux Boeufs Drainage
District. The lands had become the property of the State
by an adjudication for unpaid taxes of 1911 to 1923. The
lease by the State contained a clause that the lease would
end in case the lands were redeemed by the former owner
or sold by the State. At the time the lease and sub-lease

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

were made, the lands could be redeemed only by payment of all taxes, penalties and interest due at the datd
of redemption. By a subsequent statute, Act No. 161 of
1934, the legislature of Louisiana permitted redemption
on different and less onerous terms, that is, by the payment, on an installment basis, of the actual taxes for which
the property had been adjudicated to the State. Under
that statute, certificates for the redemption of the lands
in question were issued by the Register of the State Land
Office. Appellant then sought mandamus to. compel the
cancellation of the certificates, upon the ground that the
Act of 1934 violated the Constitution of the United States
in that the act impaired the obligation of appellant's
contract of lease, deprived appellant of its property without due process of law, and denied to appellant the equal
protection -of the laws. Judgment against the appellant
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. That
court decided that there was no impairment of the contract as the clause in the original lease, making it subject to redemption, was "free of ambiguity and without
limitation as to the conditions under which the properties
embraced in the lease might be redeemed or sold, or the
price to be paid therefor." State ex rel. Violet Trapping Co. v. Grace, 182 La. 405;. 162 So. 26.
While this Court, when the contract clause of the Federal Constitution is invoked, may determine for itself the
meaning and effect of the contract (Larson v. South Dakota, 278 U. S.429, 433; United States Mortgage Co. v.
Matthews, 293 U. S.232, 236), we find no reason for disagreeing with the conclusion reached by the state court.
The questions sought to be raised under the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment are without merit. Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S.
36, 41; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 I. S.342,
357; Sproles v. Bin.ford, 286 U. S.374, 396. The judgment is
Affirmed.

