MOOR v. TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO.
88

Syllabus.

-MR. JUSTICE BuTLER, and
MR. JuSTIcE SuTHEF
ixD,
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of opinion that the judgments
should be affirmed. The claim of respondent was a valid
one, constituting property prior to March 1, 1913. It not
only had an ascertainable value at that time, but a value
which was actually ascertained and found as a fact by the
trial judge and affirmed by the court below. Since there
is evidence in the record to support these concurrent findings, we are not at liberty to set them aside. The case
clearly falls within the principle of Doyle v. Mitchell
Brothers Co., 247 U. S. 179; Lucas v. Alexander, 279 U. S.
573, and other cases which might be cited. Certainly
promissory notes, bonds, shares of stock and valid claims
arising upon contract or in tort may be capital as distinguished from income, quite as much as a stock of goods
or other tangible property. And quite as certainly, it is
not necessary that these intangibles should have a market value or an inventory value. It is enough that they
have an ascertainable value at the statutory time fixed.

MOOR v. TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49. Argued December 10, 1935.-Decided January 13, 1936.
1. A mandatory injunction is not granted as a matter of right, but
i granted or refused in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion.
P. 105.
2. Plaintiff sought a mandatory injunction to compel a railroad to
accept shipments of cotton upon which the tax imposed by the
Cotton Control Act of April 21, 1934, had not been paid and which,
therefore, by the terms of that statute, the carrier was forbidden
to transport. The plaintiff claimed the statute was unconstitutional, and resorted to equity upon the grotlnd that, if he could not
move his cotton to mirket, he would suffer a large financial los,

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

297 U. S.

the amount of which could not be determined accurately, and that
he had no adequate remedy at law, and would be obliged to file
many suits against railroads for refusal to accept shipments. The
showing as to his financial condition was, however, general and
meagre, and it did not appear that he could not have obtained the
money necessary to move the cotton as he had done in respect of
earlier consignments. Refusal tb grant a mandatory injunction was
sustained as within the District Court's discretion by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Held that there is no ground for certiorari.
P. 105.
Writ of certiorari dismissed.

CERTIORARI was granted in this case, 295 U. S. 723, to
review a decree of the court below which affirmed the
decree of the District Court refusing an injunction and
dismissing the bill in a suit to compel the railroad company to accept a shipment of baled cotton. The decision below is reported, 75 F. (2d) 386.
Messrs. Thornton Hardie and Henry E. Hackney, with
whom Messrs. Garner W. Green and Ben R. Howell were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ben C. Dey, with whom Messrs. J. H. Tallichet,
Maury Kemp, and M. Nagle were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Marcellus Green, Garner W. Green, and Forrest
B. Jackson, and Messrs. Ralph W. Malone, George E.
Seay, and Henry Moore, Jr., for reversal of the judgment.
Solicitor General Reed, by leave of Court, argued on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, for affirmance of the. judgment. With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney General Wideman and Messrs. Sewall
Key, A. H. Feller; J. Paul Jackson, FrancisA. LeSourd,
Arnold Raum, Charles A. Horsky, Mastin G. White, and
H. Stewart McDonald, Jr.

MOOR v. TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO.
101

Opinion of the Court.

PER CUrIAM.
Lee Moor brought this suit on October 23, 1934, for a
mandatory injunction to compel the Texas and New Orleans Railroad Company to transport ten bales of cotton
from Clint, Texas, to New Orleans. The company had
refused to transport the bales because of the lack of the
bale tags required by the Cotton Control Act of April 21,
1934 (§§ 10, 14, 48 Stat. 598, 604). Moor contended that
the statute was void, as an attempt to regulate the production of cotton contrary to the provisions of the Fifth
and Tenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United
States. On final hearing, the District Court did not rule
upon the constitutional question but denied the injunction
and dismissed the complaint upon the ground that it had
not been shown that the plaintiff would suffer irreparable
injury for which he had no adequate remedy at law. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree, 75 F. (2d)
386, and certiorari was granted.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiff was the owner
of more than 3500 acres of land in El Paso County, Texas;
that the encumbrances and the taxes and charges assessed
for water were such as to require that he raise and sell
annually 2000 bales of cotton for at 'least ten cents a
pound net, or lose his land through foreclosure proceedings; that his cotton would have no value unless it could
be transported to cotton markets; that the Cotton Control Act imposed a tax of fifty per centum of the average
central market price per pound of lint cotton and in no
event less than five cents per pound; that having ginned
about 1000 bales of cotton, and being under the financial
necessity of selling them, which was impossible under the
statute unless he procured bale tags showing that the
cotton was exempt or the tax. had been paid, he had
sought, under duress, and had obtained tax exemption certificates for 8551/2 bales, the entire amount to which he
was entitled; that he would raise and gin a total of about
2500 bales, each of the average weight of 500 pounds,

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

during the year 1934, and had already ginned 1833 bales;
that he had tendered, without the required tags, ten bales
to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company for shipment
to New York and ten bales to the defendant for shipment
to New Orleans, but shipment had been refused solely
by reason of the absence of the tags; that the average
central market price of lint cotton was about twelve cents
per .pound, and, if transported, his cotton would be worth
about $60 a bale, and the tax would be about $30 a bale;
that if he was not permitted to move his cotton in interstate commerce he would suffer damage to the extent at
least of $60,000, but that it would be impossible to determine the amount of damage accurately; that he had no
adequate remedy at law and would be required to file a
large number of suits based upon the refusal of the railroad companies to accept shipments. The complaint was
not verified.
On October 25, 1934, the defendant moved to dismiss
the complaint, invoking the provisions of the Act as a
valid enactment, and on the same day the defendant
answered to the same effect.
The case was tried on October 30 and November 5,
1934. Plaintiff made two "trial amendments" which
somewhat amplified the allegations of his complaint. Defendant admitted the truth of substantially all the allegations except those relating to duress in connection with
plaintiff's application for exemption certificates and as
to the amount of his allotment, those as to future shipments, and those containing legal conclusions as to the
invalidity of the Act and the tax which it imposed.
The trial court received evidence. Plaintiff did not appear as a witness. The manager of his farm testified generally as to its cotton production, the market for cotton,
and plaintiff's inability to sell or move hip cotton without
the bale tags; that the average central market price of
cotton was about twelve cents a pound, or $60 a bale of
500 pounds; that plaintiff had borrowed $50,000 to finish
harvesting his cotton, mortgaging his 855 bales as security

MOOR v. TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO.
101

Opinion of the Court.

for that loan, which had been liquidated; and that plaintiff's financial condition was such that it was necessary
for him to realize on his cotton. Another witness testified as to general market conditions. No testimony was
offered for the defendant.
The allegations of the complaint with respect to plaintiff's financial necessities, as a ground for equitable intervention, were of the most general character and the evidence in that relation was general and meagre. There
were general statements as to encumbrances and expenses,
without any showing of details. Apparently, plaintiff had
disposed of the 855 exempt bales and there was no showing that he could not have obtained the money necessary
to move the remaining bales. The trial court concluded
that plaintiff had failed to make a case for equitable relief
and should be left to his legal remedy.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in affirming the decree,
rested its decision upon the established principle that a
mandatory injunction is not granted as a matter of right,
but is granted or refused in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion. Morrison v. Work, 266 U. S. 481, 490.
In this view of the record, and of the discretion which
the trial court was entitled to exercise, the writ of certiorari was improvidently granted and it is dismissed.
Writ dismissed.

