422

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

BAYSIDE FISH FLOUR CO. v. GENTRY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 2.

Argued February 12, 1936-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. The Fish and Game Code of California, for the purpose of conserving for food the fish found within the waters of the State,
regulates the local processing of sardines, whether taken within
those waters or imported. As applied to a manufacturing company treating only sardines brought in from the high seas and
disposing of its products only in interstate and foreign commerce,
held:
(1) That the regulation is not invalid under the commerce
clause of the Constitution, since in purpose and in direct operation it is confined to a merely local activity, and if it affects interstate or foreign commerce the result is purely incidental. Foster
Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, distinguished.' P. 425.
(2) To the extent that the Act deals with the use or treatment
of sardines brought into the State, they being indistinguishable
from those taken within the three mile limit, it is justifiable upon
the ground that it operates as a shield against the covert depletion
of the local supply, and thus tends to effectuate the policy of the
law by rendering evasion of it less easy. P. 426.
(3) Te regulation is within the state police power. Id.
(4) It is not void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because indirectly it is a deterrent to the
exercise of the right to contract for the purchase of sardines taken
from the high seas and brought into the State. P. 427.
2. A statute does not become unconstitutional merely because it has
created a condition of. affairs which renders the making of a
related contract, lawful in itself, ineffective. Id.
3. State regulations bearing a reasonable relation to. an object within
the state police power--e. g., the conservation of the State's fish
supply-cannot be declared invalid because a court may regard
them as ineffectual, or harsh in particular instances or as aids to
an objectionable policy. Id.
4. The differences between a process of canning the edible portions
of fish in their original form for food, and a morn rapid process
of reducing them to a flour or meal which may be readily diverted
to other purposes than human consumption, are enough to justify,

BAYSIDE FISH CO. v. GENTRY.
422

Opinion of the Court.

consistently with equal protection, restrictions of the latter process
not imposed upon the former, in regulations adopted by a State
to conserve her fish supply for food. P. 428.
8 F. Supp. 67, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree which dismissed a bill to enjoin
the above named appellees, officers of California, from
enforcing certain portions of the State Fish and Game
Code.
Mr. Walter Slack argued the cause and Mr. Roy Daily
filed a brief for appellant.
Mr. Darwin Bryan for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought to enjoin appellees, officers of
the State of California, from enforcing certain provisions of the State Fish and Game Code (Statutes of
1933, pp. 394, 484 et seq.) alleged to contravene the commerce clause, and the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal
Constitution. The court below sustained a motion to
dismiss the bill, on the ground that it did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action or to entitle appellant to any relief by injunction or otherwise. 8 F.
Supp. 67. We are of opinion that this decree must be
affirmed.
Appellant is a California corporation engaged in the
business of manufacturing, from the meat of sardines,
fish flour for human consumption. The sardines are
caught by fishermen upon the high seas beyond the
three-mile limit to which the jurisdiction of the state
extends, sold to appellant, and brought into the state and
there reduced to fish flour at appellant's reduction plants.
The fish flour is made with the expectation of selling

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

and shipping it in interstate and foreign commerce; and
it is so sold and shipped and is used as food in the United
States and foreign countries. Sardines are a*migratory
fish found in great numbers in the Pacific Ocean beyond
the three-mile limit as well as within that limit. So
far as known, they spawn upon the open seas. In the
process of reducing the fish, appellant uses a portion for
producing flour for human consumption, the remainder
being converted into a meal used for chicken feed, and
into fertilizer, fish oil and other nonedible substances.
Sardines caught in the same way axe also purchased by
packers, who clean, cook, and can or preserve them for
human food, using in that process only a part of the
fish and utilizing the remainder for reduction into nonedible products.
The provisions of the Fish and Game Code which ap•lellees threaten to enforce against appellant and those
necessary to be considered in that connection are copied
in the margin.' The bill alleges that appellees will pre'Sec. 1010. Every person must procure a license for each plant
or place of business to engage in the business of:
(a) Canning, curing, preserving or packing fish, taken from the
waters of this State or brought into this State in a fresh condition.
(b) Manufacturing fish scrap, fish meal, fish oil, chicken feed or
fertilizer from fish or fish offal.
Sec. 1060. As used in this article:
(a) "Reduction plant" means any plant used in the reduction of
fish into fish flour, fish meal, fish scrap, fertilizer, fish oil or other
fishery products or by-products.
(b) "Packer" means any person canning fish or preserving fish by.
the common methods of drying, salting, pickling or smoking.
(c) "Fish offal" means the heads, viscera, and other parts of fish
taken off in preparing for canning or preserving.
Sec. 1064. It is unlawful to cause or permit any deterioration or
waste of any fish taken in the waters of this State, or brought into
this State, or to take, receive or agree to receive more fish than can

BAYSIDE FISH CO. v. GENTRY.
422

Opinion of the Court.

vent appellant from manufacturing fish flour in its reduction plants while at the same time permitting packers to
use sardines, taken from the waters of the state or those
outside, in their packing plants.
First. There is nothing in the state act to suggest a purpose to interfere with inteistate commerce. It in no way
limits or regulates or attempts to limit or regulate the
be used without deterioration, waste or spoilage. Except as allowed
by this code, it is unlawful to use any fish or part thereof, except fish
offal, in a reduction plant or by a reduction process.
Sec. 1065. Sardines may be taken for use in a reduction plant, or
by a packer, only in accordance with the provisions of this article,
as follows: In districts 4, 4 3/, 18, 19, 20, 20A, and 21 between November 1 and March 31; elsewhere in the State between August 1 and
February 15. This section does not prohibit the taking of sardines
for the purpose of salting, curing, smoking or drying or for the
'purpose of packing in cans commonly known as quarter-pound or
square cans less than 10 ounces in nit weight; provided, that in a
ten-ounce can, fish of a size of not less than eight fish to the can may
be used, and there shall be added to the commonly known quarterpound can not less than one ounce of olive oil or a commercial salad
oil, and a proportionately larger amount of such oil to the larger
sizes of cans.
Sec. 1066. Any person engaged in canning sardines may take and
use in a reduction plant thirty-two and one-half per cent of the
amount of sardines actually received at such canning plant during each
calendar month.
Sec. 1068. The commission may grant a revocable permit, subject
to such restrictions, rules or regulations as the commission may prescribe, to take and use fish by a reduction or extraction process.
No reduction of fish shall be permitted which may tend to deplete the
species, or result in waste or deterioration of fish.
Sec. 1070. Persons eigaged in preserving sardines by the common
methods of drying, salting, smoking or pickling may use in a reduction
plant or by reduction process such sardines, or fish delivered mixed
with sardines, as are unfit for drying, salting, smoking or pickling,
which are not intentionally taken into the plant in a condition unfit
for processing for human consumption.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

movement of the sardines from outside into the state, or
the movement of the manufactured product from the
state to the outside. The act regulates only the manufacture within the state. Its direct operation, intended
amd actual, is wholly local. Whether the product is consumed within the borders of the state or shipped outside
in interstate or foreign commerce are matters with which
the act is not concerned. The plain purpose of the measure simply is to conserve for food the fish found within
the waters of the state. Over these fish, and over state
wild game generally, the state has supreme control. Sardines taken from waters within the jurisdiction of the
state and those taken from without are, of course, indistinguishable; and to the extent that the act deals with
the use or treatment of fish brought into the state from
the outside, its legal justification rests upon the ground
that it operates as a shield against the covert depletion of
the local supply, and thus tends to effectuate the policy
of the law by rendering evasion of it less easy. Silz v.
Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, 39-40.
If the enforcement of the act affects interstate or foreign commerce, that result is purely incidental, indirect,
and beyond the purposes of the legislation. The provisions of the act assailed are well within the police power
of the state, as frequently decided by this and other
courts. It is unnecessary to do more than refer to Silz
v. Hesterberg,supra, pp. 39 et seq., and Van Camp Sea
Food Co. v. Department of Natural Resources, 30 F. (2d)
111, where the decisions are collected.
Appellant places great reliance upon Foster-Fountain
Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1. There an act of the
State of Louisiana forbade exportation of shrimp from
which the heads and hulls or shells had not been removed.
The ostensible purpose of the act was to conserve the raw
shells for local use. The bill and affidavits in support of
it, however, demonstrated, we held, that this purpose was

BAYSIDE FISH CO. v. GENTRY.
422

Opinion of the Court.

feigned, and that the real purpose was to prevent the
shrimp from being moved as theretofore from Louisiana
to a point in Mississippi, where they were packed or
canned and sold in interstate commerce, and thus
through commercial necessity to bring about the removal
of the packing and canning industries from Mississippi to
Louisiana. The Louisiana act authorized every part of
the shrimp to be shipped and sold in interstate commerce.
We held that the state might have retained the shrimp
for use and consumption therein; but, having fully permitted shipment and sale outside the state, those taking
the shrimp under the authority of the act became entitled to the rights of private ownership and the protection of the commerce clause. It is plain that the decision
has no application to the case under review.
Second. The point that the provisions of the Fish and
Game Code deprive appellant of its property without due
process of law eems to be based upon the contention that
appellant is denied the right to contract for the purchase
of sardines .taken from the high seas and brought into the
state. Assuming the point to have been properly raised
below, which is by no means clear, it is without merit.
Undoubtedly the right to contract, with some exceptions,
is a liberty which falls within the protection of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Adkins v.
Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 545-546, and cases
cited. Plainly enough, however, that right is not directly
interfered with by the legislative provisions in question.
Nor, because they may operate indirectly as a deterrent,
do they, in the sense of the Constitution, deprive appellant of the liberty of contract. A statute does not become
unconstitutional merely because it has created a condition
of affairs which renders the.making of a related contract,
lawful in itself, ineffective.
These provisions have a reasonable relationto the object of their enactment-namely, the conservation of the

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

fish supply of the state-and we cannot invalidate them
because we might think, as appellant in effect urges, that
they will fail or have failed of their purpose. McLean v.
Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, 547-548. Nor can we declare the
provisions void because it might seem to us that they
enforce an objectionable policy or inflict hardship in
particular instances. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57, 77. And see, generally, Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549. "Whether the
enactment is wise or unwise," this court said in that case
(p. 569), "whether it is based on sound economic theory,
whether it is the best means to achieve the desired result,
whether, in short, the legislative discretion within its prescribed limits should be exercised in a particular manner,
are matters for the judgment of the legislature, and the
earnest conflict of serious opinion does not suffice to bring
them within the range of judicial cognizance."
Third. Finally, it is said that the provisions of the state
code so discriminate between the business of appellant
and that of persons engaged in canning or preserving
fish, as to deny appellant the equal protection of the
laws. Section 1010, supra, requires a license for each
plant or place of business to engage in (a) canning,
curing, preserving or packing fish, etc., and (b) manufacturing fish scrap, fish meal, fish oil, chicken feed or
fertilizer from fish or fish offal. Section 1060 -defines
"reduction plant" as a plant used in the reduction of fish
into fish flour, fish meal, fish scrap, fertilizer, fish oil, or
other fishery products or by-products; and defines
"packer" as any person canning fish or preserving fish
by the common methods of drying, salting, pickling or
smoking. Section 1064 is a provision intended to prevent deterioratibn or waste of fish, and specifically provides that except as allowed by the Code, it shall be
unlawful to use any part of the fish except the offal'in
a reduction plant or by a reduction process. By § 1065,

BAYSIDE FISH CO. v. GENTRY.
422

Opinion of the Court.

sardines are allowed to be taken for use in a reduction
plant or by a packer only in accordance with certain
provisions set forth. By § 1068, the State Fish and
Game Commission is authorized to grant a revocable permit "subject to such restrictions, rules or regulations as
the commission may prescribe, to take and use fish by
a reduction or extraction process. No reduction of fish
shall be permitted which may tend to deplete the species,
or result in waste or deterioration of fish." No similar
limitation is put upon, or similar power conferred in
respect of, packers; and it is the resulting classification
which appellant contends contravenes the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It never has been found possible to lay down any infallible or all-inclusive test by the application of which
it may be determined whether a given difference between
the subjects of legislation is enough to justify the subjection of one and not the other to a particular form of
disadvantage. A very large number of decisions have
dealt with the matter; and the nearest approach to a
definite rule which can be extracted from them is that,
while the difference need not be great, the classification
must not be arbitrary or capricious, but must bear some
just and reasonable relation to the object of the legislation. A particular classification is not invalidated by
the Fourteenth Amendment merely because inequality
actually results. Every classification of persons or things
for regulation by law produces inequality in some degree; but the law is not thereby rendered invalid (Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 106), unless the inequality produced be actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary. Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 379, 384, and cases cited.
The purpose of the legislation under consideration is
to prevent unnecessary waste, and to conserve for food
the fish supply subject to state jurisdiction. See People

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

v. Monterey Fish Products Co., 195 Cal. 548, 557-559.
If the legislature was of the view-as evidently it wasthat the process of packing on the whole would not
interfere with the effectuation of this policy while the
process of reduction would do so, unless carefully limited
to prevent excessive operations, we are unable to perceive
any reason for saying that such view was without reasonable basis. By the process of packing-that is, canning
or preserving-fish, the original form of the edible portions of the fish is not destroyed as it is by the process
of reduction, by which those portions are broken down
into a loose meal or flour. In the latter case it is obvious
that the product may be readily diverted to other purposes than human consumption, such as chicken feed,
fertilizer, etc. It is equally obvious that such a diversion is not likely to happen in the case of canning or preserving, where the edible portions retain their original
solid form. The state also points out that the process of
reduction is simple, and the quantity which can be reduced in a given period of time greatly exceeds what can
be utilized by packing, which is a much slower and more
complicated process. These differences are enough to
bring the classification within the permissible range of
state power, so far as the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is concerned.
We have considered the arguments of appellant tending to a different conclusion than that which we have
reached; but at most these arguments do no more than
demonstrate that the question is debatable. And, if so,
the effect of the action of the state legislature in passing
the statute was to decide this debatable question against
the view now advanced by appellant; and since we are
unable to say that such a determination by the legislature is clearly unfounded, we are precluded from overturning it. Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294.
Decree affirmed.

