OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

297 U.S.

In exceptional circumstances, especially in criminal
cases, appellate courts, in the public interest, may, of their
own motion, notice errors to which no exception has been
'taken, if the errors are obvious, or if they otherwise seriously affect the fairness, integrity or public reputation of
judicial proceedings. See New York Central R. Co. v.
Johnson, 279 U. S. 310, 318; Brasfield v. United,States,
272 U. S. 448, 450. But no such case is presented here.
The judgment must be affirmed for the reason that the

error assigned was not made the subject of appropriate
exception or request to charge upon the trial.
Affirmed.
MEYER

ET AL.

V. KENMORE GRANVILLE HOTEL
CO. ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 375 and 376.

Argued January 16, 1936.-Decided February
3, 1936.

1. An order of the District Court denying a petition which prays
dismissal of a proceeding to reorganize a corporation under § 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act, and incidentally for the recall of an injunction restraining creditors in that proceeding, is not appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals as of right but only by
leave of that court. Bankruptcy Act, §§ 77B (k), 24, and 25.
P. 162.
2. An order of the District Court confirming a plan of reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, is not appealable
to the Circuit Court of Appeals as of right but only by leave of
that court. P. 165.
77 F. (2d) 1004; 78 F. (2d) 1018, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 565, to review orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing two appeals, and an
order denying a petition to appeal, from orders of the
District Court in reorganization proceedings under § 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act,

MEYER v. KENMORE HOTEL CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Meyer Abrams, with whom Mr. Max Shulman
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Isaac E. Ferguson,with whom Mr. Arthur M. Cox
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the .Court.

Certiorari was granted in these cases as companion
cases to St. Louis Can Co. v. General American Life
Insurance Co., 77 F. (2d) 598 (C. C. A. 8th), in-which
certiorari was granted on the same day, to resolve questions as to the mode of appeal from certain orders entered
by a district court in the course of a reorganization proceedfig under § 77 R of the Bankruptcy Act, 48 Stat.
912, 11 U. S. C. 207. The writ in St. Louis Can Co. v.
General American Life Insurance Co. was later dismissed
by this Court on stipulation of the parties, 296 U. S.660.
On February 4, 1935, an involuntary petition was filed
in the district court for northern Illinois for reorganization of a corporate debtor. The debtor filed an answer
admitting the essential allegations of the petition, and
the district court found that the petition was filed in
good faith, and ordered that it stand approved, and that
creditors be restrained from asserting claims against the
property of the debtor. After this order was entered
the petitioner here filed a petition in the reorganization
proceeding setting up that she owned some of the mortgage bonds to which the property of the debtor was subject; that subsequent to the petition for reorganization,
but before it was approved, she had brought suit in the
state courts against the debtor and others for an accounting, charging fraud in the issue and sale of the
bonds and a fraudulent scheme to bring about a reorganization of the debtor to the detriment of the bondholders and to the advantage of the defendants in the
suit. She prayed that the petition for reorganization be

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

dismissed for want of good faith and of jurisdiction in
the district court, and that the injunction be dissolved.
The district court entered an order March 20, 1935, denying the petition. -From this order it allowed an appeal
to the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which
dismissed the appeal without opinion. The correctness
of this ruling is presented in No. 375.
Meanwhile, the district court proceeded with hearings,
in which petitioner took no part, on a proposed plan of
reorganization. The plan, after certain modifications,
was ultimately approved by 94% of the bondholders of
one class and 95% of another, and, with further changes
directed by the court, was confirmed by order entered
May 20, 1935. The Court of Appeals dismissed without
opinion petitioner's appeal from this order, allowed by
the district court. And it denied petitioner's application
for leave to appeal from the same order, on the ground
that petitioner, who albne sought leave to appeal, had
not objected to the plan in the bankruptcy court, and
so was not in a position to challenge the plan on her own
behalf or on that of bondholders who had objected.
The correctness of these rulings of the Court of Appeals
is presented in No. 376.
1. The question in No. 375 is whether the order of the
district court denying the application to dismiss the proceeding brought under § 77 B and to dissolve the injunction generally restraining creditors, is, for purposes of
appeal, the equivalent of "a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt," which by
§ 25 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, 44 Stat. 665, 11 U. S. C.
48 (a), is appealable as of right to the court of
appeals.
When § 77 B introduced into the Bankruptcy Act the
proceeding for reorganization of a corporation, it was provided that the procedure to be followcd in case reorganization were ordered should, so far as practicable, fol-

MEYER v. KENMORE HOTEL CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

low that already established by the Bankruptcy Act for
liquidation proceedings. Section 77 B (k)' directs that
the other sections of the Bankruptcy Act shall apply to
proceedings under § 77 B, unless inconsistent with it, and
that "... the date of the order approving the petition or
answer undqr this section shall be taken to be the date of
adjudication, and such order shall have the same consequence and effect as an order of adjudication."
The appeal provisions of §§ 24 and 252 of the Bankruptcy Act are thus made applicable to orders entered
in the course of a reorganization proceeding, and an order
approving or disapproving a petition for reorganization is
made the equivalent, at least for purposes of an appeal
under § 25 (a), of a judgment adjudging or refusing to
Section 77 B, sub-section (k):
. .. All other provisions of this title, except such as are inconsistent with the provisions of this section, shall apply to proceedings instituted under this section, whether or not an order to liquidate
tht, estate has been entered. For the purposes of such application,
provisions relating to 'bankrupts' shall be deemed to relate also to
'debtors'; 'bankruptcy proceedings' or 'proceedings in bankruptcy'
shall be deemed to include proceedings under this section; the date
of the order approving the petition or answer under this section shall
be taken to be the date of adjudication, and such order shall have
the same consequence and effect as an order of adjudication."
2 Section 24:
"(a) The Supreme Court of the United States, the circuit courts
of appeal of the United States, the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, and the supreme courts of the Territories, in vacation,
in chambers and during their respective terms, . . . are invested
with appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy
pioceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which they have
appellate jurisdiction in other cases.
"(b) The several courts of appeal and the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia shall have jurisdiction in equity, either interlocutory or final, to superintend and revise in matter of law (and in
matter of law and fact the matters specified in section 25 of this title)
the proceedings of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy within
their jurisdiction. Such power shall be exercised by appeal and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

adjudge the defendant a bankrupt. By § 24 (a) and (b)
appeals in "proceedings" in bankruptcy, as distinguished
from appeals in "controversies arising in bankruptcy,"
may be taken only on leave granted in the discretion of
the appellate court, except that in the cases enumerated
in § 25 (a), including, in clause (1), "a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt," an
appeal may be taken as of right.
The petitioner appealed not from the order approving
the reorganization, but from that denying her application
to dismiss the reorganization proceedings. It is not contended that this order is one in a controversy arising in
bankruptcy,' appealable as of right under § 24 (a). See
Taylor v. Voss, 271 U. S. 176, 181; Harrisonv. Chamberlin, 271 U. S. 191; Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194
U. S. 296, 299, 300. It is urged that it is the equivalent
of an order approving a petition in a reorganization proceeding, which § 77 B (k) assimilates to an order of adjudication, appealable as of right. But an order refusing to set aside an adjudication of bankruptcy is not
within § 25 (a) clause (1). This Court has held that an
appeal can be taken from such an order only on leave of
the appellate court, under § 24 (b). Vallely v. Northern
F. & M. Insurance Co., 254 U. S. 348. The present appeal from the order refusing to dismiss the reorganization
the form and manner of an appeal, except in the cases mentioned in
said section 25 of this title to be allowed in the discretion of the
appellate court."
Section 25 (a):
"Appeals, as in equity cases, may be taken in bankruptcy, proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to the circuit courts of appeal
of the United States and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbi% and to the supreme courts of the Territories in the following
cases, to wit: (1) from a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge
the defendant'a bankrupt; (2) from a judgment granting or denying
a discharge; and (3) from a judgment allowing or rejecting a debt
or claim of $500 or over. .. "

MEYER v. KENMORE HOTEL CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings does not stand on any different footing, and
was rightly dismissed because taken without leave of the
appellate court. Humphrey v. Bankers Mortgage Co.,
79 F. (2d) 345; Vitagraph, Inc. v. St. Louis Properties
Corp., 77 F. (2d) 590; St. Louis Can Co. v. General American Life Insurance Co., supra; Credit Alliance Corp. v.
Atlantic, Pacific & Gulf Refining Co., 77 F. (2d) 595; and
see Wilkerson v. Cooch, 78 F. (2d) 311.
That part of petitioner's application to the district
court which asked that the injunction restraining creditors be set aside does not present a "controversy arising
in bankruptcy" as distinguished from a "proceeding" in
bankruptcy. The relief from the restraining order which
petitioner sought was but incidental to her assault on
the order approving the petition, and raised no issue
capable of litigation independently of the proceeding in
the bankruptcy court. It related only to the due administration of the pending proceeding and so was a "proceeding" in bankruptcy, in which the allowance of an
appeal is discretionary. See Taylor v. Voss, supra; Harrison v. Chamberlin, supra.
2. In No. 376 petitioner contends that the order of the
district court approving the plan of reorganization corresponds to an order confirming or rejecting a composition
with creditors, and that the latter, as was held in United
States ex rel. Adler v. Hammond, 104 Fed. 862, is appealable as of right under § 25 as equivalent to an order
"granting or denying a discharge." But we think it plain
that an order confirming a plan of reorganization under
§ 77 B is not the equivalent of a judgment granting or
denying a discharge, for, unlike confirmation of a composition, see § 14, 30 Stat. 550, 11 U. S. C., § 32 (c), it
does not operate as a discharge. The release of the debtor
in a reorganization proceeding is contingent upon the
performance of its part of the reorganization plan. Section 77 B (h) commands the debtor and others to execute

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

the plan of reorganization, when confirmed, under the
direction of the court, authorizes the court to make appropriate orders to that end, and provides that "upon
the termination of the proceedings a final decree shall be
entered," which "shall discharge the debtor from its debts
and liabilities." Discharge is effected riot by confirmation of the plan but by the final decree.
Confirmation of a plan of reorganization is but a step
in the administration of the debtor's estate, and, for reasons already stated, is an order in a proceeding in bankruptcy rather than a controversy arising in bankruptcy
proceedings, and appeal lies only in the discretion of the
appellate court. See Campbell v. Alleghany Corporation,
75 F. (2d) 947, 955.
3. In the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it
by § 24 (b) the court below denied the application for
leave to appeal from the order of the district court confirming the plan of reorganization. Petitioner, who alone
asked leave to appeal, made no objection to the plan.
Her criticisms of the plan are not of a character to invite
the exercise of the discretion of the court to examine them
for the first time on appeal.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

