OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

638

Syllabus.

TRIPLETT =T

AL.

297 U.S.

v. LOWELL ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 388. Argued March 4, 5, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.
1. Neither the disclaimer statute, R. S. §§ 4917, 4922, nor the rules
of the common law applicable to successive litigations concerning
the same subject matter preclude re-litigation of the validity of a
patent claim previously held invalid in a suit against a different
defendant. P. 642.
2. The court whose jurisdiction is invoked by a suit for infringement of a patent must determine for itself the validity of the
claims asserted, notwithstanding a prior adjudication of invalidity
of some of them, unless those issues have become res judicata by
reason of the fact that both suits are between the same parties or
their privies. Only if it holds that the claims are invalid may it
be called upon to apply the disclaimer statute and to decide
whether the patentee, under all the circumstances presented, has
unreasonably delayed or neglected to enter a disclaimer of the
claims of whose invalidity he had notice in the prior suit. P. 645.
3. Where suit on a patent is brought in a circuit in which the circuit
court of appeals had held some of the claims invalid, the court, in
the second suit, must decide whether the issues of law and fact in
the two cases are the same; and, if they are not, it is not bound
by the earlier decision. P. 648.
4. This Court will not answer on certificate questions covering unstated matter lurking in the record, or which admit of different
answers dependent on circumstances not stated; academic questions; or questions the answers to which depend upon other
answers for which no basis is laid in the certificate. P. 648.
77 F. (2d) 556, affirmed.
Certificate in No. 590 dismissed.
CERTIORARI,

296 U. S. 570, to review the reversal of a

decree dismissing a suit for infringement of a patent. The
second case, No. 590, of like character, came up by cerTogether with No. 590, Mantle Lamp Co. v. Aluminum Products
Co. Certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit.

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

tificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals of another
circuit.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Mr. Charles
Markell was on the brief, for Triplett et al.
I Mr. Clifton V. Edwards, with whom Messrs. Gaylord
Lee Clark and John B. Brady were on the brief, for
Lowell et al.
Mr. George I. Haight, with whom Messrs. W. H. F.
Millar and M. K. Hobbs were on the brief, for Mantle
Lamp Co.
Mr. Win. Nevarre Cromwell for Aluminum Products

Co.
MR.JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In No. 388 certiorari was granted to resolve questions
as to the scope and effect of the disclaimer statute, R. S.
§§ 4917, 4922, 35 U. S. C. §§ 65, 71, raised in a suit
brought to enjoin infringement of several patent claims,
some of which had previously been held invalid in an infringement suit in another circuit against different defendants.
In No. 590 like questions have been argued upon certificate to this Court, under § 239 of the Judicial Code, of
the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
No. 388.
Respondents in No. 388, before bringing the present
suit, had sued in a district court in the third circuit to
restrain infringement of Claim 9 of Patent No. 1,635,117,
July 5, 1927, to Dunmore, for a signal receiving system,
and of Claims 3 and 14 of Patent No. 1,455,141, May 15,
1923, to Lowell and Dunmore, for a radio receiving apparatus. Each claim was held invalid by the Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, Radio Corporationv. Du-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

bilier Condenser Corp., 59 F. (2d) 305, 309, and petitions to tl~is Court for certiorari were denied, 287 U. S.
648, 650. More than eight months after the denial of
certiorari respondents filed, in the Patent Office, purported disclaimers of each of the claims thus held invalid, and more than a month later began the present
suit in the district court for Maryland to restrain infringement of the same claims and other claims of the
same patents not previously adjudicated. A motion to
dismiss the suits as to both patents for unreasonable delay in filing disclaimers of the claims previously held
invalid, and because the disclaimers were inadequate,
was granted by the District Court upon the latter
ground.
The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed
and ordered a new trial, 77 F. (2d) 556, holding that
respondents were not barred from maintaining the second suit, against different defendants, for infringement
of the claims previously held invalid and that the disclaimer of those claims was not prerequisite to maintenance of the suit upon the claims not previously adjudicated. It intimated that the second suit could not be
maintained unless brought without unreasonable delay,
but it concluded that it could not say that there had been
unreasonable delay in the present case.
Whether the respondents' disclaimers are merely an
attempted formal alteration of the claims so as to conform them more precisely to the specifications without
changing their substance or conceding their invalidity,
see Carnegie Steel Co. v. CambriaIron Co., 185 U. S. 403,
435, or whether they are in effect such alterations of the
substance of the claims as to bring them within the requirements and limitations of the re-issue statute, R. S.
§ 4916, 35 U. S. C. 54, so as to render both the old and
the new claims invalid, see Altoona Publix Theatres, Inc.
v. American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 490-492,

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

are questions which have been much argued here and
below. In reaching its decision the Court of Appeals
assumed, as we shall assume without deciding, that the
disclaimers were inadequate because they failed to concede invalidity of the adjudicated claims. It concluded
that if the same decision were reached, as to the validity
of the claims previously adjudicated, as in the Third
Circuit, the respondents' suit must fail both as to them
and as to all the other claims, "even though some of them
may be good. For it would then be established that the
owner of the patent had failed to file disclaimers within
a reasonable time after notice of the invalidity of some of
the claims had been brought home to him." 77 F. (2d)
556, 561.
Revised Statutes, § 4917, provides that "Whenever,
through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, . . . a patentee has claimed more than that of which he was the
original or first inventor,... his patent shall be valid for
all that part which is truly and justly his own, . . ." and
authorizes him to file in the Patent Office a written disclaimer of "such parts of the thing patented as he shall
not choose to claim." Revised Statutes § 4922 authorizes a patentee who has claimed more than that of which
he was the inventor, to maintain a suit for the infringement of "any part" of the patent "which was bona fide
his own, if it is a material and substantial part of the
thing patented, and definitely distinguishable from the
parts claimed without right, notwithstanding the specifications may embrace more than that of which the patentee was the first inventor or discoverer," but with the
proviso that "no patentee shall be entitled to the benefits
of this section if he has unreasonably neglected or delayed to enter a disclaimer."
Petitioners contend that if any claim of a patent is
adjudged invalid no further suit can be maintained upon
it, or upon other claims of the patent without disclaimer

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of the claims previously held invalid. This contention
is predicated upon the rule that, save for the disclaimer
statute, adjudication of invalidity of any claim of a patent renders the entire patent void, and upon the assumption that by force of the statute, if not without it, an adverse decision on any claim is final and conclusive as to
its invalidity, in any court, except as modified upon an
appellate review. If this view be accepted, it follows that
the right to maintain- suit for infringement of the separable claims of a patent which already have been held
valid, or have not been adjudicated, may alone be saved
by disclaimer of all claims held invalid, within a reasonable time after their adjudication; the patentee may not
contest again the validity of the claims held invalid and
only by abandoning them by timely disclaimer may he
litigate other claims.
Neither reason nor authority supports the contention
that an adjudication adverse to any or all the claims of
a patent precludes another suit upon the same claims
against a different defendant. While the earlier decision
may by comity be given great weight in a later litigation
and thus persuade the court to render a like decree, it
is not res adjudicataand may not be pleaded as a defense.
See Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg. Co., 177 U. S. 485;
Sanitary Refrigerator Co. v. Winters, 280 U. S. 30, 35.
The disclaimer statute was enacted to mitigate the harsh
rule ' that the entire patent was destroyed if any claim
'By § 3 of the Patent Act of 1793, 1 Stat. 318, and § 6 of the
Patent Act of 1836, 5 Stat. 117, an accurate description in writing
of the invention in the patent application was prerequisite to the
award of a patent. Section 6 of the Act of 1793, and § 15 of the
Act of 1836, authorized the defendant in a patent suit, by way of
defense, to prove that the specification of the patent "contains more
than is necessary to produce the desired effect, .. .or that the thing
thus secured by the patent was not originally discovered by the
patentee , ... " By the Act of 1832, 4 Stat. 551, it was provided

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

were held invalid. See Altoona Publix Theatres, Inc. v.
American Tri-Ergon Corp., supra, 490; Ensten v. Simon,
Ascher & Co., 282 U. S. 445, 452; Hailes v. Albany Stove
Co., 123 U. S. 582, 589; Moody v. Fiske, (C. C.) 2 Mason
112, 118, Fed. Cas. No. 9,745. The statute permits the
patentee to abandon by disclaimer parts of the patent
which he does not choose to claim, and if the disclaimer
is timely and adequate it authorizes him to maintain suit
for infringement of the separable parts which he does
choose to claim. But neither in terms nor by implication
does it deny to a patentee the right to bring a second suit
for the infringement of a claim already held to be invalid.
If such were itg construction it would deny to a patentee
the right to re-litigate claims held invalid when others are
held valid or are not in issue, but would leave that right
unaffected when the entire patent is held invalid, since
in that case there would be nothing to disclaim. See
Winans v. New York & Erie R. Co., 21 How. 88, 103.
Only a plain legislative command would justify a construction leading to such incongruous results.
While the contention now made is apparently for the
first time seriously argued here, this Court has several
times held valid the claims of a patent which had been
held invalid by a circuit court of appeals in an earlier
suit brought by the same plaintiff against another defendant. Expanded Metal Co. v. Bradford, 214 U. S.
366; Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Rubber Tire
Co., 220 U. S. 428; Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin,
that whenever any patent shall be invalid by reason of failure to
comply with the requirements of § 3 of the Act of 1793, it should

be lawful to grant a new patent to the patentee for his invention,
upon surrender of the old patent and compliance with § 3 of the
Act of 1793. Section 13 of the Act of 1836 similarly authorized
the new patent to issue "in accordance with the patentee's corrected
description and specification." Section 7 of the Act of 1837, 5
Stat. 191, carried into R. S.4917, first permitted the patentee to
preserve the valid part of his original patent by disclaimer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

245 U. S. 198.2 Before the establishment of the circuit
court of appeals, an adverse decision as to the validity
of a patent in one circuit appears not to have foreclosed
litigation of the same issue in another, see Barbed Wire
Patent, 143 U. S. 275; compare United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315, 372. That it
does not now is implicitly recognized by the practice
established under § 240 (a) of the Judicial Code, and
Rule 38 (5) of this Court, that certiorari will not usually
be granted in patent cases unless there is a conflict in
the decisions of circuit courts of appeals. We conclude
that neither the rules of the common law applicable to
successive litigations concerning the same subject matter,
nor the disclaimer statute, precludes re-litigation of the
validity of a patent claim previously held invalid in a
suit against a different defendant.
It follows that want of disclaimer of claims previously
held invalid can never be set up as a bar in limine to the
maintenance of a second suit upon those claims, and
any others of the patent, since the patentee is entitled to
invoke in that suit the independent judgment of the
court upon the validity of the claims which have been
held invalid. In advance .of its decision as to validity,
that court cannot consistently hold that there is necessity for disclaiming claims which, although previously
adjudged invalid, it may hold to be valid. The statute
does not command that a court authorized to pass upon
the validity of A claim shall accept as conclusive a pre'In other cases this Court has held invalid, upon examination of
the merits, a patent which had been upheld by one court of appeals
after being held invalid by another. Railroad Supply Co. v. Elyria
Iron Co., 244 U. S. 285; Meccano, Ltd. v. John Wannamaker, 253
U. S. 136; New York Scaffolding Co. v. Chain Belt Co., 254 U. S.
32; Corona Cord Tire Co. v. Dovan Chemical Corp., 276 U. S. 358;
Saranac Automatic Machine Corp. v. Wirebounds Patents Co., 282
U. S. 704.

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

vious adjudication of invalidity of the same claim for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the disclaimer statute
applies. On the contrary, § 4922 in terms permits the
patentee to "maintain a suit . . . for the infringement
of any part" of the patent "which was bona fide his
own."
The court whose jurisdiction is invoked by such a suit
must determine for itself validity and. ownership of the
claims asserted, notwithstanding a prior adjudication of
invalidity of some of them, unless those issues have become res adjudicata,by reason of the fact that both suits
are between the same parties or their privies. If it determines that the claims previously adjudicated are
valid, there is no occasion for disclaimer. In such a case
the intimation of the court below that the second suit
must be brought within a reasonable time is without support, for if in that court the claims are upheld, there
is nothing to disclaim and the statute does not apply.
Only if it holds that the claims are invalid may it be
called upon to apply the disclaimer statute and to decide whether the patentee, under all the circumstances
presented, has unreasonably neglected or delayed to enter
a disclaimer of the claim of whose invalidity he had
notice in the prior suit.s
The disclaimer statute is remedial, and intended for
the protection of both the patentee and the public. See
O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 How. 62, 121. Both are protected
by the construction which we adopt and which we think
is the only admissible one. The patentee is free to preserv some of the claims of his patent by disclaiming
'We do not now determine the effect of the disclaimer statute
when the second suit, either from choice or necessity, is confined to
claims held valid or not adjudicated in the earlier action. Whether
the claims previously held invalid should be deemed abandoned and
properly subject to disclaimer would depend upon special circumstances and involve questions not presented in the present suit.

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

others which have been held invalid, but the statute does
not force him to pay that price in order to save them.
He may relinquish the privilege of disclaimer and proceed to re-litigate, in another court, the claims which
have been declared to be invalid, but at the risk of loss
in that court of the other claims of the patent even
though valid, if it likewise holds invalid the previously
adjudicated claims.
A different question is presented where the claims adjudged invalid are abandoned, whether by a tardy disclaimer or otherwise, and a second suit is brought to restrain infringement of other claims, see Ensten v. Simon,
Ascher & Co., supra, or where in the same suit in which
some claims are held invalid the plaintiff seeks to secure
without disclaimer the .benefits of a favorable decision
on other claims. See R. Hoe & Co. v. Goss PrintingPress
Co., 31 F. (2d) 565; Higgin Mfg. Co. v. Watson, 263 Fed.
378; Liquid Carbonic Co. v. Gilchrist Co., 253 Fed. 54;
Herman v. Youngstown Car Mfg. Co., 191 Fed. 579.
We do not decide whether the purported disclaimers
operate to enlarge the claims in such fashion as to render both the old and the new claims invalid by virtue of
the reissue statute. See Altoona Publix Theatres, Inc. v.
American TrK-Ergon Corp., supra, 490-492. That question is not presented by the petition for certiorari. The
courts below do not appear to have passed upon it, and
it may be unnecessary to decide it on the new trial. The
decree will be affirmed.
No. 590.
In No. 590 the questions certified are as follows:
"1. Where certain but not all of the claims of a patent
are in suit, and all of the claims in suit are held and decreed to be invalid pursuant to a finding and judgment
to that effect of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the cir-

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

cuit, may the owner of the patent maintain a, suit afterward brought thereon in the same judicial circuit as that
in which the first cause was decided, and against a different defendant not involved in the first suit-the second
suit being based on the claims held in the prior suit to
be invalid and on other claims of the safne patent not
previously adjudicated-where the owner of the patent
wholly failed and omitted to fie any disclaimer of the
claims held in the first suit to be invalid, and where,
between entry of decree of invalidity of the claims in
the first suit and the bringing of the second suit in the
same circuit, reasonable time had elapsed for filing such
disclaimer?
"2. If question 1 is answered in the affirmative, does
the intervention of a period of approximately five years
between the final judgment in the first suit and the institution in the same circuit of the second suit constitute
delay so unreasonable as to bar the second suit for want
of disclaimer of the claims which had been held to be
invalid?
"3. If question 2 is answered affirmatively, may the institution or pendency of other suits in another judicial
circuit or circuits after entry of final decree in the first
suit, based on claims of the patent so held invalid and
on other claims thereof not previously adjudicated to be
invalid, excuse the failure to file disclaimer of the claims
held invalid prior to instituting the later suit in the
same circuit?"
From the facts stated in the certificate it appears that
the district court below, upon hearing the cause, decreed
the several claims, on which the plaintiff relied, to be
invalid "for various reasons, among them for neglect to
file within reasonable time disclaimers" of the claims
previously held invalid by the Court of. Appeals for the
same circuit. It does not appear whether the district

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

court, independently of the defense of want of disclaimer,
passed upon the validity of the claims previously adjudicated and decided that they were invalid upon the evidence presented, or whether it held that all inquiry
as to their validity was foreclosed by the prior adjudication.
From what we have said in our opinion in No. 388, it
is manifest that the effect rightly to be given to the failure
to disclaim may turn upon the disposition which the trial
court makes of the claims previously held invalid, and
that there is no occasion for the application of the disclaimer statute until the trial court has itself passed on
the validity of the previously adjudicated claims. The
fact that the suit was brought in the same circuit where
the court of appeals had previously held some of the
claims invalid is immaterial, for the court must decide
whether the issues of law and fact in the two cases are
the same, and if they are not it is not bound by the earlier
decision.
This Court cannot be required, by certificate, to answer,
and it should not, answer, questions which cover unstated
matter "lurking in the record," see UnitedStates v. Mayer,
235 U. S. 55, 66; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Williams,
205 U. S. 444, 454; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60; United
States v. Hall, 131 U. S. 50, 52; or questions which admit
of one answer under one set of circumstances and a different answer under another, neither of which is stated to
be the basis of the questions certified. See White v.
Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371; Hallowell v. United States,
209 U. S. 101, 107; Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S. 426, 435;
Enfield v. Jordan, 119 U. S. 680.
Moreover, it does not appear that the claims not previously adjudicated constitute "a material and substantial part of the thing patented, and definitely distinguishable" from the claims held invalid, so as to admit of the

TRIPLETT v. LOWELL.
638

Opinion of the Court.

application of § 4922. We are not required to answer
academic questions, or questions which may not arise in
the pending controversy. See White v. Johnson, supra,
373; United States v. Hall, supra; Webster v. Cooper, 10
How. 54, 55. For these reasons the first question is not
answered.
The second and third questions, by their terms, require an answer only if the first is answered. In addition, the answers to both turn upon the question whether
the patentee has "unreasonably neglected or delayed to
enter a disclaimer" within the meaning of § 4922, which
can be answered only in the light of all relevant circumstances and the inferences to be drawn from them. Such
questions are not properly the subject of a certificate,
especially where, as here, it fails to disclose whether all
the relevant facts and circumstances have been certified.
Jewell v. Knight, supra; Baltimore & Ohio 1. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 215 U. S. 216, 221; Chicago,
B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Williams, supra., 452; United States v.
City Bank of Columbus, 19 How. 385; United States v.
Bailey, 9 Pet. 267, 274.
Such aid as we are able to give in answering questions
as to the scope and effect of the disclaimer statute which
may be involved in the pending cause is afforded by our
opinion in No. 388.
The decree in No. 388 is affirmed.
The certificate in No. 590 is dismissed.

