WRIGHT v. CENTRAL KY. GAS CO.
530

537

Syllabus.

v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 370-371; Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., Petitioner, 129 U. S. 206.
The order is reversed with direction to the Circuit
Court of Appeals to pay to the United States the proceeds of the sale now in the registry after deducting the
usual court charges.
Reversed.

WRIGHT

ET AL.

v. CENTRAL KENTUCKY NATU-

RAL GAS CO.
APPEAL FROM THE

No. 551.

ET AL.

COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

Argued March 4, 1936.-Decided March 16, 1936.

A franchise contract between a city and a gas company provided that
if rates proposed by the company were deemed excessive by the
city, reasonable rates should be prescribed in proceedings before
a state commission; that pending such proceedings and any subsequent proceedings in court, the company should charge specified temporary rates, part of the collections from which should
be impounded; and that, upon the final fixation of rates, the
impounded sums should be distributed, under order of the commission or of the court, to the company or to its several customers,
as the final determination should direct. Pursuant to these provisions, proceedings were brought and litigated, but, while they were
pendirg, the city and the company compromised their differences
by agreeing upon a rate for the future and by providing for distribution of the impounded sums. Upon appeal from a judgment of
the state court upholding the compromise over objections by customers who claimed that their rights in the fund were thereby
infringed in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution and
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,-held
1. That this Court, in adjudicating these constitutional claims,
will examine for itself the franchise contract and the impounding
proceedings. P. 542.
2. The customers had no vested rights preventing the cMty from
making the compromise agreement. Id.
3. In making the settlement, as well as in making the original
franchise contract, the customers were represented by the city.
Id.
260 Ky. 361; 85 S. IV. (2d) 870, affirmed.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the- Court.

297 U.S.

APPEAL from a judgment upholding an. agreement be-

tween a gas company and a city, and an enforcing ordinance, in a suit brought by the gas company against the
city for a determination of their validity and a declaration of rights. The appeal here is by consumers of gas
who came into the case below by consolidation and
intervention.
Mr. Lon B. Rogers for appellants.
Messrs. Henry T. Duncan, Dyke L. Hazelrigg, and
Chester J. Gerkin were on the brief for Central Kentucky
Natura-l.Gas Co., appellee.
'Messrs. Leo T. Wolford and William A. Minihan were
on the brief for the City of Lexington, appellee.
Messrs. Joseph A. Edge, John H. Connaughton, and
Raymond M. Hudson, were on the brief for J. W. Delph
et al., appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Under an ordinance of the City of Lexington, Kentucky, adopted in January, 1927, 'the Central Kentucky
Natural Gas Company purchased a: franchise for the distribution and sale of gas to consumers in' that city. The
contract with the city provided that the company should
nd
promulgate the rates which it proposed to charg
that, if the city deemed them to be excessive, proceedings should be instituted before the Railroad Commission of the State in order to have just and reasonable
rates prescribed. It was also stipulated that pending
the proceedings before the commission, and any subsequent proceedings in court, the company should have the
right to charge specified temporary rates, provided that a
certain -amount collected under such rates should be impounded pending the final fixation of rates, whereupon

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL KY. GAS CO.
537

Opinion of the Court.

the sums impounded, with interest accumulations, should
be distributed under the order of the commission, or of
the court, to the company or to its several customers as
the final determination should direct.
The company promulgated a schedule of rates which
the city assailed as excessive and a portion of the amounts
collected was impounded. In 1929, the commission
made an order prescribing rates and this order was attacked by the company in a suit in the District Court
of the United States. By an interlocutory injunction that
court enjoined further proceedings under the order and
appointed as receiver the custodian of the fund which had
been impounded by the commission, directing him to
hold any fund required by the franchise contract to be
impounded subsequently. On final hearing, the court
held the prescribed rate to be confiscatory, but finding
that a certain higher rate would be reasonable, directed
that a permanent injunction should issue restraining the
imposition of the prescribed rate, upon condition that
the company file its consent that the fund impounded
from the rate collected in excess of that deemed by the
court to be reasonable should be distributed. As the
company declined so to consent, a final decree was entered
denying a permanent injunction and directing the distribution of the imnpounded fund.
This Court reversed the decree, holding that on the
basis of the conclusion of the District Court that the rate
prescribed by the commission was confiscatory, that court
should have granted appropriate relief without condition, leaving the commission free to exercise its authority
to fix a reasonable rate, and the court should have relinquished its control over the impounded fund by directing the receiver to retain it in his capacity as
custodian appointed by the commission. Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S.
264, 273, 275. The city and ihe company then undertook

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297U.S.

to compromise their differences by agreeing upon a rate
for the future and by providing for distribution of the
impounded fund. The terms of the agreement were
embodied in Resolution No. 74 passed by the Board of
Commissioners of the City and accepted by the company.
Pursuant to that agreement, the Board of Commissioners
passed Ordinance No. 271 amending the existing franchise ordinance and putting into effect the agreed schedule of future rates. A petition for a referendum was filed
against the latter ordinance, whereupon the Board of
Commissioners repealed both Ordinance No. 271 and
Resolution No. 74.
The present suit was then brought by the company
against the city in the circuit court of the State for a
declaration of the rights of the company and for a determination of the validity of Resolution No. 74 and Ordinance No. 271. Another suit was filed by J. M. Wright
(appellant here) in the state court, setting up the adoption of the original franchise ordinance in 1927 and its
acceptance by the city, and that he was a consumer of gas,
and seeking a mandatory injunction directing the company to furnish gas to him at a specified rate until the proceedings before the Railroad Corhmission had been finally
determined. The two cases were consolidated. Later,
J. M. Wright and F. A. Forsythe (the other appellant
here) were permitted to file an intervening petition in the
company's suit against the city, setting forth their interest as consumers. The circuit court held Resolution
No. 74 invalid in its entirety, because (1) it undertook
to distribute, without the approval of the court, the fund
in which it held the consumers had a vested right, (2)
one S. B. Featherstone, who had been a party plaintiff
on behalf of himself and all other consumers in earlier
proceedings in the state court and before the Railroad
Commission, had not agreed to the resolution, and (3)

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL KY. GAS CO.
537

Opinion of the Court.

the city was without power to agree upon a distribution
of the impounded fund and could only agree on a rate,
after which the duty would devolve upon the court
and the commission to distribute the fund in accordance
with the rate fixed.
That decision was reversed by the Court-of Appeals of
Kentucky, 260 Ky. 3 l ; 85 S W. (2d) 870. That court,,,
after observing that it had been "erroneously thought by
numerous voters that Ordinance 271 was subject to a referendum," reached the following conclusions: That at the
time 'vhen Resolution No. 74 was passed the rate theretofore fixed by the Railroad Commission was a nullity; that
the city and the company were as free to agree upon the
rates to be charged under the franchise contract as they
were before the void finding of the Railroad Commission
was promulgated; that the consent of the court or commission required in the resolution was purely a forinai
consent to the method of distribution; and that there "was
no reason requiring the consent of the court or commission
as to the amounts distributed." In this view, the Court
of Appeals deemed the question for its consideration to be
whether or not Resolution No. 74 in effect fixed a rate.
The court did not consider it necessary that Featherstone
should be a party to the agreement, citing In re Engelhard & Sons Co., 231 U. S. 646. "The matter was one
entirely between the gas company and the city." The
court then concluded that Resolution No. 74 "did in fact
fix a reasonable rate for the period, of impoundment"; that
the city and the company "had the power to deal with
the situation in a practical way," and that so long as the
result of their action was to agree upon a return for the
company that was neither extortionate nor confiscatory,
there was no basis for objection to the method adopted.
Accordingly, the court held that both Resolution No. 74
and Ordinance No. 271 were valid as contracts and could

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

not be repealed as attempted, and that it was "the plain
duty of the public agencies concerned to lend every effort to bring this long-pending litigation to an end."
The case comes here on appeal. Appellants, consumers
of gas, contend that the obligations of the original franchise contract have been impaired by the-attempted compromise in violation of the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution and that appellants have been deprived of
vested property rights in the impounded fund without due
process of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
On examining the franchise contract and the proceedings
for the impounding of amounts collected from consumers
(AppIeby v. New York City, 271 U. S. 364, 380; Larson v.
South Dakota, 278 U. S. 429, 433; Abie State Bank v.
Bryan, 282 U. S. 765, 773), we find no warrant for a conclusion that appellants had any vested right which precluded the city from effecting a reasonable adjustment of
the controversy over rates and from entering into a contract fixing a reasonable rate for the period during which
the fund was impounded as well as for the future. (Compare Violet Trapping Co. v. Grace, ante, p. 119; Ingraham v. Hanson, ante, p. 378.) In making that settlement, as well as in the making of the original franchise
contract, the consumers were represented by the city.
In re Engelhard & Sons Co., supra. Compare Smith v.
Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 270 U. S. 587, 592; Kentucky
v. Indiana,281 U. S. 163, 174; Chicago v. Chicago Rapid
Transit Co., 284 U. S. 577.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

