398

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

article. Thus under the earlier statute a patentee who
did not make or vend the article was not required to
give the notice, but under the present statute the patentee,-his assigns and legal representatives must give it,
whether they do or do not make or vend the article.
This is the only difference between the two statutes, and
in our opinion the amendment to the old statute as
embodied in the new requires the patentee or his assignee
who does not make or vend the article to give notice of
the patent and limits the recovery for infringement thereof to damages sustained thereafter."
Under the interpretation which we accept, ยง 4900, R. S.,
provides protection against deception by unmarked patented articles, and requires nothing unreasonable of patentees. By admission, the Act of 1861 did not require
a patentee who did not produce to give actual notice to
an infringer before damages could be recovered; andthere is nothing in the language or history of the Act of
1870 sufficient to indicate an intent to alter his position
in this regard. This conclusion is in harmony with the
language of Dunlap v. Schofield, 152 U. S. 244, 247.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. . The
judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. LUNSFORD,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF GEORGIA.

No. 399.

Submitted February 10, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

The absolute duty laid on carriers by the Boiler Inspection Act to keep
"all parts and appurtenances" of their locomotives in proper condition does not extend to safety devices which do not increase the
peril and which are placed on locomotives by the carrier for experimental purposes. P. 401.
50 Ga. App. 829; 179 S. R_ 571, reversed.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. LUNSFORD.
398

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 561, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the Railway in an action under the
Employers' Liability Act.

Messrs. G. E. Maddox, H. O'B. Cooper, Sidney S.
Alderman, and S. R. Prince submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. Reuben R. Arnold and B. P. Gambrell submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Respondent's intestate, J. M. Cox, driver of the engine
on petitioner's fast train from Birmingham to Atlanta,
lost his life when it overturned. As the train moved forty
miles per hour over a six degree curve to the left, something, apparently a stone, turned the wheels of the front
truck to the right and off the railN. After bumping over
the cross ties for seven-tenths of a mile they struck a
switch and the upset followed.
The front or boiler end of the locomotive found support through a rigidly attached center casting rounded
to fit, some three or four inches, into another casting nade
fast to the forward truck. This adjustment permitted
passage around curves. The parts were held together
by the weight of the locomotive. If the wheels of the
truck left the rails the connection would be broken; the
locomotive would rest on the driving wheels and short
chains attached to it would pull the truck along. Compressed air carried in a hose pipe from the pump, controlled all brakes. Pressure released them; when withdrawn, they automatically applied.
A mechanism, known as Wright's Little Watchman,
fastened beneath the locomotive frame, carried a valve
closing an entrance into the air line actuated by a lever
or trigger. A pull on this would open the valve, let out

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297U.S.

air and thus set-the brakes'. The lever was connected
with the forward truck;'if its wheels left the track and
fell five inches or more a -donward pull was expected.
Newly constructed locomotives carry no Watchman;
they are not in common uge. Petitioner buys and applies them; has experimented with them for seven years;
nearly all of its passenger lociomotives carry them. The
device is not regarded as an essential or integral part.
The carrier's General Superintendent testified without
contradiction-"The use of this device cannot possibly
endanger the operation of the train. It is used in the
hope that it may apply the brakes and stop the train in
event of derailment of front trucks. My experience with
this device is that it sometimes works and sometimes will
not work, and that it cannot be relied upon with any
degree of certainty." Both witnesses who spoke to the
point asserted that it was in an experimental stage; was
being tried out with the hope of securing good results;
sometimes it had proved effective, sometimes it disappointed. Notwithstanding use during seven years, it
remained experimental.
Respondent brought an action for damages in a State
Court and relied upon two grounds--(1) failure properly
to maintain the track, (2) faildie to keep the Watchman
in proper condition wherefore it failed to function and
arrest the train. The court presented the cause to the
jury upon both theories. Judgment for respondent after
a favorable yerdict was affirmed by the appellate court.
Discussion of the first ground is unnecessary; the judgment must be reversed because of error in the charge
relative to the second.
The Boiler Inspection Act of June 7, 1924, c. 355, ยง 2,
43 Stat. 659, U. S. C., Title 45, ยง 23, provides"It shall be unlawful for any carrier to use or permit
to be used on its line any locomotive unless said locQ-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. LUNSFORD.
398

Opinion of the Court.

motive, its boiler, tender, and all parts and appurtenances
thereof are in proper condition and safe to operate in the
service to which the same are put, that the same may
be employed in the active service of such carrier without
unnecessary peril to life or limb, and unless said locomotive, its boiler, tender, and all parts and appurtenances
thereof have been inspected from time to time in accordance with the provisions of sections 28, 29, 30, and 32 and
are able to withstand such test or tests as may be prescribed in the rules and regulations hereinafter provided
for."
This enactment has been much considered. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521; Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 272 U. S. 605; United States v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 293 U. S. 454. But we have not
heretofore undertaken to give definite interpretation to
the words "parts and appurtenances."
The accepted doctrine is that the Act imposes upon
the carrier an absolute and continuing duty to maintain
the locomotive, and all parts and appurtenances thereof,
im proper condition, and safe to operate in active service
:Without unnecessary peril to life or limb. Also, that,
after proper inquiry, the Interstate Commerce Commission may "prescribe the rules and regulations by which
the fitness for service shall be determined."
The Commission has promulgated no rule mentioning
Little Watchmen; they are not subjected to inspection;
without them locomotives "may be employed in the active service . . . without unnecessary peril to life or
limb." While most carriers do not use them, their locomotives commonly are in "proper condition."
Respondent does not suggest that the Watchman,
whether operative or not, detracted from safety or in any
way contributed to the derailment. But it is said that
in the circumstances shown the mechanism failed promptly to stop the train, and the jury was at liberty to find

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1935,
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

faulty-condition which caused the engineer's death. The
soundness of this reasoning we need not consider; certiorari was granted because of another point.
Upon the evidence, beyond reasonable doubt, the
Watchman was in the experimental stage. Use during
seven years gave it no other status, as the witnesses
pointed out. Nevertheless, the claim is that when attached'it became a part or appurtenance which the carrier was absolutely bound properly to maintain.
With frankness, counsel assert: "There is no doubt that
the judge charged that as to fhis device there was an absolute requirement that it should be in proper condition."
In support of this, they urge: The carrier "creates its
own standard of safety by the appliances which it places
on its own locomotive; and that the Boiler Inspection Act,
in requiring all parts and appurtenances on the entire
locomotive to be in proper condition, applies to each particular locomotive of every type."
We are unable to accept this view. With reason, it
cannot be said that Congress intended that every gadget
placed upon a locomotive by a carrier, for experimental purposes, should become part thereof within the
rule of absolute liability. So to hold would hinder coinmendable efforts to better conditions and tend to defeat
the evident purpose-avoidance of unnecessary peril to
life or limb. Whatever in fact is an integral or essential
part of a completed locomotive, and all parts or attachments definitely prescribed by lawful order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, are within the statute.
But mere experimental devices which do not increase the
peril, but may prove helpful in an emergency, are not.
These have not been excluded from the usual rules relative to liability.
The charge in the particulars indicated was erroneous
and prejudicial.
Reversed.

