U. S. FLEET CORPORATION v. RHODES.
381

383

Syllabus.

decided that the stations were controlled by the Gulf Refining Company within the meaning of the statute. 11
F. Supp. 425.
In the case of the Ashland Refining Company, the question related to 82 filling stations. The company conceded
that by the original leases and agency agreements covering these stations the dealer was made the agent of the
company and sold its products on a consignment basis.
But the company contended that, before the taxing statute was enacted, the parties had. abandoned that arrangement and that the company was selling its products
outright to the dealers and was not exercising control
over the stations. The modification of the earlier agreements was not in writing, but was shown by a stipulation.
of facts. The District Court considered the nature and
effect of the stated modification and decided that the
stations were still operated or controlled by the company
within the meaning of the act. 11 F. Supp. 431.
Appeals have been taken. directly to this Court. 28
U. S. C. 380. The questions involved are purely state
questions with respect to the application of the statute
to particular instances in the light of the facts disclosed.
On examining the record in each case, we find no sufficient ground for disturbing the rulings of the District
Court. The decrees are severally
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD MERCHANT
FLEET CORP. ET AL. v. RHODES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 546. Argued February 14, 1936.--Decided March 2, 1936.
The right of a creditor of an insolvent national bank to bring suit for
recovery of funds of the bank alleged to have been unlawfully dis*Together ivith No. 547, O'Connor, Comptroller of the Currency,
et al. v. Rhodes. Certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 US.

bursed by the receiver under the direction of the Comptroller of the
Currency, is sustained, in the circumstances of this case, although
there was no prior demand upon or refusal by the officials named
to bring suit themselves.
65 App. D. C. 21; 79 F. (2d) 146, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 568, to review a decree which, on
a special appeal below, affirmed in part orders of the trial
court overruling motions to dismiss a bill for an accounting, etc.

Solicitor General Reed submitted for petitioners in No.
546.
Mr. George P. Barse, with whom Messrs. Swagar Sherley, Frederick DeC. Faust, and Charles F. Wilson were on
the brief, for petitioners in No. 547.
Mr. Hugh H. Obear, with whom Messrs. Charles A.
Douglas, R. L. Merrick, and R. H. McNeill were on the
brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.
Respondent, Thomas E. Rhodes, suing in his own right
and on behalf of other creditors - of the Commercial
National Bank of Washington, sought the restoration of
amounts alleged to have been illegally paid tp petitioners
by the bank's receiver. The payments were of amounts
deposited with the bank by the United States Shipping
Board Merchant Fleet Corporation and-the Alien Property Custodian, respectively. The bank had pledged
assets to secure the deposits and, recognizing the pledges
as valid, the receiver under the direction of the Comptroller of the Currency had paid the amount of the deposits in full. Similar relief was sought against the
Comptroller of the Currency with respect to payments to
the Comptroller, in like circumstances, of deposits made
by him of moneys belonging to insolvent banks. Unse-

U. S. FLEET CORPORATION v. RHODES.
383

385

Opinion of the Court.

cured creditors and depositors had received a dividend of
but 50 per cent. of their claims. Respondent alleged
that the above-mentioned pledges and the preferential
payments were unlawful.
The defendants the Comptroller of the Currency and
the receiver of the bank moved to dismiss the bill of
complaint for want of equity, and, in particular, because
the bill failed to show any demand by plaintiff upon the
Comptroller or receiver that such suits be brought or
their refusal to sue. The defendants the Fleet Corporation and the Attorney General as successor to the
Alien Property Custodian, made a similar motion. These
motions were denied and a special appeal was allowed.
The Court of Appeals held that, while as a rule a stockholders' or creditors' suit could not be maintained "until
demand had been made upon the receiver, the Comptroller, or the bank," the rule did not apply "where .the
receiver or Comptroller refuses to bring the suit or wher.e
it would be a vain thing to make demand upon them, and
it is shown there is necessity for a suit for the protection of
the interests of creditors." The court was of the opinion
that the facts alleged in the complaint were sufficient to
show that the Comptroller and the receiver "were both actively and personally involved in the transactions claimed
to be unlawful," and that this was enough to take the
case out of the ordinary rule. The court also held that
the pledge made by the bank to secure the deposits by the
Comptroller of the Currency of moneys belonging to insolvent banks was a valid pledge in view of the provisions
of the Act of May 15, 1916, 39 Stat. 121, but that there
was no authority for the exaction of pledges to secure
the deposits which had been made by the Fleet Corporation and the Alien Property Custodian, and hence that
those pledges were invalid.. Accordingly, the order of the
Supreme Court of the District was reversed and the dismissal of the bill was directed as to the Comptroller of

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion -of the Court.

297 US.

the Currency, and with respect to the Fleet Corporation
and the Acting Alien Property Custodian the order was
affirmed. O'Connor v. Rhodes, 65 App. D. C. 21; 79 F.
(2d) 146.
On motion for reargument, the Court of Appeals adhered to its decision. 65 App. D. C. 27; 79 F. (2d) 152.
The court, however, took notice of the statement that
the receiver, since the decision, had instituted a suit
against the Acting Alien Property Custodian and the
Fleet Corporation to recover the assets alleged to have been
illegally pledged or the preferential payments made in
consequence of such pledges--"covering the same items,
in the same cirbumstances, as are covered in the bill in
the instant proceeding." The court, while again recognizing the general rule, reiterated its view that the particular circumstances showed that the preferential payments in question "were made at the instance and with
the approval of the Comptroller and receiver" and that
"the claims for payment were instigated and invited by
the. Comptroller and the receiver." The case was thus
deemed to fall within the exception to the rule requiring
demand and refusal before the bringing of suit. But the
court noted the statement of counsel for the Comptroller
that he no longer adhered to his former position that the
payments to the Fleet Corporation and the Alien Property Custodian were validly made. As there had been
no motion by either party to stay further proceedings in
the instant suit, pending the prosecution by the receiver
of the suit filed by him, the court did not press the point
which it had raised as to its power to direct such a stay.
That reservation was expressly stated to be "without
prejudice to the right of the trial court, on *motion and in
the exercise of its judicial discretion, and on such reasonable terms as it may impose, to arrange the order of trial
in the two suits as may result in the most economical
and speedy determination of the issues involved." 65
App. D. C. 28, 79 F. (2d) 153.

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
Argument for Petitioner.

383

We granted certiorari limited to the question of the
right of respondent to bring this suit without prior demand upon, or refusal by, the Comptroller of the Currency or the receiver, or both.
As the case turns on its exceptional facts and suit has
been brought by the receiver, and the course of procedure
in the interest of economical and efficient administration is
left to be determined by the trial court in the exercise of
a sound discretion, the decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
WINE RAILWAY APPLIANCE CO. v. ENTERPRISE
RAILWAY EQUIPMENT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 356. Argued January 16, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
Section 4900 R. S., does not mean that a patentee who has not made
the patented article may not recover for infringements committed
before he gave actual notice of his patent to the infringer. Pp. 392,
397.

77 F. (2d) 159, reversed.

296 U. S. 560, to review a decree reducing
an accounting for infringement of a paton
recovery
the
ent. See also 25 F. (2d) 236.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Gilbert P. Ritter for petitioner.
It is especially to be observed that ยง 4900 R. S., provides
for the giving of two notices, one to the public and the
other to an infringer. The notice to the public, since it
is required to be given by marking a tangible patented
article, can only be given by a manufacturing patentee.
The notice to an infringer is required to be given only in
the event of a failure to rirk the patented article. The

