GT. W. POWER CO. v. COMM'R.
Opinion of the Court.

GREAT WESTERN POWER COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND

No. 525.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 5, 1936.-Decided March 16, 1936.

Under ยง 234 (a), Revenue Act of 1924, and Treasury Regulations
65, Art. 545, ยง 3, where bonds of a corporation, sold at a discount, are retired by exchanging for them bonds of another issue
and paying a premium, the unamortized discount and expense of
issuance allocable to the retired bonds, and the premium paid and
expense incurred in the exchange, are part of the cost of obtaining
the loan and, for the purpose of deduction in income accounting,
should be amortized over the term of the bonds delivered in the
exchange. P. 546.
79 F. (2d) 94, affirmed.

296 U. S. 568, to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 30 B. T. A.
503, which overruled the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in respect of the disallowance of deductions in the
Power Company's income tax return.
CERTIORARI.

Mi. Thomas R. Dempsey, with whom Mr. A. Calder
Mackay was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John MacC. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The parties disagree as to petitioner's right to deduct
from gross income for 1924 unamortized discount, premiums, and expenses paid and incurred in that year in
connection with the retirement of certain bonds. The
petitioner took the deduction in its income tax return.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

The respondent disallowed it and determined a deficiency.
The petitioner appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals
which held the deduction proper.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the Board's decision in part.'
We
granted the writ to resolve a conflict.'
March 1, 1919, the company executed a mortgage securing four series of bonds, one of which was designated
"Series B 7%." February 1, 1921, the company executed
another mortgage, securing bonds known as "General
Lien Convertible 8% Gold Bonds," and thereby covenanted to deposit and pledge with the trustee Series B 7's
equal in par value to the General Lien 8's at any time
outstanding. The indenture provided that when this
should be accomplished the debtor should have the right
to redeem the General 8's at 105 and accrued interest,
the holders to have the option to receive cash or Series B
bonds, of equal face value, plus five per cent. in cash.
The General Lien 8's were issued at a discount of $150,000 and an expense of $22,283.54. Prior to December
31, 1923, certain General Lien 8's had been redeemed for
cash and the then unamortized discount and expense allocable to the bonds retired had been charged off in the
year of retirement. May 8, 1924, the company called the
remaining outstanding General Lien 8's for redemption
August 1, 1924. The holders of $2,354,000 face value
exercised the option to exchange for Series B 7's at par
and a.cash premium of five per cent. The total premium
paid to them was $117,725 and the expense of the conversion was $1,461.05. The unamortized discount and
expense of issuance in respect of the General Lien 8's thus
exchanged, at the date of exchange, was $126,176.97.
For the remaining General Lien 8's, which were not ex130 B. T. A: 503.
'79 F. (2d) 94.
'San Joaquin L. & P. Corp. v. McLaughlin, Collector, 65 F. (2d)

677.

GT. W. POWER CO. v. COMM'R.
543

Opinion of the Court.

changed for Series B 7's, cash was paid at the rate of
105% of par and the company incurred certain expenses
in the transaction. The total of the premium, the expense, and the unamortized discount applicable to all of
the bonds redeemed for cash or in exchange for Series B
bonds was charged off in 1924 and taken as a deduction
from income for that year. The company keeps its
accounts on the accrual basis. The Commissioner disallowed the entire deduction, but before the Board 'he
admitted the propriety of so rpuch of it as applied to
bonds redeemed for cash. He insisted, however, that as
to those retired by exchange of the Series B 7's the discount, premium, and expense should be amortized over
the life of the latter. The Board overruled his contention, but the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained it, holding that the items would not be deductible as realized
losses until payment or redemption of the Series B bonds,
and should be amortized in annual instalments during
their term.
Section 234 (a) of the Revenue Act of 19241 directs
that in computing the net income of a corporation subjectto the tax there shall be allowed as deductions ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the
taxable year in carrying on the business, interest paid or
accrued within the year on indebtedness, and losses sustained during the year not compensated by insurance or
otherwise. The Treasury promulgated a regulation under
the Revenue Act of 1918 covering treatment of discounts
and premiums, which, with immaterial changes, has remained in force under all the revenue acts and appears as
Art. 545 of Regulations 65 applicable to the Revenue Act
of 1924.'
c. 234, 43 Stat. 253.
"ART. 545. Sale and retirement of corporate bonds .
"(3) (a) If bonds are issued by a corporation at a discount, the
net amount of such discount is deductible and should be prorated or

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Although the article does not expressly cover the items
in question other than discount and premiums paid at redemption, expense in connection with the issuance of the
securities is deductible on the same theory as unamortized
discount.' It has accordingly been held that where an issue of bonds is retired for cash, whether the cash be obtained by the sale of a new issue or not, the items in
question are deductible in the year of retirement
The question then is whether, upon an exchange of one
obligation for another which is to be retired, the transaction is to be viewed as if the retirement were accomplished
by the payment of cash. If the retired bonds had not been
called, the expense items incurred in connection with their
issuance would properly be amortized over the remainder
of their life. Here the petitioner substituted a new obligation for the old. The remaining unamortized expenses
of issue of the original bonds and the expense of the
exchange are both expenses attributable to the issuance
of the new bonds and should be treated as a part of the
cost of obtaining the loan. They should, accordingly, be
amortized over the life of the bonds. (b) If thereafter the corporation purchases and retires any of such bonds at a price in excess of
the issuing price plus any amount of discount already deducted, the
excess of the purchase price over the issuing price plus any amount
of discount already deducted (or over the face value minus any
amount of discount not yet deducted) is a deductible expense for the
taxable year. (c)If, however, the corporation purchases and retires
any of such bonds at a price less than the issuing price plus any
amount of discount already deducted, the excess of the issuing price
plus any amount of discount already deducted (or of the face value
minus any amount of discount not yet deducted) over the purchase
price is gain or income for the taxable year."
*Helvering v. Union Pacific R. Co., 293 U. S. 282; Helvering v.
California Oregon Power Co., 64 App. D. C. 125; 75 F. (2d) 644.
'Helvering v. California Oregon Power Co., supra; Helvering v.
Central States Electric Corp., 76 F. (2d) 11)1 1: Helvering v. Union
Public Service Co., 75 F. (2d) 723; T. D. 4603, XIV C. B. 46, p. 3.

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
543

Decree.

amortized annually throughout the term of the bonds delivered in exchange for those retired.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
No. 1, original. Argued March 2, 3, 1936.-Decided March 16, 1936.
Final decree confirming report of special master and establishing
boundary between Wisconsin and Michigan.

This suit was brought to correct an earlier decree, 272
U. S. 398, entered after the decision reported 27G U. S.
295. The opinion in the present case, explaining the corrections to be made and directing a second reference to
the Special Master, Frederick F. Faville, Eso., of Des
Moines, Iowa, is in 295 U. S. 455. The decree printed
below is the old decree as now amended.
Mr. Adolph J. Bieberstein, with whom Mr. James E.
Finnegan, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Mr. Joseph G.
Hirschberg, Deputy Attorney General, and Mr. J. E.
Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for plaintiff.
Mr. Edward A. Bilitzke, with whom Mr. David H.
Crowley, Attorney General of Michigan, and Mr. James
F. Shepherd, Deputy Attorney General, were on the brief,
for defendant.
DECREE.

Michigan brought suit in this court against Wisconsin
to have ascertained and established a part of the boundary
between them. March 1, 1926, we announced our decision. 270 U. S. 295. To carry it into effect, the States
acting through their counsel agreed upon and submitted a
form of decree. November 22, 1926, the court relying

