BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
233

Syllabus.

fhational existence has undertaken to impose a tax like
that now in question.
The form in which the tax is imposed is in itself suspicious. It is not measured-or limited by the volume of
advertisements. It is measured alone by the extent of
the circulation of the publication in which the advertisements are carried, with the plain purpose of penalizing
the publishers and curtailing the circulation of a selected
group of newspapers.
2. Having reached the conclusion that the act imposing
the tax in question is unconstitutional under the due
process of law clause because it abridges the freedom of
the press, we deem it unnecessary to consider the further
ground assigned that it also constitutes a denial of the
equal protection of the laws.
Decree affirmed.

BORDEN'S FARM RODUCTS CO., INC. v. TEN
EYCK, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE &
MARKETS OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 597.

Argued January 6, 1936.-Decided February 10, 1936.

1. As an incident to a temporary and experimental scheme for assisting the milk industry by fixing prices to producer and consumer
(Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502), the New York Milk Control
Act, as amended, discriminated between dealers who had, and dealers who had not, well-advertised trade names, by permitting the
latter to sell bottled milk in the City of New York at a price one
cent less per quart than the price prescribed for the former. Held
that there was a reasonable basis for the discrimination; and that
a dealer of the former class, who failed to show that, in practice,
the differential had resulted in any gain of trade at its expense by
the latter class of dealers, or had caused it substantial loss, did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

297 U. S.

prove a violation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 261, 263.
2. The findings in this case establish that, before the fixing of prices
under the Act, dealers without well-advertised brands were able to
compete for the trade in question, but only by slightly underselling
their advertised competitors. The differential is sustained as an
attempt, competent to the legislature during the limited term of
the experiment, to preserve this trade practice, already existing,
which balanced the advantage of a lower price, for the one group,
against the advantage of advertisement enjoyed by the other.
P. 261.
11 F. Supp. 599, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree which dismissed, upon the final
hearing, a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a provision
of the New York Agriculture & Markets Law. For an
earlier phase see s.c., 293 U. S. 194. Cf. p. 266, post.

Mr. Walter E. Hope, with whom Mr. Timothy N.
Pfeiffer was on the brief, for appellant.
The differential constitutes an arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination against appellant and others similarly situated. It has not been advocated by any impartial investigating or administrative agency. It has no
relation to cost, quality, or service. It is directly at variance with the avowed objectives of the Milk Control
Law.

There could have been no reasonable doubt when the
statute was passed that the differential would prove injurious to appellant; and it cannot be justified as an
effort to protect existing dealers from losses which might
result from the State's emergency price-fixing.
There was no ground for a reasonable belief by the
legislature that without the statutory differential the
independent dealers would be eliminated; and the differential cannot be justified as an effort to preserve the
independent dealers in the public interest.
The essence of price-fixing is to fix a single compulsory
price for products and services of equal grade; its mean-

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
251

Argument for Apprellant.

ing is that price competition is at an end, and that henceforth all competition shall be on the basis of quality, and
selling and productive efficiency. In such a conception,
there is no room for unequal prices for things of the same
grade, whatever their brands or trade names. It follows
that if the differential is to be justified at all, it must be
on wime other principle than those which lend support to
ordinary price-fixing.
Besides the attempted justifications thus far considered,
it has been suggested that the differential is an anti-advertising measure;" that it is an anti-monopoly measure;
and that it is a measure akin to the chain store tax statutes upheld by this Court in Tax Commissioners v.
Jackson, 283 U. S. 527; Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517;
Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87. None of these
hypotheses fits the case.
In the absence of special considerations such as those
present in the trading stamp cases (Rast v. Van Deman
& Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342) the validity of a statute
penalizing advertising in an ordinary commercial business is at least open to serious doubt. Semler v. State
Board of Dental Examiners, 294 U. S. 608.
Apart from whether price regulation may be employed
to curb monopoly (FairmontCreamery Co. v. Minnesota,
274 U. S. 1; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235),
it is certain that the differential is not an anti-monopoly
measure.
As for the justification founded on the chain store tax
cases, it seems clear that the differential was not intended
to foster or preserve free and equal economic opportunity
for the public as a whole. If such had been the intent
of the statute, its privileges would havt been made available to new-comer dealers, to dealers who had been forced
out and obliged to start over, and, in general, to all dealers who were still small. Its privileges are not available
to such persons but are the monopoly of the favored group

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

297 U.S.

of dealers who were already in the field when the differential was first enacted and who were instrumental in
procuring its passage.
The differential was in reality a thinly veiled attempt
by the independent dealers to preempt the New York
City store market.
The novel character of the differential and the drastic
penalty it imposes require that a clear justification for it
be shown.
It requires no argument to demonstrate the serious consequences of permitting a legislature, under the pressure
of interested groups, to determine that one competitor's
product is to enjoy a preference as against another's irrespective of cost, quality or other distinguishing factors.
The building up of a good reputation through 'the sale of
an honest product over a long period of years becomes not
an asset but a handicap if the legislature may step in and
fix a higher price for such product while it permits a competitor to sell a similar. product at a lower price. The
competitor with an established reputation is thus denied
the right to meet the price of a lesser known rival. The
public is required to pay more for the product which it
wants or to abandon it in favor of a less desired product
because the legislature believes, or professes to believe,
that one or more competitors are enjoying what the legislature regards as too large a percentage of the market.
The State can and should take proper measures to see
that competitive conditions in general are free from improper restrictions and are fair and equal. But if the
legislature is to be free to intervene in each competitive
group in each community and to discriminate between
competitors by arbitrarily establishing different prices for
the same article, there can be but one result. Political
intrigue and the pressure for advantage by one group
against another will inevitably lead to oppression. The
dangers are not illusory but real and practical ones.

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
251

Argument for Appellees.

The differential is not an integral part of the Milk
Control Law and may be declared invalid without invalidating the remainder of the statute.
Messrs. Samuel Kramer and Henry S. Manley, with
whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New
York, and Mr. David L. Weissman were on the brief, for
appellees.
The differential provision, having as its aims (1) the
preservation of competitive opportunities among the
dealers, (2) the stabilization of conditions among the producers, and (3) the prevention of monopoly, is neither
discriminatory, arbitrary, nor unreasonable.
The device of classification, with the application of different regulations for different classes, is a common device
of the law. "Classification is the most inveterate of our
reasoning processes." Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 3.12,
337-338. The "State has a broad discretion in classification, in the exercise of its power of regulation." Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 210.
Exactness in classification cannot always be obtained, and
a tendency to fairness is enough, as is illustrated by
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304.
The classification is valid unless it is "without any reasonable basis" and one who assails the classification "must
carry the burden of showing that it does not rest upon any
reasonable basis, but is essentially arbitrary." Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 7&-79. The
statute is good so long as it does not "preclude the possibility of a rational basis for the legislative declaration."
Ohio ex rel. Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392,
397. "The fact that a tatute discriminates in favor of a
certain class does not make it arbitrary, if the discrimination is founded upon a reasonable distinction." Board of
Tax Comm'rs v. Jacksoi, 283 U. S. 527, 537. The thought
that runs through all the cases is that all that a classifi-

1256

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

cation needs to sustain it is a showing that it rests upon
some rational basis. Cf. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.
502.
What the legislature did here has been merely to continue a condition which previously existed. Though it
is unnecessary to a decison of this case, it will prove
,* uitful to consider whether the legislature did not have
the power to incorporate in the law a differential even if
one had not previously existed. Cf. Fox v. Standard Oil
Co., 294 U. S. 87.
The plaintiff has not shown such damage traceable to
the differential as entitles it to relief in equity.
The plaintiff is estopped from attacking the constitutionality of the differential provision. By obtaining a
license under the Act, it acquired a valuable property
right, a right which prevented all unlicensed persons from
competing withi it in its business. Frost Trucking Co. v.
Corporation Commission, 278 U. S. 515. For an entire
year it availed itself of the benefits of the Act. The
plaintiff is now estopped from attacking that part which
it regards as a burden. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 278 U. S. 300; Booth Fisheries Co. v. Industrial Commission, 271 U. S. 208; St. Louis Co. v. Prendergast, 260 U. S. 469.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause is here a second time. The prior appeal was
from a decree denying a preliminary injunction and dismissing the bill.1 We- reversed, holding that evidence
should be taken, findings and conclusions made, and a
decree thereupon entered. After remand the appellant
amended its bill, the court sent the case to a master who
made findings of fact, stated his conclusions of law, and
1293 U. S. 194; 7 F. Supp. 352.

BORDEN'S CO. v. -TEN EYCK.
Opinion of the Court.

251

recommended that an injunction be entered. The District Court accepted the master's findings, and found certain additional facts, but dismissed the bill upon the
merits 2 From this judgment the present appeal was
taken.
As will appear by reference to our former opinion the
appellant's complaint is that the fixing of a differential
of not to exceed one cent per quart on sales to stores, in
favor of milk dealers not having a "well advertised trade
name," by the Milk Control Law of April 10, 1933 (re~nacted by the laws of 1934, chapter 126), was an invasion
of rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The bill, as framed when the case was here before, recited
that the administrative authority which fixed the minimum price on sales to stores found the appellant and
three other milk dealers in the metropolitan market had
well advertised trade names and the statute permitted
dealers not having such trade names to sell bottled milk
to stores at one cent per quart less than the minimum
which dealers with well advertised trade names were required to charge, and also permitted stores to resell to
their customers the unadvertised brands of milk at a
price one cent per quart less than that at which the
appellant's milk could be sold under the minimum fixed
by the order. Resulting loss of business and irreparable
damage were alleged.
In this court the appellees sought to justify the differential by the assertion that the statute was temporary in
character, intended to relieve a temporary economic situation, and meanwhile to prevent monopoly of the business by dealers having well advertised names. In support
of this position it was said that prior to the adoption of
the Milk Control Act of 1933 independent dealers, socalled, had purchased from producers at prices lower than
2

11 F. Supp. 599.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

those paid by appellant and other purveyors of well advertised brands, and in turn charged less to stores than
the appellant and others in its class. By the Milk Control Act the independent dealers were compelled to purchase from the farmers on the same basis as the well
known dealers; and to deprive them of this advantage
and in turn to compel them to charge the same price for
their milk as the well advertised brands commanded
would be to transfer all their customers to the owners of
well known brands, and put them out of business. The
appellant replied that, prior to the adoption of the Milk
Control Law, there had been a threat to forbid the sale
of milk in bulk to stores; this compelled the independents
who had formerly sold mostly bulk milk to change to the
bottled trade, and keen competition ensued between them
and the owners of well advertised brands with destructive
price cutting throughout the greater part of New York
City, so that there was no fixed price for bottled milk sold
to stores either by the independents or the well advertised
dealers. In support of these contentions we were referred to statements found in the legislative report leading to the adoption of the Milk Control Law, and the injunction affidavits.
We held we could not take judicial notice of local trade
conditions prevailing in the City of New York; as the
case"had been disposed of below on the allegations of the
bill, we were not called upon to examine the affidavits
submitted in support of the motion for injunction and to
find the facts; and the constitutionality of the challenged
provision should be determined in the light of evidence
upon the matters as to which the parties were in disagreement.
By amendment the appellant added to its bill paragraphs to the following effect: Prior to 1932 less than
one-third of -the fluid milk sold in New York was bottled,
the balance being sold in bulk and under no Trade name.

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
251

Opinion of the Court.

Toward the end of 1931 a commission recommended that
the sale of loose milk to stores be prohibited. The Board
of Health made an order, effective January 1, 1933, the
effective date of which was subsequently postponed to
June 1, 1933, prohibiting-the practice. By reason of the
impending ban upon the sale of loose milk, dealers engaged in the sale of that commodity were forced to make
a drastic change in their methods. The transition from
the sale of loose milk to bottled, which began about April
1, 1933, and continued until June 1, 1933, engendered
widespread price cutting and a steadily declining price
level, and brought about unsettled market conditions and
great variations in price. At no time prior to the effective
date of the Milk Cor~trol Act was there any trade custom,
practice, or usage whereby the bottled milk of dealers
thereafter classified as not having well advertised trade
names was sold to stores at a price different from that of
the bottled milk of the appellant and others classified as
having well advertised trade names. Before April 10,
1933, and thereafter, the appellant was in active competition with more than one hundred and fifty dealers in the
sale of bottled milk to stores in the city. The appellant
and others classified as having well advertised trade names
sell approximately twenty-one per cent of the bottled
milk sold to stores. The prices paid by dealers to producers under the Milk Control Law have been the same
for all dealers no matter how classified. All bottled milk
must have printed on the cap the name of the dealer
distributing it. The services rendered by the appellant
and by so-called independent dealers differ in no
respect.
The assertions of shrinkage of appellant's sales to stores
consequent upon the establishment of the differential
were repeated and amplified in the amended bill. An
answer was filed denying the allegations of the bill.
Much evidence was received.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

The findings of the master establish that the dealers
having a well advertised trade name, of which appellant
is one, axe in keen comptition with each other and
with the independent dealers, and have no monopoly, nor
anything approaching a monopoly, of the sale of bottled
milk to stores. The findings further demonstrate that
the good will incident to appellant's well known tradename "Borden's" has been built up largely by advertising,
and there is no finding that the appellant's methods in
that respect, or its trade practices, have been- illegal.
Grade B milk, with which we are alone concerned, must
conform to standards of quality, purity and cleanliness
prescribed by law, whether sold by appellant or by an
independent dealer. The service rendered and the conditions of sale are the same for both. It is plain from
these facts that the allowance of the differential cannot
be justified as a preventive of monopoly or as a deterrent
of illegal combination or illegal trade practices, or as a
recognition of differences in the service rendered.
We are brought to the remaining issue of fact to resolve
which the case was remanded. Was there a differential
during a substantial period prior to adoption of the act
between the price charged to stores by dealers-having
well-advertised trade names and that charged by those
lacking this advantage?
The master's findings upon the point, though the appellant excepted to them, were adopted by the court below. They are to the effect that from November, 1931, to
April, 1933, and for several years prior thereto, the independent dealers sold their bottled milk to stores in New
York City for resale to consumers at one or more cents
per quart below the price at which the advertised dealers
were selling their bottled milk to stores in that city; and
during the same years the stores were selling the independents' bottled milk to consumers from one cent to
two cents per quart below the price at which they were

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
251

Opinion of the Court.

vending the bottled milk of the advertised dealers. The
District Court made additional findings, supplementing
those of the master, that independent dealers on occasions
before November 1, 1931, and until April 1, 1933, tried to
sell bottled milk to stores at the same price as that
charged by the appellant and another advertised dealer,
and in each case were compelled by loss of business to
resume their earlier and lower price; and during the same
period customers when offered the several brands at the
same price would usually take a bottle of the well-advertised dealer's milk in preference to that of an independent dealer. These findings of the master and the court
disclose the circumstances in the light of which the appellant's claim that it was denied the equal protection of
the laws must be considered. The appellant assigns them
as error; but they are supported by substantial evidence
and we will not disturb them.
We hold that the fixing of the differential in favor of
the sellers of milk not having a well-advertised trade
name, in the situation exhibited by the findings, does not
deny the appellant equal protection.
The argument is that the classification is arbitrary
since the statute puts the appellant and other dealers who
have well advertised trade names in a single class solely
by reason of the fact that their legitimate advertising has
brought them good will. So, it is said, they are penalized
for their business skill and acumen. The answer seems
sufficiently obvious. In enforcing its policy of price fixing,-a temporary expedient to redress an injurious economic condition,-the legislature believed that a fixed minimtnm price by dealers to stores would not preserve the
existing economic method of attaining equality of opportunity. That method was for the well-advertised
dealers to rely on their advertising to obtain a given
price, and for the independents to retain their share of
the market, not by counter-advertising but by a slight

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

reduction of price. The one expedient the law did not
purport to touch; the other by fixing the same minimum
for all dealers it would effectually destroy. In these circumnstances, it was competent to the law makers to attempt, during the limited term of the legislative experiment, to preserve the existing relationship of advantage
established by the past trade practices of the two groups.
So to do, we must assume, was within the legislative
power under the state constitution. No prohibition of
the expedient is found in the Federal Constitution, unless
in the Fourteenth Amendment. We have held that
article does not prevent the fixing of maximum and minimumi prices for milk, in the circumstances existing in the
State of New York in 1933. We now hold that to provide that a differential of one cent maintained by the
independent dealers shall continue does not deny their
advertised competitors equal protection. There was a
plain reason for the classification. It was not merely
that -appellant had established a good will; it was that
there had resulted a balance between that advantage and
the resulting disadvantage to the unadvertised dealer,a balance maintained: by a price differential. To attempt
the maintenance of that balance was to strive for equality
of treatment, equality of burden, not to create inequality.
To adapt the law to the existing trade practice was neither unreasonable nor arbitrary. The present case affords
an excellent example of the difficulties and complexities
which confront the legislator who essays to interfere in
sweeping terms with the natural laws of trade or industry.
The danger in such efforts always is that unintended dislocations will bring hardship to groups whose situation
the broad rules fail to fit. Where, as here, there is recognition of an existing status and an attempt to equate the
incidence of the statute in accordance with it, we find a
'Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502.

BORDEN'S 00. v. TEN EYCK.
251

Opinion of the Court.

compliance with, rather than a disregard of the constitutional guarantee of equal protection. The appellant cannot complain if, in fact, the discrimination embodied in
the law is but a perpetuation of a classification created
and existing by the action of the dealers. In the light
of the facts found the legislature might reasonably have
thought trade conditions existed justifying the fixing of
a differential. Judicial inquiry does not concern itself
with the accuracy of the legislative finding, but only with
the question whether it so lacks any reasonable basis as
to be arbitrary. Standard Oil Co. v. Marysvile, 279
U. S. 582, 586-587.
A second argument is that, instead of maintaining
equality between the two groups, the act has destroyed
it by unduly favoring the independents. The differential
is said to inflict grievous injury and irreparable and continuing damage upon the appellant. We must look to
the record to determine whether it supports the appellant's claim. The master made numerous findings touching the relative sales of bulk and bottled milk to stores by
the two groups of dealers at various times before and
after the adoption of the act, and in respect of appellant's share of that trade in comparison with total sales
and those of its independent competitors. He also found:
"Since the enactment of the 1933 Law, the advertised
dealers have had a smaller proportion relative to the independent dealers of the total sales of-bottled milk to
stores in New York City than before the enactment of
the law." But neither in his findings nor in his general
discussion does he say that the smaller volume of appellant is due to the differential provision. He does state:
"the voluminous proofs fail to furnish facts on which to
base a finding as to the effect of minimum prices without a differential." There is no fact finding of loss and
damage to plaintiff from the. differefitial. A conclusion
of law is: "By reason of the differential provision, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

plaintiff is now suffering, and will continue to suffer
irreparable damage." After a full discussion of the master's findings the District Court said: "From all this it
seems to us very doubtful whether the differential has
really damaged the plaintiff at all." We have examined
the findings and the evidence, and "concur in the conclusion. Though appellant, at the time of the trial, had
acquired a large experience of the operation of the differential, its proofs and the findings based upon them, leave
serious doubt as to the effect on the appellant's store
trade of other factors, such as seasonal variation, the
decrease in the consumption of milk in 1934, the change
from loose to bottled milk in store distribution, and the
sale of great quantities of so-called relief milk under arrangement with the public authorities. It has failed to
show that as a result of the statute the independent
dealers have gained trade at its expense, or that it has
suffered substan',ial, loss.
We have no occasion to determine whether the differential would become unlawful, and the appellant would
be entitled to relief, if there were proof that in practice
it produces such gross inequality, and so unnecessarily
damages the appellant, as to shock the conscience.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I think the challenged

judgment should be reversed.
In Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 539, we stated
reasons in support of the conclusion that the New York
Milk Control Act of 1933 infringed the due process clause.
We adhere to what we there said.
The present cause raises a distinct, although subordinate, question. Assuming that the general price fixing
provisions of the Control Act are valid, do the provisions

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
251

McRmowDs, J., dissenting.

which permit other dealers to sell below the minimum
price prescribed for appellant deprive it of the equal protection of the laws? The answer should be in the affirmative.
Rational classification, based on substantial differences,
is within legislative power. An act which permits dealer
A to sell at less than the price fixed for dealer B obviously
denies equality; and in the absence of some adequate
reason for different treatment, the enactment is invalid.
Here appellant differs from favored dealers only in that
it possesses a well advertised brand, while they do not.
And solely because of that fact, the Legislature undertook
to handicap it and thus enable others profitably to share
the trade. There is no question of unfair trade practices
or monopoly.
By fair advertisement and commendable service, appellant acquired the public's good will. The purpose is to
deprive it of the right to benefit by this and thereby aid
competitors to secure the business. This is grossly arbitrary and oppressive.
To support the legislation, it is said the Legislature believed that a fixed minimum price to stores would not
preserve the existing economic method of attaining equality of opportunity. Apparently, this means that a dealer,
who through merit has acquired a good reputation, can be
deprived of the consequent benefit in order that another
may trade successfully. Thus the statute destroys equality of opportunity-puts appellant at a disadvantage because of merit.
Merely because on a given date there were differences
in prices under open competition, offers no rational reason
for legislation abolishing competition and perpetuating
such differences. The status existing under competitive
conditions certainly is not preserved by destroying competition. Formerly, appellant had the right to adjust
prices to meet trade exigencies and thus protect itself

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

266

Statement of the Case.

297 US.

from loss of business. Now it must stand helpless while
adversaries take possession of the field. It may suffer
utter ruin solely because of good reputation, honestly
-acquired.
MAYFLOWER FARMS, INC. v. TEN EYCK, COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRI-

CULTURE & MARKETS- OF NEW YORK,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME. COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 349.

Argued January 15, 1936.-Decided February 10, 1936.

1. The New York Milk Control Act, as amended effective April 1,
1934, discriminates between milk dealers without well-advertised
trade names who were in the business before April 10, 1933, and
those in that class who entered it later, by granting to the
former and denying to the latter the privilege of selling milk in
New York City at a price one cent below the minimum.binding on
competitors with well-advertised trade names. Held that the discrimination is arbitrary and unreasonable and violates the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 271.
2. This provision, on its face, is not a regulation of a business
in the interest of, or for the protection of, the public, but
an attempt to give an economic advantage to those engaged in. a
given business at an arbitrary date as against all those who entered
the business after that date. No reasons for the discrimination are
disclosed by the record; and in the absence of such showing the
Court has no right to conjure up possible situations which might
justify the discrimination. Pp. 272, 274.
3. The question whether the time limitation found unconstitutional
is severable from the provision for the price differential, is left for
adjudication by the state courts upon remand of the case. P. 274.
Reversed.
APPEAL

from a judgment upholding an order denying

the appellant a license to sell milk. For reports of the
case in the New York courts, see 267 N. Y. 9, 195 N. E.
532; 242 App. Div. 881, 275 N. Y. S. 669. Compare the
case next preceding in this volume.

