OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

297 U.S.

VAN DER WEYDE v. OCEAN TRANSPORT CO.,

LTD.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4.

Submitted January 15, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.

1. Jurisdiction if otherwise existing in the District Court over a libel
of a Norwegian vessel by a seaman for. personal injuries sustained
on board in 1922, was not affected by Article XIII of the Treaty of
1827 with Sweden and Norway, providing a consular jurisdiction
for adjudication of differences between captains and crews, in ag
much as that Article was terminated in 1919, by this Government,
acting through the President and the Secretary of State. P. 116.
2. Under ยง 16 of the Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915, by which Congress expressed its judgment that treaty provisions in conflict with
the Act should be terminated and requested and directed the
President to give notice to that effect to Governments concerned,
it was the duty of the President to reach his conclusions as to
such conflicts; and his finding of inconsistency between Article XIII
of the Treaty of 1827, supra, and provisions of the statute, was
neither arbitrary nor inadmissible. P. 117.
3. Norway having agreed to the termination of Article XIII of the
Treaty, her consul cannot be heard to question it. P. 118.
4. The Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Consular Rights, of
June 5, 1928, between Norway and the United States, which supplanted most of the Treaty of 1827, including Article XIII cannot
be regarded as affecting retroactively the jurisdiction of the
District Court. P. 118.
73 F. (2d) 922, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 567, to review a decree affirming
the dismissal of a libel in admiralty for want of jurisdiction. Reported below sub nom. The Taigen Maru.

Messrs. John P. Hannon, Wim. P. Lord, and Andrew G.

Haley submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. Lane Summers, F. T. Merritt, and W. H. Hay-

den submitted for respondent.

VAN DER WEYDE v. OCEAN CO.
114

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner brought this libel in 1931, in the District
Court for the Western District of Washington, against the
vessel "Taigen Maru," for personal injuries which he
sustained as a seaman in 1922. The vessel was then
known as the "Luise Nielsen" and was of Norwegian registry. The respondent, Ocean Transport Company, Ltd.,
a Japanese corporation, made claim as owner, and filed
exceptions alleging that a final decree had been entered
in the District Court for the District of Oregon in 1924,
dismissing a libel, for the same cause, on the. intervention
of the Norwegian consul.
In the present case, there was again an intervention by
the Norwegian consul, who claimed that, while the vessel
was now Japanese, he was nevertheless officially concerned, as the former Norwegian owner had agreed to
deliver the vessel "free from all debts and encumbrances." The consul filed exceptive allegations to the
effect that the libelant, a Dutch subject, had signed Norwegian articles and, so far as his rights as a seaman were
concerned, was bound by the laws of Norway, which provided for appropriate remedies. The consul asked that,
if the cause was not dismissed because of the former
decree, the dispute should be left for his adjustment and
disposition. The libelant made response and, on hearing, the District Court dismissed the cause "in the exercise of its discretion."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree, but
upon the ground that the dismissal should have been for
want of jurisdiction rather than as dn exercise of discre-tion. 73 F. (2d) 922. The court based its decision upon
the second paragraph of Article XIII of' the Treaty of
Commerce and Navigation, of 1827, between the United
States and the Kingdom of Sweden and Norway, the text

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of which is given in the margin.1 The court assumed
that this provision was still in effect, apparently not
being advised of the fact that Articles XIII and XIV of
that treaty had been terminated in 1919. See Foreign
Relations of the United States, 1919, pp. 47-54.
Section 16 of the Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915,2
expressed "the judgment of Congress" that treaty provisions in conflict with the provisions of the Act "ought
to be terminated," and the President was "requested
and directed" to give notice to that effect to the several
Governments concerned within ninety days after the
passage of the Act. It appears that, in consequence, notice was given and that a large number of treaties were terminated in whole or in part.' The Treaty with Sweden
and Norway of 1827 provided that it might be terminated, after an initial period of ten years, upon one year's
notice." On February 2, 1918, the Government gave
notice to the Norwegian Government of the denunciation of the treaty in its entirety, to take effect on February 2, 1919, but later by an exchange of diplomatic
18 Stat. 346, 352.

"Article XIII. .

.

. The consuls, vice consuls,

or commercial agents, or the persons duly authorized to supply their
places, shall have the right, as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators
in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews
of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or of the captain, should disturb
the order of tranquillity of the country; or the said consuls, vice
consuls, or commercial agents should require their assistance to cause
their decisions to be carried into effect or supported. It is, however,
understood, that this species of judgment, or arbitration shall not
deprive the contending parties of the right they have to resort, on
their return, to the judicial authority of their country."
2 38 Stat. 1164, 1184.
3 Foreign Relations of the United States, 1915, pp. 3 et seq.; 1916,
pp, 33 et seq.; 1917, pp. 9 et seq.; 1918, pp. 3 et seq.; 1919, pp.
47 et seq.
'Article XIX, 8 Stat. 356.

VAN DER WEYDE v. OCEAN CO.
114

Opinion of the Court.

notes, this Government formally withdrew its denunciation, except as to Articles XIII and XIV. Foreign
Relations of the United States, 1919, pp. 50-52. It was
expressly stated that Articles XIII and XIV of the
treaty, being in conflict with provisions of the Seamen's
Act, were deemed to be terminated on July 1, 1916, so
far as the laws of the United States were concerned. Id.
pp. 53, 54.
On June 5, 1928, the two Governments signed a Treaty
of Friendship, Commerce, and Consular Rights, and on
February 25, 1929, an additional Article, which supplanted the Treaty of 1827 (so far as the latter had remained effective), save that Article I of the former treaty
concerning the entry and residence of the nationals of the
one country in the territories of the other for the purposes of trade, was continued in force.'
Respondent contends (1) that the Seamen's Act did not
specifically direct the abrogation of Article XIII, (2) that
the Act was not so unavoidably inconsistent with all
the provisions of Article XIII as to require its entire abrogation, and (3) that the diplomatic negotiations attempting to effect abrogation of the whole of Article
XIII "were in excess of congressional direction and in
violation of constitutional authority."
The first and second points are unavailing, if Article
XIII was actually abrogated in its entirety, and that this
was the purport of the diplomatic exchanges between the
two Governments is beyond dispute. As to the third
point, we think that the question as to the authority of
the Executive in the absence of congressional action, or
of action by the treaty-making power, to denounce a
treaty of the United States, is not here involved. In this
instance, the Congress requested and directed the President to give notice of the termination of the treaty provi5 47 Stat. Pt. 2, pp. 21S5, 2158, 2159.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

sions in conflict with the Act. From every point of view,
it was incumbent upon the President, charged with the
conduct of negotiations with foreign governments and
also with the duty to take care that the laws of the
United States are faithfully executed, to reach a conclusion as to the inconsistency between the provisions of the
treaty and the provisions of the new law. It is not possible to say that his conclusion as to Articles XIII and
XIV was arbitrary or inadmissible. Having determined
that their termination was necessary, the President
through the Secretary of State took appropriate steps to
effect it. Norway agreed to the termination of Articles
XIII and XIV and her consul cannot be heard to question it.
The injuries, of which libelant complains, took place
after that termination. The effect of the new treaty we
need not, and do not, consider, as in any event it could
not be regarded as retroactively affecting the jurisdiction
of the District Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals fell into error in sustaining the dismissal of the cause upon the ground of want
of jurisdiction by reason of the treaty provision invoked.
We express no opinion upon any other questions which
the cause may present, as these have not been considered
by the courts below. They should be considered and
determined.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed

