GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.

233

Syllabus.

GROSJEAN, SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
OF LOUISIANA, v. AMERICAN PRESS CO., INC.,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 303.

Argued January 14, 1936.-Decided February 10, 1936.

1. As respects the amount in controversy, the District Court has
jurisdiction of a suit where the requisite value is involved as to
each of several plaintiffs though not involved as to others. P. 241.
2. A motion to dismiss the whole case because the amount in controversy as to some of the plaintiffs is too small, should be overruled. Id.
3. There is equitable jurisdiction to enjoin collection of an allegedly
unconstitutional state tax, where the taxpayer, if he pays, is
afforded no clear remedy of restitution. P. 242.
4. Liberty of the press is a fundamental right protected against state
aggression by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 242.
5. The fact that, as regards the Federal Government, the protection
of this right is not left to the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment *butis guaranteed in specie by the First Amendment,
is not a sufficient reason for excluding it from the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 243.
6. A corporation is a "person" within the meaning of the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 244.
7. A State license tax (La. Act No. 23, July 12, 1934) imposed on the
owners of newspapers for the privilege of selling or charging for the
advertising therein, and measured by a percent. of the gross receipts
from such advertisements, but applicable only to newspapers enjoying a circulation of more than 20,000 copies per week, held unconstitutional. P. 244.
8. Fron the history of the subject it is plain that the English rule
restricting freedom of the press to immunity from censorship before
publication was not accepted by the American Colonists, and that
the First Amendment was aimed at any form of previous restraint
upon printed publications or their circulation, including restraint by
taxation of newspapers and their advertising, which were wellknown and odious methods still used in England when the First
Amendment was adopted. P. 245.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

297 U.S.

9. The predominant purpose of the grant of immunity was to preserve an untrammeled press as a vital source of public information.
P. 250.
10. Construction uf a constitutional provision phrased in terms of the
common law, is not determined by rules of the common law which
had been rejected in this country as unsuited to local civil or
political conditions. P. 248.
It is not intended in this case to 'suggest that the owners-of
newspapers are immune from any of the ordinary forms of taxation
for support of Government. The tax in question is not an ordinary
form of tax, but one single in kind, with a long history of hostile
misuse against the freedom of the press. The manner of its use
in this case is in itself suspicious; it is not measured or limited
by the volume of advertisements, but by the extent of the circulation of the publication in which the advertisements are carried,
with the plain purpose of penalizing the publishers and curtailing
the circulation of a selected group of newspapers.
10 F. Supp. 161, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree permanently enjoining the enforcement of a state tax on newspapers.
Mr. Charles J. Rivet, with whom Mr. Gaston L. Por-

terie, Attorney General of Louisiana, was on the brief, for

appellant.
There is lack of jurisdiction.
The value of the disputed tax alone is the amount in
controversy. Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263.

The tax in controversy must equal the jurisdictional
sum as to each complainant. Scott v. Frazier, 253 U. S.
243; Pinel v. Pinel, 240 U. S. 594; Cole v. Norborne Land

DrainageDistrict, 270 U. S. 45; Di Giovanni v. Camden
Fire Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64.
The averriients of the bill present no real and substan-

tial federal question.
The statute assailed as unconstitutional furnished no
means of action to the Supervisor of Public Accounts,
charged with its enforcement, other than the institution
of a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction, where

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

235

Argument for Appellant.

every objection of law and fact would be open to the defendant in such suit.
The statute does not provide for a lien against property, nor for summary seizure thereof, nor for interference with the business by injunction, or otherwise; and
no execution is permitted except such as would result
from any other final judgment of -the state court.
No great or irreparable injury can be asserted when the
only possible complaint is that a law suit in the state
court may result unfavorably to the complainants.
Sections 5 and 11 of the Act may be fairly construed to
mean that where a tax is paid under protest no remittance
is tobe made to the State Treasurer until judicial determination of liability.
The First Amendment of the Federal Constitution imposes no restriction upon the States with reference to
abridging the freedom of speech or of the press.
The theory that by effect of the Fourteenth Amendment legislatures of the States are prohibited from passing laws infringing the freedom of the press, finds no support in the jurisprudence of this Court. 1 Cooley's Const.
Lim., 8th ed., p. 67, note.
The effect of the second clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment was to protect from the hostile legislation
of the States, the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States as distinguished from the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the States. To establish a
clear and comprehensive definition of this citizenship, the
first clause of the Fourteenth Amendment declares that
"all persons born or naturalized in the United States and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizen of the
United States." See Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
The liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment
against deprivation without due process of law is the liberty of natural, not of artificial persons. Western Turf
Assn. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359. The appellees are cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1995.
Argument for Appellant.

297 U.S.

porations. They do not possess the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States within the meaning of the Constitution. Liberty Warehouse Co. v.
Tobacco Growers Assn., 276 U. S. 71.
A corporation cannot claim the protection of the clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment which secures the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States
against abridgment or impairment by the law of a State.
Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112.
There is nothing contrary to this in Near v. Minnesota,
283 U. S. 697; Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652; Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S.
380; Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45.
Nor will it do to say that because the stockholders of
these corporations are citizens of the United States the
corporations must be cofisidered as such. Cf. Bank of
Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519..
Furthermore, as pointed out in Near v. Minnesota,
supra, the chief purpose of the constitutional protection
of liberty of the press is to prevent previous restraints
upon publications.
Nowhere has it ever been held that a person or corporation engaged in the publishing business is exempt
from taxation. The following authorities are to the contrary: In re Jaeger, 29 S. C. 438 (license taxes); Norfolk
v. Norfolk Landmark Publishing Co., 95 Va. 564 (license
taxes); The 'Federalist, p. 632.
If freedom of the press implied freedom from taxation,
the income tax law of the United States, which takes a
paxt of every penny collected as income from the business
of publishing a newspaper, would be clearly unconstitution al.
The tax is not an occupational license tax on the business of publishing newspapers. The legislature could
have levied such a tax, but it did not do so. It imposed

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

237

Argument for Appellees.

the tax on the business "of selling, or making any charge
for, advertising or for advertisements."
It is not essential to liberty of speech and freedom of
the press, as constitutionally understood, that profit be
derived from the exercise of these rights. Nor was it
ever contemplated that the constitutional guarantee
should extend to charging for and selling advertising.
In fact, the constitutional guarantee is limited to the
right of the citizen to speak and publish his views, subject to punishment for the abuse of that privilege. Liberty of speech and of the press is not an absolute right.
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697.
Appellees rely also upon § 3 of Art. 1 of the Constitution of Louisiana. The highest court of Louisiana has
already construed that provision as not affording an exemption from taxation. New Orleans v. Crescent Newspaper, 14 La. Ann. 804.
The state statute does not censure or restrict the free
expression of opinions. It merely requires of those who
engage in the profitable business of making others pay for
the expression of their views, or for advertising their business, a small contribution for the support of government.
There was no denial of equal protection.
Messrs. Esmond Phelps and ElishaHanson, with whom
Messrs. Bennett C. Clark, J. J. Davidson, Jr., Eberhard
P. Deutsch, Ben B. Taylor, and John H. Tucker, Jr.,
were on the brief, for appellees.
The District Court had jurisdiction to determine the
questions presented.
The case presented called for the exercise of jurisdiction by a court of equity.
The statute violates the provisions of § 8 of Art. X of
the Constitution of Louisiana of 1921, which requires
that license taxes must be levied on all persons engaged
in the trade, business, occupation, vocation or profession
upon which a license tax is imposed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellees.

297 U.S.

The Act denies appellees the equal protection of the
laws.
The Act violates the provisions of the Constitutioi of
Louisiana and of the Constitution of the United States
guaranteeing freedom of the press.
The constitutional guaranties against abridgment of
the freedom of the press were intended to prohibit every
form of abridgment conceivable in the minds of hostile
legislatures.
The Act provides for a licensing of the press and a payment of a gross receipts tax on that portion of the revenues of the press derived from the sale and publication
of advertising. Further, the Act is limited in its applicability to but thirteen newspapers out of a total of
163 in the State, of which thirteen newspapers twelve
were active in their opposition to the dominant political
group in the State, which group controlled the Legislature and at whose dictates the Legislature passed this
law.
Among the efforts to restrain the press with which the
framers of the Constitution were familiar were licensing,
censorship, taxation, writs of attachment, seditious libel
and injunction proceedings. Taxation as a form of restraint T as well known and particularly obnoxious to our
forefathers. The historical background of the First
Amendment was fully discussed by this Court in its decision in Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697.
Not only the First Amendment, but the Fourth and
Fifth grew out of the knowledge of our constitution-makers of efforts to control the press, which, if successful,
would make it easy for dictators to control their subjects.. See Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
See American Debates by Marion Mills Miller, Vol. 1,
p. 20; John Lennox and the Taxes on Knowledge, William
Stewart, p. 8, as to application of the Stamp Tax, 1765,
to newspapers in the Colonies.

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

239

Argument for Appellees.

At the outbreak of the War for Independence and at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, there were stamp
taxes on the circulation and taxes on the advertising matter of English newspapers. The circulation tax became
effective in 1712 and it was not repealed until 1855. The
advertising tax became effective in 1712 and was abolishe41 in 1853. James Paterson, The Liberty of the Press,
London, 1880, pp. 56-58.
During the debates on the ratification of the Constitution, one of the burning issues before the public wa the
failure of the constitutional convention to include in the
body of the document a so-called bill of rights including
a guaranty of a free press. Richard Henry Lee, Eleazer
Oswald, Melancthon Smith, and other patriots in the debates over ratification specifically assailed the Convention
for failing to include a free press provision which would
prohibit suppression of the press by taxation.
Since the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment,
the guaranty of free press expressed in the First Amendment, is binding upon state legislatures as well. Near v.
Minnesota, supra; Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652;
Whitney v. California,274 U. S.357.
The power to tax the press is the power to destroy it.
One of the purposes of this tax was to divert business
from newspapers having a circulation .of more than 20,000
per week to newspapers with less circulation.
The levy is a direct tax upon the newspaper publishing
business. Its effect is immediate, direct and punitive.
Cf. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Ex parte Harrison,212 Mo. 88.
A tax on the principal source of revenue of a newspaper
is a tax upon its subsistence. Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S.
245.
An attempt to tax the press over a certain size is a
direct violation of this provision. The record shows that
circulation is but one of many factors affecting advertis-

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

ing. The volume of a newspaper's circulation certainly
has but a remote bearing on its revenues from advertising,
if any at all.
Even were the law so phrased as to levy the tax by
reference to the volume of advertising instead of the
volume of circulation, it would be "invalid.
The fact that these appellees are corporations does not
deprive them of the right to resist an attempt to abridge
the freedom of the press. Home Insurance Co. v. New
York, 134 U. S. 594.
This Court has the power to ascertain the nature and
effect of this Act, irrespective of its designation or
declared purpose.
MR. JUsTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought by appellees, nine publishers of
newspapers in the State of Louisiana, to enjoin the enforcement against them of the provisions of § 1 of the
act of the legislature of Louisiana known as Act No. 23,
passed and approved July 12, 1934, as follows:
"That every person, firm, association, or corporation,
domestic or foreign, engaged in the business of selling, or
making any charge for, advertising or for advertisements,
whether printed or published, or to be printed or published, in any newspaper, magazine, periodical or publication whatever having a circulation of more than 20,000
copies per week, or displayed and exhibited, or to be dis-.
played and exhibited by means of moving pictures, in the
State of Louisiana, shall, in addition to all other taxes and
licenses levied and assessed in this State, pay a license
tax for the privilege of engaging in such business in this
State of two per cent. (2%) of the gross receipts of such
business."
The nine publishers who brought the suit publish thirteen newspapers; and these thirteen publications are the

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

241

Opinion of the Court:

only ones within the State of Louisiana having each a
circulation of more than 20,000 copies per week, although
the lower court finds there are four other daily newspapers
each having a circulation of "slightly less than 20,000
copies per week" which are in competition with those
published by appellees both as to circulation and as to
advertising. In addition, there are 120 weekly newspapers published in the state, also in competition, to a
greater or less degree, with the newspapers of appellees.
The revenue derived from appellees' newspapers comes
almost entirely from regular subscribers or purchasers
thereof and from payments received for the insertion of
advertisements therein.
The act requires everyone subject to the tax to file a
sworn report every three months showing the amount and
the gross receipts from the business described in § 1.
The resulting tax must be paid when the report is filed.
Failure to file the.report or pay the tax as thus provided
constitutes a misdemeanor and subjects the offender to a
fine not exceeding $500, or imprisonment not exceeding
six months, or both, for each violation. Any corporation
violating the act subjects itself to the payment of $500
to be recovered by suit. All of the appellees are corporations. The lower court entered a decree for appellees
and granted a permanent injunction. 10 F. Supp, 161.
First. Appellant assails the federal jurisdiction of the
court below on the ground that the matter in controversy
does not exceed the sum or value of $3,000, as required
by par. f of § 24 of the Judicial Code. The case arises
under the Federal Constitution; and the bill alleges, and
the record shows, that the requisite amount is involved
in respect of each of six of the nine appellees. This is
enough to sustain the jurisdiction of the district court.
The motion was to dismiss the bill-that is to say, the
bill in its entirety-and in that form it was properly
denied. .No motion to dismiss was made or considered

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court,

297 U.S.

by the lower court as to the three appellees in respect of
whom the jurisdictional amount was insufficient, and that
question, therefore, is not before us. The Rio- Grande,
19 Wall. 178, 189; Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, 32.
Second. The objection also is made that ' the bill does
not make a case for equitable relief. But the objection
is clearly without merit. As pointed out in Ohio Oil Co.
v. Conway, 279 U. S. 813, 815, the laws of Louisiana afford
no remedy whereby restitution of taxes and property exacted may be enforced, even where payment has been
made under both protest and compulsion. It is true that
the present act contains a provision (§ 5) to the effect
that where it is established to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of Public Accounts of the state that any payment
has been made under the act which was "not due and
collectible," the Supervisor is authorized to refund the
amount out of any funds on hand collected by virtue
of the act and not remitted to the state treasurer according to law. It seems clear that this refers only to a
payment not due and collectible within. the terms of the
act, and does not authorize a, refund on the ground that
the act is invalid. Moreover, the act allows the Supervisor to make remittances immediately to the state treasurer of taxes paid under the act, and requires him to do
so not later than the 30th day after the last day of the
preceding quarter; in which event the right to a refund,
if not sooner exercised, would be lost. Whether an aggrieved taxpayer may obtain relief under § 5 is, at best,
a matter of speculation. In no view can it properly be
said that there exists a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law. Davis v. Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680, 688;
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282, 285.
Third. The validity of the act is assailed as violating
the Federal Constitution in two particulars-(1) that it
abridges the freedom of the press in contravention of the
due process clause contained in § 1 of the Fourteenth

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

243

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment; (2) that it denies appellees the equal
protection of the laws in contravention of the same
Amendment.
1. The first point presents a question of the utmost
gravity and importance; for, if well made, it goes to the
heart of the natural right of the members of an organized
society, united for their common good, to impart and
acquire information about their common interests. The
First Amendment to the Federal Constitution provides
that "Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press . . ." While this provision
is not a restraint upon the powers of the states, the states
are precluded from abridging the freedom of speech or of
the press by force of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the case of Hurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, this
Court held that the term "due process of law" does not
require presentment or indictment by a grand jury as a
prerequisite to prosecution by a state for a criminal
offense. And the important point of that conclusion here
is that it was deduced from the fact that the Fifth Amendment, which contains the due process of law clause in its
national aspect, also required an indictment as a prerequisite to a prosecution for crime under federal law; and it
was thought that since no part of the amendment could
be regarded as superfluous, the term "due process of law"
did not, ex vi termini, include presentment or indictment
by a grand jury in any case; and that the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment should be interpreted as having been used in the same sense, and as having no greater extent. But in Powell v. Alabama, 287 U.
S. 45, 65, 68, we held that in the light of subsequent
decisions the sweeping language of the Hurtado case could
not be accepted without qualification. We concluded
that certain fundamental rights, safeguarded by the first
eight amendments against federal action, were also safe-

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

guarded against state action by the due process of law
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and among them
the fundamental right of the accused to the aid of counsel
in a criminal prosecution.
That freedom of speech and of the press are rights of
the same fundamental character, safeguarded by the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
against abridgement by state legislation, has likewise been
settled by a series of decisions of this Court beginning
with Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666, and ending
with Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707. The word
"liberty" contained in that amendment embraces not
only the right of a person to be free from physical restraint, but the right to be free in the enjoyment of all
his faculties as well. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
578, 589.
Appellant contends that the Fourteenth Amendment
does not apply to corporations; but this is only partly
true. A corporation, we have held, is not a "citizen"
within the meaning of the privileges and immunities
clause. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168. But a corporation
is a "person" within the meaning of the equal protection and due process of law clauses, which are the clauses
involved here. Covington & Lexington Turnpike Co. v.
Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 592; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 522.
The tax imposed is designated a "license tax for the
privilege of engaging in such business"-that is to say,
the business of selling, or making any charge for, advertising. As applied to appellees, it is a tax of two per cent.
on the gross receipts derived from advertisements carried in their newspapers when, and only when, the newspapers of each enjoy a circulation of more than 20,000
copies per week. It thus operates as a restraint in a
double sense. First, its effect is to curtail the amount of
revenue realized from advertising, and, second, its direct

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

245

Opinion of the Court.

tendency is to restrict circulation. This is plain enough
when we consider that, if it were increased to a high
degree, as it could be if valid (Magnano Co. v. Hamilton,
292 U. S. 40, 45, and cases cited), it well might result in
destroying both advertising and circulation.
A determination of the question whether the tax is
valid in respect of the point now under review, requires
an examination of the -history and circumstances which
antedated and attended the adoption of the abridgement
clause of the First Amendment, since that clause expresses one of those "fundamental principles of liberty
and justice which lie at the base of all our civil and political institutions" (Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312,
316), and, as such, is embodied in the concept "due process
of law" (Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 99), and,
therefore, protected against hostile state invasion by the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Cf.
Powell v. Alabama, supra, pp. 67-68. The history is a
long one; but for present purposes it may be greatly
abbreviated.
For more than a century prior to the adoption of the
amendment-and, indeed, for many years thereafter-history discloses a persistent effort on the part of the British
government to prevent or abridge the free expression of
any opinion which seemed to criticize or exhibit in an unfavorable light, however truly, the agencies and operations of the government. The struggle between the proponents of measures to that end and thos who asserted
the right of free expression was continuous and unceasing. As early as 1644, John Milton, in an "Appeal for
the Liberty 'of Unlicensed Printing," assailed an act of
Parliament which had just been passed providing for censorship of the press previous to publication. He vigorously defended the right of every man to make public his
honest views "without previous censure"; and declared
the impossibility of finding any man base enough to ac-

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

cept the office of censor and at the same time good enough
to be allowed to perform its duties. Collett, History of
the Taxes on Knowledge, vol. I, pp. 4--6. The act expired
by its own terms in 1695. It was never renewed; and the
liberty of the press thus became, as pointed out by Wickwar (The Struggle for the Freedom of the Press, p. 15),
merely "a right or liberty to publish without a license
what formerly could be published only with one." But
mere exemption from previous censorship was soon recognized as too narrow a view of the liberty of the press.
In 1712, in response to a message from Queen Anne
(Hansard's Parliamentary History of England, vol. 6, p.
1063), Parliament imposed a tax upon all newspapers and
upon advertisements. Collett, vol. I, pp. 8-10. That the
main purpose of these taxes was to suppress the publication of comments and criticisms objectionable to the
Crown does not admit of doubt. Stewart, Lennox and the
Taxes on Knowledge, 15 Scottish Historical Review,
322-327. There followed more than a century of resistance to,. and evasion of, the taxes, and of agitation for
their repeal. In the article last referred to (p. 326),
which was written in 1918, it was pointed but that these
taxes constituted one of the factors that aroused the
American colonists to protest against taxation for the purposes of the home government; and that the revolution
really began when, in 1765, that government sent stamps
for newspaper duties to the American colonies.
These duties were quite commonly characterized as
"taxes on knowledge," a phrase used for the purpose of
describing the effect of the exactions and at the same
time condemning them. That the taxes had, and were
intended to have, the effect of curtailing the circulation
of newspapers, and particularly the cheaper ones whose
readers were generally found among the masses of the
people, went almost without question, even on the part of

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
Z33

247

Opinion of the Court.

those who defended the act. May (Constitutional History of England, 7th ed., vol. 2, p. 245), after discussing
the control by "previous censure," says: ".

.

. a new

restraint was devised in the form of a stamp duty on
newspapers and advertisements,-avowedly for the purpose of repressing libels. This policy, being found effectual in limiting the circulation of cheap papers, was improved upon in the two following reigns, and continued
in high esteem until our own time." Collett (vol. I, p.
14), says, "Any man who carried on printing or publishing
for a livelihood was actually at the mercy of the Commissioners of Stamps, when they chose to exert their
powers."
Citations of similar import might be multiplied many
times; but the foregoing is enough to demonstrate beyond
peradventure that in the adoption of the English newspaper stamp tax and the tax on advertisements, revenue
was of subordinate concern; and that the dominant and
controlling aim was to prevent, or curtail the opportunity
for, the acquisition of knowledge by the people in respect
of their governmental affairs. It is idle to suppose that
so many of the best men of England would for a century
of time have waged, as they did, stubborn and often precarious warfare against these taxes if a mere matter of
taxation had been involved. The aim of the struggle was
not to relieve taxpayers from a burden, but to establish
and preserve the right of the English people to full information in respect of the doings or misdoings of their
government. Upon the correctness of this conclusion the
very characterization of the exactions as "taxes on knowledge" sheds a flood of corroborative light. In the ultimate, an informed and enlightened public opinion was
the thing at stake; for, as Erskine, in his great speech
in defense of Paine, has said, "The liberty of opinion
keeps governments themselves in due subjection to their

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

duties." Erskine's Speeches, High's ed., vol. I, p. 525.
See May's Constitutional History of England, 7th ed.,
vol. 2, pp. 238-245.
In 1785, only four years before Congress had proposed'
the First Amendment, the Massachusetts legislature, following the English example, imposed a stamp tax on all
newspapers and magazines. The following year an advertisement tax was imposed. Both taxes met with such
violent opposition that the former was repealed in 1786,
and the latter in 1788. Duniway, Freedom of the Press
in Massachusetts, pp. 136-137.
The framers of the First Amendment were familiar with
the English struggle, which then had continued for nearly
eighty years and was destined to go on for another sixtyfive years, at the end of which time it culminated in a
lasting abandonment of the obnoxious taxes. The framers were likewise familiar with the then recent Massachusetts episode; and while that occurrence did much to
bring about the adoption of the amendment (see Pennsylvania and the Federal Constitution, 1888, p. 181), the predominant influence must have come from the English
experience. It is impossible to concede that by the words
"freedom of the press" the framers of the amendment intended to adopt merely the narrow view then reflected
by the law of England that such freedom consisted only
in immunity from previous censorship; for this abuse had
*then permanently disappeared from English practice. It
is equally impossible to believe that it was not intended
to bring within the reach of these words such modes of
restraint as were embodied in the two forms of taxation
already described. Such belief must be rejected in the
face of the then well known purpose of the exactions and
the general adverse sentiment of the colonies in respect
of them. Undoubtedly, the range of a constitutional provision phrased in terms of the common law sometimes
may be fixed by recourse to. the applicable rules of that

GROSJEAN v. AMERICAN PRESS CO.
233

249

Opinion of the Court.

law. But the doctrine which justifies such recourse, like
other canons of construction, must yield to more compelling reasons whenever they exist. Cf. ContinentalIllinois Nat. Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S.
648, 668-669. And, obviously, it is subject to the qualification that the common law rule invoked shall be one
not rejected by our ancestors as unsuited to their civil or
political conditions. Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land
& Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 276-277; Waring v.
Clarke, 5 How. 441, 454-457; Powell v. Alabama, supra,
pp. 60-65.
In the light of all that has now been said, it is evident
that the restricted rules of the English law in respect of
the freedom of the press in force when the Constitution
was adopted were never accepted by the American colonists, and that by the First Amendment it was meant to
preclude the national government, and by the Fourteenth
Amendment to preclude the states, from adopting any
form of previous restraint upon printed publications, or
their circulation, including that which had theretofore
been effected by these two well-known and odious
methods.
This. court had occasion in Near v. Minnesota, supra,
at pp. 713 et seq., to discuss at some length the subject
in its general aspect. The conclusion there stated is that
the object of the constitutional provisions was to prevent
previous restraints on publication; and the court was
careful not to limit the protection of the right to any
particular way of abridging it. Liberty of the press
within the meaning of the constitutional provision, it was
broadly said (p. 716), meant "principally although not
exclusively, immunity from previous restraints or [from]
censorship."
Judge Cooley has laid down the test to be applied"The evils to be prevented were not the censorship of
the press merely, but any action of the government by

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

means of which it might prevent such free and general
discussion of public matters as seems absolutely essential
to prepare the people for an intelligent exercise of their
rights as citizens." 2 Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 8th ed., p. 886.
It* is not intended by'nything we have said to suggest
that the owners Qf newspapers are immune from any of
the ordinary forms of taxation for support of the government. But this is not an ordinary form of tax, but one
single in kind, with a long history of hostile misuse against
the freedom of the press.
The predominant purpose of the grant of immunity
here invoked was to preserve an untrammeled press as a
vital source of public information. The newspapers,
magazines and other journals of the country, it is safe to
say, have shed and continue to shed, more light on the
public and business affairs of the nation than any other
instrumentality of publicity; and since informed public
opinion is the most potent of all restraints upon misgovernment, the suppression or abridgement of the publicity
afforded by a free press cannot be regarded otherwise than
with grave concern. The tax here involved is bad not because it takes money from the pockets of the appellees.
If that were -al, a wholly different question would be
presented. It is bad because, in the light of its history
and of its present setting, it is seen to be a deliberate
and calculated device in the guise ofa tax to.limit the circulation of information to which the public is entitled
in virtue of the constitutional guaranties. A free press
stands as one of the great interpreters between the government and the people. To allow it to be fettered is -to
fetter ourselves.
In view of the persistent search for new subjects of
taxation, it is not without significance thatwith the single
exception of the, Louisiana statute, so faft as we can discover, no state auring the one hundred fifty years of our

BORDEN'S CO. v. TEN EYCK.
233

Syllabus.

fhational existence has undertaken to impose a tax like
that now in question.
The form in which the tax is imposed is in itself suspicious. It is not measured-or limited by the volume of
advertisements. It is measured alone by the extent of
the circulation of the publication in which the advertisements are carried, with the plain purpose of penalizing
the publishers and curtailing the circulation of a selected
group of newspapers.
2. Having reached the conclusion that the act imposing
the tax in question is unconstitutional under the due
process of law clause because it abridges the freedom of
the press, we deem it unnecessary to consider the further
ground assigned that it also constitutes a denial of the
equal protection of the laws.
Decree affirmed.

BORDEN'S FARM RODUCTS CO., INC. v. TEN
EYCK, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE &
MARKETS OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 597.

Argued January 6, 1936.-Decided February 10, 1936.

1. As an incident to a temporary and experimental scheme for assisting the milk industry by fixing prices to producer and consumer
(Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502), the New York Milk Control
Act, as amended, discriminated between dealers who had, and dealers who had not, well-advertised trade names, by permitting the
latter to sell bottled milk in the City of New York at a price one
cent less per quart than the price prescribed for the former. Held
that there was a reasonable basis for the discrimination; and that
a dealer of the former class, who failed to show that, in practice,
the differential had resulted in any gain of trade at its expense by
the latter class of dealers, or had caused it substantial loss, did not

