INTERNAT. STEEL CO. v. SURETY CO.

657

Counsel for Parties.

INTERNATIONAL STEEL & IRON CO. v.
NATIONAL SURETY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 252.

Argued January 9, 1936 and March 11, 1936.-Decided
March 30, 1936.

1. Jurisdiction over an appeal from a state court may be sustained
with the aid of a continuance after the case has been reached for
argument, by obtaining from the state court, duly certified, and
adding to the record, a supplement to its opinion showing that the
federal question here relied on by the appellant was raised in and
decided by that court. P. 662.
2. A state law relative to the settlement of public construction contracts, which attempts retroactively to release the surety on a bond
given by the contractor for the security of the claims of materialmen, and to substitute therefor, without their consent, the obligation of another bond, not merely changes the remedy but destroys
substantive obligations in violation of the contract clause of the
Constitution. P. 662.
3. A party whose rights under the Federal Constitution are prejudiced
by a decision of a state supreme court construing a state statute
for the first time, is not estopped from attacking the decision on
appeal because he did not anticipate such construction in the
earlier stages of the case but relied upon another, not unreasonable,
construction of the statute and invoked it in his own behalf. P. 665.
4. The rule that, when the decision of a state court may rest upon a
non-federal ground adequate to support it, this Court will not take
jurisdiction to determine the federal question, has no application
where, as here, the non-federal ground might have been considered
by the state court but was not. P. 666.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment of the
state court of appeals, which reversed a decree of the
chancellor, in a suit involving the question of the liability of the surety company on a contractor's bond as
affected by a statute of the State.
Mr. Cecil Sims, with whom Messrs. Isidor Kahn and
F. M. Bass were on the brief, for appellant..

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Mr. Charles C. Trabue, with whom Messrs. William
Hume and Geo. H. Armistead, Jr., were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The present appeal challenges a statute of Tennessee

on the ground that, as construed and applied, it impairs
the obligation of a contract in contravention of Art.
I, ยง 10 of the Federal Constitution.

March 12, 1928, National Construction Company made
a contract with the State, through its Department of
Highways and Public Works, for the construction of a
bridge. An Act of 1917 required such a contractor to
furnish a bond with surety to protect the State and to
secure payment to persons furnishing materials, supplies, and labor for the project.' The company executed
'Chapter No. 74 Public Acts of Tennessee 1917 (p. 217). By ยง 6
(p. 223) it is provided: ". . . All contractors with whom contracts
are made by the Department shall enter into good and solvent surety
bond in an amount fixed by the Department, conditioned upon the
full and faithful performance of every part and stipulation of the
contract, especially the payment for all materials purchased and
for all labor employed in the contemplated work .... Not more
than ninety per cent of the contract price shall be paid on any
contract until it is completed and the work is accepted. Before
final acceptance, the contractor must furnish evidence to satisfy the
Department that all the material used by him, his sub-contractorm,
or his agents, has been fully paid for and all laborers and other employces working for him, his sub-contractors, or his agents, have been
fully paid. When this is done, full settlement may be made with the
contractor; but not until thirty days' notice in some newspaper ...
that settlement is about to be made and notify [sic] all claimants
to file notice of their claim with the Secretary of the Department.
The Secretary of the Department shall withhold a sufficient sum from
the contract price due to pay all claims . . . of which notice is filed

with him, for a reasonable time to allow claimants to sue for and
prove their claims against the contractor or his agent, in some court
of competent jurisdiction."

INTERNAT. STEEL CO. v. SURETY CO. 659
657

Opinion of the Court.

such a bond with the appellee as surety. The appellant
agreed with the Construction Company to furnish certain labor and materials for the erection of the bridge.
Upon completion of the structure, the appellant claimed
a balance of about $59,000. There remained in the
possession of the Highway Department some $77,000
which had been retained out of the contract price as directed by the Act of 1917. In the meantime, the Act
had been amended on April 11, 1929, - to provide that
instead of withholding the retained percentage pending
the presentation of claims by sub-contractors, and paying
into court so much as might be necessary to answer suits
brought on those claims, the Commissioner of Highways
might, upon the date of final settlement, release and pay
to the principal contractor the amount so retained,
against a refunding bond with proper surety, conditioned
for the payment of valid claims of sub-contractors.
Pursuant to this amendatory act, the Commissioner,
Public Acts of Tennessee 1929, c. 80, pp. 173-175.
"SECTION 1..
(a) 'The Secretary of the Department (now the Commissioner of
Highways and Public Works) shall withhold a sufficient sum from
the contract price due to pay all claims, of which notice is filed with
him, for a period of sixty days from the date of the last advertising,
to allow claimants to sue and prove their claims against the contractor or his agent, in some court of competent jurisdiction. In the
event suit is brought against the contractor within the said sixty
days from the date of the last advertising, by any claimant, the Department or its officers shall pay the amount of said claim into court.
But in all cases where suits are not brought within the said period
of sixty days the Secretary shall pay said sum or sums so withheld
to the contractor.
(b) 'On the date set for full and final settlement with the contractor, the contractor may make proper refunding bond to the
State of Tennessee for the amount of any sum or sums so held for
the said period of sixty days, such bond to be approved by the
Commission, whereupon the Commissioner or the Department of
Highways and Public Works shall pay such contractor in full.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

without notice to or consent of the appellant, made final
settlement with the Construction Company and paid it
the retained percentage, taking a refunding bond with
the Equitable Casualty and Surety Company as surety.
Thereupon, the appellant filed a bill in the Chancery
Court of Davidson County against the Construction Company, the appellee as surety on the contractor's bond,
the Commissioner, and the Equitable Company as surety
on the refunding bond, reciting the facts and praying a
decree for the balance due under its contract. The Construction Company answered and cross-claimed for alleged breach of contract, asserting that there was no sum
due the appellant. The appellee answered asserting that
the payment of the retained percentage and the acceptance of a refunding bond released it as surety from liability to the Department of Highways or to sub-contractors. The Commissioner's answer recited his acts in the
premises. The appellant replied to the cross-bill. A decree was entered in favor of the Commissioner against
the Construction Company and Equitable Company on
the refunding bond. Subsequently the Commissioner informed .the court that the Equitable Company had become insolvent and it was proposed to substitute a refunding bond of the Construction Company as principal and Consolidated Indemnity and Insurance Company
as surety in the penal sum of $40,000, in place of the original refunding bond, and lodge the new bond in court,
such action not to release the Construction Company
under the original refunding bond but to operate as a
release of the receiver and liquidating agent of the Equitable Company. It was ordered that the bond be taken
and lodged in court to await the outcome of the litigation.
The chancellor thereafter heard the cause on the
merits, found in favor of the appellant for a balance of

INTERNAT. STEEL CO. v. SURETY CO.
657

661

Opinion of the Court.

approximately $58,000, held that the amendatory act of
1929 did not affect the appellee's liability under the bond,
but substituted a refunding bond in lieu of the moneys
retained by the Commissioner, that the appellant should
look first to the refunding bond and, after its exhaustion,
recover from the appellee any amount remaining unpaid. The appellee took the case to the Court of Appeals of the State, where it insisted upon its position
that the acceptance of a refunding bond and the release
of the retained percentage operated to discharge its bond.
That court reversed the chancellor's decision, holding
that the act of 1929 was prospective in operation and did
not apply to the State's contract with the Construction
Company; that the action of the Commissioner in taking a refunding bond and releasing the retained percentage was unlawful, operated to the prejudice of the appellee as surety on the contract bond and released it
from liability. Both appellant and appellee were granted
writs of certiorari by the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
The former assigned error to the holding that the action of the Commissioner in paying over the retained
funds and taking a refunding bond released the appellee
as surety. The latter assigned error to the holding that
the amendatory act of 1929 was inapplicable to the
contract in question and that the Commissioner was not
authorized thereby to proceed as he did, and thus satisfy
and discharge the obligation of appellee's bond.
Upon grounds differing from those stated by the Court
of Appeals, the Supreme Court affirmed the decree. It
held the amendatory act retroactive and applicable to the
contract of the Construction Company; and the Commissioner's action lawful and effective to supersede and
annul the contract bond.
In the course of the opinion the Court said: "..
our construction of Chapter 80 of the Acts of 1929 does

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

662

Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S

not bring that statute into any constitutional difficulty."
Except for thi3 statement, the record failed to disclose
that a question under the Federal Constitution had been
presented or decided. In the circumstances, this court
had no jurisdiction upon appeal. Counsel for the appellant requested at the bar a continuance of the cause to
afford opportunity for amplification of the record disclosing the basis of decision.' The application was granted,
a petition was filed in the court below, and, in response
thereto, the court added to its opinion a recital that a
reargument had been ordered upon "the constitutionality, construction, and applicability" of Chapter 80 of the
Acts of 1929, and, prior to reargument, counsel for the
appellant had filed a brief raising the federal constitutional question 'under Article I, ยง 10, and the Court intended to express the opinion that the Act, as construed
by it, "did not impair the obligation of contracts in violation of

.

.

. the contract clause of . . . the Constitu-

tion of the United States." These additional proceedings have been certified and added to the record. Upon
the record as thus supplemented we have jurisdiction.
The contention is that Chapter 80 of the Acts of 1929,
as construed, releases and discharges the obligation of the
appellee's bond to pay the balance due the appellant, and
that such destruction of the obligation cannot be justified by substituting a right of action on another bond
without appellant's consent. The appellant says that
under the local law the bond given by the appellee is of
a dual nature, running both to the State and to sub-contractors; and its execution created a -irect contractual
relation between the surety and those who furnished naterial and labor for the erection of the bridge, the obligation of appellee to appellant coming into existence at
the moment the latter made its contract with the Con"Compare Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52.

INTERNAT. STEEL CO. v. SURETY CO.
657

663

Opinion of the Court.

struction Company.5 The Supreme Court of Tennessee,
though so holding, thought the Act of 1929 merely
affected the appellant's remedy without impairing its
substantive rights. It treated the Act of 1917, pursuant
to which appellee gave its bond, as having "the same
general purpose as the mechanic's lien statutes." It said:
"The beneficiaries of the legislation are given a lien under
private contracts, recourse on the bond under public contracts." After stating that it was unnecessary to decide
whether a mechanic's lien,-a remedy created by statute
and not by the contract of the parties,-may be abolished
or modified by statute without impairing the obligation
of the contract or, on the contrary, the lienor has a vested
interest in the remedy, upon accrual of his lien, of which
he cannot be deprived without such impairment, the
court disposed of the appellant's contention thus:
"If we concede that the materialman's lien in the one
instance, or his recourse on the bond in the other instance,
enters into his contract and is a part thereof, and that a
remedy so embraced cannot be impaired without impairing the obligation of the contract, still our construction
of chapter 80 of the Acts of 1929 does not bring that
statute into any constitutional difficulty. We construe
the statute as regulating, after its passage, the procedure
to be followed by all parties in respect to the final settlement of every highway contract, whether the contract
itself was made before or after the enactment of chapter
80 of the Acts of 1929."
This view seems to us to confuse the remedies for the
enforcement of two distinct contracts involved in every
similar situation. The sub-contractor has a contract with
'City of Bristol v. Bostwilck, 139 Tenn. 304, 310, 317; 202 S. W.
61; Cass v. Smith, 146 Tenn. 218, 227; 240 S. W. 778, citing and
quoting Equitable Surety Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 448; Standard Oil Co. v. Jamison Bros., 166 Tenn. 53, 55; 59 S. W. (2d) 522.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

the principal contractor, but none with the owner. The
mechanics' lien law gives the sub-contractor no additional
redress against the principal contractor for breach by the
latter of his sub-contract. Because the sub-contractor's
labor and material go to enhance the value of the owner's
property, the law places that property in peril of a lien for
payment of the sub-contractor, unless the owner sees that
he is paid. Abolition of the lien destroys no remedy
which the sub-contractor could have invoked as against
his employer, with whom alone he has a contract. The
Act of 1917, on the other hand, instead of creating a right
of lien against the owner, who is a stranger to the subcontract, requires that if a bidder for public works is to
become the contractor therefor he must ptocure a bondsman for the payment of his sub-contractors. The statute
itself confers no contractual right on any sub-contractor,
nor does it by its own force confer upon him any new
remedy for the enforcement as against the principal contractor of the obligation of any contract the two may
make. A bondsman is invited to come forward and agree
to indemnify the sub-contractor. If he does so, he acts
voluntarily. For a consideration sufficient to move him,
he contracts directly with the sub-contractor to assure
the satisfaction of his just claims against the principal
contractor. The remedy for a breach of this undertaking
is an action at law.
The appellee voluntarily gave its bond. How does
Chapter 80 of the Acts of 1929 affect the obligation of
that contract? As construed by the Supreme Court of the
State, it releases and discharges the obligation of the
bond, and substitutes therefor the obligation of another
bond without the acquiescence of the obligee. This is
not to substitute a new for the old remedy against the
surety. It is to declare the surety's obligation unenforceable,-in short, no longer a subsisting obligation.

INTERNAT. STEEL CO. v. SURETY CO. 665
657

Opinion of the Court.

Beyond doubt the statute thus violates the contract clause
of the Constitution.
The respondent insists that as the appellant joined the
Equitable Company, surety on the refunding bond, as a
defendant, it sought to take advantage of the amendatory act of 1929 and is now estopped to question the constitutional validity of the statute. Appellant replies that
the suit went upon the theory adopted by the chancellor
that the amendatory act was not retroactive so as to
release the earlier bond but intended merely to substitute
a refunding bond in the place of the funds retained by
the Highway Commissioner which, under the original
act, were also held for satisfaction of the appellant's
claim. Such a construction of an act which had not been
passed upon by any court was permissible and if, as now
appears, the appellant was in error in so construing the
act, the mistake cannot be made the basis of an estoppel.
In both appellate courts the appellant insisted on its
original view that the Act of 1929 did not operate to discharge the obligation of the appellee's bond. The appellee asserted no estoppel in either of those tribunals.
Not until the decision of the Supreme Court was there
a holding that the act retroactively affected the enforcibility of the bond. Not until then was there occasion for
appellant to urge that, if so construed, the act would
impair the obligation of the bond. As we have indicated,
the record discloses that when this construction of the act
appeared probable the appellant promptly raised the
constitutional question. It cannot be estopped so to do
by its previous insistence upon a construction which
would render the statute consistent with the Act of 1917
and present no constitutional difficulty.6 The appellee
says that estoppel, a non-federal ground, adequate to

'Compare Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317; Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Sunburst Oil & Refining Co., 287 U. S. 358, 367.

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

support the judgment, was in the case from its inception.
The point was not made or considered in the state courts.
The validity of the act was adjudged on the issue of impairment of the obligation of the appellee's bond. We
do not, therefore, consider the defense of estoppel.
"The rule that, when the decision of a state court may
rest upon a non-federal ground adequate to support it,
this court will not take jurisdiction to determine the federal question, has no application where, as here, the nonfederal ground might have been considered by the state
court but was not."7I
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
ASIATIC PETROLEUM CO., LTD. v. INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 674. Argued March 13, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.
1. The Philippine Tariff Act of 1909 as enacted by Congress is a
statute of the United States within the meaning of the Act of
February 13, 1925, and this Court has jurisdiction to review a
decision of the Supreme Court of the Islands involving its application. P. 668.
2. The Act of 1916 for the government of the Philippine Islands did
not operate to repeal the Tariff Act as a law of the United States
and convert it into a law of the Philippine Islands, and did not thus
abolish the jurisdiction of this Court to review a decision of the
Islands Supreme Court involving the application of the Tariff Act.
P. 669.
3. The erection of a local legislature in a territory or a possession
and the grant of legislative power do not deprive Congress of the
reserved power to legislate* for the territory or possession, or
abrogate existing congressional legislation in force therein. P. 670.
'Grayson v. Harris,267 U. S. 352, 358.

