PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS
BRICK CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS,

FIRST

DISTRICT.

No. 360. Argued February 6, 7, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
1. The Interstate Commerce Commission, acting pursuant to its
power to remove discrimination against interstate commerce and
to make intrastate transportation yield its just proportion of car-

rier income, ordered carriers to increase their intrastate rates to
the level of rates on interstate traffic previously authorized and
established. The order in terms was to continue in force until
changed by the Commission, and was accompanied by the Commission's suggestion that individual instances of resulting inequalities be brought to its attention for correction. Held: That the
carriers were thereby compelled to put into effect increased intrastate rates and to collect them, and that an attempt by state authority to make them pay reparation to a shipper upon the ground
that a specific intrastate rate so increased and collected was excessive and discriminatory, was repugnant to the order and the
Interstate Commerce Act and beyond the state jurisdiction.
#
Pp. 453, 459.
2. Where a continuing order of the interstate Commerce Commission requires that the level of intrastate rates be the same as that
of interstate rates, and a later order merely requires the carriers
to modify a differential between specific interstate rates to remove
prejudice to a shipper, changes in such specific interstate rates
under the later order must be accompanied by like changes in the
corresponding intrastate rates, to preserve the equality commanded
by the earlier order. P. 460.
3. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission allowing carriers a specified time within which to make required changes of
rates implies a finding that such time is necessary to enable them
to make computations and to prepare and post schedules as
required by law. P. 461.
4: The question whether a state commission infringed constitutional
rights of railroads by ordering reparation to a shipper who paid
rates which the commission, acting within its powers, had previously
authorized,-held not properly raised in the state trial court by

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

297 U. S.

merely putting in evidence the order and the record upon. which it
was based-and the previous orders. P. 461.
5. This Court, reviewing a judgment of an intermediate state court,
lacks jurisdiction to consider constitutional questions which the
highest court of the State declined to consider because not raised
in the trial court or presented to it in accordance with a -well
established and reasonable practice. P. 462.
278 Ill.
App. 623, reversed.

CERTIoRARI, 296 U. S. 560, to review the-affirmance of
a judgment on an order of reparation recovered by the
Brick Company against the Railroad Company.

Messrs. FredericD. McKenney and David L. Dickson,
with whom Messrs. Frank J. Loesch, Edward M. Burke,
and Henry Wolf Bik16 were on the brief, for petitioier.
The Illinois Commerce Commission had no power to
award reparation on that part of the rates which were
established pursuant to order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. This Court has never, so far as we can
determine, expressed itelf on this point directly; but it
is essential to the maintenance of federal authority over
interstate commerce that such assumption of power by
the State be denied.
The intrastate rates established by the Interstate Commerce Commission by its order in Re Intrastate Rates
within the State of Illinois, 60 I. C. C. 92, were mandatory upon the carriers, both by the terms of the order
and by virtue of the statute under which it acted. Sec.
13 (4), Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by Transportation Act, 1920. The statute authorizes a general
increase, as well as orders designed to remove specific discrimination. IN the sweeping language of this statutory
mandate there is no discrimination between general
orders for revenue purposes, such as the one in this case,
and orders relating to particular discriminations. Obedience to both is equally enjoined upon the carriers. Atlan-

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Argument for Petitioner.

tic Coast Line R. Co. v. Florida, 295 U. S. 301, 311;
United States v. Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 75; Georgia Public Sfrvice Comm'n v. United States, 283 U. S. 765, 774;
New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 197. If
modifications are to be made in specific instances, they
must be made by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
This Court has held that the power granted to that Commission to modify specific interstate rates, after an order
is entered under § 15a (2), as that section read prior to
June 16, 1933, must necessarily be implied as to intrastate rates in orders entered under § 13 (4). United
States v. Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 79. Since the power of
modification is granted to the Interstate Commerce Commission, it is necessarily withheld from the state commissions, at least as far as award of reparation is concerned.
If the award of reparation made by the Illinois Commission, be permitted to stand, the rates charged, which
were not only lawful but enjoined by the Interstate Commerce Commission, in effect will be unlawfuland the carrier will have been subjected to penalties for its obedience.
Either the carrier was not bound to observe orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission at all, or if so bound. it
should be protected in its obedience. The same act cannot be at once lawful and subject to reparation; for in
such case "the confusing anomaly would be presented of a
rate being adjudged to be violative of the prescribed
standards, and yet continuing to be the legal rate, obligatory on both carrier and shipper." Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506, 511.
Secondly, the Illinois Commission's award should not
be permitted to stand because the Interstate Commerce
Commission cannot protect its order against such attacks.
It may be the law that a state commission has the power
to establish a prospective intrastate rate different in some
respects from the rate established by the Interstate Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

297 U. S.

merce Commission, since the latter could control the matter by entering another order of its own; but a state
award of reparation would be beyond the reach of the
federal commission. Therefore, if the Illinois Commission can award reparation in this case, the order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission preventing discrimination by means of lower intrastate rates is wholly nullified.
The Illinois Commission might award reparation on the
majority of rates in the State and thus retroactively
restore the discrimination against interstate commerce
removed by the Interstate Commerce Commission's order.
It is the established rule that when the Interstate Commerce Commission establishes an intrastate scale of rates,
"the substituted schedule is prospective only and power
has not been granted in such circumstances to give reparation for the past." Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Florida, 295 U. S. 301, 311. Distinguishing: Eagle Cotton Oil
Co. v. Sguthern Ry. Co., 47 F. (2d) 1006, reversed 51 F.
(2d) 443, cert. den., 284 U. S. 675; and Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Louisiana Oil Rig. Corp., 7 F. Supp. 1012; 76
F. (2d) 465, cert. den., 294 U. S. 767.
The Illinois Commerce Commission had no power to
award reparation on that part of the rates here in question which were previously authorized by it.
The judgment of the court below denied petitioner due
process of law, whether that judgment was based on the
holding that the court would not review the evidence before the Illinois Commerce Commission, or whether it
was based on the holding that the evidence before the
Illinois Commission supported its award.
Mr. Abraham R. Miller for respondent.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has power under § § 13 (4) and 15 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act
to order a general increase in intrastate rates when such
increase is necessary in order to eliminate a burden on

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Argument for Respondent.

interstate commerce as a whole. In making such an order
the Interstate Commerce Commission does not determine
that every specific rate involved in. the state structure
must be maintained at the figure to which such rate is
raised as a result of a general increase. It determines
merely that it is necessary that a certain general level
of state rates shall be maintained in order that the carriers as a whole may secure the additional revenue
to which the Commission has found them entitled
under § 15 (a). Consequently, where a state commission
thereafter reduces a specific state rate there is no violation of the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
unless such reduction substantially reduces the general
level of revenue granted to the carriers by the Interstate
Commission. Minnesota Rate Case, 230 U. S. 352; Florida v. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211; United States v.
Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 75; Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n
v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 590; Georgia
Public Service Comm'n v. United States, 283 U. S. 765,
772.
No distinction can be drawn in principle between a
prospective reduction by state authorities of a specific
state rate and a reduction by way of reparations. In both
cases the state authorities are acting in the exercise of
their inherent power over intrastate commerce. In both
cases their action is limited to reductions which do not
affect the general level of revenues decreed by the Interstate Commission. In both cases the carrier whose rate
is reduced can have his day in court. In the case of a
prospective reduction he may test the validity of the reduction by a bill to enjoin the state authorities from
putting the rate into effect. In the case of a reparation
award, the carrier may urge in the shipper's suit for a
judgment on the award exactly the same grounds as a
defense to that suit.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

The ultimate question which this Court is called upon
to decide is this: How far can the federal power over
purely intrastate traffic be extended under the claim that
it is necessary to protect interstate traffic?
In the Shreveport case this Court stated that the federal power over intrastate traffic extends only to "matters
having such a close and substantial relation to interstate
traffic that the control is essential or appropriate to the
security" and efficiency of that traffic. In Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, this Court
held that the power can be extended only to matters which
have a "direct effect" upon interstate commerce. It is
obvious that in the case at bar the award of reparation
on an isolated intrastate movement did not have such a
close, substantial or direct effect upon interstate traffic
as a whole.
MR.

JUSTICE

BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
December 31, 1924, respondent sued petitioner and the
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad
Company, called the Panhandle, in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, to recover reparation awarded by
the Illinois Commerce Commission on the ground that
they collected from respondent unreasonable and discriminatory charges for intrastate transportation of
brick from Bernice, Illinois, to places within the Chicago
switching district.' January 1, 1921, the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, through lease, obtained control of
the Panhandle. The court gave judgment against the
Pennsylvania for $44,428.09.'
That amount includes
reparation, interest and attorney's fee. The reparation
adjudged is in respect of transportation on the Pennsyl'Illinois Public Utilities Act, § 72, Laws Illinois, 1921, p. 745.
'The case was dismissed as to the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad.

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

vania between October 28, 1920, and February 16, 1922,
including that on the Panhandle after acquisition by the
Pennsylvania. Petitioner appealed directly to the state
supreme court and there sought reversal on the ground
that, as later to be specified, the reparation order is repugnant to the Interstate Commerce Act, an order of the
Commission and the Constitution of the United States.
After hearing argument, that court, being of opinion
that the case had been erroneously appealed to it, directed transfer to the appellate court. There the judgment was affirmed; the supreme court denied a writ of
certiorari.
First for consideration is a question raised by the answer
and decided by the appellate court, the highest court of
the State in which a decision could be had. 28 U. S. C.,
§ 344 (b). Chicago, R. I. & P.-Ry. v. Perry, 259 U. S.
548, 551. Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397,
407. Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Rock,
279 U. S. 410, 411-412. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Mihas, 280 U. S. 102, 104. That question is whether the
Illinois statutes under which the state commission acted
and its order awarding respondent reparation are repugnant to the Interstate Commerce Act 3 and the order
'The Interstate Commerce Act (Title 49, U. S. Code) provides:
Section 13(3). "Whenever . . .there shall be brought in issue any
rate . . .made or imposed by authority of any State, or initiated by
ti t President during the period of Federal control, the Commission,
before proceeding to hear and dispose of such issue, shall cause the
State or States interested to be notified of the proceeding." The
paragraph provides for conference and co~peration between the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the state authorities.
Section 13(4). "Whenever .. .the Commission . ..finds that
any such rate ... causes any undue or. unreasonable advantage,
preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the
other hand, or undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against
interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and declared to be unlawful'it shall prescribe the rate . . .or the maximum

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of the Interstate Commerce Commission' providing for
the intrastate rates that became effective February 19,
1921, and continued in force until February 16, 1922, in
respect of which the state commission made its award.
The Chicago switching district is a large area in and
near that city; it extends into Indiana but by far the
larger part is in Illinois.' A number of railroads including the Pennsylvania and the Panhandle extend into
the district and conduct within it transportation of brick
and other commodities in intrastate and interstate commerce. There are many brickyards in the district and
elsewhere in Illinois. Respondent has several in the
district and two at Bernice in Illinois outside, but close
to, the district. One of them is located on the Pennsylvania and the other on the Panhandle.
For a long time prior to federal control of railroads
which commenced January 1, 1918, and up to June 25
of that year the rate applicable to interstate and intrastate transportation of brick, by the Pennsylvania and
Panhandle respectively, from Bernice into the district and
or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter to be charged
.. .Such rates . . . shall -beobserved while in effect by the carriers
parties to such proceeding affected thereby, the law of any State or
the decision or order of any state authority to the contrary notwithstanding."
As it then stood, § 15a (2) provided: "In the exercise of its power
to prescribe just and reasonable rates the Commission shall initiate,
modify, establish or adjust such rates so that the carriers as a whole
.. .will . .. earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income
equal, as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate value
of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation; Provided, That the Commission shall have
reasonable latitude to modify or adjust any particular rate which it
may find to be unjust or unreasonable, and to prescribe different rates
for different sections of the country."
'Intrastate Rates Within Illinois, 60 I. C. C. 92.
'For full description see Switching Rates in Chicago District, 177
I. C. C. 669, 712.

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

between points within the switching district was 25 cents
per ton.
June 25, 1918, the federal railroad administration by
General Order No. 28 increased rates on brick by two
cents per hundred pounds. November 8, 1918, Freight
Rate Authority No. 1887 substituted an increase of 25
per cent. for transportation within the district. These
changes operated to make the rate from Bernice into the
district 70 cents ' and that between points within the district 30 cents per ton.
The Transportation Act (of February 28), 1920, § 208
(a), directed that existing rates should obtain until
changed by federal or state authority or pursuant to authority of law.
March 10, 1920, respondent complained to the Interstate Commerce Commission that the 70-cent rate was
unreasonable and discriminatory. The commission made
its report and order October 27, 1921, thE pertinent substance of which is given below.
July 29, 1920, the commission authorized increases applicable to interstate traffic of 40 per cent. and 35 per
cent. respectively, in eastern and western groups and 331/3
per cent. on intergroup transpoitation. Ex parte 74.7
August 10, the Illihois commission authorized a general
increase of 331/3 per cent.8 August 11, the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered that Illinois territory be
treated as within the eastern group for the purpose of
applying the authorized increase of 40 per cent. in the rates
on interstate traffic between points in that territory9
August 26, rates on intrastate transportation of brick established by the carriers pursuant to authority of the Ili'General Order 28, § 6 provides that 5 cents or more shall be
increased to 10 cents. And so here 65 cents became 70 cents.
'Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220.
"Docket No. 10,620, 7 Ill. P. U. C. 1047.
Authority to Increase Rates, 58 I. C. C. 302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

nois commission became effective. They were 93/2 cents
per ton from Bernice into the switching district in Illinois,
and 40 cents between Illinois points within the district.
October 18, having regard to the above mentioned order
of August 11, the Illinois commission modified its order
of August 10 so as to allow increases of 35 per cent. to be
made effective November 15, instead of the 331 per
cent. it earlier permitted." Accordingly the intrastate
rate from Bernice into the switching district became 94/2
cents and the rate between points within the district
became 401/2 cents.
January 11, 1921, the Interstate Commerce Commission dealing with intrastate rates within Illinois, notified
and required carriers to cease and desist from practicing
the undue prejudice, undue preference and advantage,
and unjust discrimination which, as specified in the
commission's report it found to exist. The order also
notified and required the carriers to
"establish, put in force, and maintain rates and charges
for freight services . . . in intrastate commerce within
the state of Illinois which shall exceed the rates and
charges of the carriers now in force and applicable to
such transportation in amounts corresponding to the increases heretofore made by the carriers, now in effect,
under Ex Parte 74 . . . in said carriers' rates and charges
for freight services . . . in interstate commerce within
the state of Illinois and between points in the state of
Illinois and points in other states in the eastern group,
including the Illinois district. It is further ordered, That
this order shall become effective on or before the 7th day
of March, 1921, upon notice . . . by not less than five
days' filing and posting in the manner prescribed in section 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, and remain in
force until the further order of this Commission in the
premises."
"

Docket No. 10,620, 8 IU. P. U. C. 31.

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

And the report, which was made a part of the order,
stated:
"Some readjustments may be appropriate in individual
instances where substantial injury results ... Such inequalities as call for readjustment may be brought to our
attention in the appropriate way and dealt with as occasion requires . . . The record establishes that the
present intrastate charges for freight services . . . lower
than the just and reasonable corresponding interstate
rates and charges authorized in and established in the
eastern group, including the Illinois district, pursuant to
Ex Parte 74, afford intrastate traffic and shippers and
localities within the state undue preference and subject
interstate traffic and shippers and localities outside the
state to undue prejudice, and unduly, unjustly, and unreasonably discriminate against interstate commerce." "
February 19, 1921, the carriers, in accordance with the
commission's order, put in effect and until February 16,
1922, maintained for intrastate transportation a rate of
98 cents on brick from Bernice into the switching district
and a rate of 42 cents between points within the district.
October 27, 1921, the Interstate Commerce Commission, dealing with plaintiff's complaint filed March 10,
1920, found the 70-cent rate on brick in interstate commerce from Bernice into the district was not unreasonable
but that it was and for the future would be unduly prejudicial to the extent that it exceeded the rates from points
within the. district to interstate destinations therein by
more than 10 cents per ton. It further found that respondent failed to show itself entitled to damages as the
result of the undue prejudice.- The commission ordered
that the carriers "cease and desist, on or before February
16, 1922, . . . from . . . collecting for-the transportation
of common brick in carloads, from Bernice . . . [and
'Intrastate Rates Within Illinois, 60 I. C. C. 92, 103-104.
SIllinois Brick Co. v. Director General, 64 I. C. C. 273.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

other named points in Illinois and Indiana] to interstate
destinations within the Chicago switching district rates
which exceed the rates contemporaneously maintained by
them on like traffic from points within said district to
interstate destinations within said district by more than
10 cents per net ton."
And it ordered the carriers to
"establish, on or before February 16, 1922, upon notice
. . . by not less than 30 days' filing and posting . . . and
thereafter to maintain and apply to the transportation
of common brick, in carloads, from Bernice . .. [and
other named points] to interstate destinations within
the Chicago switching district rates which shall not exceed the rates contemporaneously maintained by them on
like traffic from points within said switching district to
interstate destinations within said district by more than
10 cents per net ton."
Then the carriers established and put in force, effective
February 16, 1922, a rate of 50 cents per ton for intrastate and interstate transportation from Bernice into the
switching district and between points within it.
October 28, 1922, respondent applied to the Illinois
commission for reparation as to intrastate transportation
from Bernice into the switching district. November 7,
1923 the commission dismissed .the claim as to shipments
prior to October 28, 1920, as barred by a statute of limitations. The commission found that, at the time the
service in question was rendered (October 28, 1920, to
February 16, 1922) 50 cents per ton provided adequate
revenue for transportation of brick from Bernice to points
within the switching district; that to the extent the rates
for that transportation exceeded by more than 10 cents
per ton the rates contemporaneously applied between
points with,,i the district they were unjustly discriminatory and that respondent had been damaged to the extent that the charges collected by the carrier exceeded

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

those that would have been assessed on a rate of 50 cents
per ton. And on that basis the commission fixed the
amount of its award.1"
1. To the extent, if at all, that there is conflict between
state and federal regulation, the latter must prevail. Unquestionably the Interstate Commerce Commission was
authorized directly to prescribe, or to require the carriers
to establish and maintain, intrastate rates to prevent or
remove discrimination against interstate commerce or to
make intrastate transportation yield its just proportion
of the carriers' earnings. Florida v. United States, 282
U. S. 194, 210. Public Service Comm'n v. Texas & N. 0.
R. Co., 284 U. S. 125, 131. Floridav. United States, 292
U. S. 1, 4. During the period between February 19, 1921,
and February 16, 1922, the intrastate rates in force for
transportation of brick by petitioner's railroad from Bernice into the switching district were maintained by petitioner pursuant to and in accordance with the Interstate
Commerce Commission(sorder of January 11, 1921. By
that order the commission "notified and required" carriers
to cease the prejudice and discrimination against interstate commerce resulting from the application of their
intrastate rates in force and also 'notified and required"
them to increase their intrastate rates and to make them
correspond with the interstate rates theretofore increased
in pursuance of its order in Ex parte 74. The commission's direction to the carriers that they collect charges
baAed on the intrastate rates required by its order was not
less mandatory than was its direction to cease prejudice
and discrimination. In order that the prescribed equality
between intrastate and- corresponding interstate rates
should not be disturbed by state authority or by action
of the carriers, the commission declared that the orderand necessarily the rates directed-should continue in
force until changed by it.
13 Docket No. 12,765, 3 Ill.
C. C. 165, 300.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

And, anticipating possible need for further action, the
commission expressly suggested that individual instances
of inequalities be brought to its attention for correction.
Although respondent's complaint against the 70-cent rate,
established by Freight Rate Authority No.* 1887 was
still pending, the record discloses no application by respondent to amend or enlarge the scope of the complaint
or any effort to have reduced the 98-cent rate directed
by the Interstate Commerce Commission,. or to have
corrected the inequality resulting from its order of January 11, 1921. There is no suggestion .that the intrastate rates in respect of which the Illinois commission
awarded reparation were not made in obedience to and
in strict accordance with the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Save as the rate so prescribed might
be dealt with under federal law, the carriers were bound
to collect the charges based upon them. By the Interstate Commerce Act and that order, the State was divested of jurisdiction, by specific order, award of reparation or otherwise, to reduce the charges based on the
intrastate rates so established. The order of the Illinois
commission, in so far as it awards reparation in respect
of transportation covered by rates that petitioner was
required to put in force and maintain by the Interstate
Commerce Commission's order of January 11, 1921, is
plainly repugnant to the Interstate Commerce Act and
to that order. To the extent, therefore, that the judgment depends on that part of the award, it is without
foundation and cannot be-sustained.
2. Under the Interstate Commerce Commission's order
of October 27, 1921, petitioner was free, upon the prescribed notice of 30 days, though not required before
Febiuary 16, 1922, to reduce to not to exceed ten cents
the differential between the interstate rate from Bernice
into the switching district and that for interstate transportation beween points within the district. That order

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

dealt only with interstate rates. But the order of January 11, 1921, established the rule of equality between
rates for interstate and intrastate transportation from
Bernice into the district and also for transportation between points within the district. On the facts found by
the Interstate' Commerce Commission and the law as

applied by it, petitioner was required to maintain equality between these intrastate and interstate rates.' There
is nothing in the later report or order of October, 1921, to
indicate intention on the part of the commission to authorize or permit a change of the one without a like
change in the other. The purpose, by exertion of federal authority to control both, persisted. The state commission was not, at any time after the intrastate rates
were established under federal authority, authorized to
condemn them or to award reparation in respect of
transportation to which they applied. By the order of
October 27, 1921, requiring adjustment of the interstate
rates upon 30 days' notice on or before February 16,
1922, the commission impliedly found that the time
allowed was necessary to enable the carriers to compute
the rates, prepare the schedules and post them as required by law. There is no support for a claim that, as
to transportation in the part of the period between the
order October 27, 1921, and February 16, 1922, the
Illinois commission had jurisdiction to grant reparation.
3. There remains for consideration the part of the
judgment that is based on the award made in respect of
transportation between the earliest date within the period
fixed by the statute of limitations, October 28, 1920,
and the effective date of the pommission's order, February 19, 1921. The intrastate rates in effect during
that time were made under authority of the State acting
through its commission and pursuant to the above mentioned orders of the latter, August 10, 1920, authorizing
331/, per cent. increase and October 18, 1920, making the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

increase 35 per cent. Tth.e rates so increased supei'seded
the 70-cent rate made by the carrier while under federal
control. The state's jurisdiction as to them was untrammeled by any order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission or other exertion of federal power. The
reparation order, so far as it relates to that service, must
be sustained unless found repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to, or the commerce
clause of, the Federal Constitution.
No such question was, by answer, motion or otherwise, expressly raised in the trial court. Petitioner makes
no claim that the reparation order was specifically challenged in the trial court as repugnant to either of these
clauses, asserts that it was not necessary so to do and
maintains that, at the trial, there was by petitioner
sufficiently drawn in question the validity of the order
on the ground of its being repugnant to these provisions. The sole support for that claim is this: Respondent put in evidence the state commission's reparation
order and the record on which it was based. In defense
petitioner introduced the same record and the state commission's rate orders authorizing respectively 93 cents
and 94 cents per ton for transportation from Bernice
into the switching district.
Plainly that was not enough. The Illinois statute requires that in cases involving construction of the Federal
Constitution appeals from circuit courts shall be taken
directly to the supreme court.14 And, as definitely shown
by its decisions, that court will not take jurisdiction unless
it appears from the record that the constitutional ques-'
"Practice Act of 1907, § 118, Laws 1907, p. 443, repealed and replaced by Civil Practice Act of June 23, 1933, §§ 75, 94, effective
January 1, 1934, Laws 1933, pp. 805, 811. Smith-Hurd Rev. Stats.
1935, c. 110, §§ 199, 218. Van Dyke v. Illinois Commercial Men's
Assn., 358 Il. 458, 464; 193 N. E: 490. Central Union Telephone
Co. v. Edwardsville, 269 U. S. 190, 194.

PENN. R. CO. v. ILLS. BRICK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

tion was urged in the lower court, the ruling on it preserved in the record and the error assigned on appeal."
While the order of that court transferring the case does
not specify the grounds on which it was based, the petitioner states that the supreme court necessarily held the
constitutional questions had not been properly raised and
that, on the oral argument, the chief justice stated that
the transfer would be made because of petitioner's failure
properly to raise and preserve the constitutional questions.
The appellate court so understood the grounds and effect
of the order and held that by transferring the case the
supreme court eliminated the constitutional questions. As
the highest court of the State declined to consider them
because not raised in the circuit court or presented to it in
accordance with practice that unquestionably was well
established and reasonable, this court is without jurisdiction to consider either of them. Chicago, I. & L. Ry. Co.
v. McGuire, 196 U. S. 128, 131. Hulbert v. Chicago, 202
U. S. 275. Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446, 452. Louisville
& Nashville R. Co. v. Woodford, 234 U. S. 46, 51.
4. Petitioner's application for this writ suggests that,
by a construction contrary to that theretofore put upon
§ 68 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act, it was denied an
opportunity to be heard on the question whether the evidence before the Illinois commission was sufficient to sustain the reparation award. And upon that basis petitioner
claims that there is here presented the question whether
by denial of hearing it was deprived of property without
due process of law. But, as is shown by the opinion of
the appellate court, it did hear petitioner and respondent
on tli,-t question and decided it in favor of the latter.
"Foreman-State Nat. Bank v. Sistek, 358 Ill. 525, 529-530; 193
N. E. 513. Hoffman v. Sears Community Bank, 356 Ill. 598, 601;
191 N. E. 280. Albrecht v. Omphghent Township, 324 Ill. 200, 202;
154 N. E. 898.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

There is no foundation for petitioner's claim that it was
denied hearing.
The judgment below will be reversed and the case remanded with directions for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

~Reversed.

CALLAGHAN

RECEIVERS, v. RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORP.*
ET A.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 539.' Argued February 13, 14, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
1. Where a bankruptcy proceeding is superseded by a reorganization proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, the allowances
to trustees for services in the bankruptcy proceeding are nevertheless limited by § 48 of the Act. P. 466.
2. This limitation is not removed by § 77B (i), which authorizes the
judge in the reorganization proceeding to order payment of "such
reasonable administrative expenses and allowances in the prior
proceeding as may be fixed by the court appointing" the prior
trustee. P. 467.
3. Trustees in bankruptcy are officers of a court, and, like public
officers generally, must show clear warrant of law before compensation will be owing to them for the performance of their public
duties. P. 468.
4. In recognition of the policy of Congress that proceedings in bankruptcy and under § 77B be economically administered, the limitations upon expenses prescribed by §§ 40 and 48 have been strictly
construed, even when the compensation allowed in the particular
case was materially less than that which otherwise might hate been
considered reasbnable. P. 468.
5. A reorganization under § 77B is not a confirmation of a composition, and a referee in a proceeding in bankruptcy which was superseded by a reorganization prqceeding is not entitled to have his
* Together with No. 540, Stitt v. Reconstruction Finance Corp.

Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

