OCTOBER TERM; 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

INGRAHAM ET AL. v. HANSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 427. Argued February 14, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
Amendments of § 2058 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, so as to provide that sales of lands in drainage districts for delinquency in
payment of drainage taxes shall be separate from sales of the same
lands for general taxes, held not to impair the obligation of drainage district bonds, sold before the amendments, or to deprive the
bondholders of property without due process of law.
86 Utah 424; 46 P. (2d) 400, affirmed.

from the affirmance of a judgment quietiig the
title of the plaintiff, the present appellee, to land in a
drainage district which had been taken by the county for
general taxes and conveyed by the county to him.
APPEAL

Mr. Orson P. Soule, with whom Messrs. Horace L.
Lohnes and H. L. McCormick were on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. Charles D. Moore and 0. A. Tangren for appellee.
Mr. Grover A. Giles, Assistant Attorney General of
Utah, with whom Mr. Joseph Chez, Attorney General,
and Mr. Irwin Arnovitz, representing the State Tax Commission, and Messrs. Charles D. Moore and 0. A. Tangren,
representing Millard County and Millard County School
District, were on the brief, as amici curiae, by special
leaVe of Court.
PER CURIAM.

Appellee brought this suit in the state district court
to quiet his title to certain land in Millard County,
Utah. He alleged that the general taxes against the land
for the year 1926 had not been paid, and that as a result
a tax deed of the property was taken by the county which
had conveyed the land to him. The land lay within the

INGRAHAM v. HANSON.
378

Opinion of the Court.

boundaries of the Midland County Drainage District
Number Three. Appellants are owners of the bonds of
the drainage district. They set up that the bonds were
payable by annual assessments and levy of drainage taxes
under the statutes of Utah in force when the bonds were
sold. Compiled Laws of Utah, 1917, §§ 2055, 2057, 2058,
2071, 2072, 2073. They contend that the provisions of
the statute became part of the obligations of their bonds
and required that when general taxes and drainage taxes
became delinquent there should be but one notice of
sale, and but one certificate of sale and tax deed, in which
all general and special taxes should be included.
In 1921, and again in 1925, § 2058 of the Compiled Laws
of Utah was amended so as to provide that lands sold
for delinquent district taxes should be sold separately
for such taxes and that a separate certificate of sale should
be issued. Appellants contend that the amendment impaired the obligation of their contracts in violation of
the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States, and hence that the separate sale in question, exclusively for the non-payment of general taxes, and appellee's tax deed were void. The amended statute was
also assailed as depriving appellants of their property
without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The state district court overruled these
contentions and entered judgment quieting appellee's title
"against the lien and cloud" of the bonds of the drainage
district. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, 86 Utah 424; 46 P. (2d) 400, and the
case comes here on appeal.
It is not disputed that under the laws of Utah taxes
for general governmental purposes are paramount to all
other demands against the property to which the tax
lien attaches. Robinson v. Hanson, 75 Utah 30; 282
Pac. 782. The state court held that the challenged
emendment did not make any substantial change in the
rights of the holders of the drainage district bonds. Two

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

opinions were delivered. By separate paths they reached
the same result. In the principal opinion by Justice
Moffat it was said: "The manner by which the drainage
tax lien is made effective for the purpose of reaching
the security to which the bond lien attaches is substantially the- same since the amendment as before, even
considering the statutory references in the drainage tax
law as making the procedure for the collection of general taxes applicable. By the procedure prescribed, no
added burden is placed upon the drainage district nor
the bondholder whereby the lien provided by the statute
is impaired, nor is it made more difficult of enforcement.... That the lien for general taxes was superior
to the lien for drainage district taxes was as much the
law then as it is now. No right to pursue and make
effective the drainage tax lien has been taken away or
impaired. ... Between the time of sale and expiration
of the redemption period, and during which there is outstanding a certificate of sale for both delinquencies for
non-payment of general and drainage taxes, the drainage district may pay general taxes and take tax sale
certificate. After the period of redemption has expired,
the drainage district, upon payment of the general taxes,
is entitled to a deed vesting it with title to the property
sold for drainage taxes, if general taxes have been paid
and drainage taxes have not. This is the ultimate limit
to which the drainage district and the bondholders were
entitled to go at any time, whether before or after the
amended statutes." 46 P. (2d) pp. 409, 410. In the
concurring opinion of Justice Wolfe, it was said that the
words of the statute "meant, the same before the amendment of 1921 as the amendment itself specifies, and that
said amendment was for the purpose of clarifying and
not changing the law." Further, that "the tax officialsin 1920, before and after the amendment, followed a
procedure which was justified by the statutes through-

GULF REFINING CO. v. FOX.
378

Counsel for Parties.

out, and followed the method of assessing, notifying,
levying, and collecting taxes as the same was in force at
the time of the issuance of the bonds." Id., p. 418.
While this Court, in enforcing the contract clause, may
determine for itself the meaning and effect of the contract (Appleby v. New York City, 271 U. S. 364, 380;
Larson v. South Dakota, 278 U. S. 429, 433), we see no
reason for not accepting the ruling of the state court
as to the construction of the statute in question and the
state practice. We find no basis for a conclusion that,
under the amendment, the procedure for enforcing the
liens of drainage district taxes was substantially different from that which obtained before the amendment, or
that the contract rights of the bondholders have been
impaired. Compare Violet Trapping Co. v. Grace, ante,
p. 119. No question, materially different, is presented
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
GULF REFINING CO. v. FOX, TAX COMMISSIONER.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 442. Argued February 12, 13, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
Gasoline filling stations held to be "stores," "controlled" by appellant
refining companies, within the meaning of the West Virginia "Chain
Store Tax Act." See Fox v. Gulf Refining Co., 295 U. S. 75.
11 F. Supp. 425, 431, affirmed.

Mr. Arthur S. Dayton, with whom Mr. Fred 0. Blue
was on the brief, for Gulf Refining Co., appellant in No.
442.
*

T,,gether with No. 538, Ashland Refining Co. v. Fox, Tax Com-

missioner. Appeal from the District Court of the United States for

the Southern District of West Virginia.

