GAINES v. MILLER.
Statement of Facts.

upon which appellants ask the reversal of the decree is well
founded. Other exceptions were taken during the course of
the jury trial, but no assignments of error are founded upon
them.
Upon an examination of the whole record, we are convinced
that the decree of the District Court, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, was according
to "the right of the cause and matter of law." It is plain the
appellants had no case.
Decree affirmed.

GAINES v. MILLER, Administrator.
APPEAL FROMA

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
1884.
Argued April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st,

Efquity-Prineip)aland Agent.
The lawful representative, of a deceased person who ratifies sales of property
made by an agent of executors in their own wrong, may maintain an action
at law against the agent for money had and received to recover the proceeds
of the sale in his hands.
The ratification extends to all the dealings on the subject between the agent
and his principals ; and if the principals have converted the simple debt
into a judgment, the lawful representative is bound by it.
In Missouri the excuse for avoiding the operation of the statute of limitations,
that the debtor by absconding or concealing himself prevented the coinmencenent of an action, is available in actions at law as well as in equity.
ยง 3244 Rev. Stat. Mo.

This bill was filed by the appellant on May 11th, 1880. Its
material allegations were as follows: The appellant was born
in 1806, and was the daughter of the late Daniel Clark of the
city of New Orleans. On July 13th, 1813, Clark duly executed
his last will and testament, by which he devised and bequeathed
to the appellant all his estate. le died August 16th, 1813.
Appellant did not know that she was the daughter of Clark
until 1831. On June 18th of that year she propounded for
probate in the Parish Court for the Parish of Orleans, Louisi-

OCTOBER TERM, 183.
Statement of Facts.

ana, his last will, and after a litigation of more than twenty
years it was admitted to probate on February 23d, 1856. In
the mean time, in the year 1827, she had become of age, in 1832
she was married to William W. Whitney, who died in 1838,
and in 1.846 she was married to General Edmund P. Gaines.
Gen. Gaines died in 1858, and appellant has since remained a
widow.
A short time after the death of Clark, in 1813, Richard Relf
and Beverly Chew "began to act as executors of his estate in
their own wrong and without authority of law, under a will of
Clark executed in the year 1811, which had been revoked by
his will of 1813." By power of attorney, they appointed Samuel Hammond, the defendant's intestate, their agent to sell and
convey the lands belonging to the estate of Clark lying in, the
State of Missouri. Hammond, prior to April 9th, 1819, sold
lands and received therefor, over and above the credits and
commissions to which he was entitled, the sum of $6,841.80.
Relf and Chew sued Hammond for the money so received by
him, and in August, 1819, recovered a judgment against him
therefor. On October 8th, 1823, an execution was issued on
the judgment and levied on lands of Hammond, being the
north half of New Madrid, survey No. 2,500, which were
bought in by Relf and Chew, and the purchase money thereof,
to wit, $427.77, credited on the judgment. Hammond was a
resident of Missouri from about the year 1815 until December,
18214, when, being insolvent and indebted to the estate of
Clark for the balance due on said judgment, he fraudulently
absconded and secretly left the State of Missouri, concealing
himself from appellant by travelling to places unknown to her.
He went to the State of South Carolina, where he lived until
his death, which took place in August, 1842. No letters of
administration were taken out on the estate of Hammond until
October 25th, 1879, when property of his estate in the State of
Missouri having been discovered, letters were granted to the
appellee, Charles Miller, by the Probate Court of the City of
St. Louis.
The prayer of the bill was, that the court would decree that
the estate of Hammond was indebted to appellant in the sum

GAINES v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

of money demanded, namely, $6,841.80, with the interest
thereon, and that she was equitably entitled to recover the
same in this suit.
The defendant filed a demurrer to the bill on the following
among other grounds: (1) Because the case stated in the bill is
one of which a court of equity has no jurisdiction; and (2) because the bill shows that a suit had been brought by those
recognized by the court as the lawful representatives of Daniel Clark, and that more than sixty years ago judgment had
been rendered therein against Hammond for the same money
for which this suit was brought, and that such judgment had
never been vacated or reversed.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the
bill, and the complainant appealed.
Mr. Briltton A. Hill for appellant submitted on his brief.
lflr. lIenry I1 Denison for appellee.
Xn. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
lie
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The demurrer was properly sustained on both grounds.
The theory of the bill, as appears from its averments and as
it is stated by counsel for appellant, is that appellant is the
proper party to sue, in her own name, for the proceeds of the
lands of her father's estate, sold by Hammond in 1819 under
power of attorney from Relf and Chew, and that by bringing
this suit she affirms and ratifies the sale.
The appellant having ratified the sale, the only obligation
which can rest upon Hammond's administrator is to pay over
to the appellant the money received by Hammond as the consideration of the sale. It is, therefore, simply a case of money
had and received by him for the use of appellant, and a declaration in assumpsit on the common counts would have fully
stated the appellant's cause of action. Whenever one person
has in his hands money equitably belonging to another, that
other person may recover it by assumpsit for money had and
received. Pickardv. Bankes, 13 East, 20; Spralt v. I obiouse,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

4 Bing. 173; Israel v. Douglass, 1 Hen. B1. 239; Beardsley v.
]?oot, 11 Johns. 464; Ihale v. ffarston, 17 Mass. 575; Claflin
v. Godfrey, 21 Pick. 1. The remedy at law is adequate and
complete.
There is no averment in the bill of complaint of any ground
of equity jurisdiction. iNo trust is alleged, no discovery is
sought. The appellant has no lien on the property of Hammond's estate, and avers none. The only semblance of a fraud
alleged is, that Hammond fraudulently absconded and secretly
left the State of Missouri, concealing himself by travelling in
places unknown to the appellant. But this averment does not
relate to the cause of action. It is only made as an excuse for
not bringing the suit at an earlier time, and to take the case
out of the bar of the statute of limitations. The law of Missouri, Revised Statutes, see. 3244, provides, that if any person,
by absconding or concealing himself, prevent the commencement of an action, such action may be commenced within the
time limited by the statute, after the commencement of such
action shall h.ave ceased to be so prevented. The excuse made
by appellant for not sooner bringing her suit was, therefore,
available in an action at law. Having found assets of Hammond's estate in Missouri, and an administrator having been
appointed, an action at law was the plain and adequate method
for the recovery of the appellant's rights. The Circuit Court,
sitting as a court of equity, had, therefore, no jurisdiction of
the case. hlipp v. Babin, 19 How. 271.
The'second ground of demurrer is also well taken. The
appellant, by ratifying the sale made by Relf and Chew,
through their agent, Hammond, ratified the acts of Relf and
Chew in respect to the purchase money received by Hammond.
If Hammond, as their agent, had paid over to them the money
received from the sales made by him, the appellant could not,
having ratified the sale, repudiate the payment. If a principal
ratifies that which favors him, he ratifies the whole. S/inner
v. Dayton, 19 Johns. 513, 554; Odiorne v. Maxey, 113 Mass.
178, 182 ; fenlins v. Watson, 27 Missouri, 163 ; Snall v. Atwood, 6 Clark & Finn. 232. By ratifying the sale, the appellant places herself in the position of Relf and Chew, and

GAINES v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

Hammond has the same rights against her as he had against
them.
Relf and Chew having sued Hammond and recovered judgment against him for the money received by him, the demand
for the money was merged in the judgment. They could not
bring suit on the claim for the money. Biddleson v. WNti, 1
W. 131. 506; lTVymam v. Cochrane, 35 Ill. 152. Neither
could the appellant. Their only remedy was to enforce the
judgment or to bring another suit upon it. If the judgment
was paid, I.Fammond was discharged from any demand either
by Rolf and Chew or the appellant.
There is a conclusive presumption of law that the judgment
has been paid. By an act of the Territorial legislature passed
January 20th, 1816, the common law of England was adopted
as the law of the Territory of Missouri. By the common law,
the lapse of twenty years, without explanatory circumstances,
affords a presumption of law that the debt is paid, even though
it be due by specialty. Oswald v. _Leg, 1 Term, 270; -esley
v. Von s, 7 S. & R. 410; Jackson v. Wood, 12 Johns. 242;
Best on Presumptions, ยง 137.
And, by the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1835, page 396,
it was provided as follows:
"Every judgment and decree of any court hereafter rendered
or made, shall be presumed to be paid and satisfied after the expiration of twenty years from the time of giving such judgment or
decree, and every judgment and decree rendered or made at the
time this act shall take effect, shall be presumed to be paid and
satisfied after the expiration of twenty years from the time this
act shall take effect."
This provision has been substantially continued in force to
the present time, 1 Rev. Statutes of Missouri, see. 3251, and
forms a part of the settled jurisprudence of the State. In the
case of Ckablmers v. Wilkinson, 10 Missouri, 98, it was held by
the Supreme Court that, as to judgments rendered prior to the
act of 1835, the presumption of payment after twenty years
raised by the common law, continues unaffected by that act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

which, as to such judgments, is only cumulative. This presumption is a rule of evidence and not a limitation, and is not
subject to the exceptions and incidents of an act of limitation.
Cce GirardeauCounty v. Iclrbison, 58 Missouri, 90; Snith's
Ex'r v. -Benton,15 Missouri, 371.
If, therefore, twenty years after its date suit had been
brought against Hammond, in his lifetime, on the judgment
recovered against him by Relf and Chew, he could have availed
himself of the conclusive presumption which that law raises,
that the judgment had been paid. The presumption is no
weaker when the suit is brought against the administrator of
his estate sixty-one years after the date of the judgment.
The case, therefore, as stated by the bill, is this: Appellant
seeks to recover on a claim for money had and received, which
had been reduced to judgment more than sixty years, and
which the law conclusively presumed had been paid more than
forty years before her suit was brought.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill was right, and it
must be
Affrmecl.

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Afunicipal Corporations.
When the settled decisions of the highest court of a State have determined the
extent and character of the powers which its political and municipal organizations shall possess, the decisions are authoritative upon the courts of the
United States.
In the absence of State statutes, or of settled decisions of the highest court of
a State, the rule of interpretation in respect of the powers of political and
municipal corporations is to be found in the analogies furnished by their
prototypes in the country of common origin, varied and modified by circumstances peculiar to our political and social condition.

