OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

The court therefore erred in sustaining the demurrer. The
decree must accordingly be reversed, with directions to overrule the demurrer, the defendant to have leave to answer; and
It s o ordered.

CHAMBERS & Others v. HARRINGTON & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued April 1st and 2d, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1881.

Jurisdiction-llineralLands.
The decision of a court of competent jurisdiction upon adverse claims to a
patent for mineral lands under §§ 2825, 2326 Rev. Stat. is subject to
review in this court when the amount in controversy is sufficient.
When several adjoining claims to mineral lands are held in common, work for
the benefit of all done upon any one of them in a given year to an amount
equal to that required to be done upon all in that year meets the requirements ol § 2824 Rev. Stat. The language of the court in facksoa v. Roby,
109 U. S. 440, cited and approved.

The defendants in error as plaintiffs brought suit in the
District Court for the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of Utah, under § 2326 Rev. Stat., to have adverse claims to
patents for mineral lands determined. Judgment for plaintiffs there, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory on appeal. The defendants appealed to this court
from the judgment of the Supreme Court. The facts making
the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
MYr. Skellabarger for appellants.

M11r. John 1?. ieBride for appellees.
JUSTICE MILrER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah.
The case has its origin in a proceeding under §§ 2325 and
2326 of the Revised Statutes, to obtain a patent for mineral
lands of the United States.

MR.

CHAMBERS v. IIARRINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

The first of these sections requires that, after a discovery of
a mine or lode, and the steps required to mark out and assert
a claim to it, if the discoverer desires a patent, he shall give
notice of that fact, by a publication for sixty days, the nature
of which is such as to call the attention to the proceeding of
any one having an adverse claim. § 2326 requires of any person desiring to contest -the claimant's right, to file his adverse
claim in the land office, with the particulars of it, under oath.
It then declares:
"It shall be the duty of the adverse claimant, within thirty
days after filing his claim, to commence proceeding in a court of
competent jurisdiction, to determine the question of the right of
possession, and prosecute the same with reasonable diligence to
final judgment, and a failure to do so shall be a waiver of his
adverse claim."
It is then provided that, on filing a copy of the judgmentroll in the case, with the register of the land office, and making
the other requisite showing, a patent shall issue to the successful party in the litigation.
It is now urged that such a judgment is not subject to review in this court, and the appeal should be dismissed.
But it is apparent that the statute requires a judicial proceeding, in a competent court. What is a competent court is
not specifically stated, but it undoubtedly means a court of
general jurisdiction, whether it be a State court or a Federal
court; and as the very essence of the trial is to determine
rights by a regular procedure in such court, after the usual
methods, which rights are dependent on the laws of the United
States, we see no reason why, if the amount in controversy is
sufficient in a case tried in a court of the United States,
or the proper case is made on a writ of error to a State
court, the judgment may not be brought to this court for
review, as in other similar cases. Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S.
279.
The only question on the merits of the case requiring much
attention arises out of the requirement of § 2324 of the Revised
Statutes, that some work should be done on every claim, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

every year, from the date of the discovery until the issue of
the patent. The language of the statute on the subject is this:
"On each claim located after the tenth day of May, 1872, and
until a patent has been issued therefor, not less than one hundred
dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made
during each year. On all claims located prior to the tenth of May,
1872, ten dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made by the 10th day of June, 1874, and each year thereafter for each one hundred feet in length along the vein until a
patent has been issued therefor ; but when such claims are held in
common such expenditures may be made upon any one claim."
It then provides for proceedings in favor of co-owners who
do their work or pay for it, against those who do not, to forfeit their interest in the claim.
This latter clause clearly shows that one meaning of the
phrase "held in common" is where there are more owners of
the claim than one, while the use of the word claims held in
common, on which work done on one of such claims shall be
sufficient, shows that there must be more than one claim so
held, in order to make the case where work on one of them
shall answer the statute as to all of them.
It is not difficult, in looking at the policy of the government
in regard to its mineral lands, to understand the purpose of this
provision. For many years after the discovery of the rich
deposits of gold and silver in the public lands of the United
States, millions of dollars' worth of these metals were taken
out by industrious miners without any notice or attention on
the part of the government. The earliest legislation by Congress simply recognized the obligatory force of the local rules
of each mining locality in regard to obtaining, transferring,
and identifying the possession of these parties.
Later, provision was made for acquiring title to the land
where these deposits were found, and prescribing rules for the
location and indentification of claims, and securing their possession against trespass by others than their discoverers.
But in all this legislation to the present time, though by
appropriate proceedings and the payment of a very small sum,

CHAMBERS v. HARRINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

a legal title in the form of a patent may be obtained for such
mines, the possession under a claim established according to
law is fully recognized by the acts of Congress, and the patent
adds little to the security of the party in continuous possession
of a mine lie has discovered or bought.
These mineral lands being thus open to the occupation of all
discoverers, one of the first necessities of a mining neighborhood was to make rules by which this right of occupation
should oe governed as among themselves; and it was soon discovered that the same person would mark out many claims of
discovery and then leave them for an indefinite length of time
without further development, and without actual possession,
and seek in this manner to exclude others from availing themselves of the abandoned mine. To remedy this evil a mining
regulation was adopted that some work should be done on each
claim in every year, or it would be treated as abandoned.
In the statute we are considering, Congress, when it came to
regulate these matters and provide for granting a title to claimants, adopted the prevalent rule as to claims asserted prior to
the statute, and es to those made afterwards it required one
hundred dollars' worth of labor or improvement to be made in
each year on every claim. Clearly the purpose was the same
as in the matter of similar regulations by the miners, namely,
to require every person who asserted an exclusive right to his
discovery or claim to expend something of labor or value on it
as evidence of his good faith, and to show that he was not acting on the principle of the dog in the manger.
When several claims are held in common, it is in the line of
this policy to allow the necessary work to keep them all alive,
to be done on one of them. But obviously on this one the
expenditure of money or labor must equal in value that which
would be required on all the claims if they were separate or
independent. It is equally clear that in such case the claims
must be contiguous, so that each claim thus associated may in
some way be benefited by the work done on one of them.
The principle is well stated by Judge Sawyer in the case of
iount Diabolo X. & Xl Company v. Callison, 5 Sawyer, 439.
"Work done," he says, "outside of the claim, or outside of
voL. cx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

any claim, if done for the purpose and as a means of prospecting
or developing the claim, as in cases of tunnels, drifts, &c., is as
available for holding the claim, as if done within the boundaries
of the claim itself. One general system may be formed well
adapted and intended to work several contiguous claims or
lodes, and where such is the case work in furtherance of the
In
system is work on the claims intended to be developed."
109
term,
present
the
at
the case of Jackson v. Roby, decided
U. S. 440, similar language is used. " It often happens that
for the development of a mine upon which several claims have
been located, expenditures are required exceeding the value of
a single claim, and yet without such expenditures the claim
could not be successfully worked. In such cases it has always
been the practice for the owners of the different locations to
combine and work them as one general claim; and expenditures which may be necessary for the development of all the
claims may then be made on one of them. . . . In other
words, the law permits a general system to be adopted for adjoining claims held in common, and in such case, the expenditures required may be made or the labor be performed, upon
any one of them." That was a case of placer mining in which
the tailings from one claim were carried by a flume and deposited on another which was contiguous, and it was held this
latter claim was not aided, but its development rather injured,
by this work. This claim was not, therefore, kept valid by
such work, and some remarks were made in the opinion which
would not, perhaps, be strictly applicable to discoveries and
works done in developing lodes or veins.
In the case before us the appellees became successively
owners of three claims contiguous to each other, supposed to
be located on the same lode. These were, first, the Parley's
Park claim; second, the Central; and third, the Lady of the
Lake. They continued their work on the Parley's Park claim
from 1872 until July 19th, 1878, when they transferred it to
the Lady of the Lake claim, and did no more work on the other
until September 13th, 1879, when one Cassidy, claiming that
the Parley's Park claim was forfeited for want of work on it
for more than a year, located a mining claim called the Acci-

CHAMBERS v. IARRINGTON.

355

Opinion of the Court.

dental, which embraces the premises in dispute, and which is
part of the Parley's Park claim.
This claim of Cassidy-the Accidental-is the one on which
appellants, who became its owners, now rely, and if the work
done on the Lady of the Lake is not work done in common on
the three claims of appellees, within the meaning of the
statute, the claim of the appellant must prevail.
The finding of facts by the court below on that point is as
follows:
"5th. That during the year beginning on the 19th of July, 1878,
the owners of the Parley's Park claim were also the owners of two
certain claims, called respectively the ' Central ' and ' Lady of the
Lake'--the Central adjoining the Parley's Park and Lady of the
Lake adjoining the Central mining claim-and that, with a view
to the future working and development of all three of said claims,
the owners thereof located what is called the ' Main Shaft' in the
Lady of the Lake surface ground. That said shaft is in such
proximity to said Parley's Park mining claim that work in it
has a tendency to develop said claim, and said shaft was located
and intended for the purpose of developing all of said claims.
"I find that during said last named year work was prosecuted
in said shaft, and by improvements made thereat exceeding in

value $,300, and of not less than two thousand dollars in value.
No work was done in said year after July 19th, 1878, and prior
to the 15th day of September, 1879, in Parley's Park surface
ground, or within its limits, by the owners thereof."
We are of opinion that this brings the case clearly within
the principles we have laid down, and the work was effectual
to protect the Parley's Park claim against an intruder.
By the act of February 11th, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, § 2324 was
so amended that work on a tunnel in a mine should be held to
dispense with work on the surface and taken and considered as
work expended on the lode, whether located prior to or since
the passage of that act.
We are not able to see that this affects the character of other
work to be done or improvements to be made according to the
law as it stood before, except as it gives a special value to
making a tunnel.

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

The questions raised on the admission of evidence to prove
the existence and discovery of a lode by defendants, were, we
think, well decided and need no further comment.
The decree of the Sipreme Court of Utah is affirmed.

EILERS v. BOATMAN & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TIE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted April 3d, 1884.-Decidcd April 14th, 1884.

Practice.
The Supreme Court of a Territory states as conclusion of law matter which
should be stated as finding of fact. This court treats it as a finding of fact,
under the act of April 7th, 1874, 18 Stat. 27

Action for the settlement of adverse claims to mineral lands
under § 2326 Rev. Stat.
Xr. C. If Gilchrist for appellant.
.31r. C. TV Bennett for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This, like Cliambers v. Jlarrigton,ante, 350, is an appeal
from the decree of the Supreme Court of Utah in a contest
for a mine carried on under § 2326 of the Revised Statutes.
The appellant does not deny the priority of location, or the
continuous work on the Nabob-the claim of the appelleebut insists that the notice and description of the claim of the
defendants were not sufficient to apprise other prospectors of
its precise location.
This, in the first place, is matter of fact, and was found by
the court below against appellant, for we think that the following language, though called by the judge a conclusion of
law, is really a finding of facts, namely:
"1. That the notice of the location of the Nabob mining
claim contained a sufficient description by reference to natural

