PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 505
Syllabus.

bond provided in ยง 2943 of the Alabama Code. It has been
held that the United States are relieved by ยง 1001 from giving
the undertaking required from a plaintiff by ยง 782 of the
Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia, on issuing an attachment. United States v. Ottrnan, 23 Int. Rev. Rec. 294.
The order made by the Circuit Court, June 9th, 1880, dissolving the order for the seizure of the property and directing
the marshal to restore the property seized, and its order of
January 13th, 1881, denying the motion to vacate the order of
June 9th, 1880, are reversed, and
Tle case is remanded wvith direction to vacate the order of
June 9th, 1880, and to take ehf't/erpi'oeeedingsin the
suit as may be according to law and not inconsistent with
this opinion.

PACIFIC RAILROAD OF MISSOURI v. MISSOURI
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY & Others.
APPEAL FROM TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued April 23d, 24th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

.E quity-Fraud-Laches-Pleading.
In 1876, K brought a suit, in a Circuit Court of the United States in Missouri,
to foreclose a mortgage on a railroad, making the railroad corporation (a
citizen of Missouri) and others defendants. There was a decree of sale, and
a sale, and it was confirmed in October, 1876. In February, 1877, the corporation appealed to this court. The case was affirmed here in April, 1880.
In June, 1880, [he corporation filed a bill in the same court against another
Missouri corporation (a citizen of Missouri) and other citizens of Missouri,
alleging fraud in fact in the foreclosure suit, in the conduct of the solicitor
and directors of the corporation defendant in that suit, and praying that
the decree in the K suit be set aside. On demurrer to the bill, held :
(1.) The record in the K suit, not being made a part of the bill or the record
in this suit, could not be referred to :
(2.) The charges of fraud, in the bill, were sufficient to warrant the discovery
and relief based on those cherges ;
(3.) The case set forth in the bill, being one showing that no real defence was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
made in the K suit, because of the unfaithful conduct of the solicitor and
directors of the defendant in that suit, was one of which a court of equity
would take cognizance :
(4.) There was no laches in filing the bill, as the time during which the appeal
to this court was pending could not be counted against the plaintiff;
(5.) As the bill showed hostile control of the corporate affairs of the plaintiff
by its directors during the period covered by the K suit, mere knowledge
by, or notice to, the plaintiff, or its directors, or officers, or stockholders, of
the facts alleged in the bill during that period, was unimportant, a case of
acquiescence, assent, or ratification, or of the intervention of the rights of
innocent purchasers, not being shown by the bill, and the corporation having
acted promptly when freed from the control of such directors ;
(6.) It did not follow that parties who became interested in the plaintiff's corporation, with knowledge of the matters set forth in the bill, were entitled
to the same standing as to relief with those who were interested in the corporation when the transactions complained of occurred ;
(7.) The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the bill, although the plaintiff and
some of the defendants were citizens of Missouri.

On the 26th of June, 1880, the Pacific Railroad (of Missouri),
a Missouri corporation, filed a bill in equity, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, against
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, another Missouri corporation, and various individual defendants, citizens of Missouri,
Mlassachusetts and New York, and a New York corporation.
The main object of the bill was to impeach and vacate, for alleged fraud in fact, a decree made by that court, June 6th,
1876, foreclosing a mortgage on railroad property of the plaintiff and ordering its sale. The sale was made September 6th,
1876, it was confirmed by the court October 7th, 1876, and a
deed was given October 24th, 1876, by the master, to the purchaser, who was James Baker. The decree was made in a suit
brought November .11th,1875, by one Ketchum, a citizen of
New York, against the present plaintiff, and various citizens of
Missouri and Neew York, to foreclose a mortgage given by tie
present plaintiff, July 10th, 1875, on its railroad and other
property, to Ienry F. Vail and James D. Fish, trustees, called
the "third mortgage," to secure a proposed issue of bonds of
$4,000,000. On the 1st of February, 1877, the present plaintiff
took an appeal to this court from the decree of June 6th, 1.876,
and from the order confirming the sale. The case was returnable at October Term, 1877, was heard here in January,

PACIFIC R.R OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 501
Statement of Facts.

1880, was decided in April, 1880, the decree below being
affirmed, and a rehearing was applied for and was denied
May 10th, 1880. See Pacqle Railroadv. Ketchm, 101 U. S.
289. This bill was then promptly filed.
Copies of the bill in the Ketchumn suit and of the decree and
the deed of the master and the order of the court approving
the deed, were annexed to and made a part of the bill in this
suit. The material allegations of the latter were these: C. K.
Garrison, James Seligman and Pierce (three of the defendants
in this suit), were made co-plaintiffs in the Ketchum suit, before
the decree was entered, and their solicitors were directed to receive their instructions from and be advised by said Baker, who
was the solicitor of this plaintiff, and they did follow Baker's
instructions. The decree was procured to be made by the
court by false and fraudulent representations made by the defendants herein. The decree and the master's deed designedly
and fraudulently embraced more and other property of* this
plaintiff than was embraced in the mortgage being foreclosed,
in the following language, which was interpolated without the
knowledge of this plaintiff, viz.: "Including among other
things, the track on Poplar street, and the levee in the city of
St. Louis, commonly known as the 'Poplar street track'" the
value of which property is more than $200,000. All of the defendants in this suit (only three of whom, Baker, Vail and Fish,
were defendants in the Ketchum suit, and four others, of whom
Ketchum, C. K. Garrison, James Seligman and Pierce, were
plaintiffs in the Ketchum suit), had knowledge of and were
parties to the frauds herein complained of, either at their inception or by " subsequent subrogation." The Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company (which will he called the Atlantic
Company), was the lessee of this plaintiff's railroad, under a
lease, a copy of which was annexed to the bill as an exhibit, and
which this plaintiff asked leave to refer to with the same effect
as if it were set out at length in the bill, and was in possession
of the property of this plaintiff. By the terms of said lease the
Atlantic Company assumed certain obligations, including the
payment of a rental to this plaintiff, being unable to pay which
its managers sought to evade its obligation by destroying this

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

plaintiff. On and before June, 1872, the chief officers and directors of the Atlantic Company, who were Andrew Pierce,
Jr., Joseph Seligman, A. V. Stout, and others unknown, procured the ownership or control of a majority of this plaintiff's
stock, for the avowed purpose of procuring control of all its
assets and road; and, in execution of such purpose, said directors and officers procured the execution of said lease between
the two roads, on June 29th, 1872. Upon the execution of
the lease, the Atlantic Company became possessed of all the
property and franchises of this plaintiff, and at all times since
this plaintiff has not been in control of any of its property, except to receive rents under the lease, from June, 1872, to July,
1875. Since the making of the lease the stockholders of this
plaintiff have been paid all dues under the lease, to July, 1875.
All interest on its bonds was also paid, and this plaintiff
was not in default on any mortgage liability which existed
when the lease was made. During the lease the Atlantic Cornpany, by false and fraudulent representations that this plaintiff
was indebted to it for improvements made on this plaintiff's
property, procured the execution by this plaintiff of three issues
of bonds, namely, income bonds, for $1,500,000; improvement
bonds, for $2,000,000; third mortgage bonds, so called, for
$4,000,000. The proceeds of all of said issues of bonds went to
the Atlantic Company or the persons by whose false and fraudulent action their issue was procured. At or before November
11th, 1875, when the Ketchum foreclosure suit was begun, the
Atlantic Company was indebted to various persons and corporations, whose names were set forth. C. K. Garrison, on his
examination in the Ketchum suit, said that he was one of the
complainants in that suit, and the owner of over $1,500,000 of
the third mortgage bonds, and represented the owners of the
rest. By the terms of the lease the Atlantic Company undertook to pay all the debts of this plaintiff, as well as all operating and repairing expenses, and all interest on bonds to be
issued after the date of the lease, for extending its lines, buying
rolling stock, and rentals. The pretended increase of mortgage debt of $4,000,000, between July 1st, 1871, and July 10th,
1875, was fictitious, fraudulent, without consideration, and con-

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 509
Statement of Facts.

trary to the laws of Missouri. The net income of this plaintiff's road from the date of the lease to December 31st, 1874,
was $739,172.68. The recitals in the third mortgage bonds that
they were issued to procure additional rolling stock for this plaintiff's road, were false. This plaintiff had no legal capacity to execute the third mortgage or to issue $4,000,000 of bonds. The
law of Missouri only authorized mortgages of railroad property
for certain stated purposes, and no issue of bonds was valid without the vote of the stockholders. The only pretended authority
for making the third mortgage (a copy of which was annexed
to the bill) was shown by a circular and form of proxy issued
to the stockholders by Mr. Hays, President, of which copies were
attached to the bill. The circular and proxy did not authorize
the mortgage of $4,000,000 or of any amount whatever. The
Atlantic Company did not negotiate absolutely any of the
$2,000,000 of improvement bonds, but used them to aid its
own credit, and several of its directors and officers of this
plaintiff were indorsers on obligations of the Atlantic Coinpany secured by said bonds. The third mortgage was procured to be executed fraudulently, to be used as additional
security for said indorsements, and $2,500,000 of the third
mortgage bonds were used to secure the payment of obligations of the Atlantic Company; and said Garrison and Seligman and the defendant Sage, with full knowledge of these
facts, bought at heavy discount the past-due obligations of the
Atlantic Company, with the accompanying third mortgage
bonds. Some of the directors and former officers of this plaintiff were interested in the bonds or the obligations, and vigorously prosecuted the foreclosure suit, to the destruction of the
interests of the stockholders of this plaintiff. The defendants
Stout, Fish, D. Rt. Garrison, Samuels, W. R. Garrison and C.
K. Garrison were, during all these transactions, up to the commencement of the foreclosure suit, either directors of the Atlantic Company, or of this plaintiff, or creditors of, or otherwise
interested in, the Atlantic Company, and benefited by said
frauds, and were fully cognizant of the creation of said fraudulent bonds and of said fraudulent acts, and are not holders in
good faith of said third mortgage bonds. The defendant C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

K. Garrison agreed with Andrew Pierce, Jr., Baker and D. R.
Garrison, that, if they, controlling, as they did, the defence to
the Ketchum suit, would consent to a decree therein in the
manner and form in which consent to the entry of said decree
was given, he would pay all their liabilities in connection with
the Atlantic Company. Pursuant to such agreement, said
Garrison did pay said liabilities and took the improvement or
third mortgage bonds which were held as collateral, and thereupon said Pierce, Baker and D. R. Garrison caused said decree
to be entered, and falsely set forth that this plaintiff consented
to the decree and authorized the action of Baker in the premises.
Prior and subsequent to November 1st, 1875, Baker, one of
the directors of this plaintiff and its general attorney, with
Andrew Pierce, another director, and others unknown, confederated with some of the defendants herein, to institute proceedings to foreclose the third mortgage for the entire $4,000,000,
in order to obtain the entire property for themselves for
greatly less than its real value. In execution of this scheme,
they procured the bill of foreclosure in the Ketchumn case to
be printed prior to November 1st, 1875, and filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri,
and procured the complainant, Ketchum, to allow his name to
be used therein, and the bill was sworn to before the coupons
were in default, and, without waiting the six months required
by the trust deed, or procuring the request of the requisite
number of bondholders, they began suit. Baker admitted service of subpoena in the name of this plaintiff, without authority,
and without authority filed the answer of this plaintiff, falsely
admitting the due and lawful execution of the mortgage and
the liability of this plaintiff to pay the bonds, well knowing
the said facts invalidating the bonds. As a part of the fraudulent schemes of the defendants, no replications were ever filed
to put the cause at issue; no reference was ever made to a
master, so as to truly inform the court of the character and
amount of the debt; the cause was hurriedly disposed of, without waiting for the three months allowed by the rules of that
court, in equity; no defence was ever undertaken to be interposed at any stage of the proceedings by Baker, who pretended

PACIFIC R.R OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 511
Statement of Facts.

to act as solicitor for this plaintiff, but who really acted for
Andrew Pierce, W. 1. Garrison, C. K. Garrison, Russell Sage,
James Seligman, and others unknown, in procuring the decree of foreclosure and the sale thereunder; the trustees,
who alone had any right to foreclose the mortgage, never
filed any cross-bill or prayed any relief; the recital in the
decree, that the cause was heard on "proofs," was wholly
false and fraudulent, and there never was any judicial hearing whatever; no proofs were ever taken or offered, but
the decree was prepared and entered entirely by consent of,
and collusively between, the complainants and the counsel
and officers of this plaintiff, who were both carrying out the
common purpose of procuring the speediest decree of foreclosure, for which the action was originally instituted, and
in fraud of the rights and property of this plaintiff, and without any authority from it; it was false that Garrison, Pierce,
and Seligman were the owners of the bonds, as recited in the
decree, and the complainants and Baker, counsel for them, and
the officers of the corporation, consenting to said decree, knew
of all the facts invalidating the bonds, and wrongfully concealed all such facts from the court; no decree was entered
decreeing what debt was due under the mortgage, or ordering
the payment thereof, or giving any time or opportunity for redemption; the third mortgage bonds, neither by their face nor
by any provision of the mortgage, were due at the time the
decree was made, and no interest thereon was unpaid, except
the coupons which matured on the 1st of November, 1875;
well knowing that there was cash in the hands of the receivers
appointed by the court in the case, and valuable real estate in
the city of St. Louis which could be separately sold, which was
far more than sufficient to pay the entire amount of interest
justly dlue on the mortgage debt, even if valid, the complainants and the attorney for this plaintiff, jointly, and for the purpose of defrauding this plaintiff, procured the entry of a decree
to sell the entire property of this plaintiff to pay the principal
and interest of the bonds; and the whole amount of the third
mortgage bonds were not then and have not since been issued,
and, in any event, were not, to the full sum of $4,000,000, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

lien upon the premises. Baker, in pursuance of said fraudulent
understanding, purchased the property at the sale, not for this
plaintiff, his clients, and received a pecuniary reward from the
defendant the Missouri Pacific Railway, for doing the same.
He bought the property upon secret agreements, and in trust
for C. K. Garrison and his associates, for $3,000,000, payable
in third mortgage bonds, a sun greatly less than its actual cash
value. C. K. Garrison was surety for Baker, as purchaser.
Baker transferred his interest in the purchase to the defendant
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, which had since held it.
It had issued to the holders of the third mortgage bonds of this
plaintiff, bonds of itself for an equal amount, the third mortgage bondholders receiving accrued interest in cash, and purchasing an equal amount of the stock of the Missouri Pacific
Company. The principal holders of the third mortgage bonds
were and had been C. K. Garrison, Sage, James Seligman and
others, who confederated to procure the decree. On November
1st, 1876, the Missouri Pacific Company made a mortgage for
$4,500,000, to secure a pretended and fraudulent indebtedness,
in which mortgage the defendant the Central Trust Company
is now mortgagee. The defendants the Missouri Pacific Company, C. K. Garrison, Sage, and James Seligman, owned and
controlled, or the same were held for their use, nearly the whole
amount of the third mortgage bonds, and all took them with
full knowledge of the want of authority to issue them and of
their fraudulent character. As part of said fraudulent scheme,
the Atlantic Company, in 1872, procured the passage of an act of
the legislature, to enable the directors of this plaintiff to retain
control of the company against the will of the stockholders.
From the passage of said act to December, 1876, the Atlantic
Company, through the directors of this plaintiff, who were false
to their trust, had, by means of said law, controlled .the organization and management of this plaintiff's corporation. The
directors of this plaintiff did not properly represent the interests
of its stockholders, but used their position to strip it of its
property. The stockholders of this plaintiff, in writing, requested said directors to resign, that others might be appointed
in their place, who would properly attend to the duties of their

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 513
Statement of Facts.

office, and requested them to employ other counsel than Baker
to defend the Ketchum suit, but said directors allowed Baker,
who had caused the Ketchum complaint to be prepared before
any cause of action arose, and had caused the subpoena to be
served on himself, to put in the answer of this plaintiff in said
suit, when said directors and Baker knew that the averments
admitted were many of them false in fact. The defendants
C. K. Garrison, W. R. Garrison, Oliver Garrison, D. R. Garrison, Jay Gould, Russell Sage, A. V. Stout, George J. Forrest,
*Webb Ali. Samuels and Joseph L. Stephens, with others unknown, were then, or had been, directors of the defendant the
Missouri Pacific Railway Company, and in the receipt of its
income, and had knowledge of all the matters complained of,
and were parties to said frauds, and had been, from October,
1876, to the present time, in possession of this plaintiff's property.
Answers on oath to interrogatories in the bill were required
from all the defendants except Baker (Stout not being made a
defendant in the prayer for process).
The prayer of the bill was, that the improvement bonds, and
the third mortgage bonds, and the two mortgages securing
them, and the mortgage to the Central Trust Company be doclared void; that the decree of foreclosure in the Ketchum
suit be set aside; and that proper accounts be taken, and this
plaintiff be allowed to redeem, and its property be restored
to it.
The decree in the Ketchum suit stated that this plaintiff, as
defendant, appeared by James Baker, as its solicitor, and that
he appeared as defendant, in his own proper person, and as
solicitor for five other defendants, who were not defendants in
the present suit. It also stated that the "court, being fully
advised in the premises, and by the consent of the parties to
this suit, through their solicitors of record, thereupon and in
consideration thereof " decreed, but the terms of the consent
are not otherwise set forth in the decree.
There were two demurrers to the bill-one by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, 0. Garrison, D. R. Garrison,
Samuels and Baker; the other by Ketchum, C. K. Garrison,
VOL. cxI-83

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Pierce and Stephens. The two demurrers were substantially
identical, except that, in the first one, 0. Garrison, D. I. Garrison, and Samuels alleged that they were not proper or necessary parties, and in the second one it was alleged that the Circuit

Court had no jurisdiction over the suit.

In other respects,

each demurrer was as follows:
"The defendants .....
.
by protestation, not confessing
all or any of the matters or things in the said complainant's bill
contained to be true in such manner and form as the same are.
therein set forth and alleged, do demur to the said bill, and for
cause of demurrer show, that the said complainant has not, by its
said bill, made such a case as entitles it, in a court of equity, to
any discovery from these defendants respectively, or any of them,
or any relief against them, as to the matters contained in said bill,
or any such matters; and that any discovery which can be made
by these defendants, or any of them, touching the matters complained of in the said bill, or any of them, cannot be of avail to
the said complainant for any of the purposes for which a discovery
is sought against these defendants by the said bill, nor entitle the
said complainant to any relief in this court touching any of the
matters therein complained of. And for further and more specific
grounds of demurrer these defendants aver as follows, to wit:
(1.) If, or in so far as, the said bill of complaint is to be treated
and regarded as a bill of review for errors apparent in the record,
then it clearly appears that the time limited by law for the bringing of such a bill of review had elapsed long prior to the bringing
of the present suit; and also that said decree has been affirmed,
on appeal, by the Supreme Court of the United States. If, or in
so far as, the said bill of complaint is to be regarded and treated
as a bill of review instituted upon the discovery of new matter, or
based upon errors not apparent of record, then it appears that no
leave of this court has been obtained for the filing of such a bill
of review. It does not appear in the bill of complaint, or otherwise, that the matters of complaint therein set forth were not
known to the complainant at the time of the pendency of the
foreclosure, or that they could not have been therein set forth or
determined; and the bill of complaint discloses such negligence
and laches in the institution of the suit as destroys complainant's
right to the relief prayed for. (2.) The bill of complaint contains

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 515
Statement of Facts.
no description of the property mortgaged or covered by the decree, and in reference to which relief is sought to be had. (3).
The bill of complaint fails to set forth the bill of complaint or
the decree in the proceeding sought to be assailed, or the tenor or
purport thereof, all of which things should appear in the body of
the bill of complaint, in order to entitle the complainant to any
relief or discovery. (4.) The avernients of the bill of complaint
show that the complainant, even if its bill is to be treated as an
original one and not a bill of review, should be precluded by its
own laches and neglect from now instituting the present proceeding; for, it is nowhere averred that the complainant or its stockholders were at any time ignorant of the various alleged frauds
complained of ; and, on the other hand, it does appear that the
complainant and its stockholders were all along aware of all the
facts now sought to be assigned as grounds for relief and discovery in the bill, and that the complainant could have instituted its
suit under the authority of the officers now representing it, as
early as March, 1877, and that the stockholders of complainant
bad the means and remedies to have averted the alleged wrongs,
as well as the rendering of the decree and the foreclosure of the
property now complained of, in so far as they may have had any
just defences thereto. (5.) It affirmatively appears, by said bill
of complaint, in conjunction with the exhibits sought to be made
a part thereof, that the said stockholders of the complainant,
having full knowledge of all the matters now sought to be set up
as grounds of relief and discovery in this case, were allowed full
opportunity to interpose any and all objections they might have
to the rendering of said decree, and not only failed to do so, but
actually assented to said decree in manner and form as it was
rendered, and that the said stockholders actually assented to and
ratified the sale of the property which was made under and by virtue
of the foreclosure proceedings. (6.) The bill of complaint fails to
aver that its stockholders were at the time ignorant of the various
facts alleged as occurring and existing prior to the foreclosure
suit, or during the pendency of said suit, or that they were in any
way precluded from making any defences that they might have
to said decree or foreclosure, all which averments, under the facts
and circumstances of this case, should be made to appear by the
bill of complaint, in order to entitle it to any relief or discovery.
(7.) The said bill of complaint is altogether vague, uncertain,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and inconsistent in its various averments, and abounds in prolix,
redundant, and impertinent matters, and it is not such a bill
as, under the course of proceedings in chancery and of this court,,
these defendants ought to be called upon to make plea or answer
to. (8.) There is a defect of material and necessary parties defendant in said suit ; for it appears, from said bill of complaint,
that, in order to the obtaining of the relief sought for, J. B.
Colgate & Co., D. L. Caldwell, the National Bank of Commerce
of New York, the National Shoe and Leather Bank, Andrew
Pierce, as well as other corporations and individuals, and especially the officers of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company at
the time of the perpetration of the alleged frauds, and the former
officers of the Pacific Railroad, arc necessary and proper parties
to the suit, in order to the obtaining of the relief sought to be
(9.) The thirty-fourth, thirtyhad in the bill of complaint.
seventh, thirty-eighth, thirty-ninth, fortieth, forty-first, and fortysecond clauses of the bill of complaint contain matters and
allegations that are entirely immaterial and irrelevant, and all of
which have been adjudicated against the complainant, on appeal,
by the Supreme Court of the United States."
The deuurrers were brought to a hearing, and were, by consent, ordered to stand as demurrers for the Central Trust Com2 McCrary, 229. The plaintiff
pany, and were sustained.
elected to abide by the bill, and it was dismissed, and the
plaintiff has appealed.
Ar. 2V. H Cowdrey and iTr. D. -IT Oamberlain for appellant.
.fr. .elville

C. Day and XrL.

JVager Swayne for appellees.

AIR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
HIe stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, regarded the bill as an
original bill to impeach the prior decree for fraud, and not as a
bill of review upon newly discovered facts and evidence. It
held the bill to be insufficient, for want of an affirmative allegation that the plaintiff was ignorant, during the pendency
of the original suit, of the facts set up in the bill, much less
that it was unable, after due diligence, to ascertain and plead

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v.MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 517
Opinion of the Court.

them. The court added: "But the demurrer goes further, and
raises the question whether the bill and exhibits do not show
affirmatively, that the present complainant, through its stockholders, had notice of the foreclosure suit, knowledge of the
defence now insisted upon against the third mortgage bonds,
and ample opportunity to make that defence. It is, we think,
very clear, that, in considering the question of notice, no distinction can be made between the corporation and its officers
and stockholders. We cannot separate them and say the officers and stockholders knew of the fraud, but the corporation
did not. If, therefore, the stockholders were advised of the
foreclosure suit, and of the facts now charged as constituting
fraud in the execution of the bonds and mortgages sued on
therein, and had an opportunity to intervene and defend, and
did not do so, the corporation is concluded by their laches.
That the stockholders, as a body, were advised of the foreclosure suit, and took action looking to its defence, and that
they did not rely upon the officers of the corporation, but distrusted and antagonized them, is clear from the allegations of
the forty-fifth count of the bill, by which it is charged that the
stockholders, in writing, requested the directors to resign,
that others might be appointed in their place, who would
properly attend to the duties of their office; also, that the
stockholders requested said directors to employ counsel other
than James Baker to defend the suit of Ketchun."
The court, in its opinion, then makes reference to various
matters which, it states, appear in the record of the Ketchum
case-that, at a meeting of stockholders held in M[arch, 1876,
at St. Louis, several months before the decree of foreclosure
was made, a resolution was adopted requesting the directors to
employ counsel to aid in the defence of the foreclosure suit;
that the stockholders, or their managing committee, afterwards
assented to the decree; and that the stockholders knew the
facts now set up by way of defence.
The record in the Ketchum suit is not before us, on this appeal. The only allegation in the bill in regard to it is this:
"Your orator prays liberty to refer to the files and records of
said United States Circuit Court, in the case of George E.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

i~etcl.un v. Pacq'fic Jiaiboad el al., to show the collusive,
irregular and fraudulent character of the legal proceedings instituted, with advice of said Baker, the counsel of your orator,
to sell all its property for the enforcement of a security which
your orator avers to be fraudulent and void, and for which your
orator had received no valuable consideration." There is not,
in the record on this appeal, any stipulation that the Ketchum
record be considered as a part of the bill, nor is it identified
in any way. It is no part of the transcript certified from the
Circuit Court. The clerk of that court certifies that what is
before us is "a true transcript of the record in case No. 1,677,
of Pacific Railroad (of Missouri), plaintiff, against Missouri
Pacific Railway et al., defendants, as fully as the same remain
on file and of record in said ease in my office." It follows, that
the record in the Ketchum ease was never made part of the
record in this case, so far as appears from the only record which
is before this court, on this appeal. In regard to the bill in
the Ketchum suit, and the decree, and the master's deed, and
the order approving the deed, they are made a part of the bill
in this suit, and identified by the annexing of copies. But
the statement in the bill that the plaintiff prays liberty to refer
to the files and records of the Circuit Court in the Ketchum
suit, to show such and such things, can be of no force or effect
to allow either party to claim, in this court, the right to produce or refer to anything, as answering the description of such
files and records, which it may assert to be such, or as being
what the Circuit Court considered as before it. One of the
assignments of error, on this appeal, is that the Circuit Court
considered matters outside of the record, and matters not emibraced in the bill. We are of opinion that this court cannot
consider anything which is not contained in the bill and the
exhibits which are annexed to it, and that it cannot look into
anything otherwise presented as the files and records of the
Ketchum suit, or of any other proceedings in any court, for the
purpose of determining the questions arising on the demurrers
to this bill.
The decision of the Circuit Court was placed upon the ground
that the stockholders, being dissatisfied with the action of the

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 519
Opinion of the Court.

directors and the attorney of the company in defending the
foreclosure suit, were put on inquiry, and bound to do whatever
it was in their power to do to protect their interests; that any
individual stockholder was at liberty to apply to the court for
leave to intervene and defend; that the stockholders were parties in interest, and, upon representing that fact to the court,
and showing that the officers were not defending in good faith,
they would, without doubt, have been allowed to defend; and
that stockholders of a corporation, though not bound to intervene in a suit against the corporation, for the protection of
their rights, cannot, after having notice that the officers are
not faithfully defending a suit, neglect to intervene, or to take
any steps in the way of endeavoring to do so, and permit a
final decree to be entered, and a sale to take place, and then,
after years have elapsed, be permitted to attack the validity of
the proceedings.
The case, therefore, was made to turn on the question of
laches. The decree was made June 6th, 1876, the sale September 6th, 1876, the report of sale September 15th, 1876, the confirmation of the sale October 7th, 1876, and the master's deed
October 24th, 1876. The present plaintiff took an appeal to
this court from the decree, and from the order confirming the
sale, February 1st, 1877. It prosecuted that appeal in due
form, and the case was heard here as soon as the court could
hear it, as the bill states. It appears from the report of the
case in 101 U. S.289, that the present plaintiff contended here,
that it had not consented to the decree, and sought to examine
the question of the alleged fraud or unauthorized conduct of its
solicitor and its officers, and also sought to defeat the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and to attack the propriety of the
purchase by the solicitor. The conclusion of this court was,
that it could not discover any error that could be corrected by
appeal. But, in its opinion, it said: "The remedy for the
fraud or unauthorized conduct of a solicitor, or of the officers
of the corporation, in such a matter, is by an appropriate proceeding in the court where the consent was received and acted
on, and in which proof may be taken and the facts ascertained."
Thereupon, this bill was immediately filed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The demurrers in this case are to the whole bill. If any part
of the bill is good the demurrers fail. The charges of fraud in
the bill, which are admitted by the demurrers for present purposes, are sufficient to warrant the discovery and relief based
on such charges, leaving for consideration only the questions
of laches and of jurisdiction.
On the admitted allegations of the bill, there was no real
defence made in the Ketchum suit, and the present plaintiff
was prevented from making that defence, by the unfaithful
conduct of its solicitor and its directors, and the directors of
the Atlantic Company. A case of that kind is one of which a
court of equity will take cognizance. United States v. Tihrocl morton, 98 U. S. 61.
As to the question of laches, the pendency of the appeal
taken in the Ketehum suit suspended the control of the Circuit
Court, and of every other court, except this court, over that
decree, in respect to the relief sought in this suit, of setting
that decree aside and declaring it fraudulent and void, all the
other relief asked being consequent on that. The appeal appearing to have been taken and prosecuted in good faith, in
view of what appears in the bill herein, and in the report of
the case in this court, we cannot hold, on this demurrer, that
the time during which that appeal was pending can be counted
against the plaintiff on the question of laches. _Esminyer v.
Powers, 108 U. S. 292.
As to the frauds alleged in the bill respecting the matters in
the conduct of the suit, resulting in the decree, the right to
relief is based on the view, that the corporation itself, the present plaintiff, speaking and acting now for its stockholders as a
body, was powerless then, because it was misrepresented by
unfaithful directors, who did what was done and refused to do
otherwise, and through whom alone it could then speak and
act. The allegations in the bill, of facts showing the existence
of hostile control of the corporate affairs of the plaintiff by its
directors, from before the bringing of the Ketclum suit till
after the foreclosure sale, are entirely adequate as against a
demurrer. Under such circumstances, mere knowledge by, or
notice to, the plaintiff, or its directors or officers, or more or

PACIFIC R.R. OF MO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC R'Y. 521
Opinion of the Court.

less of its stockholders, is unimportant; and the plaintiff cannot be concluded by the failure of any number of its stockholders to do what unfaithful directors ought to have done,
unless a case is shown of such acquiescence, assent or ratification as would make it inequitable to permit what has been
done to be set aside, or unless the rights of innocent purchasers
have subsequently intervened, to an extent creating an equitable bar to the granting of relief. The bill in this case does not
show such a state of things. While stockholders, more or less
in number, may be allowed to interpose, if they have the means
or the inclination to take upon themselves the burden of such
gigantic controversies as are involved in the railroad transactions of the present day, it would go far to legalize condonation of such transactions as are set forth in this bill, if mere
knowledge by helpless stockholders of the fraudulent acts of
their directors were to prevent the corporation itself from seeking redress, if it acts promptly when freed from the control of
such directors. Fruitlessly requesting unfaithful directors to
resign and to employ other counsel, so far from throwing on
the stockholders the peril of losing their rights, represented by
the company, if they do not personally assert them in place of
the directors, operates of itself, without more, only to ag'gravate the wrong. At the same time, it by no means follows
that parties who have become interested in the plaintiff's corporation with knowledge of the matters set forth in the bill,
are entitled to the same standing, as to relief, with those who
were interested in the corporation when the transactions complained of occurred.
As to the matters alleged which are extrinsic or collateral to
the issues in the Ketchumn suit, to what extent, greater or less,
there is jurisdiction to examine them under this bill, is a question not to be decided on these demurrers to the whole bill.
The bill is sufficient in regard to the other frauds alleged. But,
in regard to one of those extrinsic matters, the bill states that
specific property not covered by the mortgage was put into the
decree without the knowledge of this plaintiff.
Upon the question of jurisdiction, there can be no doubt that
the Circuit Court, as the court which made the Ketchum decree,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and had jurisdiction of the Ketchum suit, as this court, in Pacy'c Reailroad v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, held it had, has jurisdiction to entertain the present suit to set aside that decree on
the grounds alleged in the bill, if they shall be established as
facts, and if there shall be no valid defence to the suit, although
the plaintiff and some of the defendants are citizens of Missouri.
The bill falls within recognized cases which have been adjudged
by this court, and have been recently reviewed and reaffirmed
in JiKrip)endorf v. Iyde, 110 U. S. 276. On the question of
jurisdiction the suit may be regarded as ancillary to the
Ketchnm suit, so that the relief asked may be granted by the
court which made the decree in that suit, without regard to the
citizenship of the present parties, though partaking so far of the
nature of an original suit as to be subject to the rules in regard
to the service of process which are laid down by Mr. Justice
Miller in PacXo Riailroadv. XiSsouri JPacj/Ic Railway Co., 1
McCrary, 647. The bill, though an original bill in the chancery
sense of the word, is a continuation of the former suit, on the
innesota
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 633.
We do not see any force in the second and third grounds of demurrer, nor, at present, in the eighth. The seventh ground of demurrer alleges what is, if true, matter for exception, and so does
the ninth, in part. As to the rest of the ninth, it is matter for an
answer. All the demurring parties seem to be proper parties.
If, as has been strenuously argued for the defendants, there
are complete defences, on the merits, to the bill, answers should
have been put in and proofs taken. We can act only on what
the bill brings before us, and all it alleges is admitted, for
present purposes. The future proceedings in the case may
show that the allegations of the bill are untrue, or may disclose
perfect defences to the suit. But, as the suit now stands, the
plaintiff is entitled to have the matters it alleges inquired into
and adjudicated.
TfIe decree qf the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with direction to overrule the demurrers,with costs, and to take such furtherproceedings in
the suit as shall be proper and not inconsistent with the
opinion of this court.

