GIBBS & STERRETT MFG. CO. v.BRUCKER.

597

Syllabus.

possible the court erred in its charge upon the subject of
damages in directing the jury to add interest to the value of
the goods.

.

.

.

But the error, if it be one, cannot be taken

advantage of by the defendants, for they took no exception to
the charge on that ground. The charge is inserted at length
in the bill.

.

.

.

It embraces several distinct propositions,

and a general exception cannot avail the party if any one of
them is correct." On these authorities we are of opinion that
the ground of error under consideration was not well saved by
the bill of exceptions.
Many other grounds of error have been assigned though not
argued by counsel for the plaintiff in error. But what we have
said covers most of them. The others are not well taken. We
find no error in the record.
Tliejudymient of Ihe Circuit Court is aflfrmed.

GIBBS & STERRETT MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. BRUCKER.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Submitted April 25th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Contracl-Lord'sDay.
An agreement signed by the maker on Sunday, but not delivered to the other
party on that day of the week, is no violation of a statute making it a penal
offence to do business on the first day of the week.
A contract made on Sunday with an agent of the other party without his
knowledge, the agent having no authority to bind his principal, and ratified by the principal on another day of the week and then exchanged, is
not void as a violation of a statute making it penal to do business on
Sunday.

The facts making the case are fully stated in the opinion of
the court.
Jr.

William P. lynde for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

Yr. Edward S. Bragg for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action at law brought by the Gibbs & Sterrett
Manufacturing Company, the plaintiff in error, against Peter
Brucker, the defendant in error, and Pirmin Koepfer, upon a
cause of action which was stated in the complaint substantially
as follows: On January 23d, 1878, the plaintiff, as party of
the first part, made an agreement in writing with James Gibson, John Wirtz, and Peter Fox, as parties of the second part,
by which the latter were appointed agents for the former to
sell, within certain designated territory, (luring the season of
1877, the reapers and mowers manufactured by the plaintiff.
In consideration of such appointment, the parties of the second
part agreed to sell the reapers and mowers within the designated territory and to account for the proceeds of the sales
to the plaintiff. The contract bore date January 11th, 1878.
After the signatures of Gibson, Wirtz, and Fox, the following contract of guaranty was appended:
MR. JUSTICE WOODS

"For value received we hereby guarantee the fulfilment of the
contract on the part of James Gibson, John Wirtz, and Peter
Fox, and hereby join them in each and every obligation therein
contained."
This guaranty also bore date January 11th, 1878, and was
signed by Pirmin Koepfer, Jacob Steffes and Peter Brucker.
The contract and guaranty were negotiated by one ]atteson,
a special agent of the plaintiff for that purpose, but who had
no power to close or conclude the same. After the execution
and delivery of the contract and guaranty, and between that
time and September 1st, 1878, the plaintiff delivered to Gibson,
Wirtz, and Fox, reapers, mowers, &c., of the value of $7,379.10,
and of that sum they failed to account for or pay over to the
plaintiff $4,664.49, although demanded of them by the plaintiff, and on September 15th, 1878, the plaintiff gave notice
thereof to Kcepfer and Brucker, Steffes having previously died,
and demanded payment from them of the sum so due the plain-

GIBBS & STERRETT MFd(. CO. v. BIRUCKER.

599

Opinion of the Court.

tiff, which they refused to pay. The demand of the complaint
was for judgment against Kcepfer and Brucker for $4,664.49,
with interest from December 4th, 1879.
Koepfer made no defence. Brucker filed an answer, in
which he alleged, by way of defence, that he signed the
guaranty, and, so far as he was connected therewith, delivered
the same upon the day of the week commonly called Sunday.
Upon the issue raised on this answer, the case was tried by the
court, which made special findings of fact substantially as
follows:
The plaintiff was a manufacturing corporation of the State
of Pennsylvania, with its home office in that State, and having
a branch or general agency in the city of Chicago, in the State
of Illinois. During and after the month of January, 1878,
Messrs. Hoag & Conklin, of Waterloo, in the State of Wisconsin, were the agents of the plaintiff for that State for the
purpose of making sales of the manufactures of the plaintiff
therein through sub-agents, to be appointed in the following
manner: Iloag & Conklin were to canvass the State of Wisconsin for the purpose of selecting good and responsible men to
become agents, and were to fill out in duplicate the plaintiff's
printed form of contract, and cause the same to be signed by
the agents selected, and by their sureties, and immediately
thereafter to forward such duplicates to the plaintiff at its
western branch, at Chicago, for its approval and signature.
Iloag & Conklin had no power or authority to sign or close
any such contract on behalf of the plaintiff.
From January 10th until January 25th, 1878, and thereafter,
one M. V. Matteson was an employ6 and agent of Hoag &
Conklin, for the purpose of carrying out the said contract on
their part, and had and exercised no other or greater or different powers in that regard than Hoag & Conklin.
Iloag & Conklin were to be paid by the plaintiff, by certain
commissions upon the amount of machinery sold, and Matteson
was to be paid by Hoag & Conklin, by commissions upon the
amount of machinery sold through agencies established by
him.
On January 11th, 1878, which was Friday, the agency con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tract referred to in the complaint was, at the instance of Matteson, signed by Gibson, Wirtz and Fox, and the guaranty
contract on which the suit was brought was on the same day
signed by Kcepfer. On. Sunday, January 13th, the guaranty
contract was signed by Steffes and Brucker, and on the same
day delivered to Matteson.
At this time Wirtz, Gibson and Fox knew, but Brucker did
not, that Matteson had no authority to sign or close the contract on behalf of the plaintiff, but that it must be sent to the
plaintiff at Chicago to be accepted and signed by it. Brucker
had no knowledge of the powers of Matteson, and made no
inquiry concerning them.
On Monday, January 14th, I.atteson sent duplicates of the
contract and guaranty so. signed by mail to the plaintiff at
Chicago for acceptance and signature, and the same were
accepted and signed by the plaintiff on Wednesday, January
23d, and on the same day one of the duplicates was returned
by mail to Gibson, Wirtz and Fox, but no communication took
place between the plaintiff and Brucker in reference thereto.
During the spring and summer of 1878, the plaintiff delivered
to Wirtz, Gibson, and Fox, upon the contract, reapers and
mowers, on which there remained due to plaintiff the sum of
$3,336.25, with interest thereon from March 14th, 1881, for
which defendant Brucker was liable, provided the guaranty
contract was valid as against him.
Neither the plaintiff, nor any officer or agent thereof, excepting Matteson, ever had notice or knowledge, until after the
signing of contracts in Chicago, and until after the delivery of
all of the reapers and mowers to Gibson, Wirtz, and Fox, that
the instrument of guaranty was signed and deliverel by defendant Brucker on Sunday.
Upon these facts the judges of the court were divided in
opinion upon the question whether the contract of guaranty
and suretyship, upon which this suit was brought, was void and
invalid under the statutes of Wisconsin, because the same was
so signed and delivered by the defendant Brucker upon Sunday;
and the presiding judge being of opinion that the contract was
invalid, for the reason stated, judgment in favor of the defend-

GIBBS & STERRETT MFG. CO. v. BRUCKER.

601

Opinion of the Court.

ant was rendered in accordance with his opinion, and thereupon
the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
The law of Wiscon'sin referred to in the certificate of division
of opinion is as follows:
" Any person who shall keep open his shop, warehouse or workhouse, or shall do any manner of labor, business or work, except
only works of necessity and charity, or be present at any dancing
or public diversion, show or entertainment, or take part in any
sport, game or play, on the first day of the week, shall be punished
by fine, not exceeding ten dollars; and such day shall be understood to include the time between the midnight preceding and
the midnight following the said day, and no civil process shall be
served or executed on said day." Revised Statutes of Wisconsin
of 1878, section 4595.
The ground upon which courts have refused to maintain
actions on contracts made in contravention of statutes for the
observance of the Lord's day is the elementary principle that
one who has himself participated in a violation of law cannot
be permitted to assert in a court of justice any right founded
upon or growing out of the illegal transaction. Crcanson v.
Gos s, 107 Mass. 439 ; Iflobnan v. Jodnson, Cowp. 341.
If, therefore, the evidence shows a good cause of action
without any participation of the plaintiff in an illegal transaction, he may recover, the law simply refusing its aid to either
party in giving effect to an illegal transaction in which he has
taken part. Tuclerman v. Iincekley, 9 Allen, 452 ; Stackpole
v. y nonds, 3 Foster (23 N. II.) 229; Bloxsome v. W lliams, 3
3. & C. 232; Roys v. Johnson, 7 Gray, 162.
Applying these principles, it is clear there was no obstacle to
a recovery by the plaintiff in this ease. The plaintiff itself
took no part in any violation of the law of Wisconsin forbidding the doing of labor, business, or work on Sunday, unless it
was bound by the acts and knowledge of Matteson in regard
to the signing of the contract by Brucker, the defendant. But
it was not so bound.
The complaint alleged that Matteson was the special agent
of the plaintiff to negotiate the agreement set out therein, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that he had no power to close or conclude the same. This
averment is fully sustained by the findings, by which it appears
that neither Hoag & Conklin nor Matteson had power to sign,
accept, or close any such contract on behalf of the plaintiff.
The knowledge, therefore, of Matteson, that the defendant
Brucker signed the contract on Sunday, and his acceptance of
the manual delivery of the contract on the same day, was not
within his agency, and was not the act of, and was not binding
on, the plaintiff. So far, therefore, as there was any violation
of the law of Wisconsin forbidding the transaction of business
on Sunday, it was the act of Brucker alone, in which the
plaintiff took no part and of which it had no knowledge. The
fact, therefore, that the contract was signed by the defendant
and handed to Matteson on Sunday is, upon the authorities
cited, no obstacle to a recovery.
There is another ground on which the case of the plaintiff
may be placed.
In order to make good the defence set up in the answer, it
is necessary to prove not only that the defendant signed his
name to the contract on Sunday, but that he delivered it on
Sunday. The mere signing of a contract on Sunday, which is
not delivered on that day, does not avoid the contract. Adams
v. Gay, 19 Vt. 358; Goss v. Whitney, 24 Vt. 187; Sal/marsh v.
Tuthill, 13 Ala. 390, 406; Flanaganv. Afeyer, 41 Ala. 132;
Commonwealth v. Kencig, 2 Penn. St. 448; H1ill v. Dunlham,
7 Gray, 543; [fall v. Tucker, 37 Mich. 590; Iilton v. Hfoughton, 35 Me. 143.
The question, therefore, arises, was the contract which was
signed by Brucker on Sunday delivered by him on Sunday?
The delivery on Sunday relied on by defendant to avoid the
contract, was the alleged delivery to Matteson. But we have
seen that, according to the findings of the Circuit Court, Matteson was not the agent of the plaintiff for that purpose, and
could not accept a delivery of the contract so as to bind the
parties. In other words, the handing to him by the defendant
of the contract was not a delivery in the legal sense, and was
no more effectual to bind the plaintiff or the defendant than if
the contract had been handed to an indifferent third person.

GIBBS & STERRETT MFG. CO. v. BRUCKER.

603

Opinion of the Court.

The fact was that the delivery to Matteson was virtually
the delivery to a messenger to transmit the contract to the
other party for its approval or disapproval. Until the contract was approved and executed by the plaintiff, the defendant had his locus 1 cnitentiw, and could have withdrawn
his assent to the contract. In a word, there was no contract until the agreement had been assented to by both
parties, and this, according to the findings, was on Wednesday, January 23, when the contract was approved and signed
by the plaintiff.
The fact that the defendant did not know, when he handed
the contract to Matteson, what the powers of Matteson were,
or that the contract would have to be sent to the plaintiff for
its acceptance and signature, can have no influence on the result. Even if it was the purpose of the defendant to bind himself by a delivery of the contract to Matteson, such delivery,
being to an unauthorized person, would not bind the plaintiff,
and if the plaintiff was not bound neither was the defendant.
The defence, therefore, resolves itself into this, that the defendant, without the concurrence or knowledge of the plaintiff,
signed on Sunday a paper writing, which bore date of a week
day, and which, to become a contract between the parties, required the assent and signature of the plaintiff, which was
given on a week day. This, according to the authorities, does
not avoid the contract.
We have examined all the cases decided by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin which have been cited by counsel, and find
nothing in them contrary to the views we have expressed.
ilfoore v. -endall, 2 Pin. 99; 11ill v. Sherwood, 3 Wis. 343;
Afelokoir v. XcCarly, 31 Wis. 252 ; [Knox v. Cliford, 38 Wis.
651 ; Troewert v. _Decker , 51 Wis. 46 ; De Fortlhe v. Tlic Wisconsin & Jinnsota Railroad Company, 52 Wis. 320. The
case of 1nox v. Cliford, ubi supra, sustains the conclusion we
have reached, though on a different ground. In that case it
was held that he who makes and puts in circulation a promissory note bearing date on a week day, is estopped as against
an innocent holder from showing that it was executed on Sunday.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

We base our decision, however, on the grounds we have indicated, first, because it does not appear that the plaintiff had
any part in executing the contract in violation of the law of
Wisconsin forbidding the transaction of business on Sunday;
and, second, because the contract, though signed by the defendant on Sunday, was not delivered by him, and did not
take effect on that day.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in rendering
judgment for the defendant upon the findings of fact.
Tle judment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to grant a new trial.

PHILLIPS and Others v. DETROIT.
APPEAL FRO'M THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued April 22d, 1881.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Patent.
The construction of the pavenioct described in the letters patent for "a new
and useful improvement in street and other highway pavements" granted
to Robert C. Phillips, December 5th, 1871, demanded only ordinary
mechanical skill and judgment, and but a small degree of either, and required no invention.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
M r. George I.

Lothrop, for appellants.

JAr. D0. C. I1olbrooe, for appellee.
MaI. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity brought by Robert C. Phillips,
Eugene Robinson, and Jesse IT. Farwell, who were the exclusive licensees of Phillips for the State of Michigan, to restrain
the defendant, the city of Detroit, from infringing letters
patent granted to Phillips, December 5, 1871, for "a new and

