MOORE v. PAGE.
Statement of Facts.

form had been neglected the defendant might not have successfully contended that the complainant had neglected to meet
the requirements of the statute. Besides, the act of 1867 did
not, upon its face, show that the funds of the corporation
would be insufficient to meet its debts in full. When the execution issued the trustees might, for aught that the judgment
creditor knew, have caused it to be satisfied, and thereby dispensed with further proceedings upon the complainant's part
against those who were supposed to have unlawfully received
the property of the corporation. It was proper, therefore, that
a creditor, desiring to resort to the special remedies reserved to
him, should attempt by execution to secure payment of his
judgment against the corporation before resorting to a court of
equity.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the complainant's
cause of action should not be deemed to have accrued until the
return of the execution; consequently his suit was not barred
by the limitation of six years.
Te decree i8 afirmed.

MOORE & Another v. PAGE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted November 26th, 1883.-Decided March 24th, 1834.
Fraudulent Conveyance-lHusband and Wife.
A husband may settle a portion of his property upon his wife, if he does not
thereby impair the claims of existing creditors, and the settlement is not
intended as a cover to future schemes of fraud.
When a husband settles a portion of his property on his wife it should not be
mingled up or confounded with that which he retains, or be left under his
management or control without notice that it belongs to her.

This was a creditor's bill to reach property conveyed by the
debtor to his wife, and have it applied to the payment of the
debt. The decree below sustained the conveyance, from which
the creditor appealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

3r.

iT7. 1elm for appellants.

.ir. EdwardS. Ishaim and .3Lr. William Burry for appellee
Page; .Mr. George . Smith for other appellees.
FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
It is no longer a disputed question that a husband may settle
a portion of his property upon his wife, if he does not thereby
impair the claims of existing creditors, and the settlement is
not intended as a cover to future schemes of fraud. The settlement may be made either by the purchase of property and
taking a deed thereof in her name, or by its transfer to trustees
for her benefit. And his direct conveyance to her, when the
fact that it is intended as such settlement is declared in the
instrument or otherwise clearly established, will be sustained in
equity against the claims of creditors. The technical reasons of
the common law growing out of the unity of husband and wife,
which preclude a conveyance between them upon a valuable
consideration, will not in such a case prevail in equity and defeat his purpose. Sh epard v. Sl epard, 7 Johns. Ch. 57;
-Hunt v. Johnson, 44 N. Y. 27; Story's Equity, ยง 1380; Pomeroy's Equity, ยง 1101; Dale v. Lincoln, 62 Ill. 22; Deming
v. Williams, 26 Conn. 226; ilaraman v. iaraman,4 Met.
Ky. 84; Sims v. Rickets, 35 Ind. 181 ; Story v. J3farshall, 24
Texas, 305; T]iompson v. Jffills, 39 Ind. 528. Such is the purport of our decision in Jones v. Clfton, 101 U. S. 225. His
right to make the settlement arises from the power which every
one possesses over his own property, by which he can make
any disposition of it that does not interfere with the existing
rights of others. As he may give it or a portion of it to
strangers, or for objects of charity, without any one being able
to call in question either his power or right, so he may give it
to those of his own household, to his wife or children. Indeed,
settlements for their benefit are looked upon with favor and
are upheld by the courts. As we said in Jones v. Clifton : "In
all cases where a husband makes a voluntary settlement of any
portion of his property for the benefit of others who stand in
such a relation to him as to create an obligation, legally or

MR. JUSTICE

MOORE v. PAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

morally, to provide for them, as in the case of a wife, or children, or parents, the only question that can properly be asked
is, does such a disposition of the property deprive others of any
existing claims to it? If it does not, no one can complain, if
the transfer is made matter of public record and be not designed
as a scheme to defraud future creditors. And it cannot make
any difference through what channels the property passes to
the party to be benefited, or to his or her trustee, whether it
be by direct conveyance from the husband, or through the
intervention of others."
Whilst property thus cdnveyed as a settlement upon the wife
may be held as her separate estate, beyond the control of her
husband, it is of the utmost importance to prevent others from
being misled into giving credit to him upon the property, that
it should not be mingled up and confounded with that which he
retains, or be left under his control and management without
evidence or notice by record that it belongs to her. Where it
is so mingled, or such notice is not given, his conveyance will
be open to suspicion that it was in fact designed as a cover to
schemes of fraud.
In this case there was much looseness; and the transactions
between the husband and the wife touching the property were
well calculated to excite suspicion. It is, therefore, with much
hesitation that we accept the conclusion of the Circuit Court.
We do so only because of its finding that there was no deception or fraud intended by either husband or wife; that the
appellants were not led to give him any credit upon the
property, but acquired their interest in the judgment which
they are seeking to have satisfied long after the transactions
complained of occurred; that the title to the Dearborn Avenue
property was taken by mistake in his name, and that the mistake was rectified before this litigation commenced ; that the
bonds and notes in bank which the creditors seek to reach
represent the money advanced by her from the sale of that
property for the purpose of meeting an alleged deficit in his
account as administrator of the estate of Maxwell, and in equity
belong to that estate; that the money applied in satisfaction of
the mortgage upon the Lincoln Avenue property was part of

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

the proceeds of that sale, and that she was entitled to have the
conveyance to her from Mrs. Maxwell treated as security for
that money. Such being the case, the creditors have no claim
upon the bonds and notes superior in equity to that of the
Maxwell estate, nor upon the Lincoln Avenue property superior
to that of the wife.
Decree afirmed.

GARRETSON v. CLARK & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 15th, 1881.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Patent.
When a patent is for an improvement of an existing machine or contrivance,
the patentee in a suit for damages for infringement must either show by
reliable, tangible proof that the value of the machine or contrivance as a
whole is due to the use of his patented invention, or he must separate and
apportion, by proof of the same character, the part of the defendant's profits
which are derivable from the use of it, in order to establish a claim for more
than nominal damages.

This was a suit in equity for infringement of a patent for an
improved mop-head. The sole question raised was whether the
evidence of damages warranted a judgment for more than
nominal damages.
_Jfr. James A. Allen for appellant.
ir.

Villiam F. Coggswell for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the court below sustained the plaintiff's patents,
adjudged that the defendants were infringers, and directed a
reference to a master, to ascertain and report the profits and
gains made by the defendants. The master reported that no
proof was presented to him that they had made any profit, or
MR. JUSTICi

FIELD

