UNITED STATES v. BELL.
Opinion of the Court.

to a removal if his petition had been filed in time, we affirm
the order to remand on the ground taken by the circuit judge,
that the application for removal was not made "before the
trial" within the meaning of the term as used in the act of
1875.
Afflrned.

UNITED STATES v. BELL & Another.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

DISTRICT COURT

TILE NORTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

Submitted April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 2lst, 1884.

Evidence.
A transcript from the books of the treasury, certified to by the Fourth Auditor,
showing the account of the Treasury Department with a paymaster of the
navy, accompanied by a certificate of the Secretary of the Treasury that the
certifying officer was the Fourth Auditor at the time of the certificate, is
competent evidence in a suit upon the paymaster's bond.

M1'. Assisiant Attorney-Generac Xcaury for plaintiff in error.
Charles F. Benjamin and XJ,. Richa
for defendants in error.
2,.

2'Allister, Jr.,

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit upon the bond of a purser in the navy, and
at the trial a transcript from the books and proceedings of the
Treasury Department was offered in evidence, authenticated
in the following form:
"TREASURY

DEPARTMENT, FOURTII AUDITOR'S OFFICE,

" WASHINGTON, D. C., Fyeb'y 11, 1881.
"Pursuant to section 886 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, I, Charles Beardsley, Fourth Auditor of the Treasury Department, do hereby certify that the annexed is a transcript of
the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department in account with Miles I1. Morris, late paymaster in the U. S. Navy,

under bond of April 9, 1858.

" CHARLES BEARDSLEY, Auditor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"Be it remembered that Chas. Beardsley, Esq., who certified
the annexed transcript, is now, and was at the time of doing so,
Fourth Auditor of the Treasury of the United States, and that
full faith and credit are due to his official attestations.
"In testimony whereof, I, John Sherman, Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, have hereunto subscribed my name
and caused to be affixed the seal of this department, at the city
of Washington, this eleventh day of February, in the year of our
Lord 1881.
"[Seal of Department.]
"JoHN SnmRATAx,
"Sqecretary of the Treasury."
An objection to the admission of the evidence on the ground
that the "transcript was not certified as required by law," was
sustained by the court, and that is assigned for error here.
In our opinion the certificate was sufficient. Sec. 886 of the
Revised Statutes provides that "when suit is brought in any
case of delinquency of a revenue officer, or other person accountable for public money, a transcript from the books and
proceedings of the Treasury Department, certified by the register and authenticated under the seal of the department, or,
when the suit involves the accounts of the War and Navy Departments, certified by the auditors respectively charged with
the examination of those accounts, and authenticated under
the seal of the Treasury Department, shall be admitted as evidence, and the court trying the cause shall be authorized to
grant judgment and award execution accordingly."
This suit involved the accounts of the Navy Department.
The fourth auditor is charged by law with the duty of examining all accounts accruing in that department. Rev. Stat.,
see. 277, subdivision fifth. He has certified under his hand
that the paper offered in evidence "is a transcript of the books
and proceedings of the Treasury Department in account with"
the purser whose bond is in suit, and the Secretary of the
Treasury has certified, under the seal of the department, to
the official character of the auditor, "and that full faith and
credit are due to his official attestations." What more need
be done to authenticate the transcript under the seal of the

ANDERSON v. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSE CO.

479

Statement of Facts.

department we are at loss to determine. The certificate of the
proper auditor is attached and his certificate attested by the
Secretary of the Treasury under the seal of the department.
The form of the certificates and the mode of affixing the seal
correspond exactly with what appears in Smith v. United
States, 5 Pet. 292, where it was held, more than half a century
ago, that the seal affixed in this way was sufficient for the purposes of evidence under a statute, of which see. 886 is a reenactment. The transcript is certified by the auditor, and
authenticated under the seal of the Treasury Department
affixed by the Secretary, its lawful custodian.
Tle judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, with instructions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

ANDERSON, Receiver, v. PHILADELPHIA WAREhtOUSE COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 3d, 4th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

National Banks.
A pledgee of shares of stock in a national bank who in good faith and with no
fraudulent intent takes the security for his benefit in the name of an irresponsible trustee for the avowed purpose of avoiding individual liability as
a shareholder, and who exercises none of the powers or rights of a stockholder, incurs no liability as such to creditors of the bank in case of its
failure.

This suit was brought by the receiver of the First National
Bank of Allentown, an insolvent national bank, to recover an assessmnent made by the Comptroller of the Currency on the shareholders to pay debts, and the only question presented for determination is whether, upon the facts the Philadelphia Warehouse
Company was in law a shareholder of the bank at the time of
its failure, and as such liable to creditors. The facts, as shown
by the undisputed testimony, or found by the jury, are these:

