OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tried in that mode, and that the entire proceedings against him
were illegal and void, it yet appears, that, after his release, he
voluntarily conceded that there was justly due from him to the
government a larger sum than he had paid; and, upon the basis
of that concession, he secured a credit upon his accounts for the
amount he had so paid, receiving, out of the balance, admitted
to be due from and chargeable to him, the sum of $1,414.45.
We can imagine no reason why it was not competent for him,
without reference to the legality of the proceedings before the
military commission, to come to an understanding with the
authorized officers of the government, substantially upon the
basis suggested by him and acceded to by them. Even if the
original payment to the government was under duress, he had
the right, subsequently, to agree, as he did, that what the government coerced him to pay was, in fact, fairly due upon a
proper settlement of his accounts. And when, by way of supplement to, and in execution of, that agreement, he accepted,
as compensation for his services, or as a gratuity, a portion of
the balance justly due from him, he is estopped to raise any
question as to the legality of the methods employed to collect
from him what should have been paid without compelling the
government to expend, for its collection, the large sum that
was allowed Moulton for his services.
Tlie judgment is a/firmed.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. LATHROP, Administrator.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOP, THE

NVESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued April 3d, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Court and Jury Trial-vidence.
The rule reaffirmed, that a case should not be withdrawn from the jury unless
the testimony be of such a conclusive character as to compel the court in the

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO v. LATHROP. 613
Statement of Facts.
exercise of a sound legal discretion, to set aside a verdict in opposition to
it.
Upon an issue, in a suit upon a life policy, as to the insanity of the insured at
the time he took his own life, the opinion of a non-professional witness as
to his mental condition, in connection with a statement of the facts and circumstances, within his personal knowledge, upon which that opinion is
based, is competent evidence.

This was a writ of error from a judgment in favor of Helen
Pitkin, the beneficiary in two policies issued by the Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Company upon the life of her husband
-one, on the 10th day of August, 1866, for the sum of $5,000;
and the other, on the 24th day of September, 1873, for the sum
of $423. The insured, George E. Pitkin, died on the 29th day
of September, 1878. After the case came to this court the
beneficiary in the policies died, and there was a revivor against
her personal representative.
The defence was the same as to each policy. Briefly stated,
it was this: That the policy expressly provides that in case the
insui'ed shall, after its execution, become so far intemperate as
to impair his health, or induce delirium tremens, or should die
by his own hand, it shall be void and of no effect ; that, after
its execution and delivery, he did become so far intemperate as
to impair his health, and induce delirium tremens ; also, that he
died by his own hand, because with premeditation and deliberation, he shot himself through the head with a bullet discharged
by himself from a pistol, by reason whereof he died. Further,
that the affirmative answer by plaintiff, in her application for
insurance, to the question, whether the insured was then and
had always been of temperate habits, being false and untrue,
the contract was annulled; because, by its terms, the policy
was to become void if the statements and representations in the
application-constituting the basis of the contract between the
parties-were not in all respects true and correct.
The plaintiff, in her reply, put in issue all the material allegations of the answer, except that alleging the self-destruction
of her husband; as to which she averred that, "at the time he
committed said act of self-destruction, and with reference
thereto," he " was not in possession of his mental faculties, and
was not responsible for said act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

On the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the opinions of
n6n-professional witnesses who were not experts as to the condition of Pitkin's mind at the time when he killed himself,
whether he was sane or insane. This evidence was admitted
and excepted to. At the close of the plaintiff's evidence the defendant's counsel moved to instruct the jury to return a verdict
for the defendant. This was refused and the refusal excepted to.
A verdict was returned for plaintiff. The defendant sued out
this writ of error.
Cliandler,for plaintiff in error, cited to the point
211+. Jf
that the opinions of non-professional persons as to Pitkin's
sanity were inadmissible, liarrison v. Piowan, 3 Wash. C. C.
580; Commonwealth v. Wilson, 1 Gray, 339; Pool v. Riekardron, 3 Mass. 337; Conmonwealth v. Fairbavk4,2 Allen, 511;
Jifittrry v. Ifooper, 12 Ala. 823; lymnan v. Gould, 47 Maine,
159; O'Brien v. Bac/ie, 36 N. Y. 276, 282.
_Mr. J Br mbacel (31ir. Iallace Pratt and .1.
_Latkroyp were with him) for defendant in error.

Gardiner

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court. lie
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
At the close of the evidence introduced for the plaintiff, the
defendant, by counsel, moved the court to instruct the jury
that upon the pleadings and evidence the plaintiff could not
recover. That motion was denied, and the action of the court
-to which the defendant at the time excepted-is assigned for
error. This instruction, it is claimed, should have been given
upon the ground that the evidence disclosed no symptom whatever of insanity upon the part of the insured. But that position
cannot be sustained upon any proper view of the testimony.
There certainly was evidence tending to show a material, if
not radical, change for the worse in the mental condition of
the insured immediately preceding his death. In the judgment
of several who knew him intimately and had personal knowledge of such change, he was not himself at the time of the act
of self-destruction. Whether his strange demeanor immediately
before his death was the result of a deliberate, conscious pur-

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LATHROP. 615
Opinion of the Court.

pose to feign insanity, so as thereby the more readily to
defraud the company, was a matter peculiarly within the
province of the jury to determine. If the refusal of the court
to sustain the motion would have been error, had there been
an entire absence of proof to sustain the plaintiff's suit, it is
sufficient to say that there was evidence of a substantial
character tending to show that the insured was insane when
he took his life. In Insuarance Company v. Rodcel, 95 U. S. 232,
238, where the question was made as to the duty of the court,
on a motion by the defendant for a peremptory instruction based
wholly on plaintiff's evidence, it was said, that "if there was
any evidence tending to prove that the deceased was insane
when he took the poison which caused his death, the judge
was not bound to, and, indeed, could not properly, take the
evidence from the jury. The weight of the evidence is for
them, and not for the judge, to pass upon." The case clearly
comes within the rule announced in P/oanix I ts wance Co??pany v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32, that "where a cause fairly
depends upon the effect or weight of testimony, it is one for the
consideration and determination of the jury, under proper directions as to the principles of law involved. It should never be
withdrawn from them unless the testimony be of such a conelusive character as to com.pel the court, in the exercise of a
sound legal discretion, to set aside a verdict returned in opposition to it."
When the evidence was concluded on both sides, the defendant submitted requests for instructions. Some of them were
given and some refused, but it does not appear from the record
which were given and which refused. As the exception which
was taken related to the refused instructions, and since it does
not appear which of them belonged to that class, none of the
series asked by defendant can be noticed. We may, however,
remark that the charge of the court, to which no exception
was taken, embodied all of defendant's instructions that were
applicable to the case and which could properly have been
given.
This brings us to the consideration of the substantial questions presented by the assignments of error. They relate to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the admission, against the objections of the defendant, of certain evidence touching the condition of the mind of the insured
at or about the time he destroyed his life.
Before the introduction of the particular testimony to which
the objections related, there was, as we have already said, proof
tending to show that Pitkin was not entirely sound in mind.
Witnesses well acquainted with him remarked the unusually
excited, wild expression of his face. A domestic in his faiily
testified that "he looked very wild and frightened out of his
eyes; he looked like some one that was crazy." Within a few
hours before death he bade one witness, whose store he visited,
good-bye, saying that lie was "going to a country where there
is no return." To another witness, on the same occasion, he
appeared to be "out of his head; kind of mad, insane." At
this stage of the case, one Strein was introduced as a witness
for plaintiff. Pitkin was in his saloon about 11 o'clock of the
day on which he took his life, and a few hours only before his
death. So much of his examination (omitting the questions) as
is necessary to a proper understanding of the objections made
by plaintiff in error is here given:
"A. He asked for a glass of wine, and I gave it to him. He
said he hadn't had a drink yet that day, or since the one he had last
night from me-that was a glass of wine. He said, 'I may 'look
queer this morning or drunk to other people, but I aint drunk.'
HIe said, 'Some people may think me drunk, but I am not; I am
not drunk in my body but I am in my mind.' Ile looked unusual
to me.

He had on his old clothes and his neck-tie was out of

shape, his face was red, and his eyes staring at me, which made
me think he was quite out of his usual way. His appearance and
the look was quite different from his usual appearance prior to
that time. le looked in his face quite red, and his eyes had quite
another expression. le had them open wide, with a look that was
wild, and he looked around the room'awhile and walked up and
down and seemed very restless. He would not stand at one place
like he usually did, but walked up and down. I spole a few words
after that, but I did not notice him very much, for I was very
busy."
The witness being asked to state the impression made upon

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LATIIROP. 617
Opinion of the Court.

him by what he saw of Pitkin's condition, the defendant objected to the question as incompetent. But the objection was
overruled, and an exception was taken. The witness answered:
"My impression was that he seemed to be quite out of his head
that morning. I could not say the reason. I didn't know then
anything about his disappointment; I found that out afterward."

Another witness, Mr. Ferry, an attorney-at-law, was introduced by the plaintiff. le saw Pitkin the morning of the day
he killed himself. What occurred was thus stated by him:'
"I came down Broadway, walking, and Mr. Pratt came down
from his residence on Washington street, in a street car, and got
out on the corner of 6th and Broadway, and we went there in front
of the office. Mr. Pitkin was standing very near the door, and as
we passed up the stairway going to our office we both said,
'Good morning' to him, and Mr. Pratt says, 'Pit., why ain't you
Mr. Pitkin said, 'I am not going to church, I am
at church?'
going to hell ; ' and we immediately passed on up stairs and into
the doorway, but as we started up stairs Pitkin stuck his head into
the door and says, I Do you want to send any word to him ?' Mr.
Pratt says, ' To whom ? ' ' To the devil ; I am going to hell,' and
he turned immediately and went out of the door."

Being asked how Pitkin looked during that conversation, he
said that "lhe seemed very much agitated and nervous; his face
was flushed; the pupil of his eye dilated and bright, and there
was no expression in it." Against the objections of defendant
he was permitted to testify that the impression left on his mind,
from the conduct, actions, manner, expressions, and conversation of Pitkin, was that "he was crazy, and didn't know what

be was doing."
Exception was also talken to the action of the court in perie
mitting the witness Aldrich to answer a certain question.
saw the deceased a few moments before his death, and observed

that "lh e looked strange," had "a very peculiar look," one that
he had never seen before. It was "a wild look." Being asked
what impression Pitkin made upon him by his manner and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

conduct at the time, he answered-the defendant's objection to
the evidence being overruled-" I thought he was out of his
head."
It is contended, in behalf of plaintiff in error, that the in,
pressions and opinions of these non-professional witnesses as to
the mental condition of the insured, although accompanied by
a statement of the grounds upon which they rested, were incompetent as evidence of the fact of insanity. This question
was substantially presented in Insurance Company v. Piodel,
ubi sujra, which was an action upon a life policy containing a
clause of forfeiture in case the insured died by his own hand.
The issue was as to his sanity at the time of the act of selfWitnesses acquainted with him described his
destruction.
conduct and appearance at or about, and shortly before, his
death. They testified as to how he looked and acted. One
said that he "looked like he was insane; " another, that his impression was that the insured "was not in his right mind." In
that case the court said, that "although such testimony from
ordinary witnesses may not have great weight with experts,
yet it was competent testimony, and expressed in an inartificial
way the impressions which are usually made by insane persons
upon people of ordinary understanding."
The general rule undoubtedly is, that witnesses are restricted
to proof of facts within their personal knowledge, and may not
express their opinion or judgment as to matters which the jury
or the court are required to determine, or which must constitute elements in such determination. To this rule there is a
well-established exception in the case of witnesses having
special knowledge or skill in the business, art, or science,
the principles of which are involved in the issue to be tried.
Thus, the opinions of medical men are admissible in evidence
as to the sanity or insanity of a person at a particular time,
because they are supposed to have become, by study and experience, familiar with the symptoms of mental disease, and,
therefore qualified to assist the court or jury in reaching
a correct conclusion. And such opinions of medical experts
may be based as well upon facts within their personal knowledge, as upon a hypothetical case disclosed by the testimony of

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LATIIROP. 619
Opinion of the Court.

others. But are there no other exceptions to the general rule
to which we have referred?
Counsel for the plaintiff in error contends that witnesses, who
are not experts in medical science, may not, under any circumstances, express their judgment as to the sane or insane state of
a person's mind. This position, it must be conceded, finds support in some adjudged cases as well as in some elementary
treatises on evidence. But, in our opinion, it cannot be sustained consistently with the weight of authority, nor without
closing an important avenue of truth in many, if not in every,
case, civil and criminal, which involves the question of insanity.
Whether an individual is insane, is not always best solved by
abstruse metaphysical speculations, expressed in the technical
language of medical science. The common-sense, and, we
may add, the natural instincts of mankind, reject the supposition that only experts can approximate certainty upon
such a subject. There are matters of which all men have
more or less knowledge, according to their mental capacity and
habits of observation-matters about which they may and do
form opinions, sufficiently satisfactory to constitute the basis of
action. While the mere opinion of a non-professional witness,
predicated upon facts detailed by others, is incompetent as evidence upon an issue of insanity, his judgment, based upon
personal knowledge of the circumstances involved in such an
inquiry, certainly is of value ; because, the natural and ordinary
operations of the human intellect, and the appearance and conduct of insane persons, as contrasted with the appearance and
conduct of persons of sound mind, are more or less understood
and recognized by every one of ordinary intelligence who comes
in contact with his species. The extent to which such opinions
should influence or control the judgment of the court or jury
must depend upon the intelligence of the witness, as manifested
by his examination, and upon his opportunities to ascertain all
the circumstances that should properly affect any conclusion
reached. It will also depend, in part, upon the degree of the
mental unsoundness of the person whose condition is the subject
of inquiry; for, his derangement may be so total and palpable
that but slight observation is necessary to enable persons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinary understanding to form a reasonably accurate judgment as to his sanity or insanity; in other cases, the symptoms
may be of such an occult character as to require the closest
scrutiny and the highest skill to detect the existence of insanity.
The truth is, the statement of a non-professional witness as
to the sanity or insanity, at a particular time, of an individual,
whose appearance, manner, habits, and conduct came under his
personal observation, is not the expression of mere opinion. In
form, it is opinion, because it expresses an inference or conclusion based upon observation of the appearance, manner, and
motions of another person, of which a correct idea cannot well
be communicated in words to others, without embodying,
more or less, the impressions or judgment of the witness. But,
in a substantial sense, and for every purpose essential to a safe
conclusion, the mental condition of an individual, as sane or insane, is a fact, and the expressed opinion of one who has had
adequate opportunities to observe his conduct and appearance
is but the statement of a fact; not, indeed, a fact established
by direct and positive proof, because in most, if not all cases,
it is impossible to determine, with absolute certainty, the precise mental condition of another; yet, being founded on actual
observation, and being consistent with common experience and
the ordinary manifestations of the condition of the mind, it is
knowledge, so far as the human intellect can acquire knowledge, upon such subjects. Insanity "is a disease of the mind,
which assumes as many and various forms as there are shades
of difference in the human character." It is, as has been well
said, "a condition, which impresses itself as an aggregate on
the observer," and the opinion of one, personally cognizant of
the minute circumstances making up that aggregate, and which
are detailed in connection with such opinion, is, in its essence,
only fact "at short-hand." 1 1V arlon & StXll's JTed. J is8 .,
ยง 257. This species of evidence should be admitted, not only
because of its intrinsic value, when the result of observation by
persons of intelligence, but from necessity. We say from
necessity, because a jury or court, having had no opportunity
for personal observation, would otherwise be deprived of the

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LATHROP. 621
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge which others posses3; but, also, because, if the witness may be permitted to stats--as, undoubtedly, lie would be,
where his opportunities of observation have been adequate"that he has known the individual for many years; has repeatedly conversed with him and heard others converse with
him; that the witness had noticed that in these conversations
he was incoherent and silly; that in his habits he was occasionally highly pleased and greatly vexed without a cause; and
that, in his conduct he was wild, irrational, extravagant, and
crazy,-what would this be but to declare the judgment or
opinion of the witness of what is incoherent or foolish in
conversation, what reasonable cause of pleasure or resentment,
and what the indicia of sound or disordered intellect ? If le
may not so testify, but must give the supposed silly and incoherent language, state the degrees and all the accompanying
circumstances of highly excited emotion, and specifically set
forth the freaks or acts regarded as irrational, and thus,
without the least intimation of any opinion which he has
formed of their character, where are such witnesses to be
found? Can it be supposed, that those, not having a special
interest in the subject, shall have so charged their memories
with these matters, as distinct independent facts, as to be able
to present them in their entirety and simplicity to the jury ?
Or, if such a witness be found, can he conceal from the jury the iqn_prer8zon which has been made upon his mind ; and when this
is collected, can it be doubted, but that his judgment has been
influenced by many, very many, circumstances which he has
not communicated, which he cannot communicate, and of which
he himself is not aware? " Clary v. Clary, 2 Jredell'8 Law,
78, 83. The jury, being informed as to the witness' opportunities to know all the circumstances, and of the reasons upon
which he rests his statement as to the ultimate general fact of
sanity or insanity, are able to test the accuracy or soundness
of the opinion expressed, and thus, by using the ordinary
means for the ascertainment, of truth, reach the ends of substantial justice.
These views are sustained by a very large number of adjudications in the courts of this country, some of which are cited

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

in the margin.* In several of those cited the whole subject
was very fully considered in all. its aspects. While the cases
are, to some extent, in conflict, we are satisfied that the rule
most consistent with sound reason, and sustained by authority,
is that indicated in this opinion.
Counsel for the plaintiff in error calls our attention to the case
of Ifrigl/d v. T'at/kan, 5 Clark & Fin. 670, as an authority for the
broad proposition that non-professional witnesses cannot give
their opinions and impressions concerning the state of a person's
mind, even in connection with the facts within their personal
knowledge, upon which such opinion is based. On a question of
the competency of a party to make a will, certain letters, written to that party by third persons, who had died before they were
offered as evidence, and which letters were found many years
after their date among the testator's papers, were held, in that
case, not to be admissible without proof that he acted on them.
Whether the opinions of non-experts, in connection with a
statement, under oath, of the facts, are admissible upon an in* Clary v. Clary, 2 Iredell's Law, 83 ; Dunham's Appeal, 27 Conn. 192 ;
Grant v. Thompson, 4 lb. 203 ; Hardy v. Xlerrilt, 56 N. H. 227, substantially
overruling Boardman v. Woodman, 47 N. H. 120; State v. Pike, 49 Id. 399,
and State v. Archer, 54 N. H. 465 ; lathaway's Advz'r v. National Life _ns.
Co., 48 Vt. 335; 3ilorse v. Crawford, 17 1b. 499; Clark v. Slate, 12 Ohio, 483;
Gibson v. Gibson, 9 Yerg. 329; Potts v. House, 6 Geo. 324; Vanauken's Case,
2 Stock. Chy. 186; Brooke v. Townsend, 7 Gill, 10 ; DelVitt v. Party, 17 N.
Y. 340, explaining decision in same case in 5 Selden, 371 ; [[ewlett v. Wood,
55 Id. 634; Clapp v. Fullerton,34 Id. 190; Ruthei:ford v. Aforris, 77 II. 397;
Duleld v. Morris, 2 larrington, 375, 384; Wilkinson v. Pearson,28 Penn.
St. 117; Pidcock v. Potter, 68 Id. 342; Doe v. Reagan, 5 Blackf. 217; Dove
v. Stae, 3 Heisk. 848 ; Butler v. St. Louis Life Ins. Co. 45 Iowa, 93 ; People
v. Sanford, 43 Cal. 29; State v. Klinger, 46 No. 224; tlolcombe v. State, 41
Tex. 125; leClaekey v. State, 5 App. (Tex.) 320; Norton v. 1loore, 3 Head.
480; Powel v. State, 25 Ala. 26, 28; 1 Bishop's Crim. Pro. ยง 536-40; 1 Warton & Still6's Med. Juris., ยง 257; Warton's Law of Evidence, ยง 510 et seq. ; 1
Redfield on Wills, Ch. 4, Part 2, in a recent edition of which (p. 145, n. 24),
it is said, touching the decision in Hardy v. Yerrill, ubi supra : " There will
now remain scarcely any dissentients among the elder States; and those of
recent origin, whose decisions have been based upon the authority of the earlier
decisions of some of the older States, which have since abandoned the ground,
may also be expected to change." See also M~iay v. Bradlee, 127 M ass. 414;
Com. v. Sturtevant, 117 Id. 122.

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LATIIROP. 623
Opinion of the Court.

quiry as to the insanity of an individual, was not involved or
determined in that case. On the contrary, the observations
made by some of the judges, in illustration of their opinions
upon the precise point in judgment, would indicate a concurrence in the general views we have expressed. After stating
that the letters were offered as evidence of the opinions of the
writers, Baron Alderson said : " The objection to their admissibility is that this opinion is not upon oath, nor is it possible for
the opposite party to test by cross-examination the foundation
on which it rests. The object of laying such testimony before
the jury is to place the whole life and conduct of the testator,
if possible, before them, so that they may judge of his capacity ;
for this purpose you call persons who have known him for
years, who have seen him frequently, who have conversed with
him or corresponded with him. After having thus ascertained
their means of knowledge, the question is put generally as to
their opinion of his capacity. I conceive this question really
means to involve an inquiry as to the effect of all the acts
which the witnesses have seen the testator do for a long series
of years, and the manner in which he was, during that period,
treated by those with whom he was living in familiar intercourse. This is not properly opinion, like that of experts; but
rather a compendious mode of putting one instead of a multitude of questions to the witness under examination, as to the
acts and conduct of the testator." 5 Clarl(& Fin. 720. And
Baron Parke: " These letters are sufficiently proved to have
been written and sent to the house of the deceased by persons
now dead, and they indicate the opinion of the writers that the
alleged testator was a rational person, and capable of doing
acts of ordinary business. But it is perfectly clear that, in this
case, an opinion not given upon oath in a judicial inquiry between parties is no evidence; for the question is, not what the
capacity of the testator was reputed to be, but what it really
was in point of fact ; and, though the opinion of a witness upon
oath as to that fact might be asked, it would be only a compendious mode of ascertaining the result of the actual observation
of the witness, from acts done, as to the habits and demeanor
of the deceased." Jbid, 735.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

One other assignment of error remains to be considered. It
relates to the admissions of the statements made by two witnesses of what passed between each other on the occasion of
their seeing and conversing with the deceased, within an hour
or two before he shot himself. They detailed what passed between them and the deceased, describing the latter's appearance
and condition as indicating, in their judgment, that he was not
in his right mind. As he left the presence of these witnesses,
one of them remarked to the other that " Pitkin is not himself; George looks kind of crazy." The other, in response,
expressed substantially, though in different language, his concurrence in that opinion. To the admission of this brief
conversation between the witnesses on the occasion referred to,
the defendant objected, but the objection was overruled, and
an exception taken. We do not think there was in this any
error to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the company.
The witnesses when under oath expressed the same opinion as to
the condition of the deceased. What passed between them at
the time to which their testimony referred was a part of what
occurred on the occasion when they saw the deceased, and may
well have been repeated to the jury, as showing that their
opinion as to the mental condition of the deceased was not then
presently formed, but was one formed at the very moment they
saw him, within a very few hours before his death.
Upon the whole case we perceive no error in the proceedings
of which plaintiff in error may complain, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted April 7th, 1884.-Decided May 5tb, 1884.

ConstitutionalLaw-ugitives from Justice-Conflict of Law.
An agent, appointed by the State in which a fugitive from justice stands
charged with crime, to receive such fugitive from the State by which he is
surrendered, is not an officer of the United States within the meaning of
former adjudications of this court.

