STEWART v. HOYT'S EXECUTORS.
Syllabus.

Mill Corp. v. Newman, 12 Pick. 467; Commonwealth v. Essex
Company, 13 Gray, 239, 249; Lowell v. Boston, III Mass. 454,
464; Scudder v. Trenton Delaware Falls Co., 1 Saxton Ch.
694; Beekma9n v. Saratoga &t Schenectady Railroad Co., 3
And when the legislature has given to gristPaige, 45.
mills and the water-power connected with them such a public
character as in the present case, the improvement of the waterpower must be regarded as a public work of internal improvement, which may be aided in its construction by the issue of
bonds, under the act in question.
These conclusions require that

he judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and
the case be remanded to that court, with direction to overrule the dew urrer to the petition, and to take such further
proceedings in the cause as may be required by law and as

shall not be inconsistent with this opinion.

STEWART & Another v. HOYT'S EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM TITE cIRCUrr COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Contract-Lease-Railroad.
By a lease from one railroad corporation of its railroad to another railroad
corporation, subject to a previous mortgage, the lessee covenanted to pay
as rent a certain proportion of the gross earnings, and to state accounts semiannually, and further covenanted, if the rent for any six months should be
insufficient to pay the interest due at the end of the six months on the mortgage bonds, then to advance a sufficient sum to take up, and to take up
the balance of the coupons for such interest; and it was agreed that for all
suns so advanced the lessee should have a lien before all other liens except
the mortgage. Eighteen months later, after the lessee had accordingly
paid and taken up some coupons, and had declined to take up others, on
account of the refusal of the lessor to accept in payment of rent coupons so
taken up, the two corporations executed a supplemental agreement, by
which, in lieu of the rent reserved in the lease, and of all advances of
money to take up coupons, the lessee covenanted to pay, and the lessor to
accept, as rent, a larger proportion of the gross earnings, "all accounts

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
being settled exactly, and all liabilities and obligations between the two
companies being adjusted and discharged by and upon the semi-annual
statements provided in said lease;" the lessor released the lessee from any
obligation to make future advances of money to take up coupons, and from
liability for any previous neglect to make such advances, and from any
obligation to pay money in the nature of rent and advances, except the
proportion of the gross earnings stipulated in the supplemental agreement;
and all the provisions of the lease, except as so modified, were ratified and
confirmed, and "all causes of action for breach of any agreement therein
contained," which had arisen since its execution, were mutually waived
and released. The lessee afterwards paid rent computed according to the
supplemental agreement. fIeld, That any claim of the lessee against the
lessor, or against the mortgaged property, for money paid to take up
coupons, was released and discharged.

This was an appeal from a decree dismissing a petition of the
trustees of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company to be
allowed, out of the proceeds of a sale of the railroad property
and franchises of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, under the foreclosure of a nortgage thereof to trustees
(of the survivor of whom the appellees are executors), the sum
of $5,961.75 paid by the petitioners to take up coupons originally attached to the bonds secured by that mortgage.
The facts material to the understanding of the question of
law decided by this court were as follows:
By indenture of November 8th, 1873, the Milwaukee and
Northern Railway Company leased its railroad and all its
property and franchises to the Wisconsin Central Railroad
Company for nine hundred and ninety-nine years:
"Yielding and paying rent therefor as follows, to wit : In and
for each year of said tern wherein the gross earnings received
from the demised premises as hereinafter set forth shall exceed
the sum of one million dollars, thirty per cent. of said gross earnings ; and in and for each year of said term wherein said gross
earnings shall exceed eight hundred thousand dollars, but not
exceed one million dollars, thirty-three per cent. of said gross
earnings ; and in and for each year of said term wherein said
gross earnings shall be less than eight hundred thousand dollars,
thirty-five per cent. of said gross earnings."

The rent was payable in monthly instalments, upon accounts

STEWART v. IJOYT'S EXECUTORS.
Statement of Facts.

as nearly exact as practicable, stated monthly, of the gross
earnings for the month next but one preceding, to a trustee
selected by the parties jointly, upon trust to keep the sun paid
until the next instalment of interest was due upon the mortgage
bonds, and then to apply it, or so much of it as necessary, to
the payment of that interest; and if any surplus remained, to
pay it to the lessor, unless due to the lessee "for advances, as is
hereinafter provided, made to or for the benefit of the lessor
to pay such interest;" and if such surplus, or any part thereof,
was so due, then to pay to the lessee, as afterwards provided,
so much as was due for advances and interest. The lessee was
also to state semi-annual accounts of the gross earnings, upon
which all accounts between the parties were to be balanced.
The lease contained, among other covenants, the following:
"Eighth. The second party also covenants to pay the rent
hereinbefore reserved when and as payable ; and also covenants,
if the rent, paid to the trustee aforesaid, in any six months previous to the payment of interest on the said first mortgage bonds,
is not enough to pay the whole interest then maturing, to advance
so much money as may be necessary to take up the balance of the
coupons for interest as they become due and payable, and to take
them up ; and it is expressly agreed between the parties to these
presents that for all sums so advanced the second party shall hold
said coupons as a lien, and the same is hereby made and constituted
a lien on the rent hereby reserved on all the property hereby
demised and leased, prior to and superior to all other liens except
said mortgage, until the same be fully reimbursed, with interest
at eight per centum per annum, out of the said rent or otherwise
by the first party. It is also agreed that any surplus of rent, which
appears upon the semi-annual adjustments of accounts, shall be
paid to the second party, so far as may be needed to cover any
advances and interest thereon made to protect the coupons afore-

said, and that only the residue of said surplus, if any, shall be
paid to the first party."
The rent which accrued in the six months next before June
1st, 1874, falling short of paying the interest payable on that
day on the coupons, the lessee paid and took up coupons to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

amount of the deficiency, and the lessor received some of these
coupons in payment of the rent. The lessor afterwards refused
to receive coupons in payment of rent; and on December 1st,
1874, the lessee, which had not meanwhile paid any rent,
refused to advance money to take up the coupons. The two
corporations, after other disputes had arisen between them, executed, on June 1st, 1875, a supplemental indenture containing
the following provisions:
" First. In lieu of the rent reserved in the lease, and of all advances of money to take up the interest coupons of the Milwaukee
and Northern Railway Company, as provided in said lease, the
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company shall pay, and the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company shall accept, for and
during the space of three years from and after the first day of
June, 1875, the amount of forty per cent. of the gross earnings received from the demised premises ; and after the expiration of said
three years and during the remainder of the term, the rent shall
be paid as reserved in said lease, if the rent so reserved is sufficient
to pay said coupons ; but if not sufficient to pay said coupons,
then the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company shall pay, and the
Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company shall accept, in full
satisfaction of rent for the demised premises, such part of said
gross earnings, not exceeding in any event forty per cent. thereof,

as shall be sufficient to pay said coupons ; all accounts being settled exactly, and all liabilities and obligations between the two

companies being adjusted and discharged by and upon the semiannual statements provided in said lease, and on the thirty-first
day of May and the thirtieth day of November in each year, and
said semi-annual statements being accepted by each company as
final adjustments of all claims for rent of the demised premises to
the respective date thereof."
" Fourth. The Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, in
consideration of the increased rental and agreements aforesaid on
the part of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, hereby
releases the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company from any and
all obligations to hereafter make any advances of money to take
up the interest coupons of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway
Company, as stipulated in said lease ; and also from any and every
obligation and liability arising out of any previous neglect to make

STEWART v. HOYT'S EXECUTORS.'
Opinion of the Court.

said advances hitherto due and payable under terms of said lease;
and also from any and every obligation to pay any money under
said lease and any provision thereof, in the nature of rent and advances to or for the benefit of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, except the proportion of gross earnings (not exceeding in any event forty per cent. thereof), which is herein
agreed, when and as the same is payable under the terms of this
agreement and said lease."
"Sixth. All the provisions of said lease, except so far as are
herein expressly modified or changed, are hereby by each of said
companies ratified and confirmed; and all causes of action for
breach of any agreement therein contained, which have arisen from
its date of execution until this day, are hereby mutually waived
and forever released by and between said companies."
The lessee paid rent computed according to the supplementary
agreement from its date until September, 1875. On January
2d, 1879, the lessee assigned to the petitioners, in trust to pay
debts to its employees, and expenses of running its railroad, all
sums Pf money on hand or to be received, and all accounts receivable of every nature, for or on account of earnings and
income of either railroad; and delivered to the petitioners the
coupons taken up as aforesaid, of which the sum claimed in
their petition had not been reimbursed to them.
X1. J. Iubley Ashton and _1r. Edwin IL Abbot for appellants.
il r. E iXariner for appellee.
MR. uSTICEn GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. Tie
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The petitioners contend that for the sum paid to take up
coupons in accordance with the provisions of the lease of
November 8th, 1873, they have a claim against the lessor, and
a lien upon the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property,
equal to those which the original owners of those coupons had.
But this court concurs in opinion with the Circuit Court
that, if the lessee ever had such a claim and lien, they were released by the supplemental agreement of June 1st, 1875, and

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the payment of rent, and the adjustment of semi-annual
accounts, in accordance therewith. By this agreement, the
provisions of the original lease were confirmed and ratified,
"except so far as are herein expressly modified or changed;"
the proportion of gross earnings to be paid as rent was increased ; all accounts between the parties were to be adjusted
and discharged by and upon the semi-annual statements; the
lessor released the lessee from all obligation to make future
advances, and from all liability for past neglect to make advances, to take up coupons; and each party released tht other
from all causes of action which had arisen for breach of any
agreement in the original lease. Any obligation of the lessor
to reimburse to the lessee money paid by the latter to take
up coupons, arose under an agreement in the original lease and
was one of the obligations adjusted and discharged by and upon
the semi-annual statements. The intention of the supplemental
agreement, as appears upon its face, was to adjust all existing
controversies between the parties, by agreeing to pay and receive an increased rate of rent, and by mutually releasing all
existing obligations and liabilities, including, on the one side,
the lessee's obligation to take up coupons in the future, and its
liability for neglect to take them up in the past, and, on the
other side, the lessor's obligation and liability to the lessee by
reason of coupons already taken up by the latter. The parol
evidence introduced by the petitioners at the hearing, if competent in law, was quite insufficient in fact, to control or vary
the meaning of the written instrument.
Decree ajfirned.

