OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the judgment how much was due on this claim at the date of
the insolvency and make the distribution accordingly.
The trouble and expense which the relator has been put to
for the establishment of his claim are but incidents to the business in which he was engaged. It was the duty of the comptroller, if not satisfied of the correctness of the claim when presented, to disallow it, and, if an attempt was made to obtain
its adjudication, to make such defence as in his judgment was
proper. No provision is made by law for the payment of the
expenses of the claimant in his litigation beyond the taxable
costs, and necessarily that loss must fall on him as it does on
every one who has the misfortune to be driven to the courts
for the judicial determination of his rights.
The court below having refused the mandamus, its judgment
to that effect is
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & MANITOBA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. BURTON.
IN

ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTIICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Evidence-Naturaization.
It is not necessary that a transcript of a decree of naturalization should be
accompanied by a certificate that the judge of the court was commissioned
and qualified, in order to entitle it to be received in evidence.

The defendant in error commenced this action against the
plaintiff in error as a common carrier in a State court. The
cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States on
the allegation that the plaintiff below was an alien. In the Circuit Court the plaintiff below moved to remand the cause, averring that he was a citizen by reason of the naturalization of his
father. Proof was offered of the father's naturalization, which
was received by the court against the objection of the defendant below, and an order was made remanding the cause. The

BAINES v. CLARKE.
Syllabus.

defendant below brought the case here by writ of error to
review that order. The defendant in error moved to dismiss
the writ of error and to affirm the judgment.
X~r. nocl Totten for defendent in error in support of the
motion.
No brief filed in opposition.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The order remanding this case is affirmed. The act of March
3d, 1875, c. 137, see. 5, 18 Stat. 470, makes it the duty of the
Circuit Court to remand a suit which has been removed from
a State court when it satisfactorily appears that the "suit does
not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court." The
exemplification of the record of the naturalization of Moses
Burton, which was offered in evidence, did not require, to coinplete its authentication, the certificate of the clerk under the
seal of his office that the judge of the court was duly commissioned and qualified. The certificates may be to some extent
defective in form, but we think the record as a whole could
properly be considered by the judge on the question of remanding the cause.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

Aflrm ed.

BAINES, Administrator v. CLARKE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued April 25th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Contract-Interest.
A conveyed to B a large quantity of land for $5 an acre, to be paid in instalments with legal interest on deferred payments from June 3d, 1873. Suits
were pending as to some of the lands, and it was agreed that if recovery
phould be had against A as in any of the suits, the land so recovered should
not form part of the land sold, and the last instalment of $50,000 was agreed
to be reserved until decision of the suits and ascertainment of quantity.

