OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COM-

PANY & Others v. SHIRLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted March 24th, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Removal of Causes.
Under the act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, a suit cannot be removed on
the ground of citizenship, unless the requisite citizenship existed both when
the suit was begun and when the petition for removal was filed. Gibson
v. Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, cited and followed.
A substituted party comes into a suit subject to all the disabilities of him
whose place he takes, so far as concerns the right of removal of the cause.
Cable v. Ellis, 110 U. S. 389, approved.

This was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause back to the State court from whence it had
been removed. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Jir. John G. Wnter for appellants.
ir.
MR.

J. Jlubley A8leton for appellee.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order remanding a cause removed
from a State court. The record shows that the suit was begun by Shirley, the appellee, a citizen of Texas, on the 16th of
July, 1870, in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas,
against the Waco Tap Railroad Company, a Texas corporation, to recover a balance claimed to be due on a contract for
the construction of the railroad of the defendant company.
The company answered the petition on the 25th of November,
1870. Supplemental petitions were filed on the 16th and 17th
of December, 1872, bringing in the Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company, another Texas corporation, as a defendant. The case was tried to a jury on the 2d of February,
1875, and judgment rendered in favor of Shirley. This judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State on the
28th of December, 1875, upon a writ of error brought by the

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENT. R. CO. v. SHIRLEY.

359

Opinion of the Court.

Waco Tap Company, and, on the 16th of March, 1877, the
cause was remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. After the case got back to the District Court the petition was several times amended, to the effect that since the
commencement of the suit the road, road-bed, franchises, &c.,
of the Waco Tap Company had been sold to the Houston and
Texas Central Company under a deed of trust, and that the
Waco Tap Company had become merged in the Houston and
Texas Central Company. The Houston and Texas Central
and the Waco Tap Companies answered this amended petition,
and the cause was again tried to a jury and a judgment rendered in favor of Shirley on the 25th of November, 1878. This
judgment also was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State
on the 16th of January, 1880, and the cause again remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings.
A statute of Texas provides that:
" Whenever a sale of the road-bed, track, franchise, and chartered powers and privileges [of a railroad company] is made,
. . . the directors or managers of the sold-out company, at
the time of the salei ...
shall be the trustees of the creditors and stockholders of the sold-out company, and shall have full
power to settle the affairs of the sold-out company, collect and
pay the outstanding debts, and divide among the stockholders
the money and property remaining in their hands after the payment of the debts and necessary expenses ; and the persons so
constituted trustees shall have the authority to sue by the name
of the trustees of such sold-out company, and may be sued as
such, and shall be jointly and severally responsible to the creditors and stockholders of such company, to the extent of the property and effects which shall come into their hands ; and no suit
pending for or against any railroad company at the time the sale
may be made of its road-bed, track, franchise, and chartered privileges shall abate, but the same shall be continued in the name
of the trustees of the sold-out company." Paschal's Dig. 4916.

At the November term, 1881, of the District Court, the petition was again amended, and John T. Flint and others, all
citizens of Texas, who were directors of the Waco Tap Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

pany at the time of the sale of the road-bed, &c., brought in as
defendants. In this last amended petition, Shirley describes
himself as at that time a citizen of New York. Citations were
issued to the individual defendants on the 18th of April, 1882,
requiring them to appear and answer on the first Monday in
May. At the appointed time they all appeared and filed a
demurrer. On the 20th of May they filed a petition, accompanied with the necessary security, for the removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Texas. In the petition it is stated that the individual defendants were, at the time the suit was commenced
against them, and still continued to be, citizens of Texas, and
Shirley a citizen of New York, and "that the main and essential controversy in this case is between the said plaintiff and
the said trustees, John T. Flint et al., principal petitioners
herein." The Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company
united in the petition, alleging "that this suit or action, as
against it, is purely incidental and collateral to and wholly depends upon the plaintiff's right to recover in his said suit or
action against its co-defendants herein, the said John T. Flint
et al., trustees of the said sold-out company, . . . for
damages for breach of contract by said sold-out company now
represented by said Flint et al., trustees."
The cause was docketed in the Circuit Court on the 2d of
October, 1882, and on the 6th a motion was made to remand.
This motion was granted on the 18th of October, and from the
order to that effect the present appeal was taken.
We think the Circuit Court was clearly right in sending the
case back to the State court. The suit was begun in 1870. At
that time Shirley was a citizen of Texas. The proceeding to
bring in the trustees of the sold-out company was not the commencement of a new suit, but the continuation of the old one.
The trustees were nothing more than the legal representatives
of the company that had been sold out, and took its place on
the record as a party. The suit remained the same, but with
the name of one of the parties changed.
In Gibson v. Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, it was decided that under
the act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, a suit could not be removed

SANTA CRUZ COUNTY v. SANTA CRUZ R.R.

361

Statement of Facts.

on the ground of citizenship, unless the requisite citzenship existed both when the suit was begun and when the petition for
removal was filed; and in Cable v. Elli8, 110 U. S. 389, that a
substituted party comes into a suit subject to all the disabilities
of him whose place he takes, so far as the right of removal is
concerned. The record shows that Shirley was a citizen of
Texas when the suit was begun, and the right of the railroad
company to remove the suit, even if the necessary citizenship
had existed, expired with the first term of the State court after
the act of 1875 went into effect at which the case could have
been tried. Long after this time had elapsed, the railroad company filed an answer to an amended petition and actually

went to trial in the State court. This trial resulted in another
judgment against the company, which was also reversed by the
Supreme Court, and the case sent back for another trial. The
trustees were not brought in as parties until all this had been
done. It follows that the necessary citizenship did not exist at
the commencement of the suit, and that the petition for removal was filed too late. Without considering any of the
other questions in the case,
WIe affirm the order to remawd.

SANTA CRUZ COUNTY SUPERVISORS v.
CRUZ RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN

ERROR

TO TIlE SUPREME

COURT OF TIE STATE

SANTA

OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted March 31st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Jurisdiction.
This court will not take jurisdiction to review the action of a State court if
the federal question raised here was not raised below, and if no opportunity
was given to the State court to pass upon it.

.Motion to dismiss, on the ground that the federal question

raised here was not raised below.
2Tr. Edward ]I. Taylor for defendant in error, moving.

