SANTA CRUZ COUNTY v. SANTA CRUZ R.R.

361

Statement of Facts.

on the ground of citizenship, unless the requisite citzenship existed both when the suit was begun and when the petition for
removal was filed; and in Cable v. Elli8, 110 U. S. 389, that a
substituted party comes into a suit subject to all the disabilities
of him whose place he takes, so far as the right of removal is
concerned. The record shows that Shirley was a citizen of
Texas when the suit was begun, and the right of the railroad
company to remove the suit, even if the necessary citizenship
had existed, expired with the first term of the State court after
the act of 1875 went into effect at which the case could have
been tried. Long after this time had elapsed, the railroad company filed an answer to an amended petition and actually

went to trial in the State court. This trial resulted in another
judgment against the company, which was also reversed by the
Supreme Court, and the case sent back for another trial. The
trustees were not brought in as parties until all this had been
done. It follows that the necessary citizenship did not exist at
the commencement of the suit, and that the petition for removal was filed too late. Without considering any of the
other questions in the case,
WIe affirm the order to remawd.

SANTA CRUZ COUNTY SUPERVISORS v.
CRUZ RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN

ERROR

TO TIlE SUPREME

COURT OF TIE STATE

SANTA

OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted March 31st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Jurisdiction.
This court will not take jurisdiction to review the action of a State court if
the federal question raised here was not raised below, and if no opportunity
was given to the State court to pass upon it.

.Motion to dismiss, on the ground that the federal question

raised here was not raised below.
2Tr. Edward ]I. Taylor for defendant in error, moving.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Mrl. S. 0. lboug/on for plaintiff in error, opposing.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by the Santa Cruz Railroad Company to require the Board of Commissioners of the County of
Santa Cruz to deliver certain bonds, claimed to be due from
the county under a contract with the railroad company. The
defences were, 1, that the contract was unilateral, and, therefore, not binding on the county; 2, that the board of supervisors exceeded its authority in making the contract; and, 3,
that a repealing statute, passed after the contract was entered
into, took away the power of the board to make any further
deliveries of bonds. No objection whatever was made to the
validity of the statute under which the board assumed to act
in making the contract. The whole defence rested on the construction and effect to be given to certain statutes, which no
one denied the constitutional power of the legislature to enact.
The ground of federal jurisdiction, relied on in the brief of
counsel for the county, is "that, by the issuance of the bonds
demanded in this proceeding, the State would deprive the taxpayers of the county of Santa Cruz of property without due
process of law, contrary to the right, privilege or immunity
secured by the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States."
That was not the question presented to or decided by the
State court. In that court the inquiry was, whether the proceedings of the board to charge the county were according to
law; not whether the law under which the proceedings were
had was constitutional and binding on the tax-payers. The
State court decided that the proceedings were in accordance
with the requirements of the law, and thus created an obligation on the part of the county to deliver the bonds, which was
not discharged by the repealing statute relied on. This decision
involved no question of federal law, and is not reviewable here.
[/7i motion to dismiss i8granted.
MVIR.

