OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

munity with no other indemnity against official misconduct
than the responsibility of the officer might furnish." 4 Ohio
St. 423.
So in Lowell v. Parker,10 Met. 309, 3113, a constable, authorized by statute to serve only writs of attachment in which the
damages were laid at no more than $70, took property upon a
writ in which the damages were laid at a greater sum. In an
action upon his official bond, it was argued- for the sureties
that they were no more answerable than if he had acted
without any writ. But Chief Justice Shaw, in delivering the
opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, overruling the objection, and giving judgment for the plaintiff,
said: "lHe was an officer, had authority to attach goods on
mesne process on a suitable writ, professed to have such
process, and thereupon took the plaintiff's goods; that is, the
goods of Bean, for whose use and benefit this action is brought,
and who, therefore, may be called the plaintiff. Ie therefore
took the goods colore oflci, and though he had no sufficient
warrant for taking them, yet he is responsible to third persons,
because such taking was a breach of his official duty."
Upon the weight of authority, therefore, as well as upon
principle, the judgment of the Circuit Court in the case at bar
is right, and must be
_Afk rmed.

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued March 5th, 6th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Internal Revenue- Voluntary Payment.
Under the act of July 14th, 1870, c. 255, 4, 16 Stat. 257, the proprietor of
friction matches who furnished his own dies, was entitled to a commission
of ten per cent, payable in money upon the amount of adhesive stamps
over $500 which he at any one time purchased for his own use from the
Bureau of Internal Revenue. Swift Company v. United States, 105 U. S.
691, considered and affirmed.
A payment made to a public officer in discharge of a fee or tax illegally exacted

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.
is not such a voluntary payinont as will preclude the party from recovering
it back.
A course of business and a periodical settlement between the commissioner of
internal revenue and a regular periodical purchaser of revenue stamps
entitled by statute to commission on his purchases payable in money, which
shows that the commissioner asserted and the purchaser accepted that the
business should be conducted upon the basis of payments of the commissions
in stamps at their par value instead of in money, does not preclude the
purchaser from asserting his statutory right, if he had no choice, and if the
only alternative was to submit to an illegal exaction or discontinue his
business.
When the commissioner of internal revenue adopted a rule of dealing with
purchasers of stamps which deprived them of a statutory right to be paid,
their commissions in money, and obliged them to take them in stamps, and
made known to those interested that the rule was adopted and would not
be changed, the rule dispensed with the necessity of proving, in each instance of complying with it, that the compliance was forced.
In a course of dealing between a regular purchaser through a series of years of
stamps and the commissioner of internal revenue, where a separate written
order was given for each purchase, and the commissioner answered each by
sending the stamps asked for, " in satisfaction of the order," and where
remittances were made from time to time by the purchaser on a general
credit, which the commissioner so applied ; and where accounts were
made and balanced monthly between the parties; and where in each
transaction the commissioner withheld from the purchaser a part of the
commission due him by law ;the right of action accrued in each transaction as the comnmission was withheld, and the Statute of Limitations in
each case began to run at that time.

This case was heard at October Term, 1881, on a demurrer
to the petition. The judgment of the Court of Claims sustaining the demurrer was overruled, and the case remanded for a
hearing on the merits, 105 U. S. 691. The Court of Claims
found that the claimants from 1870 to 1878, were manufacturers of matches, furnished their own dies, and gave bonds for
payment of stamps furnished within sixty days after delivery
under the statute. Each order was for stamps of a stated
value. The commissioner from the commencement held that the
amount allowed by statute was to be computed as commissions
upon the amount of money paid. All business between the parties was transacted and all accounts stated and adjusted by the
accounting officers on that basis. The manner in which the
parties did business under that ruling is stated below, in the
opinion of the court. The Court of Claims held that the facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

showed an acquiescence by the claimant in the construction of
the statute by the commissioner, and such repeated settlements
and voluntary acceptances of stamps in payment of their coinmissions in lieu of money, as to preclude them from recovering,
and gave judgment in favor of the United States. From this
judgment the corporation appealed. On the hearing in this
court the argument was on the following points: 1st. Whether
the former construction of the statute was correct; 2d. Whether
the long acquiescence of the company in the construction given
to the statute by the commissioner, and its frequent and regular settlement of its accounts on that basis and acceptance of
stamps in lieu of money precluded it from disputing the legality of the transactions; and 3d. What was the effect of the
failure to protest against the settlements which it made under
the rulings of the commissioner.
.Xr. J. IF. Douglass and Kr. Samuel S/ellabarger for appellant.
.fr.

Solicitor-General for appellee.

IMR.

JUSTICE

MATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.

On a former appeal in this case a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the claimant's petition on demurrer was reversed. Swift Company v. Tie United States, 105 U. S. 691.
It was then held that the right construction of the internal
revenue acts, act of July 1st, 1862, c. 119, ยง 102, 12 Stat. 477;
act of March 3d, 1863, c. 74, 12 Stat. 714; act of June 30th,
1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 294, 302; act of July 14, 1870, c. 255,
ยง 4, 16 Stat. 257, required the payment of the commission
allowed to dealers in proprietary articles purchasing stamps
made from their own dies and for their own use, to be made in
money, calculated at the rate of ten per cent. upon the whole
amount of stamps furnished, and not in stamps at their face
value calculated upon the amount of money paid. In response
to a suggestion in argument by the solicitor-general we now
repeat the conclusion then announced. We had no doubt upon
the point at the time; we have none now. The distinction
was then pointed out between the rule applicable to the sale of

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

other adhesive stamps and those sold to proprietors of articles
named in Schedule C, made from their own dies. In the
former, the commissioner of internal revenue had a discretion
to fix the rate of commission so as not to exceed five per cent.,
and in exercising that discretion could make the commission
payable in stamps as an element in the rate itself. As to the
latter, no such discretion was given. The statute fixed the rate
of the commission absolutely. The practice of the bureau confused the two cases and ignored the distinction between them.
We do not perceive how the substitution of the word "commission" in the act of 1863 for the word " discount" in the proviso
to ยง 102 of the act of 1862 affects the question; for the latter
obviously refers to a sum to be deducted from the money paid
for the stamps, and not from the stamps sold, while the former
equally denotes a sum to be paid to the purchaser on a purchase
of stamps at par, both being calculated as a percentage upon
the amount of the purchase money, and the necessary implication as to both being that they are to be paid in money.
However the words in some applications may differ in verbal
meaning, they represent in the transactions contemplated by
these statutes an identical thing.
The present appeal is from a decree rendered in favor of the
United States, upon a finding of facts upon issue joined; and
presents two questions: first, whether the course of dealing between the parties now precludes the appellant from insisting
upon his statutory right to require payment of his commissions
in money, instead of stamps; and second, whether, if not, part
of his claim did not accrue more than six years before suit
brought, so as to be barred by the statute of limitations.
On the former appeal we decided that the course of dealing
set forth in the petition, which was admitted by the demurrer,
did not bar the claimant's right to recover; holding that it did
not appear on the face of the petition that the appellant voluntarily accepted payment of his commissions in stamps at par,
instead of money, nor that he was willing to waive his right to
be paid in that way; and that "it would be incumbent on the
government, in order to deprive him of his statutory right, not
only to show facts from which an agreement to do so," that is

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

an agreement to waive his statutory right, "might be inferred,
but an actual settlement based upon such an understanding."
The decree brought up by the present appeal proceeds upon
the basis that the facts as found by the Court of Claims establish such an agreement and such a settlement.
The course of dealing found to exist and to justify this conclusion may be briefly but sufficiently stated to have been as
follows: The appellant gave the bonds from time to time
necessary under the statute to entitle it to sixty days' credit on
its purchases of stamps. The condition of this bond was that
the claimant should, on or before the tenth day of each month,
make a statement of its account upon a form prescribed by the
Internal Revenue Bureau, showing the balance due at the
commencement of the month, the amount of stamps received,
the amount of money remitted by it during the month, and
the balance due from it at the close of the month next preceding; and also that the company should pay all sums of money
it might owe the United States for stamps delivered or forwarded to it, according to its request or order, within the time
prescribed for payment for the same according to law, that
is, for each purchase within sixty days from the delivery of the
stamps.
Each purchase was upon a separate written order, specifying
the amount desired, for example,$3,000 dollars' worth of match
stamps. The commissioner thereupon forwarded stamps of the
face value of $3,300, with a letter stating that they were in
satisfaction of the order re~erred to, and inclosing a receipt on
a blank form, but filled up, except date and signature, which
was an acknowledgment of the receipt of the specified amount
of stamps in satisfaction of the order. The receipt was signed
by the claimant and returned. The claimant from time to time
made remittances of money in authorized certificates of deposit,
in sums to suit its convenience, for credit generally, and received
in reply an acknowledgment stating that credit had accordingly
been given on the books of the internal revenue office on
account of adhesive stamps; for instance, by certificate of
deposit, $2,500; commission at ten per cent., $250; total,
$2,750; and authorizing the claimant to take credit therefor on

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the prescribed form for the monthly account current. These
accounts were made out by the claimant monthly on blank
forms prescribed and furnished by the commissioner, in which
the United States were debited with all items of money remitted and with commissions calculated on each remittance at
ten per cent., and credited with balance from previous month
and stamps received on order in the interval, and with the balance due the United States. This account was by a memorandum at the foot stated to be correct, complete, and true,
and signed by the claimant. These returns, with corresponding statements by the commissioner, were settled and adjusted
by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department every
quarter, and notice of the settlement given to the claimant.
The remittances were so made that while not corresponding
to any particular order for stamps, they nevertheless covered
all stamps the orders for which had been given sixty days or
more previously, so that the claimant was always indebted to
the United States for all stamps received within the past sixty
days, but not for any received more than sixty days previously.
It must be admitted that this course of dealing and periodical
settlement between the parties, whether the accounts be regarded as running merely or stated, shows clearly enough that
the business was conducted upon the basis, that the claimant
was to receive his commissions in stamps at their par value, and
not in money, and that this was asserted by the Internal
Revenue Bureau, and accepted by the appellant.
But in estimating the legal effect of this conduct on the
rights of the parties there are other circumstances to be considered.
It appears that prior to June 30th, 1866, the leading manufacturers of matches, among whom was William II. Swift, who,
upon the organization of the claimant corporation in 1870, became one of its large stockholders and treasurer, made repeated
protests to the officers of the Internal Revenue Bureau against
its method of computing commissions for proprietary stamps
sold to those who furnished their own dies and designs;
although it did not appear that any one in behalf of the claimant corporation ever, after its organization, made any such pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

test or objection, or any claim on account thereof, until January
8th, 1879. On that date, the appellant caused a letter to be
written to the commissioner asserting its claim for the amount,
afterwards sued for, as due on account of commissions on
stamps purchased. To this, on January 16th, 1879, the commissioner replied, saying that the appellant had received all
commissions upon stamps to which it was entitled, "provided
the method of computing commissions, which was inaugurated
with the first issue of private-die proprietary stamps and has
been continued by each of my predecessors, is correct. I have
heretofore decided to adhere to the long-established practice of
the office in this regard until there shall be some legislation or
a judicial decision to change it." And the claim was therefore
rejected.
From this statement it clearly appears that the Internal
Revenue Bureau had at the beginning deliberately adopted the
construction of the law upon which it acted through its successive
commissioners, requiring all persons purchasing such proprietary
stamps to receive their statutory commissions in stamps at their
face value, instead of in money; that it regulated all its forms,
modes of business, receipts, accounts, and returns upon that
interpretation of the law; that it refused on application, prior
to 1866, and subsequently, to modify its decision; that all who
dealt with it in purchasing these stamps were informed of its
adherence to this ruling; and finally, that conformity to it on
their part was made a condition, without which they would
not be permitted to purchase stamps at all. This was in effect,
to say to the appellant, that unless it complied with the exaction,
it should not continue its business; for it could not continue
business without stamps, and it could not purchase stamps
except upon the terms prescribed by the commissioner of internal revenue. The question is, whether the receipts, agreements, accounts, and settlements made in pursuance of that
demand and necessity, were voluntary in such sense as to preclude the appellant from subsequently insisting on its statutory
right.
We cannot hesitate to answer that question in the negative.
The parties were not on equal terms. The appellant had no

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

choice. The only alternative was to submit to an illegal exaction, or discontinue its business. It was in the power of the
officers of the law, and could only do as they required.
Money paid or other value parted with, under such pressure,
has never been regarded as a voluntary act within the meaning
of the maxim, volenti non ,ft injuria.
In Close v. Pkqps, 7 M. & Gr. 586, which was a case of money
paid in excess of what was due in order to prevent a threatened
sale of mortgaged property, Tindal, C. J., said: "The interest
of the plaintiff to prevent the sale, by submitting to the demand, was so great, that it may well be said the payment was
made under what the law calls a species of duress." And in
Parkerv. Great Western Railway Company, 7 M. & Gr. 253,
the wholesome principle was recognized that payments made to
a common carrier to induce it to do what by law, without
them, it was bound to do, were not voluntary, and might be
recovered back. Illegal interest, paid as a condition to redeem
a pawn, was held in Astley v. Reynolds, 2 Stra. 915, to be a
payment by compulsion. This case was followed, after a
satisfactory review of the authorities, in Tuft v. Ide, 3 Blatchf.
249; and in Ogden v. Maxwell, 3 Blatchf. 319, it was held that
illegal fees exacted by a collector, though sanctioned by a longcontinued usage and practice in the office, under a mistaken
construction of the statute, even when paid without protest,
might be recovered back, on the ground that the payment was
compulsory and not voluntary. And in Maxwell v. Griswold,
10 How. 242-256, it was said by this court: "Now it can hardly
be meant, in this class of cases, that to make a payment
involuntary, it should be by actual violence or any physical
duress. It suffices, if the payment is caused on the one part by
an illegal demand, and made on the other part reluctantly, and
in consequence of that illegality, and without being able to regain possession of his property, except by submitting to the
payment." To the same effect are the American Steamship
Company v. Young, 89 Penn. St. 186 ; Cunningnamv. ]onroe,
15 Gray, 471 ; Carew v. Rutlerford, 106 Mass. 1; Preston v.
Boston, 12 Pick. 7. In Beekwitli v. FTrisle, 32 Vt. 559-566, it
was said: "To make the payment a voluntary one, the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

should stand upon an equal footing." If a person illegally
claims a fee colore ofit i, the payment is not voluntary so as
to preclude the party from recovering it back. iorgan v.
Palmer, 2 B. & C 729. In Steele v. Williams, 8 Exch. 625,
Martin, B., said : "If a statute prescribes certain fees for certain
services, and a party assuming to act under it insists upon
having more, the payment cannot be said to be voluntary."
"The common principle," says Mr. Pollock, Principles of Contract, 523, "is, that if a man chooses to give away his money,
or to take his chances whether he is giving it away or not, he
cannot afterwards change his mind; but it is open to him to
show that he supposed the facts to be otherwise, or that he
really had no choice." Addison on Contracts, *1043; Alton v.
Durant, 2 Strobh. 257.
No formal protest, made at the time, is, by statute, a condition
to the present right of action, as in cases of action against the collector to recover back taxes illegally exacted; and the protests
spoken of in the findings of the Court of Claims as having been
made prior to 1866 by manufacturers of matches and others requiring such stamps, are of no significance, except as a circumnstance to show that the course of dealing prescribed by the coinmissioner bad been deliberately adopted, had been made known
to those interested, and would not be changed on further application, and that consequently the business was transacted upon that
footing, because it was well known and perfectly understood
that it could not be transacted upon any other. A rule of that
character, deliberately adopted and made known, and continuously acted upon, dispenses with the necessity of proving in
each instance of conformity that the compliance was coerced.
This principle was recognized and acted upon in United State8
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196-200, where it was held that the officers of
the law, having established and acted upon a rule that payment
would be received only in a particular mode, contrary to law,
dispensed with the necessity of an offer to pay in any other
mode, and the party thus precluded from exercising-his legal
right was held to be in as good condition as if he had taken the
steps necessary by law to secure his right.
For these reasons we are of opinion, that the Court of Claims

WALSH v. MAYER.
Syllabus.

erred in rendering its judgment dismissing the appellant's petition, and thus disallowing his entire claim. But we are also
of opinion that he is not entitled to recover for so much of it
as accrued more than six years before the bringing of his suit.
There was nothing in the nature of the business, nor in the
mode in which it was conducted, nor in the accounts it required,
that prevented a suit from being brought, for the amount of
commissions withheld, in each instance as it occurred and was
ascertained. The recovery must therefore be limited to the
amount accruing during the six years next preceding November 21st, 1878, which, according to the findings of the Court of
Claims, is $28,616, and for that amount judgment should have
been rendered by the court in favor of the appellant.
ie judgment of the Court of Claim8 i8reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to render judgment in
favor of the appellant in accordancewith this opinion.

WALSHI v. MAYER & Others.
MAYER & Others v. WALSH.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued January 31st, February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Conflict of Law-Statute of Limitations-Usury.
A negotiable promissory note made in New Orleans secured by mortgage of
real estate in Mississippi, the maker being a citizen of Arkansas, and the
promisee being a citizen of Louisiana, and no place of payment being
named in the note, is subject to the limitation of actions prescribed by the
statute of Mississippi, as the law of the forum, When suit is brought upon it
in Mississippi.
In Mississippi a letter from the holder of a promissory note, the right of action on which is barred by the statute of limitations, asking for insurance
on buildings on property mortgaged to secure payment of the note, and saying, "'The amount you owe me on the $7,500 note is too large to be left in
such an unprotected situation : I cannot consent to it "-and a written
reply from the maker, saying, "We think you will run no risk in that

