OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

which, as to such judgments, is only cumulative. This presumption is a rule of evidence and not a limitation, and is not
subject to the exceptions and incidents of an act of limitation.
Cce GirardeauCounty v. Iclrbison, 58 Missouri, 90; Snith's
Ex'r v. -Benton,15 Missouri, 371.
If, therefore, twenty years after its date suit had been
brought against Hammond, in his lifetime, on the judgment
recovered against him by Relf and Chew, he could have availed
himself of the conclusive presumption which that law raises,
that the judgment had been paid. The presumption is no
weaker when the suit is brought against the administrator of
his estate sixty-one years after the date of the judgment.
The case, therefore, as stated by the bill, is this: Appellant
seeks to recover on a claim for money had and received, which
had been reduced to judgment more than sixty years, and
which the law conclusively presumed had been paid more than
forty years before her suit was brought.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill was right, and it
must be
Affrmecl.

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Afunicipal Corporations.
When the settled decisions of the highest court of a State have determined the
extent and character of the powers which its political and municipal organizations shall possess, the decisions are authoritative upon the courts of the
United States.
In the absence of State statutes, or of settled decisions of the highest court of
a State, the rule of interpretation in respect of the powers of political and
municipal corporations is to be found in the analogies furnished by their
prototypes in the country of common origin, varied and modified by circumstances peculiar to our political and social condition.

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Statement of Facts.
The power to issue commercial paper is foreign to the objects in the creation of
political divisions into counties and townships, and is not to be conceded to
such organizations unless by virtue of express legislation, orby very strong
implication from such legislation.
The power which the statutes of Tennessee confer upon a county in that State,
to erect a court-house, jail, and other necessary county buildings, does not
authorize the issue of commercial paper as evidence or security for a debt
contracted for the construction of such a building. Ross v. Anderson
County, 8 Baxter, 249, shown to be consistent with this decision.

This was an action of debt, brought by the appellee, the
plaintiff below, as bankrupt assignee of Howard, Cole & Co.,
against the county of Claiborne, Tennessee, on its bond or
obligation, dated 7th day of April, 1868, payable to one V.
H. Sturm or order for $5,000, with interest, and indorsed by
Sturm to Howard, Cole & Co.
The following is a copy of the bond, together with the indorsement thereon, to wit:
" County Court. April Term, 1868.
"TiE STATE Or TENNESSEE, County of Claiborne:
" On or before the first day of January, 1870, the County of
Claiborne is hereby bound and promises to pay to V. H. Sturm,
or order, the sum of five thousand dollars, bearing interest from
this date at the rate of six per centum per annum until paid. And
this bond is redeemable by the county at any earlier date if they
choose to do so.
"By order of the County Court of said county, at its quarterly
term, on the first Monday of April, 1868, a majority of the acting
justices of the peace for said county having voted the same, and
ordered the bond of the county to be issued therefor.
"Witness Thomas L. Davis, chairman of the County Court of
said county, and the seal of the court, this 7th day of April, 1868.
TH0OS. L. DAVIS, Chairman.
" [SEAL]
"Attest:

DAVID

CARDwELL,

'

Cl0k."

Indorsed: "Pay to Howard, Cole & Co., waiving demand,
notice and protest. Victor TI. Sturm."
The case was commenced in the State court and was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, and came
up for trial on the pleas of non est factum, nil debet, and payment, other pleas having been overruled on demurrer.
voL. cxI-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

A verdict being rendered in favor of the plaintiff under the
charge of the court, exceptions were taken to the charge.
The bill of exceptions stated that on the trial the plaintiff
introduced proof tending to show that the county of Claiborne,
by its County Court, appointed commissioners, who contracted
with Sturm for the erection of a court-house in Tazewell, the
county seat; that by the original contract he was to receive
$8,000; and that the contract was subsequently modified so as
to enlarge the building, without fixing specifically the additional price to be paid. The plaintiff further exhibited proof
of the following orders made by the County Court and entered
of record, namely, on the 6th of April, 1868, the following:
" Ordered,by the court that V. H. Sturm be allowed the sum
of ten thousand dollars, in part pay for the court-house."
And on the 4th day of January, 1869, the following:
"It was this day ordered by the court that Benjamin Ausmus,
revenue collector of Claiborne County, be permitted to examine
and investigate the payment or transfer of certain county bonds
issued in favor of V. II. Sturm, and whether or not said bonds
have been paid, transferred, or assigned to any party for a full
and valid consideration before the 7th July, 1868 ; and if so,
that the said Ausmus, as revenue collector, be allowed to pay over
or deposit what funds he may have on hand, collected for that
purpose, to the person or persons holding legal and lawful possession of said bonds. But should the bonds have been enjoined
before or since the above date, then the money so collected and
in the hands of said revenue collector will be deposited with the
clerk of the Chancery Court at Knoxville, taking his receipt
therefor."
There was also evidence tending to show that the bond sued
on was made and delivered to Sturm by the chairman of the
County Court, together with another similar bond, which has
been paid.
The defendant introduced evidence tending to show: That
the value of the additional work on the court-house was $3,000;
that between $10,000 and $11,000 had been paid to the con-

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Statement of Facts.

tractor, V. I-. Sturm, and his order, outside of the amount
called for in the bond sued on.
The following sections of the Code of Tennessee show the
powers of counties in that State in relation to the erection of
public buildings and the making of contracts:

§ 402. "Every county is a corporation, and the justices in the
County Court assembled are the representatives of the county
and authorized to act for it."
§ 403. "Suits may be maintained against a county for any just
claim as against other corporations."
§ 404. "Each county may acquire and hold property for county
purposes, and make all contracts necessary or expedient for the
management, control and improvement thereof, and for the better
exercise of its civil and political power ; may do such other acts
and exercise such other powers as may be allowed by law."
§ 408. "It

is the duty of the County Court to erect a court-

house, jail, and other necessary county buildings."
§ 410. Such buildings "shall be erected within the limits of
the county town."
§ 411. " The county buildings are to be erected and kept in
order and repair at the expense of the county, under the direction
of the County Court, and it may levy a special tax for that purpose."
§ 414. [Confers power on the justices of the County Court,
when deemed for the public interest, to change the site of the
county jail or court-house, and to order a sale of the site or
materials] ; "and they may also order that a more eligible, convenient, healthy, or secure site be purchased, and cause to be
erected thereon a new jail or court-house, better suited to the convenience of said town, and secure the safe custody, health, and
comfort of the prisoners."
§ 415. "The said justices shall appoint not less than three nor
more than five commissioners, a majority of whom shall be competent"To make such sale and purchase;
"To contract for and superintend the erection of the new jail
and court-house ; and
"To carry into execution all such orders as said justices may
deem necessary and proper in the premises."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

The defendant's attorney requested the court to instruct the

jury"First. That in the absence of express power conferred by
statute, the county of Claiborne, as a corporation, had no power
to make and issue a negotiable interest-bearing bond such as the
one sued on, there being no implied power to issue such a bond.
"Second. There being no authority for the issuance of such
bonds, the chairman of the County Court had no right to make or
issue it, and the payment of a similar bond by the county would
not operate as a ratification or this bond or make it valid."
Amongst other things not excepted to, the judge instructed
the jury as follows, to wit:
"First. That the defendant, Clairborne County, a corporation
under the laws of Tennessee, through the County Court, was
authorized to erect a court-house ; that the power to erect implied
the right to contract for the same, and if the court had the right
to make a contract for the erection of the court-house, he instructed them that the court had the incidental or implied power
to execute a note, bond, or other negotiable security in payment
of such contract, and might legally issue such an instrument as
the bond sued on."
"That a corporation with power to make a contract like an individual, might make and issue commercial paper as evidence of
or security for the contract."
"The court further instructed the jury that they would look to
the evidence and ascertain whether the County Court ordered the
chairman to make the bond sued on ; if it did not so order, the
chairman had no power or authority to make it ; but if, after its
execution, the county court made an order on the tax collector to
hunt up the holders of this and another bond like this, and
pay it, that this would be a ratification of the action of the chairman, and would validate the bond sued on.
"If the jury should so find, they would then find in favor of
the plaintiff the amount of the bond and interest thereon at six
per cent. per annum from its date."
To these portions of the charge the defendant excepted, and
assigns the same for error.

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Opinion of the Court.

The jury returned a verdict of $8,741 for the plaintiff, being
for principal and interest of the bond.
Judgment was entered for plaintiff accordingly, and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
Mlr. Jesse I. Rogers for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Jales 0. Rose for defendant in error.-There was no
error in the charge that the authority that could make the
bond in the first instance, the County Court, could ratify an
unauthorized making of it. Supervisors v. Sekend, 5 Wall.
772; County of Ray v. Vansydle, 96 U. S. 675, 687. The
right to construct the buildings included the right to create
debts for doing so. lynde v. li/e County, 16 Wall. 6 ; Wood
v. Tipton County, 7 Baxter, 112; Carey v. Camnpbell County,
5 Sneed, 515; -Davidson County v. Alwell, 4 Lea, 28; Camp v.
Knox County, 3 Lea. 199; MiLills v. Gleason, 11 Wis. 470;
Banc v. Chillicotie, 7 Ohio, part 2, 31. That a trading corporation may issue commercial paper is not doubted. The
power of a municipal corporation to do the same has been sustained in the following cases. Meyer v. -fuseatine, 1 Wall.
384; Rogers v. Burlington,3 Wall. 654; Lynde v. Tli/e County,
16 Wall. 6; Ross v. Anderson County, 8 Baxter, 249; De Voss
v. Richmond, 11 Gratt. 338; Evansville, Indiana,&e., Railroad
v. Evansville, 15 Ind. 395; Ianilton v. Pittsburg,34 Penn.
St. 496; 2iddleton v. Alleg/any County, 37 Penn. St. 237,
241; Reinbath v. Pittsburg,41 Penn. St. 278.

Mn. JusTME, BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court. le
stated the facts as above, and continued:
From the instructions requested by the defendant and those
given by the court (although there is a want of explicitness in
the bill of exceptions), we gather that the real controversy was,
whether the defendant could set up against the assignees of
the bond a defence (such as payment) which would have been
good against Sturm, the original holder, as to whom evidence
was given tending to show that he had received from the
county all, or nearly all, that he was entitled to, independently
of the bond sued on. Unless this was the real controversy we

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

do not see the relevancy of the charge. For, if the right of
the defendant to set up the defence which it had against the
bond in the hands of Sturm was not denied or disputed, we do
not see of what importance the particular form of the instrument would have been. But if the form was relied on as precluding any such defence, then the charge was clearly material,
and had a decisive bearing upon the case.
The doctrine of the charge is that the power of a county to
erect a court-house involves and implies the power to contract
for its erection, and the power to contract involves and implies
the power to execute notes, bonds, and other commercial paper
as evidence or security for the contract; or, to state it according to its legitimate conclusion and result, it is this, that whenever a county has power to contract for the performance of any
work or for any other thing, it has incidental power to issue
commercial paper in payment thereof; that the one power implies the other. It being clear that the county of Claiborne
had power to erect a court-house, the court below held that
this involved an implied power to contract out the work, and
to issue negotiable bonds of a commercial character in payment
thereof.
We cannot concur in this view. The erection of court-houses,
jails and bridges is amongst the ordinary political or administrative duties of all counties; and from the doctrine of the
charge it would necessarily follow that all counties have the
incidental power, without any express legislative authority, to
issue bonds, notes, and other commercial paper in payment of
county debts and charges; and if they have this power, then
such obligations issued by the county authorities and passing
into the hands of bona fide holders, would preclude the county
from showing that they were issued improperly, or without consideration, or for a debt already paid; and it would then be in
the power of such authorities to utter any amount of such
paper, and to fasten irretrievable burdens upon the county
'without any benefit received. Our opinion is, that mere political bodies, constituted as counties are, for the purpose of local
police and administration, and having the power of levying
taxes to defray all public charges created, whether they are or

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Opinion of the Court.

are not formally invested with corporate capacity, have no
power or authority to make and utter commercial paper of any
kind, unless such power is expressly conferred upon them by
law, or clearly implied from some other power expressly given,
which cannot be fairly exercised without it. Our views on
this subject were distinctly expressed in the case of Police
Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, where, speaking of the power
of local political bodies to issue commercial paper, we said:
"It seems to us to be a power quite distinct from that of incurring indebtedness for improvements actually authorized and
undertaken, the justness and validity of which may always be
inquired into. It is a power which ought not to be implied
from the mere authority to make such improvements. It is
one thing for county or parish trustees to have the power to
incur obligations for work actually done in behalf of the county
or parish, and to give proper vouchers therefor, and a totally
different thing to have the power of issuing unimpeachable
paper obligations which may be multiplied to an indefinite extent. If it be once conceded that the trustees, or other local
representatives of townships, counties, and parishes, have the
implied power to issue coupon bonds, payable at a future day,
which may be valid and binding obligations in the hands of
innocent purchasers, there will be no end to the frauds that
will be perpetrated. We do not mean to be understood that
it requires in all cases express authority for such bodies to issue
negotiable paper. The power has frequently been implied
from other express powers granted. Thus, it has been held
that the power to borrow money implies the power to issue
the ordinary securities for its repayment, whether in the form
of notes or bonds payable in future." pp. 571-2.
In that case the suit was brought on coupons of bonds given
to take up certain levee warrants issued by the police jury of
the parish; and the court were unanimously of opinion that
the police jury had no power to issue such bonds.
In the subsequent case of Tlie Jfayor of 9Ta8hville v. Ray, 19
Wall. 468, the circumstances were somewhat different. That
was the case of an incorporated city, and the suit was brought
on treasury warrants drawn by the mayor and recorder on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

city treasurer, payable to bearer, and originally delivered to
various persons for work done for the city; they were afterwards received by the tax collector in payment of taxes, and
then sold for such price as they would bring to raise money for
city purposes; the plaintiff had purchased the warrants in suit,
and evidence was given to show that he had notice that they
had been paid in and received for taxes; but the court below
held that the corporation had the right to issue promissory
notes and other securities; and that, if it was the usage to reissue them in this way, they would, when sold and reissued, be
obligatory on the city. All the justices of this court held that
when originally issued, they were valid as vouchers and evidences of actual indebtedness, and the three dissenting justices
held with the court below that they were valid obligations
when reissued; but a majority of the court concurred in
reversing the judgment, and four of the justices were of opinion
that, as the city had no express power to borrow money or to
issue commercial paper, and, in their view, no general power
by which it was necessarily implied, the warrants when once
paid in for taxes were nothing but redeemed vouchers, and
funtaus officio, and ceased to have any validity, and that the
city officers had no authority to reissue them; that it was an
unauthorized use of the city's credit, and an attempt to borrow
money and to issue commercial paper without any power or
authority to do so; and that the plaintiff's clain of being a bona
fide holder could not avail him. In discussing the subject the
following remarks were made, which were quoted with approval in the subsequent case of Wall v. County of X~onroe, 103
IT. S. 78 : "Vouchers for money due, certificates of indebtedness
for services rendered, or for property furnished for the use of
the city, orders or drafts drawn by one city officer upon
another, or any other device of the kind, used for liquidating
the amounts legitimately due to public creditors, are, of course,
necessary instruments for carrying on the machinery of municipal administration, and for anticipating the collection of
taxes. But to invest such documents with the character and
incidents of commercial paper, so as to render them in the
hands of bonafide holders absolute obligations to pay, however

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Opinion of the Court.

irregular or fraudulently issued, is an abuse of their true character
and purpose." And again: "Every holder of a city order or
certificate knows that, to be valid and genuine at all, it must
have been issued as a voucher for city indebtedness. It could
ie must take
not be lawfully issued for any other purpose.
it, therefore, subject to the risk that it has been lawfully and
properly issued. His claim to be a bonafide holder will always
be subject to this qualification. The face of the paper itself
is notice to him that its validity depends upon the regularity
of its issue. The officers of the city have no authority to issue
it for any illegal or improper purpose, and their acts cannot
create an estoppel against the city itself, its tax-payers or
people. Persons receiving it from them know whether it is
issued, and whether they receive it for a proper purpose and a
proper consideration. Of course they are affected by the
absence of these essential ingredients; and all subsequent
holders take cuan one'e, and are affected by the same defect."
The counsel for the defendant in error relies strongly on the
cases of ]§ynde v. County of Winnebago, 16 Wall. 6, decided by
this court, and the State ex rel. Ross v. Anderson County, 8
Baxter, 249, decided by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, as
well as upon various decisions of other State courts, particularly WUilliamport v. Oommonwealth, 84 Penn. St. 487; -ills
v. Gleason, 11 Wisconsin, 470, and Bank of C]hillicoth~e v.
Cltillicot/e, 7 Ohio, pt. 2, p. 31.
Conceding that views different from those which we have
expressed are entertained by some of the State courts, and that
they may be controlling in the States where they are thus entertained, we are more especially concerned to know what is
held to be the law in Tennessee, as well as what may have
been held in the decisions of this court in former cases.
In the case of lynde v. County of lVinnebago, the county
had express legislative authority to borrow inoney for the erection of public buildings, to be determined by the people of the
county at any regular election, or special election called for the
purpose. The question in the case was, not as'to the existence
of the power, but as to the effect of the evidence on the question whether the conditions for its exercise had been complied

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

with. The court held that the evidence was sufficient, and
sustained the bonds. It was not pretended that the county
would have had power to issue them if such power had not
been conferred by the legislature, either expressly or by necessary implication, from the express power to "borrow money."
In the case of The State ex rel. Ross v. Anderson County, the
authority to issue bonds was still more explicit. An act of the
legislature of Tennessee, passed in 1852, ch. 191, had authorized certain counties to subscribe stock in any chartered railroad located through said counties, in any amount determined
upon, in the manner prescribed by law, and to issue bonds for
the amount subscribed. Another act, passed in 1854, ap.plied
these provisions expressly to Anderson County, and the bonds
in question in that case were issued in pursuance of this act,
although the preliminary proceedings bad been taken under a
different act which authorized a subscription to the stock, but
did not expressly authorize the issue of bonds therefor. The
Supreme Court of Tennessee, it is true, expressed an opinion
that authority to issue the bonds was implied from the power
given to subscribe for stock without the aid of the act of 1854,
stating, as a general rule, "that a county, like another corporation, having right to create a debt, has also the incidental
right to issue the commercial evidence of it, in such forms as
may be satisfactory to the parties." But the statement of this
general proposition may be regarded as only a dictum in the
case, since the judgment was fully supported by the express
provisions of the act of 1852, ch. 191, if not by the powergiven
to subscribe for stock in a railroad corporation. We are not
referred to any other decision of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee which comes any nearer to a determination of the
question.
It is undoubtedly a question of local policy with each State,
what shall be the extent and character of the powers which its
various political and municipal organizations shall possess; and
the settled decisions of its highest courts on this subject will be
regarded as authoritative by the courts of the United States;
for it is a question that relates to the internal constitution of
the body politic of the State. But as all, or nearly all the

CLAIBORNE COUNTY v. BROOKS.
Opinion of the Court.

States of the Union, are subdivided into political districts
similar to those of the country from which our laws and institutions are in great part derived, having the same general purposes and powers of local government and administration, we
feel authorized, in the absence of local State statutes or
decisions to the contrary, to interpret their general powers in
accordance with the analogy furnished by their common prototypes, varied and modified, of course, by the changed conditions and circumstances which arise from our peculiar form
of government, our social state and physical surroundings.
With regard to the political divisions of counties and townships, we have heretofore, in the cases referred to, expressed
our views as to their power of issuing paper obligations of a
commercial character. We consider such a power as entirely
foreign to the purposes of their creation, and as never to be
conceded except by express legislation, or by necessary, or, at
least, very strong implication from such legislation. The reasons
for these views were fully expressed in those cases, and need
not be repeated. We adhere to them without modification.
But when a case comes before us from a State in which a
different policy prevails, clearly shown by the local constitution
or statutes, or by the settled decisions of the State courts, we
are bound to decide it accordingly. We are not satisfied that
this is such a case.
The sections of the Code of Tennessee already referred to,
so far as we can perceive, confer only the ordinary powers
generally given to county jurisdictions. No extraordinary
powers are given; and no mode of raising funds for the erection or repair of public buildings is pointed out, except the levy
of a special tax. In the case of Wells v. Supervisors, 102 U. S.
625, 631, we held that the power to issue county bonds did not
arise from a power to subscribe for stock in a railroad company,
where authority was at the same time given to assess and collect a tax for the payment of the capital stock, and no other
authority to raise the requisite funds was given.
Under the Code of Tennessee contracts may of course be
made for the erection or repair of public buildings, and the
power to issue vouchers for payment is necessarily implied; but

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

no power is given to issue bonds or other commercial paper
having the privileges and exemptions accorded to that class of
commercial securities. No such power is expressly given, and
in our judgment no such power is necessarily implied. The
document sued on in this case may very well have served the
purpose of a voucher to show a stated account as between
Sturm and the county, and may be of such form as to be
assignable by indorsement, but it must always be liable, in
whosesoever hands it may come, to be open for examination as
to its validity, honesty, and correctness.
The judgment of.the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to award a new trial,and
to take such further _proceedings as may be in accordance
with this opinion.

SLIDELL & Another v. GRANDJEAN, Deputy Surveyor of
the United States.
SAME v. RICHARDSON, Register of State Land Office of
Louisiana.
SAME v. EMLER & Others.
APPEALS

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

SAME v. TSCHIRN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Public Land-foumas Grant-Spanish Custom-Constructionof Statutes.
In an order by a Spanish governor of Louisiana recognizing an Indian grant
and directing the issue of "a complete title," these words, as translated,
refer to the instruments which constitute the evidence of title, and not to
the estate or interest conveyed.
It was a usage of the Spanish government, in granting lands on the river, to
reserve lands in the rear of the grants to the depth of forty arpents, the

