DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Syllabus.

gages, § 428. Where a party lawfully in possession under a
defective title makes permanent improvements, if relief is asked
in equity by the true owner, he will be compelled to allow for
such improvements. 2 Story Eq. Jur. § 1237, note I ; Brifilit
v. B73oyd, 1 Story, 478, and 2 id. 605 ; Putnam v. Ritchlie, 6
Paige, 390; Williams v. Gibbes, 20 How. 535.
All the questions raised by the counsel for the appellants
have been examined and considered, but we have not thought
it necessary to comment on others than those above reviewed.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that
Tlie decree of the Circuit Court nust be afirmed.

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
IN

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR TIE

DISTRICT OF NEBIRASKA.
Submitted January 2d, 1884.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Estoppel-Legislative Authority-Municipal Corporaionm-Nebraska.
There must be authority of law, by statute, for every issue of bonds of a municipal corporation as a gift to a railroad or other work of internal improvemnent.
When the Constitution or a statute of a State requires as essential to the
validity of municipal bonds that they shall be registered in a State registry
and receive by indorsement a certificate of one or more State officers showing that they are issued in pursuance of law, and the Constitution or law
gives no conclusive effect to such registration or to such certificate, the
municipality is not concluded by the certificate from denying 'the facts certified to.
A recital in a municipal bond of facts which the corporate officers had authority
by law to determine and to certify estops the corporation from denying
those facts ; but a recital there of facts which the corporate officers had no
authority to determine, or a recital of matters of law does not estop the
corporation.
Section 2, Article XI. of the Constitution of Nebraska, which took effect November 1st, 1875, conferred no power upon a county to add to its authorized
or existing indebtedness, without express legislative authority ; but it limited the power of the legislature in that respect by fixing the terms and
conditions on which alone it was at liberty to authorize the creation of
municipal indebtedness.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

This was a suit to recover the amount of overdue interest
coupons on bonds issued by the plaintiff in error in aid of a
railroad. The defence was that the bonds were issued in
violation of provisions of the Constitution of iNebraska which
are set forth in the opinion of the court, and without legislative
authority. The holder of the bonds contended that the municipality was estopped from setting up this defence by reason of
certain recitals in the bonds, and of certain certificates of State
officers on the back of them, which are also referred to in the
opinion. The judgment below was against the county. This
writ of error was sued out to review that judgment.
Mr. A. J. Poppleton and Mr. J. X. T/urston for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. TF. I. Joy and Mr. George G. Wright for defendant in
error, to the point that the construction of the laws in question
belongs to the domain of general jurisprudence, and that this
court is not bound by the judgment of the State court, cited
Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 'Wall. 666; Olcott v.
Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Foote v. Jo/hnson County, 5 Dillon,
281; Gelpeke v. -Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Butz v. i]Luscatine,
8 Wall. 575. To the point that the county was estopped
by the recitals, they cited MJarvy v. Township of Oswego,
92 U. S. 637; Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484;
-Bissellv. Jefersonville, 24 how. 287; Van Itostrup v. iladison
City, 1 Wall. 291; St. Joseph Township v. Pogers, 16 Wall.
644; K[nox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539; MYeyer v.
Itfuseatine, 1 Wall. 384; Jfe/cer County v. Ifackett, 1b. 83;
Moran v. Miami County, 2 Black, 722; Town of Venice v.
Murdock, 92 U. S. 494; Converse v. City of Fort Scott, Ib.
503; Cognmissioners of Douglass County v. Bolles, 94 1b. 104;
Commissioners of Johnson County v. January, lb. 202. To
the point that, even if State courts bad held the bonds invalid,
the rights of a non-resident bonafide holder in a federal tribunal
would not be affected thereby, they cited JPana v. Bowler,
107 U. S. 528. To the point that the plaintiffs could recover,
even if the company had not complied with its contract, they

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

cited AJirkbridge v. Lactfayette County, 108 U. S. 208; American
life Insurance Company v. Bruce, 105 U. S. 328; lfayor v.
Jielley, 2 Fed. Reporter, 468. To the point that the certificates protected the holders of bonds, although issued in excess
of the percentage, they cited humboldt v. Lony, 92 U. S. 642 ;
Vilson, v. Salamanca, 99 U. S. 494; Hfawley v. 1Fairbanks,108
U. S. 544; County of Ifankakee v. zElna ife Insurance Cornpany, 106 U. S. 668; Ottawa v. Xational Bank, 105 U. S. 342;
Tlird National Bank of Syracuse v. Seneca _Falls, 15 Fed.
Rep. 783.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings into review a judgment in favor of
the defendant in error, for th6 amount of certain overdue
coupons upon municipal bonds, purporting to be obligations
of the plaintiff in error.
The facts upon which the judgment is based are as follows:
1. The defendant in error is the innocent holder for value of
the coupons sued on, and of the bonds to which they belong.
These bonds are part of a series, eighty-seven in number, being
for $1,000 each, payable to the Covington, Columbus and Black
Hills Railroad Company or bearer, in New York, on January
1st, 1896, with interest from January 1st, 1876, until paid, at
the rate of ten per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually.
They are executed in proper form under the seal of the county,
and were issued as a donation to the railroad company in aid
of the construction of its road.
2. Each bond contained the recital that it was "issued under
and in pursuance of an order of the county commissioners of the
County of Dixon, in the State of Nebraska, and authorized by
an election held in said county on the 27th day of December,
1875, and under and by virtue of chapter 35 of the General
Statutes of Nebraska, and amendments thereto, and the Constitution of said State, art. 12, adopted October, A. D. 1875.
3. On the back of each bond was the certificate of the county
clerk reciting that this issue of bonds was the only one ever
made by the county; that "the question of issuing said bonds
was submitted to the people of the county by a resolution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

county commissioners, dated November 24th, 1875, in the following-form: Shall Dixon County issue to the C. C. & Black
Hills Railroad Company, $87,000 ten per cent. twenty years'
bonds, payable both principal and interest in New York city,
and shall a tax be annually levied, in addition to the usual
taxes, sufficient to pay the interest as it becomes due, and accumulate a sinking fund to pay the principal at maturity? " and
further, "this question was decided by a vote taken December
27th, 1875, of 462 votes for and 120 against." This certificate
is witnessed by the hand and official seal of the clerk, of date
,May 16th, 1876.
4. There was also indorsed on each bond the certificate of
the secretary and auditor of the State of Nebraska, dated October 2d, 1876, that "it was issued pursuant to law," and the
further certificate of the auditor of same date "that upon the
basis of data filed in my office, it appears that the attached bond
has been regularly and legally issued by the county of Dixon to
C. C. & B. 1-. Railroad Company, and said bond, upon presentation thereof by said company, has this day been duly
registered in my office in accordance with the provisions of an
act entitled 'An Act to authorize the registration, collection and
redemption of county bonds, approved February 25th, 1875.2"
5. That the assessed valuation of all the taxable property of
the county of Dixon, the plaintiff in error, at the last previous
assessment and valuation, made in the spring of 1875, and which
continued in force until the spring of 1876, and which was shown
and appeared from the books of public record of said county,
was five hundred and eighty-seven thousand three hundred
and thirty-one ($587,331) dollars and no more; and of which
the amount of the bonds, issued in pursuance of said election,
was more than ten per cent., but less than fifteen per cent.
The statute referred to on the face of the bonds, chapter 35
of the General Statutes of Nebraska, authorizes any county or
city in the State "to issue bonds to aid in the construction of
any railroad or other work of internal improvement, to an
amount to be determined by the county commissioners of such
county or the city council of such city, not exceeding ten per
cent. of the assessed valuation of all taxable property in said

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

county or city," with an additional proviso requiring a previous
submission of the question of issuing such bonds to a vote of
the legal voters of the county or city, in the manner provided
by law, for submitting to the people of a county the question
of borrowing money. It was also provided that the proposition
of the question should be accompanied by a provision to levy a
tax annually for the payment of the interest on the bonds as it
should become due, stating also the rate of interest and the
time when the principal and interest should be made payable.
Upon a majority of the votes cast being in favor of the proposition submitted, and a record thereof being made, and public
notice given for a specific period of its adoption, it was required
that the bonds should be issued. This act took effect February
15th, 1869. On February 17th, 1875, it was amended so as to
require two-thirds of the votes cast at such an election, instead
of a mere majority, to be in favor of the proposition, so as to
authorize the issue of the bonds.
The Constitution of Nebraska took effect November Ist, 1875.
Section 2, art. XII. of that Constitution is as follows:
"No city, county, town, precinct, municipality or other subdivision of the State, shall ever make donations to any railroad or
other works of internal improvement, unless a proposition so to
do shall have been first submitted to the qualified electors thereof,
at an election by authority of law: Provided, That such donations
of a county, with the donations of such subdivisions, in the
aggregate, shall not exceed ten per cent. of the assessed valuation
of such county: Providedfurther, That any city or county may,
by a two-thirds vote, increase such indebtedness five per cent. in
addition to such ten per cent., and no bonds or evidences of indebtedness so issued shall be valid unless the same shall have indorsed thereon a certificate signed by the Secretary and Auditor
of the State, showing that the same is issued pursuant to law."
The defence insisted upon at the trial in the Circuit Court
was that the bonds were issued without authority of law and
were void; and being there overruled, it is now relied on as
error in the judgment, for which it should be reversed.
In support of the judgment, and of the validity of the bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

on which it rests, it is said, that by the terms of the statute of
February 15th, 1869, as amended by the act of February 17th,
1875, authority was given to the county to issue such bonds to
an amount not exceeding ten per cent. on the assessed valuation
of the taxable property in the county; that this act was not
rcpealed by the adoption of the Constitution in 1875, but in
fact was expressly continued in force, by section 1, article
XVI., the schedule of that instrument, whereby it was "ordained and declared that all laws in force at the time of the
adoption of this Constitution, not inconsistent therewith, &c.,
shall continue to be as valid as if this Constitution had not been
adopted;" and that the authority conferred by this act to issue
bonds to the extent of ten per cent. upon the assessed valuation
of the taxable property in the county, was enlarged and extended by the proviso in the 2d section of the 12th article of the
Constitution, so as, upon a two-thirds vote, which was in fact
cast, in favor of the original proposition, to authorize an issue
of bonds to the additional amount of five per cent. upon the
same valuation without additional legislative authority. The
construction claimed for the constitutional provision is, that
whenever the legislature has authorized an issue of bonds to
the extent of ten per cent. upon the basis named, the Constitution operates, upon that authority, ex proprio viigore, and empowers the county officers to submit a proposition for an issue
of bonds to the extent of fifteen per cent. upon the same valuation, and to issue the bonds accordingly, if sanctioned by a
two-thirds vote of the electors of the county. It would result
from the adoption of this interpretation, that an act of the
legislature authorizing an issue of bonds limited to the extent
of ten per cent. upon the assessment, but requiring a previous
two-thirds vote in favor of that proposition, would be unconstitutional and void, so far as it sought to limit the right to issue
bonds to less than fifteen per cent. upon the assessed valuation
of the taxable property in the county; it being, upon this supposition, a constitutional right and power of the county, when
the statute authorized an issue of bonds at all, to increase the
authorized amount upon a two-thirds vote by the maximum
addition fixed by the Constitution.

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

Such a construction of the Constitution seems to be predicated upon the idea that one of the evils sought to be remedied
by such provisions is the reluctance of legislative bodies to
grant to municipal corporations sufficiently extensive privileges
in contracting debts for purposes of internal improvement; but
the history of constitutional amendment does not seem to us to
justify this assumption.
On the contrary, we regard the entire section as a prohibition upon the municipal bodies enumerated, in the matter of
creating and increasing the public debts, by express and positive limitations upon the legislative power itself. There must
be authority of law, that is by statute, for every issue of bonds
as a donation to any railroad or other work of internal improvement; and the election required as a preliminary may be
determined by a majority vote, if the legislature so prescribes,
in which event the amount of the donation of the county, with
that of all its subdivisions, in the aggregate shall not exceed
ten per cent. of the assessed valuation of the taxable property
in the county; but the legislature may authorize an amount,
not to exceed fifteen per cent. on the assessment, on condition,
however, that at the election authorized for the purpose of determining that question, the proposition shall be assented to
by a vote of two-thirds of the electors. It would be an anomalous provision, that whenever statutory authority was given
to issue a prescribed amount of bonds, it should operate as an
authority, upon a popular vote, not otherwise directed, to issue
an amount in addition. We cannot think it was any part of
the purpose of the Constitution of Nebraska to enable a county,
either to add to its existing or its authorized indebtedness any
increase, without the express sanction of the legislature; and
are persuaded, on the contrary, that the true object of the proviso is to limit the power of the legislature itself, by definitely
fixing the terms and conditions on which alone it was at liberty
to permit the increase, as well as the creation of municipal
indebtedness. The language of the proviso that seems to
countenance a contrary construction, by words apparently conferring immediate power upon counties to increase their indebtedness, must be taken in connection with the express and posi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tive prohibition of the body of the section. This denies to
municipal bodies all power to make any donations to railroads
or other works of internal improvement, except by virtue of
legislative authority, and an election held to vote on the particular proposition in pursuance thereof. The proviso makes
a special rule for a special case, and authorizes an additional
amount of indebtedness, but only to be contracted in the contingency mentioned, and subject to the condition already prescribed for all donations, that is, by means of an election to
ce question submitted, held in pursuance of statutory
authority. An indebtedness to the extent of ten per cent. on
the assessed value of the taxable property may be authorized
by statute, to be sanctioned by a mere majority of the popular
vote; but no more than that amount shall be permitted by the
legislature, except when approved by two-thirds of the electors;
and in no event more than fifteen per cent. upon the assessment, in the aggregate, including any pre-existing indebtedness. Whether the whole amount of indebtedness, authorized
by the Constitution, to the extent of fifteen per cent. on the
assessed value of the taxable property may be contracted, by
authority of an act of the legislature, authorizing its creation
at one election upon a single vote, it is unnecessary to decide,
for, in the present case, there was no legislative authority to
create a debt in excess of the ten per cent. upon the assessment.
These views coincide with those expressed by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska in the case of ]?eineman v. fThe C£,vinglon,
Columbus, &c., ]?ailroad Conpany, 7 Nebraska, 310, where
the very question raised here was discussed and decided; so
that the construction we have adopted of the Constitution of
the State we cannot but regard as not only correct in itself,
but as now the settled rule of decision, established by the
highest judicial tribunal of the State.
It follows that the bonds in question were issued without
warrant of law, and if the defence is permitted, must be declared void, and insufficient to support the judgment.
But it is argued on the part of the defendant in error that
the plaintiff in error is estopped, by the recitals in the bonds,
to allege their invalidity on this ground.

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

The recitals in the bonds, which are relied on for this
purpose, are as follows:
"This bond is one of a series of eighty-seven thousand dollars
issued under and in pursuance of an order of the county coinmissioners of the county of Dixon, in the State of Nebraska, and
authorized by an election held in the said county on the twentyseventh day of December, A. D. 1875, and under and by virtue of
chapter 35 of the General Statutes of Nebraska, and amendments
thereto, and the Constitution of the said State, article XII.,
adopted October, A. D. 1875."

These recitals, in conjunction with the certificate of the
county clerk, and those of the Secretary and Auditor of State,
it is claimed, declare a compliance with the law in the issue of
the bonds, which, as against an innocent holder for value,
cannot now be questioned.
The sixth section of chapter 35 of the General Statutes, act
of February 15th, 1869, p. 93, provides that "any county or
city which shall have issued its bonds in pursuance of this act
shall be estopped from pleading want of consideration therefor ;"
and an act passed February 25th, 1875, authorizes the registra-

tion of county bonds, with a view to their collection and redemption. It requires the county officers, in the first place, to
make registration of all the named particulars in respect to the
bonds issued by them, a certified statement of which, made out
and transmitted by them, is required to be recorded by the
Auditor of State. Whenever the holders of county bonds shall
present the same to the Auditor of State for registration, the
auditor, upon being satisfied that such bonds have been issued
according to law, it is further provided, shall register the same
in his office in a book to be kept for that purpose, in the same
manner that such bonds are registered by the officers issuing
the same, and shall, under his seal of office, certify upon such
bonds the fact that they have been regularly and legally issued,
and that such bonds have been registered in his office in accordance with the provisions of the act. This registration is made
the basis on which he ascertains the amount of taxes annually
to be levied to meet the accruing interest and sinking fund to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

be certified to the county clerk, who is to ascertain and levy
the tax for that purpose, to be collected and paid to the county
treasurer.
The section of article XII. of the Constitution already cited,
requires, as essential to the validity of municipal bonds, an indorsement thereon of a certificate signed by the Secretary of
State and Auditor of State showing that the same is issued in
pursuance of law.
No conclusive effect is given by the Constitution or the
statute to this registration, or to these certificates; and in the
consideration of the question of estoppel, they may be laid out
of view. In any event, they could not be considered as more
comprehensive or efficacious than the statements contained in
the body of the bonds, and verified by the signature of the
county officers and the seal of the county, except as additional
steps, required to be taken in the process of issuing the bonds
and rendered necessary to their validity.
Recurring then to a consideration of the recitals in the bonds,
we assume, for the purposes of this argument, that they are in
legal effect equivalent to a representation, or warranty, or certificate on the part of the county officers, that everything
necessary by law to be done has been done, and every fact
necessary, by law, to have existed, did exist, to make the bonds
lawful and binding.
Of course, this does not extend to or cover matters of law.
All parties are equally bound to know the law; and a certificate reciting the actual facts, and that thereby the bonds were
conformable to the law, when, judicially speaking, they are
not, will not make them so, nor can it work an estoppel upon
the county to claim the protection of the law. Otherwise it
would always be in the power of a municipal body, to which
power was denied, to usurp the forbidden authority, by declaring that its assumption was within the law. This would be the
clear exercise of legislative power, and would suppose such
corporate bodies to be superior to the law itself.
And the estoppel does not arise, except upon matters of fact
which the corporate officers had authority by law to determine
and to certify. It is not necessary, it is true, that the recital

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

should enumerate each particular fact essential to the existence
of the obligation. A general statement that the bonds have
been issued in conformity with the law will suffice, so as to
embrace every fact which the officers making the statement are
authorized to determine and certify. A determination and
statement as to the whole series, where more than one is involved, is a determination and certificate as to each essential
particular. But it still remains, that there must be authority
vested in the officers, by law, as to each necessary fact, whether
enumerated or non-enumerated, to ascertain and determine its
existence, ald to guarantee to those dealing with them the
truth and conclusiveness of their admissions. In such a case
the meaning of the law granting power to issue bonds is, that
they may be issued, not upon the existence of certain facts, to
be ascertained and determined whenever disputed, but upon
the ascertainment and determination of their existence, by the
officers or body designated by law to issue the bonds upon such
a contingency. This becomes very plain when we suppose the
case of such a power granted to issue bonds, upon the existence
of a state of facts to be ascertained and determined by some
persons or tribunal other than those authorized to issue the
bonds. In that case, it would not be contended that a recital
of the facts in the instrument itself, contrary to the finding of
those charged by law with that duty, would have any legal
effect.
So, if the fact necessary to the existence of the
authority was by law to be ascertained, not officially by the
officers charged with the execution of the power, but by reference
to some express and definite record of a public character, then
the true meaning of the law would be, that the authority to
act at all depended upon the actual objective existence of the
requisite fact, as shown by the record, and not upon its ascertainment and determination by any one; and the consequence
would necessarily follow, that all persons claiming under the
exercise of such a power might be put to proof of the fact,
made a condition of its lawfulness, notwithstanding any recitals
in the instrument.
This principle is the essence of the rule declared upon this
point, by this court, in the well-considered words of Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Strong, in Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, where he
states (p. 491) that it is, "where it may be gathered from the
legislative enactment that the officers of the municipality were
invested with the power to decide whether the condition precedent has been complied with," that "their recital that it has
been, made in the bonds issued by them and held by a bona
ftde purchaser, is conclusive of the fact, and binding upon the
municipality; for the recital is itself a decision of the fact by
the appointed tribunal."
The converse is embraced in the proposition and is equally
true. If the officers authorized to issue bonds, upon a condition, are not the appointed tribunal to decide the fact, which
constitutes the condition, their recital will not be accepted as a
substitute for proof. In other words, where the validity of the
bonds depends upon an estoppel, claimed to arise upon the recitals of the instrument, the question being as to the existence
of power to issue them, it is necessary to establish that the
officers executing the bonds had lawful authority to make the
recitals and to make them conclusive. The very ground of the
estoppel is that the recitals are the official statements of those
to whom the law refers the public for authentic and final information on the subject.
This is the rule which has been constantly applied by this
court in the numerous cases in which it has been involved.
The differences in the result of the judgments have depended
upon the question, whether, in the particular case under consideration, a fair construction of the law authorized the officers
issuing the bonds to ascertain, determine and certify the existence of the facts upon which their power, by the terms of the
law, was made to depend; not including, of course, that class
of cases in which the controversy related, not to conditions
precedent, on which the right to act at all depended, but upon
conditions affecting only the mode of exercising a power admitted to have come into being. iarey v. Township qf
Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Commissioners of Douglas County v.
Bolles, 94 [U. S. 104; Commissioners of Jjfarion County v.
Clarkc, 94 U. S. 278; County of lfarren v. 2lfarcy, 97 U. S.
96; Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529.

DIXON COUNTY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case there was no power at all conferred to
issue bonds in excess of an amount equal to ten per cent. upon
the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the county.
In determining the limit of power, there were necessarily two
factors: the amount of the bonds to be issued, and the amount
of the assessed value of the property for purposes of taxation.
The amount of the bonds issued was known. It is stated in
the recital itself. It was $87,000. The holder of each bond
was apprised of that fact. The amount of the assessed value
of the taxable property in the county is not stated; but, ex vi
termini, it was ascertainable in one way only, and that was by
reference to the assessment itself, a public record equally accessible to all intending purchasers of bonds, as well as to the
county officers. This being known, the ratio between the two
amounts was fixed by an arithmetical calculation. No recital
involving the amount of the assessed taxable valuation of the
property to be taxed for the payment of the bonds can take
the place of the assessment itself, for it is the amount, as fixed
by reference to that record, that is made by the Constitution
the standard for measuring the limit of the municipal power.
Nothing in the way of inquiry, ascertainment or determination
as to that fact, is submitted to the county officers. They are
bound, it is true, to learn from the assessment what the limit
upon their authority is, as a necessary preliminary in the exercise of their functions, and the performance of their duty; but
the information is for themselves alone. All the world besides
must have it from the same source, and for themselves. The
fact, as it is recorded in the assessment itself, is extrinsic, and
proves itself by inspection, and concludes all determinations
that contradict it.
The case is to be distinguished from Jfrcy v. Township of
Oswego, 92 U. S. 637, where, although it was provided that, the
amount of the bonds voted by any township should not be
above such a sum as would require a levy of more than one
per cent. per annumn on the taxable property of such township
to pay the yearly interest, it was held that the existence of
sufficient taxable property to warrant the amount of the subscription and issue, it not being designated as fixed by the as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sessment, was one of those prerequisite facts to the execution
and issue of the bonds, which was of a nature that required
examination and decision, and had been referred by the statute
to the inquiry and determination of the board. In Sherman
County v. Simon8, 109 U. S. 735, the county commissioners
were constituted by the statute the tribunal for the purpose of
determining the amount of the indebtedness, in excess of which
the bonds were not to be issued, and their decision was accordingly held to be conclusive.
On the other hand, it is within the principle of the decision in
Buchanan v. -itelifield, 102 U. S. 2,78, where it was said, at page
289, that, "the purchaser of the bonds was certainly bound to
take notice, not only of the constitutional limitation upon municipal indebtedness, but of such facts as the authorized official
assessments disclosed concerning the valuation of taxable property within the city for the year 1873." And it is directly
within the decision in National Bank v. Porter Township, 110
U. S. 608. In that case, the existence of the power to issue the
township bonds in suit, depended upon the fact that the county
commissioners had not been previously authorized by a popular vote, or an unreasonable delay in taking one, to make a
subscription on behalf of the county. It was there said:
"Whether they had not been so authorized, that is, whether
the question of subscription had or had not been submitted to
a county vote, or whether the county commissioners had failed
for so long a time to take the sense of the people as to show
that they had not, within the meaning of the law, been authorized to make a subscription, were matters with which the trustees of the township, in the discharge of their ordinary duties,
had no official connection and which the statute had not committed to their final determination. Granting that the recital
in the bonds that they were issued 'in pursuance of the provisions of the several acts of the General Assembly of Ohio,' is
equivalent to an express recital that the county commissioners
had not been authorized by a vote of the county to subscribe
to the stock of this company, and that, consequently, the power
conferred upon the township was brought into existence, still
it is the recital of a fact arising out of the duties of county offi-

McIMURRAY v. MALLORY.
Syllabus.

cers, and which the purchaser and all others must be presumed
to know did not belong to the township to determine, so as to
confer or create power, which under the law did not exist."
We hold, therefore, that the plaintiff in error is not estopped
by the recitals in the bonds to deny their validity; and that
having been issued in contravention of the Constitution of the
State, they are without warrant of law and are void.
The judyment of the Circuit Court is, tIerefore, erroneous,
and nmust be reversed; and as the facts appear ugon the
_pleadiny8 and by a special verdict, the cause is remanded
with directions to enter judyment for the defendant below.

McMURRAY & Others v. MALLORY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOIR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Argued Mlarch 11th, 12th, 1884.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Patent.
If a patent is granted for a combination, one part of which is of a form described in the patent as adapted by reason of its shape to perform certain
specified functions, and the patent is surrendered and a reissue taken which
expands some of the claims so as to cover every other form of this part of
the combination, whether adapted to perform those functions or not, the reissue is void as to such expanded claims.
A patent for a combination is not infringed by using one part of it combined
with *otherdevices substantially different from those described in the patent
in form or mode of arrangement and combination with the other parts.
It is not competent for a patentee who has surrendered his letters patent
and made oath that he believes that by reason of an insufficient or defective
specification the surrendered letters are inoperative and void, and has
taken out reissued letters on a new specification and for new claims, to
abandon the reissue and resume the original patent by a disclaimer.
The original letters patent to Abel Barker, of May 17th, 1870, for an improvement in soldering machines was for a combination of a rod with a disk of a
particular form and shape, which was essential to it. In the reissue the first
three claims were so expanded as to embrace all forms of soldering irons in
combination with a movable rod, and the reissue was void to that extent.
The first claim in the reissue to E. M. Lang & Co., October 29th, 1878, of a
VOL. cxi-7

