OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

BURLEY, Receiver, v. GERMAN-AMERICAN BANK.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SOUTHERN

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 28th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Evidence-New York Code-Pleading-Res Gestce.
In New York, under § 500 of the Code of Civil Procedure, an answer which
makes certain statements, and then denies every allegation of the complaint, ''except as hereinafter stated or admitted," amounts to a sufficient
general denial of all allegations of the complaint not admitted, to authorize
evidence to be given to show any of such allegations to be untrue.
An objection that such denial is indefinite or uncertain must be taken by a
motion made, before trial, to make the answer definite and certain, Lby
amendment, and cannot be availed of by excluding evidence at the trial.
If it is intended to raise, on a writ of error, the point that a cross-examination
was not responsive to anything elicited on the direct, an objection must
have been taken on that ground at the trial.
Entries in the books of one party to a transaction, not contemporaneous, or
made in the due course of the business. as a part of the res gesie, but made
after the rights of the other party had become fixed, are not competent
evidence.
Where the issue was as to whether A or B owned a note, and A, having testifled that he owned it, afterwards testified that B owned it, and gave as a
reason that he had never directed the proceeds of the note to be applied to
any purpose, it is competent to prove by C that A gave directions to C as
to how to apply such proceeds.

This was a suit brought in a court of the State of New York,
in June, 1877, and removed by the defendant into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, after answer. The plaintiff is the receiver of the Cook
County National Bank, of Chicago, Illinois, and the defendant
is a corporation of New York. The complaint alleged that, on
the 20th February, 1875, the defendant held three promissory
notes, maturing on that day, for $1.0,000 each, made by the
Charter Oak Life Insurance Company, as collateral security
for a loan of $25,000; that the notes were paid to the defendant at maturity, and there was a surplus, beyond what was
due to it on the loan, of $5,000; that the notes were at the
time the property of the plaintiff, as receiver; that the defendant received notice of such ownership prior to the payment;

BURLEY v. GERMAN-AMERICAN

BANK.

Statement of Facts.

and that the plaintiff is entitled to a judgment for such surplus,
with interest.
The answer averred that, on October 20th, 1874, one Bowen
borrowed of the defendant $25,000, and delivered the three notes
to it as collateral security; that they were negotiable and not
due, and were duly transferred by Bowen to the defendant, he
then having the legal title to them, and then claiming, and
the defendant believing him, to be their owner; that the notes
were paid February 20th, 1875, when due, and the proceeds
were applied to pay the loan, leaving in the hands of the defendant a surplus, due to Bowen; that, on April 14th following, the defendant, then believing, with good reason, that that
surplus belonged to Bowen, applied it, on his direction, towards
paying other notes then held by the defendant, indorsed by
Bowen, which notes it gave up, on such payment. The answer
then said: "Except as hereinbefore stated or admitted, these
defendants, on information and belief, deny each and eyery
allegation in the said complaint contained."
The answer then set up, as a second defence, that, in August,
1871, Bowen agreed in writing with the defendant, that all
securities which he might thereafter deposit with it should be
regarded as security for any money it might loan to him; that,
when the three notes were so deposited, the agreement was a
continuing one, under which it received and held the notes as
security not only for the loan of $25,000, but for indebtedness
which thereafter arose from Bowen to it, as indorser on notes,
and existed on February 20th, 1875, to a larger amount than
said surplus ; that, on the direction of Bowen, it applied that
surplus towards paying the last mentioned liability of Bowen;
and that at all times it believed, with good reason, and without
notice to the contrary from the plaintiff, that the three notes were
the property of Bowen and that lie had good right to dispose
of them and of their proceeds. The answer then said: "And,
as a part of this second and separate defence, these defendants,
on information and belief, reiterate their denials, hereinbefore
contained, of each and every allegation in said complaint, not
herein stated or admitted."
The case was tried by a jury. The proof at the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

showed that the surplus was applied on a note made by one
Benjamin F. Allen and indorsed by Bowen. Bowen was a
director in the Cook County Bank, and its agent, and the agent
of Allen, in New York, and also a director in the defendant
bank. Allen was president of the Cook County Bank, and
with one Stephens and one Blennerhasset composed the firm of
Allen, Stephens & Co., of New York. He was also a private
banker in Iowa. In October, 1874, Allen, Stephens & Co. had
the three notes, which they had received from the makers in
part payment of a debt. They put the notes into the hands of
Bowen, and he pledged them to the defendant as security for
a loan of $25,000, and placed the proceeds of the loan to the
credit of the Cook County Bank, in a bank in New York city.
On the day the three notes matured, and before they were paid,
Allen, Stephens & Co. notified the defendant that Bowen never
owned the notes, and that the surplus, after paying the loan,
should be credited to the Cook County Bank. The plaintiff
had been appointed receiver of that bank on February 1st, 1875.
The main question in dispute at the trial was as to whether
the notes belonged to the Cook County Bank, having been
advanced by Allen, Stephens & Co. to that bank and delivered
to Bowen to raise money on; or whether -they belonged to
Allen individually, and the proceeds of the loan were placed
to the credit of the Cook County Bank, in accordance with a
custom of Bowen to place to the credit of that bank all moneys
belonging to Allen individually. The case went to the jury on
the single question of fact as to whether the three notes
belonged to the Cook County Bank or to Allen individually.
There was no exception .to the charge of the court, but the
plaintiff took exceptions to the admission of evidence.
In the course of the trial the defendant offered evidence to
show that Allen owned the notes. The plaintiff objected to
such evidence, on the ground that, under the answer, the defendant could only prove that Bowen owned them. The defendant contended that, nder the general denial in the answer,
it could prove ownership of the notes in Allen or in any one
else, because the answer raised the issue of title in the plaintiff.
The court admitted the evidence and the plaintiff excepted.

BURLEY v. GERMAN-AMERICAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

The verdict and judgment were for the defendant.
plaintiff brought this writ of error.

The

A[r. Renry Decker for plaintiff in error.
fr. Edward Saloman for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE BLATrFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the foregoing language be continued:
The admissibility of the evidence must be tested by the rules
established in the courts of the State of New York. The Code
of Civil Procedure of New York (§ 500) provides as follows:
"The answer of the defendant must contain: 1. A general or
specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint,
controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief. 2. A statement of
any new matter constituting a defence or counterclaim, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition." The contention on the part of the plaintiff is, that if an answer alleges
new facts as an affirmative defence, it must be a confession and
avoidance, and it cannot at the same time be a denial; that
this answer does not deny generally the material facts set
forth in the complaint, nor state matters that are properly in
confession and avoidance; that a general denial would have
raised an issue of fact as to title; that this answer is not a
general denial of title in the Cook County Bank; that a denial,
general or special, cannot contain any affirmative allegation of
facts, as a defence, by way of confession and avoidance;, that,
although the answer was to be accepted at the trial at its value,
it amounted, at most, to a special traverse of the allegation of
title in the Cook County Bank; and that the testimony for the
defendant should have been restrained within the limits of the
allegations in such special traverse.
The counsel for the plaintiff is mistaken in treating the two
branches of § 500 as in the alternative. A defendant is not
limited to the one or the other. le may in his answer embody
both a denial, general or special, and a statement of new matter constituting a defence. Such is the express language of
the statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The complaint in this case avers that the three notes were, at
the date when they were paid, the property of the plaintiff.
This was a fact which, on a general denial, it was necessary for
the plaintiff to prove. The answer does not aver that Bowen
owned the notes, but only that he borrowed the money and
transferred the notes to the defendant, he then having the legal
title to them, and claiming, and the defendant believing him, to
be the owner; and that the defendant received the surplus
money, and, believing it to belong to Bowen, applied it in the
manner stated. There is no statement of ownership in Bowen,
or in any other person, at any time, and no admission of
ownership in the plaintiff when the notes were paid, which is
the only allegation as to ownership in the complaint. Therefore, when the answer then goes on to deny each and every
allegation in the complaint except as before in the answer
stated or admitted, it necessarily denies the allegation of the
complaint as to ownership in the plaintiff. The same thing is
true as to the averments in the second defence. They conclude
by saying, not that at all times Bowen was the owner, but that
the defendant at all times believed him to be the owner; and
then a like denial is made as to the second defence. There
was no ambiguity about this, and there could be no doubt or
surprise. The averment of the complaint as to the plaintiff's
ownership was thereby denied, the issue as to that was made,
and the defendant had a right to prove anything which went
to contradict such ownership, by showing ownership in Bowen
or Allen or any one else.
It is provided by § 519 of the Code of Civil Procedure, that
the allegations of a pleading must be liberally construed, with
a view to substantial justice between the parties; and § 546
provides that where one or more denials or allegations, contained in a pleading, are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise meaning or application thereof is not apparent, the
court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain,
by amendment. The remedy is by motion, TIe People v.
Ryder, 12 N. Y. 433; and it must be made before trial, in a
case like the present, where the objection is that a denial is indefinite or uncertain, and the remedy is not by excluding

BURLEY v. GERMAN-AMERICAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence at the trial.
GreenXeld v. 2ifassacliusetts ilulual
Ljfe Insurance Conmq)ny, 47 N. Y. 430, 437.
But, it is well settled, in New York, that a denial in the
form here in question is proper. The form is, that every allegation is denied "except as hereinbefore stated or admitted."
In Youngs v. -Kent, 46 N. Y. 672, material allegations in a
complaint, which, if controverted, presented an issue of fact for
trial, were not expressly admitted, and were not alluded to in
the statement of special facts alleged in the answer, and it was
held that they were to be regarded as controverted under a
denial of each and every allegation of the complaint not
"herein admitted or stated." In Allis v. _Leonard, 46 N. Y.
688, fully reported in 22 Albany Law Journal, 28, the same
principle was applied to an answer which admitted certain allegations in a complaint and denied all except those expressly
admitted. We regard it as the rule in New York, that a
denial such as is found in the answer in this case, in connection
with the rest of the answer, is a sufficient denial to raise an
issue as to the plaintiff's ownership of the notes and to warrant
evidence to show any other ownership. Under such a denial
a defendant has a right to prove anything that will show the
allegation covered by the denial to be untrue. Wlheeler v.
Billings, 38 N. Y. 263; flier v. Grant, 47 Id. 278 ; Greevfleld
v. Jassaelusells Ilifutual I,fe In rance Coq)pany, Id. 430,
437; lVecver v. Barden, 49 Id. 286.
The plaintiff also objects that certain testimony brought out
on the cross-examination of the witness lBlennerhasset was not
responsive to anything elicited on his direct examination. But
no objection was taken at the trial on that ground. The objection taken was that the testimony was irrelevant, meaning
that it was not admissible under the answer, because it tended
to prove that Allen owned the notes.
Under the objection of the defendant, the court, at the trial,
excluded entries made in the books of the Cook County Bank
in June, 1875, after the plaintiff was appointed receiver, and
after the notes were paid and after the surplus was appropriated. The exclusion of these entries was proper. The
rights of the defendant could not be varied by entries thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

made, because they were not contemporaneous entries, made
in the due course of the business, as a part of the re, geste, but
were made by one of the parties after the rights of the other
party had become fixed.
There is but one more point for consideration. The plaintiff
introduced in evidence a deposition of Allen, taken in February,
1879, to the effect that he for himself individually had procured Bowen to obtain the loan from the defendant, and that
he used the money, although he did not provide the collaterals,
and that he gave no instructions to transfer the three notes or
their proceeds to any other account. The plaintiff also put irl a
second deposition of Allen, taken in December, 1879, in which
he stated that these notes belonged to the Cook County Bank
when the loan was obtained; that it was obtained for the use of
that bank; that he was mistaken in his first deposition, because
he had not then carefully considered the matter and was without
books and papers to refresh his memory; that the proceeds of
the loan went to the credit and benefit of the Cook County
Bank; that the surplus of the notes belonged to that bank; and
that the reason he believed so was that he never used or attempted to use the surplus, and never gave any direction for its
application to any purpose. Afterwards, Bowen, on his examination, was asked by the defendant to state whether Allen
gave him any direction as to the use of such surplus. The plaintiff objected generally to the evidence, and the court allowed
it as competent in contradiction of the testimony of Allen on
the subject. Bowen then testified that Allen told him to appropriate the surplus on the note of Allen indorsed by Bowen,
on which it was applied. It is plain that this evidence was
competent. It was not offered in impeachment of Allen,
as going to show that on some occasion he had told Bowen that
he had given instructions to appropriate the surplus of the
notes. In such a case it would have been necessary to ask
Allen in advance whether he had not told Bowen that he had
given such instructions, in order to direct his attention to the
specific person to whom it was alleged that he had made a
statement that he had given such instructions, when he was
now testifying that he had not given such instructions. But

DRURY v. HAYDEN.
Statement of Facts.

the evidence offered was not of that character. The issue on
trial was, whether the notes belonged to Allen or the Cook
County Bank. To prove they did not belong to Allen, the
plaintiff had procured Allen to testify that the reason he
believed that the surplus of the notes belonged to the Cook
County Bank was because he had never given any directions to
apply the surplus to any purpose. The answer stated that the
defendant had applied the surplus by direction of Bowen.
Then, when Bowen was afterwards examined by the defendant to show that Allen owned the three notes, be testified that
Allen told hin to apply the surplus on a note of his, indorsed
by Bowen, which the defendant had. This was direct proof
on a direct issue in the case, and not proof on a collateral
matter.
Tle judgment of the Circuit Court is ajlrmed.

DRURY v. HAYDEN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

TIE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 25th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Mstalce-_lorgage.
Where in a recorded deed of land subject to a mortgage, an agreement of the
grantee to assume and pay it is inserted by mistake of the scrivener and
against the intention of the parties, and on the discovery of the mistake the
grantor releases the grantee from all liability under the agreement, a court
of equity will not enforce the agreement at the suit of one who, in ignorance
of the agreement, and before the execution of the release, purchases the
notes secured by the mortgage ; although the grantee, after the deed of conveyance to him, paid interest accruing on the notes.

This was an appeal from a decree in equity, in favor of the
holder of promissory notes secured by a mortgage of land
in Chicago, for the payment by the appellant personally of the
sum due on those notes. The material facts appearing by the
pleadings and proofs were as follows:
On July 28th, 1875, Solomon Snow, owning the land, made

