OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

what was said in respect to fraudulent suppressions, informed
them, that there was no evidence in the case that authorized
their request for further instructions, upon the point involved
in their inquiry.
It was error, therefore, to refuse to give the instruction asked
for by the defendant, as set out above.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to grant a new trial.

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued April 27th, 1884.-Decided Alay 5th, 1881.

Municipal Bonds-Construetion of Statutes-Estoppel-Confliet of LawState Courts.
A recital in a bond issued by a municipal corporation in payment of a subscription to capital stock in a railway company, that it is authorized by a statute
referred to by title and date, does not estop the municipality in a suit on
the bond from setting up that the issue was not authorized by vote of twothirds of the voters of the corporation, as required by the Constitution of
the State.
A provision in the Constitution of Mississippi, that the legislature shall not
authorize a county to lend its aid to a corporation unless two-thirds of the
qualified voters shall assent thereto at an election to be held therein, does
not require an assenting vote of two-thirds of the whole number enrolled as
qualified to vote, but only two-thirds of those actually voting at the election
held for the purpose. fHawkins v. Carroll Co., 50 Miss. 735, disregarded,
and St. Joseph's Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644, and County of Cass v.
Johnston, 95 U. S. 360, followed.
The issuing of a temporary injunction, which was afterwards made permanent,
by a State court, restraining municipal officers from issuing municipal bonds,
does not estop a bona fide holder for value, who was no party to the suit,
from maintaining title to such bonds issued after the temporary injunction.
The decision of the highest court of a State, construing the Constitution of the
State, is not binding upon this court as affecting the rights of citizens of
other States in litigation here, when it is in conflict with previous decisions
of this court, and wheu the rights which it affects here were acquired before
it was made.

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
Statement of Facts.

This was an action at law brought to recover the amount
of certain overdue interest coupons, upon municipal bonds,
alleged to be obligations of the plaintiff in error, delivered and
payable to the Greenville, Columbus and Birmingham Railroad
Company or bearer, for $1,000 each. Each bond contained the
following recital:
"The above mentioned sum being a part of a subscription to the
capital stock of the Greenville, Columbus and Birmingham Railroad Company, authorized by the following styled acts of the State
of Mississippi, viz. : An act entitled 'An act to incorporate the

Arkansas City and Grenada Railroad Company,' approved March
5th, A. D. 1872, and an act entitled 'An act to amend an act entitled
an act to incorporate the Arkansas City and Grenada Railroad
Company, approved March 5th, 1872,' approved March 4th, A. D.
1873."

The act first referred to contained the following:
"Sec. 19. -Be it ftrt/ter enacted, That upon application by the
president or other authorized agent of said corporation to the
constituted authorities of any county, city or incorporated town in
the State of Mississippi, or adjacent to the main line and branch
railroad of this corporation, for a subscription to a specified
amount of the capital stock of said corporation, said constituted
authorities are hereby required, without delay, to submit the question of 'subscription' or 'no subscription ' to the decision of the
qualified voters of said county, city or incorporated town, at a
special or regular election to be held therein, and if two-thirds of
said qualified voters be in favor of said subscription, the constituted authorities of said counties, cities or incorporated towns are
hereby required, without delay, and are authorized and required
to subscribe to the capital stock of said corporation to the amount
agreed upon ; and bonds of the county, city or incorporated town
making the subscription, having such time to run and such rates
of interest as may be agreed upon, shall be issued, without delay,
by the authorities of the counties, cities, or incorporated towns,
to the president and directors of said corporation, to the amount
of said subscription to the capital stock."

*

*

*

The second act recited had the effect merely to change the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

name of the company to that of "The Greenville, Columbus
and Birmingham Railroad Company."
The complaint alleged that the bonds and coupons described
were delivered by the county of Carroll to the railroad company, for value, and that the plaintiff became a purchaser
thereof for a valuable consideration before maturity, and was
an innocent holder thereof without notice.
The defendant pleaded three pleas, of which the first in order

is as follows:
"And for further plea in this behalf said defendant, by attorney,
says actio non, because it says that on the 3d day of March, 1873,
on the application of the president of the Greenville, Columbus
and Birmingham Railroad Company, a corporation in this State,
the board of supervisors of the county of Carroll ordered a special
election to be held in said county on the 1st day of April, 1873,
at which the question of subscription, or no subscription, by said
county to the capital stock of said railroad company was to be
submitted to the qualified voters of said county. And said defendant avers that said election was accordingly held, and said
defendant avers that on the 1st day of April, 1873, the names of
3,129 registered voters were on the registration books of said
county, and there were in fact on the 1st day of April, 1873, three
thousand one hundred and twenty-nine qualified voters in said
county, but that only 1,280 of said voters voted at said election,
of whom 918 voted in favor of the proposition to subscribe for
said stock and 362 voted against it, as fully appears by the returns
of the three registrars of said county, filed with the clerk of said
board of supervisors of said county. And said defendant says
that, notwithstanding the refusal of two-thirds of the qualified
voters of said county to vote in favor of the subscription for stock,
the then board of supervisors of said county, in violation of their
duty and the trusts reposed in them, and in violation of the Constitution of the State of Mississippi, subscribed to the capital
stock of said railroad company, and issued the bonds and coupons
in the declaration mentioned in fact, for said subscription for said
capital stock in said railroad company, without any statement or
recital in said bonds that two-thirds of the qualified voters of said
county had assented thereto. And this the said defendant is
ready to verify. Wherefore it prays judgment, &c."

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
Statement of Facts.

The second was like the first, with the additional averments
that the said returns of the registrars of the county, filed and
deposited with the clerk of the said board of supervisors of said
county, was "at all times open to tle inspection of all persons
in the public office of the clerk of the Chancery Court of said
county; and said defendant avers that the said registration of
voters of said county was a book of record, deposited and kept
in the public office of the clerk of the Chancery Court of said
county as a record book and open for inspection to all persons,
and exhibited the fact that there were 3,129 registered voters
in said county at the time of the election."
The third plea was like the second, with the addition of the
following:
"And said defendant avers that before the issuance of any of
the bonds and coupons in the declaration mentioned, a bill was
exhibited by citizens and tax-payers of said county against the
said board of supervisors in the Chancery Court of the county of
Carroll to restrain and enjoin said board of supervisors from the
issuance and delivery of the bonds of said county upon a subscription of stock in said railroad company ; and thereupon an
injunction was ordered and issued, before the issuance and delivery of any of the bonds and coupons mentioned in the declaration,
restraining and enjoining the said board of supervisors from the
issuance and delivery of such bonds. And said defendant avers
that the said bill of injunction was sustained and made perpetual
by the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of the State

of Mississippi.

And said defendant says that, notwithstanding

the issuance and pendency of said injunction, and notwithstanding the refusal of two-thirds of the qualified voters of said county
to vote for said subscription for stock in said railroad company,
the said board of supervisors fraudulently and illegally issued and
delivered the bonds and coupons in the declaration mentioned in
fact, for a subscription for stock in said railroad company. And
this the said defendant is ready to verify. Wherefore it prays
judgment."
A demurrer to each of these pleas was sustained, and judg-

ment rendered for the plaintiff below, to reverse which this
writ of error was prosecuted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Mfr. J. Z. George for plaintiffs in error submitted on his brief.
-The Supreme Court of Mississippi has held that the words
"qualified voters" in the Constitution mean those who have
been determined by the registrars as having the requisite qualification by enrolling their names, and that the words "twothirds" mean that number of the whole number whose names
have been enrolled as legal voters. Hawkins et al. v. Carroll
County, 50 *Miss. 735. This case settles the invalidity of the
bonds as between the original parties. The mere issuing of the
bonds does not estop the county from contesting their validity
even in the hands of a bona fjide holder. Pendleton County v.
Amy, 13 Wall. 297; Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, 490; iox
County Commissioners v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539, 544. The
authority given by the legislature did not go into effect until
the assent of two-thirds of the voters of the county had been
obtained. Every purchaser of bonds was bound to know this,
and was put upon his inquiry. 21/Clure v. Oxford Townskhp,
94 U. S. 429; County of Warren v. Mary, 97 U. S. 96, 104.
Nothing short of a distinct statement on the face of the bonds,
that the precedent condition had been complied with, ought to
estop the county. It is the rule that estoppels must be certain'
to every intent. Bigelow on Estoppel, 304. The issuance of
the bonds pending an injunction, and in violation of it, was an
illegal act from which no legal right can flow. Williams v.
Cammace, 2 7 Mississippi, 209. The protection thrown around
the holder of commercial paper, ceases when it is shown that
it bad its inception in illegality or fraud. The holder must
then show that he is a holder bona fcle and for a valuable consideration. 1 Smith Leading Cases, note to Miller v. leace,
250; Smith v. Sac County, 11 Wall. 139, 147; Comnssioners
v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 285; Stewart v. Lansing, 104 U. S.
505, 509; Buchanali v. Litolfeld, 102 U. S. 278.
.Mr. charles -B. Howry for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATThIEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The provision in the charter of the railroad company

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

authorizing the issue of bonds in payment of subscriptions by
municipal bodies to its capital stock, is based upon article 12,
section 14, of the Constitution of the State, which declares
that"The legislature shall not authorize any county, city or town
to become a stockholder in, or to lend its credit to, any company,
association or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city or town, at a special 'election or
regular election to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
It is claimed, on, behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the
qualified voters referred to in the Constitution of Mississippi
and the charter of the railroad company, are those who have
been determined by the registrars to have the requisite qualifications of electors, and who have been enrolled by them as
such, and that it requires a vote of two-thirds of the whole
number enrolled as qualified to vote, and not merely twothirds of such actually voting at an election for that purpose,
to authorize the issue of such bonds as those in suit.
That presents the single question for our decision, for the
averment in the last plea, that "the board of supervisors
fraudulently and illegally issued and delivered the bonds and
coupons," has reference merely to their being issued without
the alleged requisite assent of two-thirds of the registered
voters, and there is nothing alleged in the plea from which it
can be inferred that the injunction bill, pending which the
bonds, it is charged, were issued and delivered, was based on
any other infirmity.
We do not think the plaintiff in error is precluded from
raising this question by any recitals in the bonds. They contain no statement of any election called or held, or of the vote
by which the issue of the bonds was authorized. They do not
embody even a general statement that the bonds were issued
in pursuance of the statutes referred to. The utmost effect
that can be given to them is, that of a statement, that a subscription to the capital stock of the railroad company was
authorized by the statutes mentioned, and that the sum mentioned in the bonds was part of it. They serve simply to point
out the particular laws under which the transaction may lawVOL. cxI-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

fully have taken place. They say nothing whatever as to any
compliance with the requirements of the statute in respect to
which the board of supervisors were authorized and appointed
to determine and certify. They do not, therefore, within the
rule of decision acted on by this court, constitute an estoppel,
which prevents inquiry into the alleged invalidity of the bonds.
Northern Bank of Toledo v. Porter Town8hip, 110 U. S. 608;
Dixon County v. Feld, ante, 83; School Di8triet v. Stone, 106
U. S. 183.
On the other hand, we do not agree with the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, that the pendency of the injunction bill, referred to in the last plea, affects the title of the defendant in
error, as a bonafde holder of the bonds for value; or that
this court is bound to follow and apply the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Mississippi, in that case, reported as Ifawkins v. Carroll County, 50 Miss. 735, perpetuating the injunction, on the ground that the Constitution and laws of the State
required a majority of two-thirds of those qualified to vote to
be cast at the election, to support the validity of the bonds.
The defendant in error was no party to that suit, and the
record of the judgment is therefore no estoppel. The bonds
were negotiable, and there was, therefore, no constructive
notice of any fraud or illegality, by virtue of the doctrine of
lispendens. County of IVarren v. Marcy, 97 U. S. 96. It is
not alleged in the plea that the defendant in error had actual
notice of the litigation, or of the grounds on which it proceeded,
or that any injunction was served upon the board of supervisors; and, if he had, that notice would have been merely of
the question of law, of which, as we have seen, he is bound to
take notice, at all events, and which is now for adjudication in
this case. There is nothing in the case of IWilliams v. Canmnack, 27 Miss. 209, 224, to which we are referred by counsel
on this point, inconsistent with these views.
The decision in -Hawkinsv. Carroll County, above referred
to, is not a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, construing the Constitution and laws of the State, which, without
regard to our own opinion upon the question involved, we feel
bound to adopt and apply in the present case. It is a de-

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

cision upon the very bonds here in suit, pronounced after the
controversy arose, and between other parties. It was not a
rule previously established, so as to have become recognized as
settled law, and which, of course, all parties to transactions
afterwards entered into would be presumed to know and to
conform to. When, therefore, it is presented for application
by the courts of the United States, in a litigation growing out
of the same facts, of which they have jurisdiction by reason of
the citizenship of the parties, the plaintiff has a right, under
the Constitution of the United States, to the independent judgment of those courts, to determine for themselves what is the
law of the State, by which his rights are fixed and governed.
It was to that very end that the Constitution granted to citizens of one State, suing in another, the choice of resorting to a federal tribunal. Burge88 v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20, 33.
We have, however, considered the reasoning of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, in its opinion in the case of If'awlkins v.
carroll County, with the respect which is due to the highest
judicial tribunal of a State speaking upon a topic as to
which it is presumed to have peculiar fitness for correct
decision, and, while we are bound to admit the carefulness
and fulness of its examination of the question, we are not
able to adopt its conclusions. On the contrary, we are constrained to follow the decision in St. Joseph Townrhip v.
BRogers,,16 Wall. 644, and adhere to the views expressed by
this court in County of ca8s v. Jolnston, 95 U. S. 360, in deciding the same question upon the construction of a provision of the Constitution of Missouri, which is identical
with that of the Constitution of Mississippi under consideration. It was there declared and decided, that "all qualified
voters, who absent themselves from an election duly called,
are presumed to assent to the expressed will of the majority of those voting, unless the law providing for the election otherwise declares. Any other rule would be productive of the greatest inconvenience, and ought not to be
adopted, unless the legislative will to that effect is clearly
expressed," page 369. In Missouri; as in Mississippi, there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

a constitutional provision requiring a registration of all qualified
voters. State v. Sutterfeld, 54 Missouri, 391.
Much stress in the argument was laid by the Supreme Court
of Mississippi upon the registration record, as furnishing the
standard by which to ascertain the proportion of qualified
voters, whose assent was required by the Constitution. On this
point, they say, 50 Miss. 761 : "There exists, therefore, in each
county a registration of the list of voters, which ought to show,
with approximate accuracy, the names of those entitled to vote,
'at any election.' In ascertaining, therefore, the result of an
election requiring two-thirds of the qualified voters of the
county to assent thereto, we think that the registration books
are competent evidence on the point of the number of qualified
voters in the county. It would be open to proof to show
deaths, removals, subsequently incurred disqualifications, &c.
When the Constitution uses the term 'qualified electors,' it
means those who have been determined by the registrars as
having the requisite qualifications by enrolling their names,
&c. It would be a fair construction of the 14th section to hold
that the 'two-thirds' meant that number of the whole nnmber
whose names had been enrolled as legal voters. That furnished
official evidence of those priniafacde entitled to vote. But, in
this oase, in addition to the information contained in the registration books, it is admitted that there were from 2,000 to 2,500
qualified voters in Carroll County at the date of this election.
The proposition submitted did not have the assent of two-thirds,
as required by the Constitution. The difficulty of proving the
number of voters in the county has been obviated by this admission."
But this reasoning, as it seems to us, does not meet, much
less overcome, the difficulty of the argument. The Constitution of Mississippi, although it does not recognize any voters as
qualified, except such as are registered, does not make all persons, registered as such, qualified. And yet, if it is to be construed, in the clause in question, as referring to the registration as conclusive of the number of qualified voters, then no
proof is competent to purge the list of those who never were
qualified, or have died, removed, or become otherwise disquali-

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

fled, thus obliterating the distinction between registered and
qualified voters; and if, on the other hand, it is to be construed
as meaning voters qualified, in fact and in law, without reference
to the sole circumstance of registration, then the body of electors
is as indefinite as though there were no registration, and the
determination of the whole number, if an actual enumeration is
required to determine how many are two-thirds thereof, is completely a matter in _pais, and must be inquired of and ascertained, in each case, by witnesses. The difficulty, if not the
impossibility, of reaching results by such methods, amounts almost to demonstration, that such could not have been the legislative intent, or the meaning of the Constitution. The number
and qualification of voters at such an election, is determinable
by its result, as canvassed, ascertained and declared by the officers appointed to that duty, or as subsequently corrected by a
contest or scrutiny in a direct proceeding, authorized and instituted for that purpose; it cannot be contested in any collateral
proceeding, either by inquiry as to the truth of the return, or
by proof of votes not cast, to be counted as cast against the
proposition, unless the law clearly so requires. In our opinion,
the Constitution of Mississippi did not mean, in the clause
under consideration, to introduce any new rule. The assent of
two-thirds of the qualified voters of the county, at an election
lawfully held for that purpose, to a proposed issue of municipal
bonds, intended by that instrument, meant the vote of twothirds of the qualified voters present and voting at such election
in its favor, as determined by the official return of the result.
The words "qualified voters," as used in the Constitution, must
be taken to mean not those qualified and entitled to vote, but
those qualified and actually voting. In that connection a voter
is one who votes, not one who, although qualified to vote, does
not vote.
We are consequently, of opinion, that there is no error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
A/firmed.

