OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

deemed part of the original suit in the Circuit Court, and not
an independent proceeding, we have no jurisdiction of the writ
of error which has been taken, because the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is not a final judgment in the action. If it
is an independent suit, the writ of error gives us no more control over the Circuit Court, so as to stop its proceeding in the
original suit, than it does over the District Court to-prevent it
from punishing White for a violation of the injunction allowed
against his application to the Court of Appeals for a mandainus.
Tle petition is denied, with costs.

NENV ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. WOODWORTH, Administrator.
IN

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TnE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued March 18th, 1884.- Decided March 31st,1884.

Conflict of Law-Coiporation-Executorand Administrator.
A policy of life insurance, issued by a company incorporated in one State, payable to the assured, his executors or administrators, is assets for the purpose of founding administration upon his estate in another State, in which
the corporation, at and since the time of his death, does business, and,
as required by the statutes of that State, has an agent on whom process
against it may be served.
Under § 18, chap. 3, of the Revised Statutes of Illinois, of 1874, a husband is
entitled to administration on the estate of his wife, if she left property in
Illinois.
Letters of administration which state that the intestate had at the time of
death personal property in the State, are sufficient evidence of the authority
of the administrator to sue in that State, in the absence of proof that there
was no such property.

The New England Mutual Life. Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of Massachusetts, issued a policy of life
insurance, on September 21st, 1869, by which, for a consid
eration received from Ann E. Woodworth, of Detroit, in the
State of Michigan, described as " the assured in this policy,"

N. E. MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. WOODWOITH.

139

Statement of Facts.

and of an annual prenium to be paid, it agreed to pay, at its
office in Boston, the amount of $5,000, " to the assured under
this policy as aforesaid, her executors, administrators or assigns,
in sixty days after presentation of satisfactory proof of the
death of said Ann E. Woodworth, for the benefit of her husband, S. E. Woodworth, if he shall survive her." The policy was
signed by the president of the company, but was not under seal.
The proof referred to was to be furnished at the Boston office.
On the 10th of January, 1877, letters of administration were
granted by the County Court of the county of Champaign, in
the State of Illinois, on the estate of Ann E. Woodworth. The
letters ran in the name of the People of the State of Illinois,
and recited: "Whereas Ann E. Woodworth, of the county of
Seneca, and State of New York, died intestate, as it is said, on
or about the 25th day of October, A. D. 1875, having, at the
time of her decease, personal property in this State, which may
be lost, destroyed, or diminished in value if special care be not
taken of the same;" and then proceeded: "To the end, therefore, that the said property may be collected and preserved for
those who shall appear to have a legal right or interest therein,
we do hereby appoint Stephen E. Woodworth, of the county of
Champaign, and State of Illinois, administrator of all and singular the goods and chattels, rights and credits, which were of the
said Ann E. Woodworth at the time of her decease, with full
power and authority to secure and collect the said property and
debts, wheresoever the same may be found in this State, and in
general to do and perform all other acts which now are or
hereafter may be required of him by law."
On the 11th of February, 1878, Stephen E. Woodworth, as
administrator of the estate of Ann E. Woodworth, deceased,
commenced an action at law, in a court of the State of Illinois,
against the company, on the policy, to recover the $5,000
named therein. The summons was served on the company in
Cook County, Illinois, by reading and by delivering a copy
thereof to one Cronkhite, "attorney for service of legal process"
of the company in the State of Illinois, on the 20th of February, 1878, the president thereof not being found in the county.
The declaration stated that the plaintiff was "Stephen E.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Woodworth, who sued as the administrator of the estate of
Ann E. Woodworth, deceased, for the benefit and use of S. E.
Woodworth." It averred that said Ann E. Woodworth died
October 21st, 1875, at Seneca Falls, New York; "that the said
Stephen E. Woodworth, for whose use and benefit this suit is
brought, is the said S. E. Woodworth mentioned in the said
policy of insurance as the husband of the said Ann E. Woodworth, and the same party for whose benefit the said defendant contracted and agreed, in said policy of insurance, to pay
the said sum specified therein; that the said Ann E. Woodworth was, at the time of the making, executing and delivering the said policy of insurance as aforesaid, the wife of the
said Stephen E. Woodworth, and that they were at the said
time living together as lawful husband and wife, and that, at
the time of the decease of the said Ann E. Woodworth as
aforesaid, she left her surviving her said husband, the said
Stephen E. Woodworth, who since her death has been a resident of the county of Champaign, State of Illinois;" and that
the plaintiff was duly appointed such administrator by said letters. The declaration contained three special counts and money
counts in assunpsit.
The defendant petitioned for the removal of the suit into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois. It stated, in the petition, that it was, at the time of
the commencement of this suit, and still is, "a foreign corporation duly incorporated under and by the laws of the State of
Massachusetts and doing business in that State," and had and
still has its principal office or place of business at Boston ; that
the plaintiff was and is a citizen of Illinois ; and "that it was
served with process of summons herein" on February 20th,
1878, the service being on said Cronkhite, "its general agent at
Chicago, in the said State of Illinois." The State court allowed
the removal.
Issue being joined, the case was tried before a jury, which
found for the plaintiff and assessed his damages at $5,348.73,
for which amount, with costs, judgment was entered. The
defendant sued out a writ of error. There was a bill of exceptions, the whole of which is as follows:

N. E. MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v.WOODWORTH.

141

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
"At the trial of the above entitled action, which was assumpsit
upon a policy of life insurance, a copy of which is hereto annexed
and made part of this bill of exceptions, it appeared that said
Ann E. Woodward, at the date of the issuing of said policy, resided and was domiciled in the State of Michigan. It appeared
that she had never been domiciled in the State of Illinois, and
had no other assets to be administered there than this policy
that she died at Seneca Falls, New York, October 25th, 1875
that the plaintiff, the administrator, Stephen E. Woodworth, has
resided continuously in Champaign County, State of Illinois, since
January 1st, 1876, and had his domicil there at the time of the
issue of letters of administration and the commencement of this
suit, and then and there had in his possession this policy of insurance. On this state of facts, the defendant, a corporation of the
State of Massachusetts, at the time this suit was brought doing
business in the State of Illinois by virtue of the laws of said last
named State, requested the presiding judges to rule that the present
plaintiff, as administrator appointed in Illinois, could not maintain this action. A copy of the letters of administration, which
were the only evidence of the plaintiff's authority to sue, is hereto
annexed and made part of this bill of exceptions. The presiding
judges refused so to rule, and did rule that the plaintiff, if in
other respects he showed a good cause of action, was entitled to
recover, to which ruling the defendant immediately excepted and
prayed that his exception might be allowed. This bill contains
all the evidence on the point herein above made."
37r. Alfred D. FToster and iXhr. George F. 11oar, for plaintiff
in error.-I. Letters of adninistration may be attacked collaterally, and will be adjudged void for want of jurisdiction
whenever and wheresover the jurisdictional power of the court
granting them is shown not to exist. Gr Jitl v. 1auzior, 8
Cranch, 9 ; Insurance Coinany v. eivs, 97 U. S.682; Jll yoke
v. hITaskins, 5 Pick. 20; S. C. 9 Pick. '259 ; Crosby v. Leavitt, 4
Allen, 410; Enbry v. Jfiller, I A. 1K. Marshall, 221; 31il/enberger v. Knox, 21 La. Ann. 399; Patillo v. Barksdale,22 Geo.
356. This is the law in Illinois. Unknown tfeirs qf -Langworthy v. Baker, 23 Ill. 484; Fergltson v. Hunter, 2 Gillnan
(Ill.) 657; Farrelv. Patterson,43 Ill. 52.-Il. No administration

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

can be granted in any jurisdiction where there are no local
assets. Wyman v. ffalstead, 109 U. S. 654.-11l. All simple
contract debts, of which this policy of insurance was one, are
local assets at the domicil of the debtor. The domicil of the
original defendant, the plaintiff in error, is in Massachusetts,
where the corporation was created, has its domicil and corporate home, and where, by its express terms, the policy is payable. JVi
Wlins v. Ellett, 9 Wall. 740 ; lVyman v. Ifalskteal,
above cited.-IV. The intestate having been domiciled in
Michigan at her decease, the principal administration, to which
all others are subordinate, must be in that State. There being
no other assets in Illinois, this contract of insurance does not
constitute bona notabilia in Illinois, "without regard to the
place where the instrument is found or payable." And no
Illinois court was authorized to grant limited or ancillary administration on her estate. Careton v. /ills, 13 So. Car.
409.-V. By the statutes of Illinois, a duly appointed Michigan
administrator might bring suit on this policy in Illinois. Rev.
Stat. Ill. ch. 3, § 42.-VI. An administrator might be appointed in Massachusetts who could bring an action upon it
there.-VII. Even if the Illinois administration was valid, by
reason of the existence of local assets there, the Illinois special
administrator could not bring an action on this contract.VIII. It cannot be contended, even plausibly, that the debtor
corporation had an Illinois domicil sufficient to justify the
administration in that State. Insurance Conpany v. Lewis,
97 U. S. 682; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 588;
iailroad CoP1any v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5 ; Reif v. Pundel,
103 U. S. 222; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Canada
Southern Riailway Com)any v. Geblard, 109 U. S. 527.
Ar. J. S. ]§othrop and
error.

fr. Geo. IF Gere for defendant in

Mx. JUSTICE BLATCnFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Ile stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is contended for the plaintiff in error, that the County
Court which granted the letters of administration had no power

N. E. MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v.WOODWORTH.

143

Opinion of the Court.

to do so, unless property belonging to Ann E. Woodworth when
she died was left by her within the jurisdiction of that court;
that she was not domiciled in Illinois at the time of her death,
and, therefore, it was necessary that assets belonging to her
should have existed in that State at that time, to warrant jurisdiction to issue the letters, and it could not be obtained by
bringing into the State afterwards property Which was hers
when she died; that, on the facts in the case, the debt of the
company to her was not property of hers in Illinois when she
died, even if the policy was in Illinois when she died ; and that

such a debt was a simple contract debt and was local assets only
at Boston, which was the only domicil of the debtor.
The letters of administration state that Ann E. Woodworth
had, at the time of her decease, personal property in the State
of Illinois. The plaintiff's authority to sue was shown Pima
facie by the letters. The case was one provided for by the
statute of Illinois, Revised Statutes of 1874, chap. 3, § 18, p.

107, which was as follows:
" Administration shall be granted to the husband upon the
goods and chattels of his wife, and to the widow or next of kin
to the intestate, or some of them, if they will accept the same and
are not disqualified ; but in all cases the widow shall have the
preference ; and if no widow or other relative of the intestate
applies within sixty days from the death of the intestate, the
County Court may grant administration to any creditor who shall
apply for the same.
If no creditor applies within fifteen days
next after the lapse of sixty days, as aforesaid, administration
may be granted to any person whom the County Court may think
will best manage the estate. In all cases where the intestate is a
non-resident, or without a widow, next of kin, or creditors in this
State, but leaves property within the State, administration shall
be granted to the public administrators of the proper county;
Provided, That no administration shall in any ease be granted
until satisfactory proof be made before the County Court, to
whom application for that purpose is made, that the person in
whose estate letters of administration are requested is dead, and
died intestate ; And provided, further, That no non-resident of

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

this State shall be appointed administrator, or allowed to act as
such. R. S. 1845, § 55, p. 547."

It is plain, that under this statute the husband had a right
to administration on the property of his wife, if she had
property in Illinois, as the letters state she bad, when she died.
Such was necessarily the decision which was made in the granting of these letters, and we have been referred to no decision in
Illinois which holds to the contrary. The first branch of the
statute covers all cases of intestacy where property is left to be
administered; and the second branch, where the public administrator is brought in, does not apply where there is a
husband surviving his wife, who applies for letters on her
estate.

The letters being valid on their face, and in the form prescribed by the statute, Revised Statutes of 1874, chap. 3, § 21,
p. 108, and apparently authorized by law, their validity must
be distinctly negatived by what is set forth in the record, if
the plaintiff's authority to sue is not to be supported by them.
This is not done. On the contrary, the declaration of the
letters that the intestate had personal property in Illinois when
we think, supported by what appears in the record,
she died, is,
even if such property consisted solely of this policy.
In the growth of this country, and the expansions and ramifications of business, and the free commercial intercourse between the States of the Union, it has come to pass that large
numbers of life and fire insurance companies and other corporations, established with the accumulated capital and wealth of
the richer parts of the country, seek business and contracts in
distant States which open a large and profitable field. The inconveniences and hardships resulting from the necessity on the
part of creditors, of going to distant places to bring suits on
policies and contracts, and from the additional requirement, in
case of death, of taking out letters testamentary or of administration at the original domicil of the corporation debtor, in
order to sue, has led to the enactment in many States of statutes
which enable resident creditors to bring suits there against corporations created by the laws of other States. Such a statute

N. E. MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. WOODWORTH.

145

Opinion of the Court.

existed in Illinois, in the present case, requiring every life insurance company not organized in Illinois to appoint in writing
a resident attorney, upon whom all lawful process against the
company might be served with like effect as if the company
existed in Illinois, the writing to stipulate that any lawful
process against the company, served on the attorney, should
be of the same legal force and validity as if served on the company, a duly authenticated copy of the writing to be filed in
the office of the auditor, and the agency to be continued while
any liability should remain outstanding against the company
in Illinois, and the power not to be revoked until the same
power should be given to another, and a like copy be so filed;
the statute also providing that service upon said attorney
should be deemed sufficient service on the company.
Revised
Statutes of 1874, chap. 73, § 50, p. 607.
In view of this legislation and the policy embodied in it,
when this corporation, not organized under the laws of Illinois,
has, by virtue of those laws, a place of business in Illinois, and
a general agent there, and a resident attorney there for the
service of process, and can be compelled to pay its debts there
by judicial process, and has issued a policy payable, on death,
to an administrator, the corporation must be regarded as having
a domicil there, in the sense of the rule that the debt on the
policy is assets a.t its domicil, so as to uphold the grant of letters
of administration there. The corporation will be presumed to
have been doing business in Illinois by virtue of its laws at the
time the intestate died, in view of the fact that it was so doing
business there when this suit was brought (as the bill of exceptions alleges), in the absence of any statement in the record
that it was not so doing business there when the intestate died.
In view of the statement in the letters, if the only personal
property the intestate had was the policy, as the bill of exceptions states, it was for the corporation to show affirmatively
that it was not doing business in Illinois when she died, in
order to overthrow the validity of the letters, by thus showing
that the policy was not assets in Illinois when she died.
The general rule is that simple contract debts, such as a
policy of insurance not under seal, are, for the purpose of
VOL. cxI-lO

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

founding administration, assets where the debtor resides, without regard to the place where the policy is found, as this court
has recently affirmed in Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S. 654.
But the reason why the State which charters a corporation is
its domicil in reference to debts which it owes, is because there
only can it be sued or found for the service of process. This
is now changed in cases like the present; and in the courts of
the United States it is held, that a corporation of one State
doing business in another, is suable in the courts of the United
States established in the latter State, if the laws of that State
so provide, and in the manner provided by those laws. _Lafayette Insurance company v. French, 18 How. 404:; Railroad
Company v. Iarris,12 Wall. 65; Exparte S&/ollenberger, 96
U. S. 369 ; Railroad Company v. K]oontz, 104 U. S. 5, 10.
It is argued for the plaintiff in error, that administration
could have been taken out in Michigan on the policy, on the
view that that was the domicil of the assured, and that it could
have been taken out in Massachusetts, without regard to the
location of the policy at the time of the death of Mrs. Woodworth, and without regard to the fact that she died in another
jurisdiction; and the case of IRowdoin v. Ifolland, 10 Cush. 17,
is cited as holding that administration may be granted in Massachusetts, on the estate situated there of a person who died
while residing in another State, although the will of the deceased
had not yet been proved in the State of his domicil, on the view
that otherwise debts due in Massachusetts, to or from the
intestate's estate, could not be collected. The reason assigned
for taking out letters in Massachusetts has equal force when applied to a State where the debtor does business under the laws
of that State, and can be sued as fully as in Massachusetts, and
is sure to be found so as to be served with process. If the defendant is to be sued in Illinois, administration must be taken
out there; and administration in Massachusetts or in Michigan
would not suffice as a basis for a suit in Illinois. The consent
and capacity to be sued in Illinois still require, if an admninistrator is to be the plaintiff, that letters should be issued in
Illinois; and by the terms of the policy, on the death of the
assured, the suit must be by her executor or administrator. So

N. E. MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. WOODWORTI.

147

Opinion of the Court.

it results, that the question in this case must be decided on
the same principle as if Illinois were the only State in which
suit could be brought, and therefore, the State in which letters of administration must be taken out for the purpose of a'
suit.
Nor is there anything inconsistent with this view in the fact
that, as a corporation of Massachusetts, the defendant removed
the suit from the State court on the ground of diversity of
citzenship. It was not, as in fenpM8, &c., Railroad Comnqflny
v. Alabama, 107 U. S. 581, a corporation of the State in which
the suit was brought as well as a corporation of the State which
originally chartered it, but it was exclusively a corporation of
Massachusetts for the purpose of availing itself of the privilege
of removing the suit. Its diversity of citizenship for such purpose may well remain, because it does not desire a trial in the
State tribunal. Yet its availing itself of the privilege of doing
business in Illinois, and subjecting itself to the liability to be
sued in a court in Illinois, with the effect of making the policy
assets in Illinois, were voluntary acts, which, though not affecting the jurisdiction of the Federal court, may well be held to
give a locality to the debt for the purposes of administration,
so that a suit may be. brought under such letters in Illinois.
There is nothing in the foregoing views which is in conflict
ymaqn v. I-alstead,ubi supra. In
with what was decided in
consonance with what was said in that case, payment of this
debt to the administrator appointed in Illinois will be good
against any administrator appointed elsewhere; and the defendant will be protected in paying this judgment, especially
as the husband is the exclusive beneficiary under the policy,
and is the administrator and the plaintiff, and the money paid
cannot be liable for any debts of the wife.
Nor is this case governed by the decision in Insurance con.pany v. Lewis, 97 U. S. 682. The question there was as to the
authority of a public administrator in Missouri, under a statute
of that State, to bring an action on the policy. It appeared
affirmatively that the intestate resided in Wisconsin when he
died, and died there, and that there was already an adminstrator appointed in Wisconsin, so that the defendant could not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

protected against a future suit by a proper representative of
the estate.
The record of this case shows that a special plea was put in,
'setting up that at the time of her death the assured was not a
citizen or resident of Illinois, and left no property situate in
that State, and that her entire estate was the claim under this
policy. This plea was held bad on demurrer. Error in sustaining the demurrer is assigned, but, as it appears by the bill
of exceptions, that under the general issue, the defendant gave
evidence of the matters set up in the special plea, and they constitute no defence, the overruling of the plea worked no injury
to the defendant.
These views cover all the questions which are controlling in
this case, and
T/ce

judgment of the Circuit
Court is affirned.

COOPER & Another v. SCHLESINGER & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OiO.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Decided March 31st, 1884.

Damages-PraudulentRepresentations-Trial.
Where a charge embraces several distinct propositions, a general exception is of
no effect if any one of them is correct.
When the issue made up by the pleadings and evidence for the jury is whether
one party was induced to enter into the contract in suit by false and fraudulent representations of the other party, and isolated passages from the
charge are excepted to, if the charge as a whole and in substance instructs the jury that a statement recklessly made without knowledge of its
truth was a false statement knowingly made, within the settled rule, it is
sufficient and will be supported.
Where a person is induced by false representations to buy an article at an
agreed price, to be delivered on his future order, the measure of damages,
in an action to recover for the injury caused by the deceit, is the diminution caused thereby in the market price at the time of delivery.

This was an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, by the

