OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

due by the Phoenix Bank to the Georgetown Bank, if any such
debt existed, when the proceedings were commenced, as would
give the District Court jurisdiction of that debt, and no actual
condemnation of that debt, or order on the Pholenix Bank to pay
it, was made, which can constitute a defence to the present
action.
3d. That the right of Risley to recover the debt as assignee
of the Georgetown Bank remains unaffected by those proceedings.
The juadment of the Court of Appeals of New -Yorc is

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY
v. WHITE.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 11th, 1884.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Jurisdiction-Pracliee--Removalof Causes.
When a cause is properly removed from a State court to a Federal court, and
the State court nevertheless proceeds with the case, and forces to trial tihe
party upon whose petition the removal was made, the proper remedy is by
writ of error after final judgment, and not by prohibition or punishment
for contempt. Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214, and Removal
Cases, 100 U S. 457, again reaffirmed.

This was a petition for an original process from this court to
stay proceedings in the Circuit Court of Greenbrier County,
West Virginia, in a suit in which the defendant in these proceedings was plaintiff and the plaintiff in these proceedings was
defendant, on the ground that the cause was removed to the
Federal courts under the removal act, and that the substantial
rights of the parties were involved in a suit, pending in this
court, in error to the Court of Appeals of West Virginia. The
facts upon which the motion was founded appear in the
opinion of the court.
.Mr.I. S. logegnan for the railroad company, petitioner.

CHESAPEAKE & 01110 R.R. CO. v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. Ilenry i.

ifatlhews opposing.

MR. CHIEF Jus'rTIc WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion papers in this case present the following facts:
On the 17th of September, 1881, A. E. White, as administrator of tile estate of John D. White, sued the Chesapeake and
Ohio Railroad Company in the Circuit Court of Greenbrier
County, West Virginia. The summons was returnable on the
first Monday in October, and on that day a declaration was
filed. On the filing of the declaration an order was entered at
rules that judgment be entered for the plaintiff for his damages,
unless the defendant appear and plead to issue on the first Monday in November. The defendant failing to appear on that
day, an order was entered, also at rules, for the assessment of
damages at the next term.
On the 10th of November, which was during the next term,
the defendant did appear and demur generally to the declaration, in which the plaintiff joined. At the next term, on the
18th of April, 1.882, the defendant again demurred to the
declaration and to each count thereof, and then presented a petition, with sufficient bond, for the removal of the suit to the
District Court of the United States for the District of West
Virginia, sitting at Charleston, and exercising Circuit Court
powers. This petition the State Circuit Court refused to receive, on the ground that it was not filed before or at the term
at which the cause could be first tried. The defendant then
pleaded not guilty and a special plea, and again presented his
petition and bond for the removal of the suit, which was also
refused and on the same ground.
On the first of May the defendant filed in the District Court
of the United States a copy of the record, and, on its motion,
the suit was docketed in that court. On the 29th of June the
plaintiff moved the State Circuit Court to proceed with the trial
of the action, but this was refused on the ground that the case
had been docketed in the District Court of the United States.
On the 14th of October the plaintiff applied to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State for a mandamus requiring the
Circuit Court to proceed with the trial of the cause, and a rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

was awarded, directed to the judge of the Circuit Cont, returnable on the tenth day of the next regular term, calling on
him to show cause why a peremptory writ should not issue.
On the 6th of November a judgment of nonsuit was entered in
the District Court, the plaintiff having failed to appear and
prosecute the original action there. The rule of the Court of
Appeals was served on the judge of the Circuit Court on the
second of December, 1882, and on the railroad company on the
fourth of the same month.
On the 10th of January, 1883, the railroad company filed its
bill in equity in the District Court of the United States against
White, as administrator, to enjoin him from proceeding any
further with his application for mandamus in the Court of
Appeals, and on the 12th of the same month a preliminary
injunction was granted as prayed for.
On the 30th of June, 1883, a judgment was entered by the
Court of Appeals awarding a peremptory mandamus, both the
judge and the railroad company having answered the rule on
the 20th of January previous. Froni this judgment a writ of
error was taken to this court and a bond accepted which operated as a supersedeas. That writ was docketed here on the
30th of July.
At the November term, 1883, of the Circuit Court of Greenbrier County, White, the plaintiff in the original suit, applied
for a trial of his action. To this the railroad company, defendant, objected. The court declined to proceed to a trial at that
term, but entered an order that it would proceed at the next
term, which will begin on the 21st of April, 1884. The railroad company thereupon filed its petition in this court, praying
"for a writ of prohibition, or such other process as may be
deemed appropriate, directed to the Circuit Court of Greenbrier
County, West Virginia, and to the Honorable Homer A. Holt,
judge of said court, and to the said A. E. White, administrator as aforesaid, and to Alexander F. Matthews, attorney of said
White, prohibiting them, and each of them, or such of them as
may be thought proper, from any and all further proceedings
in the action aforesaid, until the final disposition of the aforesaid writ of error by the Supreme Court of the United States,

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO R.R. CO. v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

and for such other proceedings and process as the circumstances
may require and justify."
We can find no authority for any such action in this court as
is here prayed. Our proceedings in this suit must be confined
to such as relate to a review of the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and the enforcement of any order we may make upon
the final hering. If we affirm the judgment, the writ awafkled
by the Court of Appeals can issue; if we reverse, it cannot.
The supersedeas does not operate on the State Circuit Court so
as to prevent it from proceeding, nor on White to prevent him
from applying to that court for a trial; it simply prevents the
use of the process of the Court of Appeals, under the judgment
awarding the writ, to compel the Circuit Court to go on. A
supersedeas stays the execution of the judgment which is under
review. Anything short of an effort to enforce the judgment
will not amount to a contempt of the authority of the reviewing court. If the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be
reversed in this court, and a mandamus refused, White would
not be guilty in law of contempt, if, notwithstanding the refusal,
he applied again to the Circuit Court to proceed with the trial.
The judgment of this court would not be a prohibition to that
court against proceeding, but only a refusal to order it to proceed. Our judgment could be appealed to as authority for refusing a trial, but not as a command that it should be refused.
The Circuit Court, when, in June, 1882, it declined to order a
trial, did not abandon its jurisdiction. It still retained the suit,
so far as any action of its own was concerned. If a sufficient
case for removal was made in the Circuit Court the rightful
jurisdiction of that court is gone, and it cannot properly proceed further, but if it does proceed and does force the defendant, who applied for the removal, to a trial, the remedy is
by a writ of error after final judgment, and not by prohibition
or punislment for contempt. The proper practice in such cases
was fully considered in Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall.
214; Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457; Railroad Com)pany v.
91issssippi, 102 U. S. 135; Railroad Company v. Koontz, 104
U. S. 51.
If the suit in the Court of Appeals for mandamus is to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

deemed part of the original suit in the Circuit Court, and not
an independent proceeding, we have no jurisdiction of the writ
of error which has been taken, because the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is not a final judgment in the action. If it
is an independent suit, the writ of error gives us no more control over the Circuit Court, so as to stop its proceeding in the
original suit, than it does over the District Court to-prevent it
from punishing White for a violation of the injunction allowed
against his application to the Court of Appeals for a mandainus.
Tle petition is denied, with costs.

NENV ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. WOODWORTH, Administrator.
IN

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TnE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued March 18th, 1884.- Decided March 31st,1884.

Conflict of Law-Coiporation-Executorand Administrator.
A policy of life insurance, issued by a company incorporated in one State, payable to the assured, his executors or administrators, is assets for the purpose of founding administration upon his estate in another State, in which
the corporation, at and since the time of his death, does business, and,
as required by the statutes of that State, has an agent on whom process
against it may be served.
Under ยง 18, chap. 3, of the Revised Statutes of Illinois, of 1874, a husband is
entitled to administration on the estate of his wife, if she left property in
Illinois.
Letters of administration which state that the intestate had at the time of
death personal property in the State, are sufficient evidence of the authority
of the administrator to sue in that State, in the absence of proof that there
was no such property.

The New England Mutual Life. Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of Massachusetts, issued a policy of life
insurance, on September 21st, 1869, by which, for a consid
eration received from Ann E. Woodworth, of Detroit, in the
State of Michigan, described as " the assured in this policy,"

