OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ASTOR v. MERRITT, Collector.
IN ERROR TO TilE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIP UNITED STATES FOR TilE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued Mlarch 21st, 24th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Customs Duties- Wearibg Apparel.
A citizen of the United States, arriving home from a visit to Europe, with his
family, in the end of September, by a vessel, brought with him wearing
apparel, bought there for his and their use, to be worn here during the season
then approaching, " not excessive in quantity for persons of their means,
habits and station in life," and their ordinary outfit for the winter. A part
of the articles had not been worn, and duties were exacted by the collector
on all those articles : Ield, That, under § 2505 of the Revised Statutes
(now § 2503, by virtue of § 6 of the act of larch 3d, 1883, chap. 121, 22
Stat. 521), exempting from duty " wearing apparel in actual use and other
of persons arriving in the
personal effects (not merchandise), . .
United States," the proper rule to be applied was to exempt from duty such
of the articles as fulfilled the following conditions: (1) Wearing apparel
owned by the passenger, and in a condition to be worn at once without
further manufacture; (2) brought with him as a passenger, and intended for the use or wear of himself or his family who accompanied him
as passengers, and not for sale, or purchased or imported for other persons,
or to be given away; (3) suitable for the season of the year which was immediately approaching at the time of arrival; (4) not exceeding in quantity
or quality or value what the passenger was in the habit of ordinarily
providing for himself and his family at that time, and keeping on hand for
his and their reasonable wants, in view of their means and habits in life,
even though such articles had not been actually worn.

This was a suit to recover back duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted on the wearing apparel of a passenger entering at the port of New York. The facts which make up the
case are stated at length in the opinion of the court. The
plaintiff in error was plaintiff below.
lr. George De _Forest Lord for plaintiff in error.
.lr. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
JUSTICE BLATCIFoRID delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by William Astor, in a court of the
State of New York, and removed into the Circuit Court of the

MR.

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

United States for the Southern District of New York, to
recover the sum of $1,880 paid to the defendant, as collector
of the port of New York, by the plaintiff, for customs duties,
on the 22d of September, 1878, on certain goods brought by
the plaintiff with him from Liverpool, as a passenger in a
vessel. The goods and the duties exacted were as follows, the
items of the goods not being more particularly set forth in the
record: 45 lbs. wool and worsted wearing apparel, at 50 cents
per pound, $22.50, and 40 per cent. on its value at $990, $396,
amounting to $41.8.50; cotton wearing apparel, 35 per cent. on
its value at $150, amounting to $52.50; leather gloves, 50 per
cent. on their value at $250, amounting to $125 ; and silk wearing apparel, 60 per cent. on its value at $2,240, amounting to
$1,284; being a total of $1,880. The plaintiff recovered a
verdict for $737, with interest from September 22d, 1878,
on which he had a judgment. He has brought a writ of error,
claiming that he was entitled to recover the entire $1,880, on
the ground that the goods were exempt from duty under
§ 2505 of the Revised Statutes, p. 489, 2d ed., which provides
that the importation of the following articles shall be exempt
from duty: "Wearing apparel in actual use and other personal
effects (not merchandise), professional books, implements, instruments, and tools of trade, occupation, or employment, of
persons arriving in the United States. But this exemption
shall not be construed to include machinery, or other articles
imported for use in any manufacturing establishment, or for
sale."
At the trial, in Oetober, 1880, the plaintiff testified in his
own behalf, that, in the summer of 1878, he, a citizen of the
United States, was travelling in Europe with his wife, three
daughters and son, also citizens of the United States, and returned to this country with them, arriving in New York, by a
steamer, on September 22d, 1878 ; that he had in his personal
baggage certain articles of wearing apparel, being the goods
above mentioned, belonging to himself and other members of
his family, purchased in Europe during that summer, on which
the duties above mentioned were exacted, and that they were
paid in order to get possession of the wearing apparel; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the articles belonged to him and were intended for the personal
use of himself and his said family; that the articles for his own
and his son's use were such articles of wearing apparel as they
ordinarily wore at that season of the year; that they were
principally intended for use in the winter, and were in no sense
imported by him as merchandise; that some of his own and
his son's wearing apparel had been actually worn by them personally, and he explained that fact to the custom-house authorities at the time of the exaction of the duties ; that the articles
of wearing apparel of himself and his son were purchased by
hin with the intention of using them wherever lie and his
family might be; that he did not know, when he purchased
them, how long he was going to remain abroad; that, when
they were purchased at Paris and sent home, they were placed
in with their other wearing apparel, so as to form part of their
ordinary wardrobes; that, if they had been detained in Europe,
the garments were such as they would have required the
moment the weather grew cool; and that the articles were
bought for use whenever the weather should make it proper
to use them, and without reference to where he and his son
should be at the time they encountered cold weather.
Mrs. Astor testified that the garments of ladies' wear contained in the baggage were generally dresses and cloaks of
woolen, worsted and silk, and linens, intended entirely for her
own and her daughters' use, and which had been purchased
under her supervision in Paris; that such garments were intended for the separate and individual use of herself and
daughters as soon as it was cold enough to wear them for the
approaching season; that some were adapted for ordinary wear
and some for balls and entertainments, and all were made upon
measure;' that the aggregate quantity of wearing apparel
which formed part of the baggage of herself and daughters
rather fell short of their usual supply of such articles for that
season of the year; that she was obliged, after she arrived in
this country, to have some dresses made; that none of the articles were purchased for sale or exchange, but only for the
special use of the persons for whon they were made; that,
when they were purchased and sent home from the persons

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

who made them, they were placed indiscriminately in with the
wardrobe of the particular person for whom they were intended, so to form part of the personalwardrobe of such person at the time; that a great part of them had been worn
before she returned to this country, but some few had not been
worn, because there was no special occasion to wear them;
that, if the party had been detained in Paris, and cold weather
had suddenly come on, the articles were such as she and her
daughters would have required for immediate use; that, if they
had remained for the winter, or a month longer, they would have
worn the dresses intended for entertaimnents; that, from the
time when these articles were purchased, there was nothing to
prevent their being put on and worn the moment a proper occasion for wearing them arrived; that the articles lasted during
the fall and winter, until spring, and had been entirely consumed by use; that she thought there were four dresses that
had not been worn, because there bad been no occasion to
wear them; that the party bad intended, at the time the articles were purchased, to spend the winter in America, but, if
their plans had been changed at all, they would have remained
in Europe and worn the articles there; that they went to
Europe in May or June, 1878, travelled through England and
to Paris, then through the Continent and back to Paris; that
most of the articles were ordered upon their first arrival in
Paris, before travelling through the Continent, and were paid
for on coming back; and that most of them (about half, perhaps) were ordered and worn before travelling through the
Continent, because they were then needed.
It appeared in- evidence that the examiner who. appraised the
dutiable articles in the plaintiff's baggage went upon the
principle of including as dutiable articles those which seemed
not to have been worn.
The plaintiff's counsel requested the court to charge the jury
as follows: "1. The general purpose of the statute being to impose duties upon the importation of merchandise, the exemption
of the wearing apparel of passengers is in accordance with that
purpose, and the language providing for such exemption should
have a wide and liberal interpretation. 2. The general pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of exempting passengers' baggage being as much in harlnony with the statute as the general purpose of imposing
duties on merchandise, all language which seems to bring such
baggage within the same category with merchandise should be
strictly construed against the government, and all language
tending to keep up the distinction should be liberally construed
in favor of the citizen. 3. The words 'not merchandise,' in
the clause of the statute now in question, relate to the words
' wearing apparel in actual use,' as well as to the words ' personal
effects,' and the clause might properly be paraphrased as if it
read 'wearing apparel in actual use (not merchandise),
and personal effects (not merchandise.)' 4. The words ' not
merchandise,' thus used, may properly be regarded as explaining and defining the words 'in actual use,' and the clause may
be rightly construed as if those were synonymous or correlative terms. 5. If, therefore, this wearing apparel was 'not
merchandise,' it was 'in actual use,' within the statutory meaning of that term, and was, therefore, exempt. 6. The words
'in actual use,' not being scientific or technical words, should
be applied in the common and ordinary sense in which they
would be generally employed. If, therefore, this wearing apparel, under the circumstances disclosed in the testimony,
would be generally and ordinarily described as being in actual
use of the plaintiff and his family, then it should have been
admitted duty free. 7. The words 'in actual use' do not
mean 'in actual, immediate, personal use' at the moment, but
must have a meaning somewhat more extended than that. The
statute clearly shows that some wearing apparel intended for
and awaiting use in a passenger's trunks, as well as that upon
his person at the time, is to be admitted free. 8. If the words
' in actual use' were intended (as they clearly were) to embrace
some wearing apparel which was only intended for, and awaiting, use, in the passenger's trunks, there is nothing in the
statute which shows an intention to exclude any wearing ap.
parel so situated, and, consequently, all such wearing apparel
should be admitted free, provided the other requirements of
the statute are fulfilled, viz., that it is 'not merchandise,' and
belongs to the passenger. 9. Wearing apparel is properly and

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

strictly ' in actual use' from the time when its use by its owner
begins until it is finally consumed or worn out. 10. The use of
wearing apparel which is purchased for the immediate personal
comfort of the owner may be properly said to begin from the
time when it is sent home from the naker and takes its place,
ready for wear, in the owner's wardrobe. If these articles
were in that condition, they were 'in actual use,' within the
statute, and should have been admitted free. 11. There is
nothing in the statute to indicate that ' wearing apparel' must
be worn once or twenty times before it can be said to be 'in
actual use,' and the jury is not bound by any such test, in determining whether these articles were ' in actual use' when the
plaintiff arrived here, in September, 1878. 12. Wearing apparel suitable for the season of the year which is approaching
at the time, not exceeding in quantity what the owner would
ordinarily provide for himself and keep on hand for his
reasonable wants, and purchased for his own use, as occasion
may require, may be properly said to be 'in actual use,' within
the meaning of the statute, from the time when they come into
the owner's hands and are placed in his wardrobe, to be worn
whenever the proper occasion arrives, and, if these articles
come within that test, they should have been admitted free.
13. The terms ' in actual use,' as employed in the statute, are
substantially equivalent to the words 'in present use,' including,
in their meaning, not merely a reference to the actual present,
but to so much of the immediate future as a person would
ordinarily provide for in his every-day wardrobe, and if, in this
sense, these articles were 'in actual use,' they were exempt
from duty. 14. All the necessities of modern civilization require that every person should continually renew his wardrobe,
as articles are worn out. Whatever is purchased for that purpose
passes into 'actual use' the moment it is sent home and placed
by the owner among the other articles which form his present
wardrobe; and if these articles were in that category, they
were exempt from duty." The court refused to charge in accordance with any of these requests, and the plaintiff excepted
to each and every such refusal.
The court then charged the jury as follows, and the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

excepted to the parts which are in brackets: "Certain facts
are admitted or have been proved: (I.) There was no evasion
or concealment of the amount, or value, or character, and use
or no use, of the goods by the plaintiff, and there is no complaint of any departure from courteous treatment by the defendant's officers. (2.) There is no dispute in regard to the value
of the articles. (3.) It is not denied that the clothing was to
be used by the defendant's family, in this country, during the
season then approaching, and was not excessive in quantity for
persons of their means, habits and station in life, and was their
ordinary outfit for the winter. (4.) That a part of the articles
had not been worn, and that all were bought for use, and to
be worn in this country, if the plaintiff's plans for a speedy return should be carried into effect. The main question in the
case, and to obtain an answer to which this suit was brought,
is whether, under the foregoing facts, the unworn articles were
legally free from duty, as wearing apparel ' in actual use;' in
other words, to ascertain the proper definition of the phrase or
term ' in actual use.' The plaintiff insists that wearing apparel,
suitable for the season of the year just approaching at the time,
not exceeding in quantity what the owner would ordinarily
provide for himself and keep on hand for his reasonable wants,
and purchased for his own use, as occasion might require, may
be properly said to be in 'actual use,' within the meaning of
the statute, from the time when they come into the owner's
hands, and are placed in his wardrobe, to be worn whenever
the proper occasion arrives. It is our duty to ascertain, if
possible, the intention of the legislature, from the language
which is used, and ordinarily to give to the language its natural
signification. In my opinion, by limiting the exemption from
duty of travellers' wearing apparel to that ' in actual use,' Congress meant to say, that new and unused wearing apparel purchased in a foreign country, not for present use, but for prospective use in this country, though that prospective use might
be in the near future, should pay duty; and that it is not the
right of travellers to have new and unused wearing apparel
which has been purchased abroad, not for use abroad, but for
use upon their return to this country, admitted free of duty.

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

I, therefore, limit the exemption, in general, Eto wearing apparel which had been actually used, as such, before the arrival
of the owner in this country], and define L' wearing apparel,
actually in use (not merchandise),' to mean wearing apparel
bought for personal use and not for sale, which has been really
subjected to use in the way in which that particular wearing
apparel is ordinarily used]. Apparel bought in a foreign
country not for present use, but for the purpose of anticipated
use in this country, and not 'actually subjected to use in a
foreign country, for the purpose for which it was procured, but
put upon the person as a colorable device to escape duties, is
not within the exemption of the statute. Some exceptional
cases have been cited by the learned counsel for the plaintiff;
and, in view of such cases, I may also say, that the term also
includes wearing apparel which has been purchased for the
purpose and with the bona fide and not colorable intent of an
actual, present, personal wear and subjected to use in a foreign
country or in transit, and not merely for prospective use in this
country, although said apparel may not actually have been
used abroad. The last clause of the definition is not pertinent,
as I understand the testimony, to the case on trial. Under
this construction of the statute, [the unworn goods of the
plaintiff were not exempt].
The apparel which had been
worn, it not having been claimed that such wearing was colorable or took place in any other than the ordinary way in which
clothing is subjected to use, was exempt. And this brings me
to the question of fact, which is for the determination of the
jury, whether any part of the assessed goods, and, if so, how
much, had been worn."
The court then commented on the testimony as to what
articles had been worn and what had not been worn, and
added: "Your duty is to examine the testimony on both sides
and ascertain whether the plaintiff has proved that any, and,
if so, how many, of his worn articles were assessed for duty.
The amount, if anything, which he has overpaid is the measure
of the defendant's liability." "I suppose it is conceded that
some were not worn. The amount, if anything, which he has
overpaid, that is, the amount, if anything, which he has paid
VOL. cxI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

upon worn goods, is the measure of the defendant's liability."
The parts of the charge excepted to were these: (1.) That,
although the clothing in question was confessedly not excessive
in quantity for persons of the means, habits, and station in life
of the plaintiff and his family, and was their ordinary outfit
for the winter, the exemption of wearing apparel from the
payment of duty was limited "to wearing apparel which had
been actually used as such before the arrival of the owner in
this country." (2.) That the terms " wearing apparel in actual
use, (not merchandise)," as contained in the statute, "meant
wearing apparel bought for personal use, and not for sale, which
has been really subjected to use in the way in which that par(3.) That "the
ticular wearing apparel is ordinarily used."
unworn goods of the plaintiff" in this case were not exempt.
By § 46 of the act of March 2d, 1799, chap. 22, 1 Stat. 661,
it was provided, that "the wearing apparel, and other personal
baggage, and the tools or implements of a mechanical trade
only, of persons who arrive in the United States, shall be free
and exempted from duty ;" and a separate entry of such articles
was required, with an oath that the packages contained no goods
other than "the wearing apparel and other personal baggage"
and tools, and were not directly or indirectly imported for any
other person or intended for sale.
By § 2 of the act of April 27th, 1816, chap. 107, 3 Stat. 313,
it was declared that the following articles should be imported
into the United States free of duties, that is to say, "wearing
apparel and other personal baggage in actual use, and the implements or tools of trade of persons arriving in the United
States."
This continued to be the language in § 1 of the act of September I Ith, 1841, chap. 24, 5 Stat. 463, and until § 9 of the
act of August 30th, 1842, chap. 270, id. 560, was enacted, which
introduced the language now found in the first clause of the
paragraph above cited from § 2505 of the Revised Statutes,
which language was repeated in Schedule 1 of § 2 of the act
of July 30th, 1846, chap. 75, 9 Stat. 49, with the addition of
what is now found in the second clause of said paragraph; and

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

the whole appears again in § 3 of the act of MN.arch 3d, 1857,
chap. 98, 11 Stat. 193, and in § 23 of the act of March 2d, 1861,
chap. 68, 12 Stat. 193, from which it was transferred to the
Revised Statutes. Although the description of what is so exempt is thus changed from what it was in § 46 of the Act of
1799, the Revised Statutes require, in § 2799, the same oath on
entry which was so required by the act of 1799, and state that
it is required "in order to ascertain what articles ought to be
exempted as the wearing apparel and other personal baggage,
and the tools or implements of a mechanical trade only, of
persons who arrive in the United States."
The course of legislation is thus seen to have been, to exempt
from duty, in 1799, "wearing apparel and other personal baggage;" in 1816, " wearing apparel and other personal baggage
in actual use;" "in 1842, wearing apparel in actual use and other
personal effects (not merchandise);" and in 1846, and thenceforward, the same articles as in 1842, with the limitation as to
excluding from the exemption articles imported for sale. The
enactment in question is repeated in the statute now in force,
as § 2503 of the Revised Statutes, by virtue of § 6 of the act
of March 3d, 1883, chap. 121, 22 Stat. 521. The question raised
is, therefore, one of continuing importance and interest, under
the customs laws.
It is quite apparent that the Circuit Court finally applied to
the plaintiff's wearing apparel the test of whether the given
article had been bought for personal use and not for sale and
had also been worn, and subjected it to duty unless it had been
actually worn. The court refused to give the 12th instruction,
which it stated to be, that the articles of apparel suitable for
the season of the year just approaching at the time, not exceeding in quantity what the owner would ordinarily provide for
himself and keep on hand for his reasonable wants, and purchased for his own use as occasion might require, may be properly said to be "in actual use," within the meaning of the statute,
from the time when they come into the owner's hands and are
placed in his wardrobe, to be worn whenever the proper occasion
arrives, and, if the articles in question came within that test,
they should have been admitted free. The court very properly

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

said, that putting upon the person an article of apparel as a
colorable device to escape duties, was not wearing it or an.
actual use of it, in the sense of the statute. It further said,
that the term "in actual use" also includes wearing apparel
which has been purchased for the purpose and with the bona
fide and not colorable intent of an actual, present, personal
wear and subjected (subjection?) to use in a foreign country or
in transit, and not merely for prospective use in this country,
although said apparel may not actually have been used abroad.
But it added, that this last clause of the definition was not pertinent, as it understood the testimony, to the case on trial. The
court, however, in all it said, limited the exemption from duty
as not including new and unused wearing apparel purchased
abroad not for present use but for prospective use in this country in the near future. While it said that the exemption might
include what had been bought for the purpose and with the
bona fide and not colorable intent of actual present wear abroad
or in transit, and not merely for prospective use here, although
not actually used abroad, it said that the latter clause did not
apply to this case, because the wearing apparel in question was
bought to be worn here, as an outfit for the winter.
It is contended here, for the defendant, that unworn wearing
apparel, purchased for an approaching season, cannot be exempt
from duty, as "in actual use," before that season has arrived,
while wearing apparel proper for the season of arrival from
abroad may, unless there is a want of good faith, be considered
as "in actual use," whether it has been already used or not.
We are of opinion that the court should have given a different construction from that which it gave to the statute, as applicable to the facts of this case. If the articles in question fulfilled the following conditions, and were (1) wearing apparel
owned by the plaintiff and in a condition to be worn at once
without further manufacture; (2) brought with him as a passenger, and intended for the use or wear of himself or his fainily who accompanied him as passengers, and not for sale, or
purchased or imported for other persons, or to be given away;
(3) suitable for the season of the year which was immediately
approaching at the time of arrival; (4)not exceeding in quan-

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

tity or quality or value what the plaintiff was in the habit of
ordinarily providing for himself and his family at that time,
and keeping on hand for his and their reasonable wants, in view
of their means and habits in life; they were to be regarded
as "wearing apparel in actual use," of a person arriving in the
United States, even though they had not been actually worn.
If a person residing in the United States should purchase
wearing apparel here, in a condition ready for immediate wear
Without further manufacture, intended for his own use or
wear, suitable for the immediately approaching season of the
year, and not exceeding in quantity, quality or value the limit
above mentioned, no one would hesitate to say that such wearing apparel was "in actual use" by such person, even though
some of it might not have been actually put on or applied to
its proper personal use. The word "actual," in the lexicon, has
as a meaning "real," as opposed to "nominal," as well as the
meaning of "present."
"In use" is defined to be "in employment;" "out of use" to be "not in employment;" "to make
use of, to put to use" to be "to employ, to derive service from."
These definitions aid in showing that it is too narrow a construction of the words "in actual use," as applied to this case, to say
that they require that the wearing apparel should have been
actually worn.
It is manifest, that, by the words "in actual use," Congress
did not intend that those words should be limited to wearing
apparel on the person at the time. They must have a more extended meaning. The test of having worn the article, as a criterion whether it is "in actual use," is arbitrary, and without
support in the statute. An article of wearing apparel, bought
for use, and appropriated and set apart to be used, by being
placed in with, and as a part of, what is called a person's wardrobe, is, in common parlance, in use, in actual use, in present
use, in real use, as well before it is worn as while it is being
worn or afterwards. The test of wearing must, therefore, be
rejected. What test shall be adopted? We are aided by
the other language of the statute, in saying, that the articles mnust be "personal effects," and must not be "merchandise," and must not be "for sale." These words of limita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, on the one hand, serve to indicate that, on the other,
if the articles, being wearing apparel of the arriving passenger, are fairly personal effects of his, and not merchandise,
and not for sale, a construction of the words " in actual use"
is to be sought for which will carry out the spirit and intent of the entire provision of the statute, and, while it comports
with the ordinary habits of passengers and travellers, will
not open the door for fraud. Such a construction we believe that one to be which we have laid down for a caselike the present. As regards citizens of the United States
returning from abroad, and foreigners visiting this country,
it cannot be supposed that Congress intended they should have
worn all the wearing apparel they bring, or else pay duty on
it ; or that they shall not bring with them, free of duty, wearing apparel, not worn, bought in good faith for personal use in
the immediately coming season, and not unsuitable in quantity
or quality or value. "Persons arriving in the United States"
are citizens returning or foreigners visiting or emigrating. The
statute applies to all equally. If, as the result of our construction of the law, it shall happen that citizens returning from
abroad may obtain, as to their personal wardrobes, a pecuniary
advantage over citizens who remain at home, that is but an incidental advantage attendant on the opportunity to go abroad.
If foreigners visiting or emigrating are not compelled to pay
duties on their unworn wearing apparel, it is merely exempting
them from a tax the imposing of which has a tendency to
induce them to remain abroad. The words "in actual use" require no such construction, and, under the guarded rule we
have laid down, the government will, on the one hand, not lose
any revenue which the statute intends to give it and does give
it, and persons arriving from abroad will be enabled to bring
with them their usual and reasonable wearing apparel in actual
use, without being required to have worn it before landing.
As appears by the record in this case, the Treasury Department, in heretofore making regulations for the conduct of the
officers of the customs, as to the exemption of wearing apparel, promulgated the following, which were in force from
1857 to 1875: "Such exemption of wearing apparel cannot be

ASTOR v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

without limit as to the character and quantity of the articles
which are to be admitted to free entry; and it is for the department or its officers to determine whether articles for which
exemption is claimed are entitled thereto under a reasonable
construction of the law. The rule by which the department
usually determines the dutiable or free character of wearing
apparel in such cases is as follows : 1st. Did the owner visit
the foreign country for the purpose or with the direct intention
of purchasing the article or articles? 2d. Were the articles intended for the sole use of the person purchasing the samei?
3d. Was such purchase actually necessary for the health or
comfort of the person or persons purchasing the same ? These
questions must be answered under oath." On the 23d of February, 1875, as we learn from public documents, other regulations were prescribed, which were in force at the time of the
present transaction, as follows: "So far as wearing apparel is
concerned, only those articles which have been in actual use
are exempted from duty, although in many cases this exemption has been applied to all articles of wearing apparel belonging to and contained in the baggage of the owner, whether new
or old. New articles of clothing, which have not been in
actual use abroad, and not necessary for the present comfort or
convenience of the owner, are chargeable with duty; and the
fact that they are intended for the future use of the person
who brings them, or of another person, and are not for sale,
does not exempt them from duty." It is, doubtless, impossible,
under the statute, to formulate a general rule which will apply
to every case. The law must have a reasonable construction
in reference to cases as they arise.
Thme judgment qf the Circuit Court is reversed, and
(,/ecase
,?s remanded to t/ l court, with direction to award a new
trial.

