UNITED STATES v. CARPENTER.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. CARPENTER.
APPEAL FROM TIlE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Plublie Lands-Indian Treaties.
The location of land scrip upon lands reserved for Indians under the provisions
of a treaty with an Indian tribe, and the issue of a patent therefor, are
void.

This was a suit in equity, to vacate a patent of the United
States issued to one August Cluensen, on the 15th of May, 1874,
embracing a tract of land in the county of Pipestone, in the
State of Missouri, described as the southwesterly quarter of
section one (1), in township one hundred and six (106), range
forty-six (46), west of the fifth (5th) principal meridian, according to the government surveys. The ground of the suit was
that by treaty between the United States and the Yankton
tribe of Sioux or Dacotah Indians, ratified on the 26th of
February, 1859, the tract, which embraces what is known as
the Red Pipestone Quarry, in that county, was reserved from
sale or appropriation under any scrip or warrant of the government. The eighth article of the treaty stipulated that the
Yankton Indians should be "secured in the free and unrestricted use" of the quarry, or "so much thereof as they have
been accustomed to frequent and use for the purpose of procuring stone for pipes ;" and the United States agreed to cause
to be surveyed and marked, so much thereof as should be
"necessary and proper for that purpose, and retain the same
and keep it open and free for the Indians to visit and procure
stone for pipes, so long as they shall desire." Revision of Ind.
Treaties, 860. The bill alleged that the tract described is a
part of the Red Pipestone Quarry mentioned in this article.
In the execution of their agreement, the United States caused
so much of the quarry as appeared to be necessary and proper
for the purposes of the reservation provided for to be surveyed
and marked. A diagram and the field notes of the survey

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

were duly returned, filed, and recorded in the General Land
Office, and in the office of the Surveyor-General of Minnesota.
In February, 1860, copies of them were transmitted by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office to the SurveyorGeneral of the United States for that State with instructions "to
lay the same down" on the map of the State in his office, and to
respect them when the public surveys reached the locality, by
closing their lines upon the reservation. At this time the land
included in the reservation was not surveyed; but afterwards,
for some unexplained reason, and in violation of the instructions, it was surveyed with other public lands in its vicinity.
In July, 1872, after this survey, the commissioner directed the
surveyor-general to locate the reservation on the official plat in
his office, from the field notes and plat of the original survey,
and to transmit authentic copies to the general and local land
offices; or, if it should be impossible to locate it from these
data, to direct a re-survey of the tract, so that it might be located and described upon the official plats, and its boundaries
respected in accordance with the treaty.
In pursuance of these instructions the surveyor-general caused
a re-survey of the quarry reserve, and immediately marked it
upon the official plats in his office. Its boundaries as resurveyed correspond and are substantially coincident with the lines
of the original survey, and embrace the quarter section of land
above described. Notwithstanding the reservation by the terms
of the treaty and its survey, and appropriation to the purposes
mentioned, one August Cluensen, on the 15th of July, 1871,
was permitted by the land officers of the district to locate upon
the quarter section a piece of land scrip issued under the authority of the laws of the United States, known as Louisiana
Agricultural College scrip, and to enter the section at that
office with this scrip. On the 15th of May, 1874, a patent was
issued to him pursuant to his entry. All the interest which he
thus acquired, if any, was subsequently transferred, by divers
mesne conveyances, to the defendant, Ilerbert M. Carpenter,
who claimed to be the owner of the premises covered by the
patent. The bill averred that all the provisions of the treaty
were still in force, that the Yankton Indians had always con-

UNITED STATES v. CARPENTER.
Opinion of the Court.

tinned to visit and procure stone from the quarry, and bad
always desired, and still desired so to do; and that the officers
and agents of the government, in all that they did in connection with the entry of the land and issuing the patent acted
without authority of law and in violation of the provisions of
the treaty. The bill concluded with a prayer for a decree that
the patent and the entry on which it rests might be vacated,
and for further relief. To this bill the defendants demurred
for want of equity. The demurrer was sustained and the bill
dismissed; and the case came here on appeal.
.Mr.A8istant Attorney- General Maury for appellant.
Mr. John B. Sanborn for appellee.
MR. J)sTicu FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Ie
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The action of the government in causing the tract described
to be marked on the official plats in the land offices as reserved
from sale was clearly within the line of its duty under the
stipulations of the treaty. The bill alleges that the tract was
a part of the Red Pipestone Quarry mentioned in the eighth
article. After the treaty, until the survey was made, and the
actual extent of the reservation was thus designated, no part of
the land containing the quarry could have been taken up
either by settlement or by location under the Louisiana Agricultural College scrip. The whole of such land was by the
treaty withdrawn from private entry or appropriation until the
government had determined whether any portion less than the
whole should be reserved. Its power of selection, if the whole
was not retained, could not be restricted by the action of private parties. So, in any view which can be taken, the entry
of Cluensen was void. It matters not whether the land had
been surveyed or not, the treaty was notice that a part of the
quarry would be retained by the government, and that the
whole might be, for the use of the Indians. This purpose and
the stipulation of the United States could not be defeated by
the action of any officers of the land department.

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

The court therefore erred in sustaining the demurrer. The
decree must accordingly be reversed, with directions to overrule the demurrer, the defendant to have leave to answer; and
It s o ordered.

CHAMBERS & Others v. HARRINGTON & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued April 1st and 2d, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1881.

Jurisdiction-llineralLands.
The decision of a court of competent jurisdiction upon adverse claims to a
patent for mineral lands under §§ 2825, 2326 Rev. Stat. is subject to
review in this court when the amount in controversy is sufficient.
When several adjoining claims to mineral lands are held in common, work for
the benefit of all done upon any one of them in a given year to an amount
equal to that required to be done upon all in that year meets the requirements ol § 2824 Rev. Stat. The language of the court in facksoa v. Roby,
109 U. S. 440, cited and approved.

The defendants in error as plaintiffs brought suit in the
District Court for the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of Utah, under § 2326 Rev. Stat., to have adverse claims to
patents for mineral lands determined. Judgment for plaintiffs there, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory on appeal. The defendants appealed to this court
from the judgment of the Supreme Court. The facts making
the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
MYr. Skellabarger for appellants.

M11r. John 1?. ieBride for appellees.
JUSTICE MILrER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah.
The case has its origin in a proceeding under §§ 2325 and
2326 of the Revised Statutes, to obtain a patent for mineral
lands of the United States.

MR.

