HORNBUCKLE v. STAFFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error so to determine, and in that determination being
compelled to reverse the judgment, of which on other grounds
they complain, although denying their right to be heard for
that purpose, has jurisdiction, also, in order to give effect to its
judgment upon the whole case against them, to do what justice
and right seem to require, by awarding judgment against them
for the costs that have accrued in this court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly reversed,
with costs against the plaintiffs in error, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to render a judgment against them for costs in that court, and to remand the
cause to the Court of Common Pleas of Fulton County, Ohio;
and
It is so ordered.

IIORNBUCKLE & Another v. STAFFORD.
APPEAL FRO-M THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Submitted April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Error-Evidence.
A decree will not be reversed for error in improperly excluding evidence when
it is clear that the exclusion worked no prejudice to the excepting party.

ilfr. -Luther11 Pike submitted the case for plaintiff in error
on his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Stafford, the appellee, against
ITornbuckle and Marshall, the appellants, to restrain them from
diverting from his ditch a certain quantity of water to which
he claimed to be entitled. The complaint alleged that the
appellee was entitled to such quantity of the waters of Avalanche Creek, or Gulch as it is sometimes called in the record, in
the county of Meagher and Territory of Montana, as would
amount to thirty-five inches miner's measurement, at any point

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

on said creek above the place where the White and Tower
ditch taps the same, and that his right to said quantity of water
was, on July 11th, 1871, established by a decree of the District
Court for the Third Judicial District of Montana in a suit
wherein one John Gallagher and. the appellants were plaintiffs,
and one Basey and the appellee and others were defendants.
The decree was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Montana, and on appeal from the latter court
was affirmed by this court. The case is reported under the
name of Basey v. Gallagyer, 2 Wall. 670. The complaint
further alleged that the appellee was the owner of a water
ditch known as the Basey ditch, which tapped said creek about
one mile below what was known as the Avalanche ditch, and
above the White and Tower ditch, and was entitled to flow
into said ditch such a volume of the water of Avalanche Creek
as would make thirty-five inches miner's measurement at the
head of the White and Tower ditch, which would be equivalent to one hundred and twenty-five inches at the head of the
Basey ditch. The complaint then charged that on April, 1878,
the appellants unlawfully diverted all of the water of said creek
above the heads of the Basey and the White and Tower ditches
so as to prevent the water or any part of it from flowing into
the ditches of the appellee, and continued to do so, notwithstanding the demand of appellee that they permit the water to
flow into his ditch.
The prayer of the complaint was that appellants be forever
enjoined and restrained from diverting the water from the
appellee's ditches, and for general relief.
The answer of the appellants contained denials of all the
material allegations of the complaint, and specially averred
that in the year 1869 a company named the Hellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company was formed by Samuel Clem and four
associates to construct a ditch to conduct the waters of Avalanche Creek to the foot-hills of Cave Gulch; that appellee
became a member of the company and contributed to its
property the White and Tower ditch and the water connected
therewith, and the other associates contributed certain mining
ground, and that each member of the company owned one-sixth

HORNBUCKLE v. STAFFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

of the common property; that the company constructed its
proposed ditch and afterwards purchased the Basey ditch, &c.,
and that in the fall of the year 1870 all the waters of the Avalanche Creek were turned into the Hiellgate & Avalanche ditch,
including all the water to which the appellee had any title, and
thenceforward the water had always been used by the company
as the joint property of its members, and that the appellee,
until a short time before the beginning of this suit, never set
up any claim to the exclusive use of any part thereof ; that on
March 30th, 1878, the appellee conveyed, by his deed of that
date, to the appellants, all his interest in the Ilellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company, and since that time they have been the
exclusive owners of the Ilellgate & Avalanche ditch and all
the water rights connected therewith, having previously purchased the interests of the other owners. The answer denied
that on July 11th, 1871, a decree was rendered as averred in
the complaint, but admitted that a decree was rendered in a
cause wherein John Gallagher and the appellants were plaintiffs, and Basey and the appellee and others were defendants,
adjudging to the appellee thirty-five inches of the water of
Avalanche Creek, and averred that the decree was so entered
awarding the water aforesaid to the appellee by the consent of
the members of said company, and because the title to said
water right stood in the name of the appellee, and for no other
reason, but that the water was awarded to the appellee in trust
.for the benefit of the owners of the Hellgate & Avalanche
Ditch Company.
Issue was taken on the answer by replication, and the issues
of fact were tried by a jury, which returned a general verdict
for the appellee, and also returned certain special findings, as
follows: They found that the thirty-five inches of water,
decreed. to the appellee by the decree of July 11th, 1879, was
held by the appellee for himself and as his own property, and
not in. trust for the members of tbe Hellgate & Avalanche
Ditch Company, and that he had never parted with his right
to said water to the company, either before or after the
decree, and that after the decree the water did not belong to
the Ilellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company. Upon the general

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and special verdict of the jury, as well as upon the pleadings,
proceedings and evidence in the cause, the court decreed that
the appellee was entitled to the possession and enjoyment
of thirty-five inches of the water of Avalanche Creek to
flow in at the head of the White and Tower ditch, or one
hundred and twenty-five inches to flow in at the head of the
ilasey ditch, and that he hold and enjoy the same, and that
the appellants be forever enjoined from interfering with
the unobstructed flow of said water to the ditches of the
appellee.
From this decree Hornbnckle and Marshall appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, by which the
decree was affirmed. The same appellants have brought, by
the present appeal, the decree of the Supreme Court of Montana to this court for review.
The case, in its nature and substance, belongs to the equity
side of the court. Bascy v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670. The
testimony is all in the record. The points contested between
the parties were whether, under the decree made July 11th,
1871, by the District Court of the Third Judicial District of
Montana, and afterwards affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Montana and this court, the appellee was entitled, in his own
right, to thirty-five inches of the water of Avalanche Creek, or
whether he held such right in trust for all the associates of the
Ilellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company, and whether, if the
appellee had a several and individual right in the water, the
deed made by him to the appellants on March 30th, 1878, conveyed to them such individual right.
The appellee asserted that he held under the decree individually and in his own right the thirty-five inches of water,
and that he did not convey such right to the appellants by the
deed of March 30th, 1878. The decree in the ease of Gallagher
and the present appellant v. ]Basey and the present appellee and
another, rendered June 11t, 1871, is upon its face a decree in
favor of the appellee individually and in his own right, declaring
him to be entitled to the thirty-five inches of water in Avalanche
Creek. The lHellgate & Avalanche Company is not mentioned
in the decree, nor is there any intimation that the appellee was

HORNBUCKLE v. STAFFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

to hold the right to the water in trust for any other person or
company of persons.
It is also clear that the deed of the appellee to the appellants
of March 30th, 1878, did not convey to them the right to the
thirty-five inches of water awarded to the appellee by the
decree of July 11th, 1871. It was a quit-claim deed for his
undivided four-fifteenths interest in the property known as the
Ilellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company, and contained this
reservation: "This deed shall not be so construed as to affect
individual rights to waters in Avalanche Gulch."
The decree of the Supreme Court of Montana Territory in
the present case must therefore be affirmed, unless the appellants can make good some of their assignments of error.
The first assignment of error relates to the refusal by the
District Court to admit in evidence the complaint and answer in
the case of Gallayler v. -Basey,offered by the appellants, the
court having already admitted the decree rendered in that case.
The purpose of the evidence offered was to explain the decree,
and to show by the complaint and answer that the right to
thirty-five inches of water awarded to the appellee by the
decree was not his individual right, but was decreed to him in
trust for the Hellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company.
The decree having been put in evidence, it was clearly erroneous to exclude the pleadings upon which this decree was
based. Even parol evidence is admissible when necessary to
show what was tried in a suit, the record of which is offered in
a subsequent action between the same parties. Campbell v.
Ranlkin, 99 U. S. 261. But in order to sustain the exception
to the exclusion of the pleadings in the case pf Gallagherv.
Basey, it was necessary that the exception should show what
the excluded testimony was, in order that it might appear
whether the evidence was material or not. Ditnlop v. 1anroe,
7 Cranch, 242, 270 ; Reed v. Gardner,17 Wall. 409 ; ]ontrille
v. America) Tract Society, 123 Iv[ass. 129. This was done by
the appellants. A copy of the complaint and answer in the
case of Gallagher v. Basey and others is set out in the bill of
exceptions. An inspection of the excluded testimony shows
that the complaint and answer do not in any degree tend to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

support the contention of appellants, to wit, that the thirty-five
inches of water awarded appellee by the decree was awarded
to him in trust for the Hellgato & Avalanche Ditch Company.
The company is not mentioned in the pleadings, and there is
no averment that the appellee held the water right claimed by
him for any one but himself.
While, therefore, the appellants were entitled to put the complaint and answer in evidence as a part of the record, it is clear
that the exclusion of the pleadings in no degree prejudiced
their case. The decree will not be reversed for such an error.
Gregg v. loss, 14 Wall. 564.
The appellants next contend that the decree should be reversed because the court excluded evidence offered by them to
show that the consideration on which the appellee became a
member of the 1tellgate & Avalanche Ditch Company, was
the conveyance of his water right in Avalanche Creek to the
company. The evidence was properly excluded, because this
issue had been passed upon in the case of Gallagher and others
v. Basey and others, between the same parties, and decided, as
appears by the decree of the court, against the contention of
appellants. That decree remaining in full force, was not open
to contest in a subsequent suit between the same parties. The
testimony was, therefore, properly excluded.
The next and last ground alleged for the reversal of the decree is that the court erred in refusing to permit 1 ornbuckle,
one of the appellants, to testify that when the appellee executed the deed of March 30th, 1878, to the appellants, he made
no claim or assertion of any individual right to any of the
water of Avalanche Creek. The evidence excluded was clearly
inadmissible. The deed expressly reserved the individual rights
in the water. The reservation could not be affected by the
evidence offered. When a reservation is made in a deed, it is
not necessary in order to give it effect that the grantor should,
when he executes the deed, assert verbally his right to the
property excepted from the conveyance. Evidence that lie
made no such assertion is clearly incompetent and inadmissible.
We are of opinion, therefore, that neither of the grounds

GAINES v. MILLER.
Statement of Facts.

upon which appellants ask the reversal of the decree is well
founded. Other exceptions were taken during the course of
the jury trial, but no assignments of error are founded upon
them.
Upon an examination of the whole record, we are convinced
that the decree of the District Court, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, was according
to "the right of the cause and matter of law." It is plain the
appellants had no case.
Decree affirmed.

GAINES v. MILLER, Administrator.
APPEAL FROMA

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
1884.
Argued April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st,

Efquity-Prineip)aland Agent.
The lawful representative, of a deceased person who ratifies sales of property
made by an agent of executors in their own wrong, may maintain an action
at law against the agent for money had and received to recover the proceeds
of the sale in his hands.
The ratification extends to all the dealings on the subject between the agent
and his principals ; and if the principals have converted the simple debt
into a judgment, the lawful representative is bound by it.
In Missouri the excuse for avoiding the operation of the statute of limitations,
that the debtor by absconding or concealing himself prevented the coinmencenent of an action, is available in actions at law as well as in equity.
ยง 3244 Rev. Stat. Mo.

This bill was filed by the appellant on May 11th, 1880. Its
material allegations were as follows: The appellant was born
in 1806, and was the daughter of the late Daniel Clark of the
city of New Orleans. On July 13th, 1813, Clark duly executed
his last will and testament, by which he devised and bequeathed
to the appellant all his estate. le died August 16th, 1813.
Appellant did not know that she was the daughter of Clark
until 1831. On June 18th of that year she propounded for
probate in the Parish Court for the Parish of Orleans, Louisi-

