OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

appellant in accordance with the statement of account made by
the master numbered 22, save only that no interest should be
charged on $50,000 of the purchase-money represented by
what was accepted as the cash payment. By the express terms
of the agreement interest was only to be paid on the deferred
instalments.
Tle decree is reversed as to the amount found due, and qffinrmed in all other respects, and the cause is remanded, with
instructions to inodify the decree as originally entered by
inserting the amount ascertainedto be due on the priniple
of accounting as indicated in this opinion, andforfurther
proceedings according to law.

IARRINGTON & Another v. HOLLER.
IN

ERROR TO TIE SUPREME

COURT OF WASHINGTON

TERRITORY.

Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Practice.
A decision of the Supreme Court of a Territory dismissing a writ of error to a
District Court because of failure to docket the cause in time is not a final
judgment or decision within the meaning of the statutes regulating writs
of error and appeals to this court. Mandamus is the proper remedy in such
case.

This came up on motion to dismiss the writ of error.
Mr. JoAn 1. Mitchell for defendant in error moving.
Mr. S. S. Burdett for plaintiff in error opposing.
JUsTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is granted on the authority of Insurance Company
v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258, and Railroad Company v. lMiswall,
23 Wall. 507. An order of the Supreme Court of Washington
Territory dismissing a writ of error to a District Court, because
of the failure of the plaintiff in error to file the transcript and

Mu. CHIEF

FRIEND v. WISE.
Opinion of the Court.

have the cause docketed within the time required by law, is
not a final judgment or a final decision within the meaning of
those terms as used in sections 702 and 1911 of the Revised
Statutes regulating writs of error and appeals to this court
from the Supreme Court of the Territory. Section 702 provides for the review of final judgments and decrees by writ of
error or appeal, and section 1911 regulates the mode and manner of taking the writ or procuring the allowance of the appeal.
The use of the term "final decisions" in section 1911 does not
enlarge the scope of the jurisdiction of this court. It is only a
substitute for the words "final judgments and decrees" in section 702, and means the same thing.
The dismissal of the writ was a refusal to hear and decide
the cause. The remedy in such a case, if any, is by mandamus
to compel the court to entertain the case and proceed to its
determination, not by writ of error to review what has been
done. Ex parte -Bradstreet,7 Pet. 647; Ex _parte Newmnan,
14 Wall. 165.
Dismlssed.

FRIEND & Another v. WISE.
IN ERRIOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT

STATES FOI

THE

OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Jusrisdiction.
In ejeetment in which several defendants are joined who hold separate tracts
adversely to the plaintiff, this court will not dismiss the writ of error because
each separate tract is not of the jurisdictional value, if their combined
values are sufficient to give jurisdiction,

Motion to dismiss, with which a motion to affirm was united.
Mr. Ienry Beard and XT,. Otarles I. Armes for defendant
in error in support of the motion.
Mr. William J. Jo/nson for plaintiffs in error, opposing.
MR. CHlEr

JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

