OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK OF PIQUA.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued March 6th, 7th, 1884.-Decided March 31st, 1884.
Certificale of Stock-Corporation-Fraud.
A lent money to B for his own use, and, as security for its repayment, and on
his false representation that he owned, and had transferred to A, a certificate of stock to an equal amount in a national bank of which B was cashier,
received from him such a certificate, written by him in one of the printed
forms which the president had signed and left with him to be used if needed
in the president's absence, and certifying that A was the owner of that
amount of stockI"transferable only on the books of the bank on the surrender of this certificate," as was in fact provided by its by-laws. B did
not surrender any certificate to the bank, or make any transfer to A upon
its books; never repaid the money lent, and was insolvent. The bank
never ratified, or received any benefit from, the transaction. Hfeld, That
A could not maintain an action against the bank to recover the value of the
certificate. Held, also, That the action could not be supported by evidence
that in one or two other instances tock was issued by B without any certificate having been surrendered; and that shares, once owned by B, and
which there was evidence to show had been pledged by him to other persons
before the issue of the certificate to A, were afterwards transferred to the
president, with the approval of the directors, to secure a debt due from B
to the bank, without further evidence that such issue of stock by B was
known or recognized by the other officers of the bank.

This is an action against a national bank to recover the value
of a certificate of stock therein, which the bank had refused to
recognize as valid.
The amended petition and other pleadings are stated in the
report of the case at a former stage, at which this court, for
an erroneous ruling of the Circuit Court on a question of the
statute of limitations, reversed a judgment for the defendant,
and ordered a new trial. 104 U. S. 625. A recital of the
pleadings is unnecessary to the understanding of the case as
now presented.
The undisputed facts, as appearing by the admissions in the
petition, by the evidence introduced by the plaintiff before the
jury at the new trial, and by the defendant's admissions at
that trial, were as follows:

NOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

157

Statement of Facts.

The defendant was organized in 1864, under the act of Congress of June 3d, 1864, ch. 106, the twelfth section of which
provides that the capital stock shall be "transferable on the
books of the association in such manner as may be prescribed
by the by-laws or articles of association." 13 Stat. 99, 102.
The defendant's by-laws relating to transfers of the stock were
as follows:
" SECT. 15. The stock of this bank shall be assignable only on
the books of the bank, subject to the restrictions and provisions
of the act, and a transfer book shall be kept in which all assignments and transfers of stock shall be made. No transfer of the
stock of this association shall be made, without the consent of the
board of directors, by any stockholder who shall be liable to the
association, either as principal debtor or otherwise ; and certificates of stock shall contain upon them notice of this provision.
Transfers of stock shall not be suspended preparatory to a declaration of dividends ; and, except in cases of agreement to the contrary expressed in the assignment, dividends shall be paid to the
stockholder in whose name the stock shall stand on the day on
which the dividends are declared.
"SECT. 16. Certificates of stock signed by the president and
cashier may be issued to stockholders, and the certificate shall
state upon the face thereof that the stock is transferable only
upon the books of the bank ; and when stock is transferred, the
certificates thereof shall be returned to the bank and- cancelled,

and new certificates issued."
The defendant's capital stock was one thousand shares of
one hundred dollars each, the whole of which was in fact, and
was alleged in the petition to have been, taken and paid for,
and certificates therefor issued to the stockholders, at the time
of its organization in 1864. The president and cashier of the
bank were charged with the keeping of its transfer books and
the issuing of certificates of stock, and the books of the bank
were always open to the inspection of the directors. On July
15th, 1867, G. Volney Dorsey was president and Robert B.
Moores was cashier of the bank, and said Moores, who had
previously owned two hundred and seventy-five shares of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

stock, appeared on the books of the bank to be still the owner
thereof. lie and John B. C. Moores, the plaintiff's husband,
were sons of William B. Moores.
On that day, the plaintiff agreed to lend $9,100 of her own
money to Robert and William for use in their private business;
they agreed to give her, as security for its repayment, a certificate of ninety-one shares, which Robert represented to her that
he owned, and also the contract of guaranty hereinafter set
forth; and Robert sent to the plaintiff's husband, as her agent,
the following letter and certificate:
"Citizens' National Bank of Piqua,
" Piqua, 0., July 15th, 1867.
"John : Herewith I hand you the stock transferred to Carrie.
I don't know what day I will be down, and you can keep the
contract there, and I will sign it the first time I am down. I will
have to take a receipt for the stock from father, to file with my
papers, to show where the stock is gone to. All well; may be
down any day.
Y'rs,
R. B. Moon.Es."
"TiE

CITIZENS' NATIONAL

BANK OF

PIQUA,

No. 56.
STATE oF OHIO.
91 Shares.
"This is to certify that Mrs. Carrie A. Moores is entitled to
ninety-one shares of one hundred dollars each of the capital stock
of the Citizens' National Bank of Piqua, transferable only on the
books of the bank, in person or by attorney, on the surrender of
this certificate.
"Piqua, 0., July 15th, 1867.
[Seal.]
"RoB'T B. MoonEs,

"Cashier.

G.

VOLNEY DORSEY,

President."

This certificate was in the usual form of printed certificates
used by the bank, and bore the genuine seal of the corporation,
and the genuine signatures of the president and cashier; and
the whole certificate, except the printed part and the president's
signature, was in the cashier's handwriting, filled up by him in
one of two or three blanks signed by the president and left
with him to be used if needed in the president's absence.

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

159

Statement of Facts.

Upon receiving the letter and certificate, the plaintiff paid
the money to Robert B. Moores; and on July 18th he and

William signed and sent to her the following contract:
"For value received, namely, the sum of ninety-one hundred
dollars, Robert B. Moores has assigned and transferred to Caroline
A. Moores ninety-one shares of stock of the Citizens' National

Bank of Piqua, Ohio.
"Now it is agreed that the said Caroline A. Moores shall, upon
demand by Robert B. Moores, or his assigns, reassign to said IR.
B. Moores the said stock for the same amount. And it is also
agreed that, whenever the said Caroline A. Moores shall require
it, the said Robert B. Moores shall purchase said stock at the
amount aforesaid, and pay the same to her in cash. And in the
meantime it is agreed, and the said Robert B. Moores and William
B. Moores do hereby guarantee and assure to said Caroline A.
Moores an annual dividend upon said stock of not less than ten
per cent. upon the par value of said stock, namely, ninety-one
hundred dollars, which guaranty shall be performed and fulfilled
at the end of each year herefrom, or at the time of each dividend
declared, if such dividend shall be declared oftener than once a
year, and all deficiencies in said dividends shall be made good at
the time of such repurchase or transfer to R. B. Moores.
"In witness whereof the said Caroline A. Moores and J. B. C.
Moores, her husband, and Robert B. Moores and William B.
Moores, hereunto set their hands on this 15th day of July, 1867.
"CAnomNE A. MoonEs.
"J. B. C. MooREs.
"ROBT.

B.

MOORES.

"1W. 1B. MOOiES."

Robert B3. Moores surrendered no certificate to the bank, and
made no transfer to the plaintiff on its books. The plaintiff
had Po other knowledge of the rule requiring the surrender of
an ol certificate of stock before the issue of a new one, or of
any fraud on the part of Robert, than was obtained by her
reading and possession of the certificate. The value of the
stock of the bank at that time was ninety per cent. of its par
value. Robert B. Moores was insolvent, and the money lent
to him by the plaintiff was never repaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

The plaintiff put in evidence two letters to her husband from
Dorsey, the president of the bank; one dated June 25th, 1872,
stating that the writer had just learned that he held a certificate
of stock purporting to be issued by the bank, and asking for
its number, date and amount; and the other dated July 5th,
1872, the body of which was as follows:
"There is no such certificate as mentioned in yours of June
27th on our books. No. 56 is marked on the stub in our certificate book 'destroyed' in R. B. Moores' handwriting. Your
wife's name was never entered among our stockholders and the
certificat6 is a fraud. We never heard of this certificate until
you mentioned it to Dr. Parker, who first informed me of
it."
Robert 3.Mloores and Dorsey, being called as witnesses for
the defendant, testified that it had no interest in the transaction of July 15th, 1867. Moores testified that at that date he
had pledged to Jason Evans and other persons all the stock he
had previously owned, and did not own any stock; and that
he issued the certificate to the plaintiff without any authority
from the bank, or any knowledge of the other officers. Dorsey
testified that he had no knowledge of the issue of the certificate
until June 25th, 1872, and that the bank never paid any dividends upon it; and he produced the certificate book of the
bank, which showed the stub of a certificate, in its regular
order, corresponding in number with that produced by the
plaintiff, and having the word "destroyed" upon it, in the
handwriting of Robert B. Mloores.
The plaintiff offered in evidence, and the court declined to
admit, the record of a meeting of the board of directors of the
bank, on August 9th, 1869, containing the following entry:
"On motion, the following resolution was adopted and ordered
to be placed upon the minutes: Whereas Robt. B. Moores, who was
the owner of 275 shares of the capital stock of this bank (evi-

denced by certificate No. forty-seven (47) for fifty shares, dated
May 2d, 1867 ; certificate No. forty-eight (48) for fifty shares,
dated May 2d, 1867 ; certificate No. forty-nine (49) for sixty-five
shares, dated May 2d, 1867 ; certificate No. fifty-three (53) for

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

161

Statement of Facts.
seventy shares, dated June llth, 1867, and certificate No. fiftyfour (54) for forty shares, dated June 11th, 1867), became indebted to this bank in the sum of thirty-seven thousand two
hundred and forty-seven 29-100 dollars, ($37,247.29), and did, on
the 16th day of January, 1868, transfer one hundred and eightyfive shares of said stock, and on the 15th day of May, 1869, did
transfer ten shares of said stock, on the books of this bank, to G.
Volney Dorsey, in consideration that said G. Volney Dorsey pay
to this bank the sum of nineteen thousand five hundred dollars of
said indebtedness ; and whereas Jason Evans, who became the
holder of seventy shares of said stock, issued as aforesaid and
transferred to him by the said R. B. Moores on the books of this
bank September 4th, 1867, as per certificate No. 59, did, on the
20th day of February, 1869, transfer to G. Volney Dorsey, on the
books of this bank, by his power of attorney, all his right, title
and interest in the same; therefore said transfers, as hereinbefore
stated, are approved and affirmed by the directors of this bank."
The plaintiff also offered evidence that there were one or
two other instances in which stock was issued by the cashier
without any certificate being surrendered. But, as she offered
no evidence, other than the directors' record of August 9th,
1869, that the other officers of the bank had any knowledge at
the time of such transactions, or subsequently recognized them,
the court excluded the evidence.
The plaintiff offered to prove that there was an arrangement
between Robert and her husband, by which interest, equal to
ten per cent. on $9,100, on a debt due from the latter to his
father, was to be treated as dividends upon this stock. But
the court excluded the evidence as immaterial.
The court instructed the jury that the plaintiff having
knowledge of the fact that Robert B. Moores, upon whom she
relied to have the stock transferred to her, was acting for himself as well as in his capacity of cashier, in reference to the
matter of issuing this certificate, she was not an innocent holder
of the stock, and as the certificate was issued without authority,
in fraud of the rights of the bank, they should return a verdict
for the defendant. A verdict was returned accordingly, and
judgment rendered thereon, and the plaintiff excepted to the
voL. cxi-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

exclusion of evidence and to this instruction, and sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. Jo/n J. Wfarrington and Mr. E TV. Kiltredge for
plaintiff in error.-I. The issuing of such a certificate of stock,
signed by the president and the cashier of the defendant, and
under its corporate seal, is the corporate act of the defendant,
and not the act of the president and cashier, as mere agents of
the corporation. Such certificate is, to all intents and purposes,
the certificate 'of defendant corporation in its corporate capacity. Wilson v. Salamanca, 99 U. S. 499; Pollard v. -Vinton,
105 U. S. 7; Scotland County v. Thiomas, 94IU. S. 682.-II.
The by-laws of defendant required a certificate for stock owned
by its cashier or president to be in the same form, and issued
and transferred in the same manner as certificates of stock
owned by any other stockholder of defendant. The fact, therefore, that the plaintiff's certificate was understood by her at
the time to be issued upon a surrender or transfer of stock
owned by Robert B. Moores, the defendant's cashier, was not
notice of any irregularity in the issuing of said certificate, or
want of validity thereof, to the plaintiff. Titus v. Great Western Turnpike, 61 N. Y. 237; 8. C. 5 Lansing, 250; Vestern
)aryland Railroad v. Franklin Bank, 60 Md. 36; American
and English Corporation Cases, Jan. 1884, p. 46; Willis v. Fry
et al. 13 Phila. Penn. 33; As/1don v. Atlantic Bank, 3 Allen,
217.-ITT. The defendant is estopped to deny, as against a
bonafde purchaser for value, the validity of such a certificate,
if it was not an over-issue; and if it was an over-issue, the defendant is responsible for the loss sustained by such a bonafide
purchaser for value. Bank v. -an ier, 11 Wall. 369; Case v.
Bane, 100 IT. S.446; Johnston v. lIaftin, 103 U. S. 800; -New
York &eNew Ifaven
R ailroad Company v. Schuyler et al, 34
N. Y. 30; Brq/f v. Mali, 36 N. Y. 200; H7olbrook v. New Jersey Zinc Company, 57 N. Y. 616; Titus v. Great Western
Turnpike, 61 N. Y. 237; Tome v. Parkersbury Railroad, 39
Md. 36; Western -Maryland Railroad v. Franklin Bank, 60
Mld. 36; XJiachinists' National Bank v. Field, 126 Mass. 345;
Bank of Kentucky v. Schuylkill Bank, 1 Parsons Sel. Cases,

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

163

Opinion of the Court.

180; In, re Bahiia c San Francisco Railroad Company, L.
R. 3 Q. B. 584.-IV. It was negligence for the president of the
defendant to sign certificates in blank, and leave them with
its cashier. And the rule of law applies that where one of
two innocent persons must suffer by the fraud of a third
party, he who has, by his trust and negligence, enabled such
third party to commit the fraud must answer for the loss.
Jkerc/iants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604 (citing on
page 646, with approval, New York, (co., Railroad Compan
v. &Svuyler, 34 N. Y. 30); Pon'pton v. Cooper Union, 101 U.
S. 196; Dair v. 4uited States, 16 Wall. 1.-V. If, at the date
of said certificate, Robert B. Moores was the owner of any
stock in the defendant corporation, the plaintiff became entitled
to it, to the extent of ninety-one shares, whether it was then
surrendered and cancelled or not; and it was error for the
court to exclude Exhibit K, and to assume, and to charge the
jury, upon the evidence adduced, that Robert B. Moores
was not the owner of such stock and that defendant was entitled to a verdict. _foores v. National Bank, 104 U. S. 625;
Bridgeport Bank v. NYew York &CNew H~aven Railroad, 30
Conn. 231.
iJlL. William JL Ramsey and -il.
ant in error.

E X[ Joh/nson for defend-

MR. JUSTJCE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

He

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The petition alleges that the false and fraudulent representations made by Robert B. Moores, and relied on by the plaintiff,
that he had assigned and transferred the stock in question to
her on the books of the bank, were made by him both as cashier
and as stockholder; that the bank afterwards fraudulently permitted and procured him to transfer all the stock owned by
him, or standing in his name, to its president, for its benefit;
that the bank, through its cashier, fraudulently concealed from
her the facts that no transfer had been made to her on its books
at the time of the issue and delivery of the certificate to her,
that the certificate was not authorized or recognized as valid

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

by the bank, and that the stock standing in his name had been
transferred on its books to its president; and concludes by
alleging that by reason of such fraudulent conduct and acts of
the bank the certificate was invalid and worthless in her hands.
But the evidence offered at the trial does not support the
allegations of fraudulent conduct on the part of the bank.
The petition alleges "that the plaintiff relied upon the representations of said Robert B. Moores, as cashier and officer of
the defendant, that the said certificate was duly issued, and
that the stock had been duly transferred by said Robert B.
Moores to the plaintiff on the books of said bank; and said
plaintiff relied upon said certificate of stock which she received
as genuine and valid for what it purported to be." And at
the trial the plaintiff relied upon the representations made to
her by Robert B. Moores orally and in the letter enclosing the
certificate and in his contract of guaranty, as well as upon those
arising out of the certificate itself. The two may be conveniently considered separately.
His representations outside of the certificate may be first disposed of. The plaintiff dealt with Robert B. Moores, and not
with the bank. Her agreement was with him personally, and
she lent her money to him for his private use. His representations to her that he owned stock in the bank, and that such
stock had been transferred to her, were representations made
by him personally, and not as cashier; and there is no evidence
that the plaintiff understood, or had any reason to understand,
that those representations were made by him in behalf of the
bank. The duty of transferring his stock to the plaintiff before
taking, out a new certificate in her name was a duty that he,
and not the bank, owed to the plaintiff. The making of such
a transfer was an act to be done by him in his own behalf as
between him and the plaintiff, and in the plaintiff's behalf as
between her and the bank. There is nothing, therefore, in his
extrinsic representations, for which the bank is responsible.
The certificate which he delivered to the plaintiff was not in
his name, but in hers, stating that she was entitled to so much
stock, and showed, upon its face, that no certificate could be
lawfully issued without the surrender of a former certificate

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

165

Opinion of the Court.

and a transfer thereof upon the books of the bank. The bylaws, passed under the authority expressly conferred by the
act of Congress under which the bank was organized, contained
a corresponding provision, designed for the security of the bank
as well as of persons taking legal transfers of stock without
ancq v.
notice of any prior equitable title therein. UnionPa
-Laird,2 Wheat. 390; Black v. Zaciarie, 3 IHow. 483, 513.
The very form of the certificate was such as to put her upon
her guard. She was not applying to the bank to take stock,
as an original subscriber or otherwise; but she was bargaining
with Robert B. Moores for stock which she supposed him to
bold as his own. She knew that she had not held or surrendered any certificate, and she never asked to see his certificate
or a transfer thereof to her; and he in fact made no surrender
to the bank or transfer on its books. She relied on his personal representation, as the party with whom she was dealing,
that he had such stock ; and she trusted him as her agent to
see the proper transfer thereof made on the books of the bank.
Having distinct notice that the surrender and transfer of a
former certificate were prerequisites to the lawful issue of a
new one, and having accepted a certificate that she owned
stock, without taking any steps to assure herself that the legal
prerequisites to the validity of her certificate, which were to
be fulfilled by the former owner and not by the bank, had been
complied with, she does not, as against the bank, stand in the
position of one who receives a certificate of stock from the
proper officers without notice of any facts impairing its validity.
Of the great number of cases referred to. in the thorough and
elaborate arguments at the bar, we shall notice only some of
the most important. None of those cited by the learned counsel for the plaintiff affirm a broader proposition than this: A
certificate of stock in a corporation, under the corporate seal,
and signed by the officers authorized to issue certificates, estops
the corporation to deny its validity, as against one who takes
it for value and with no knowledge or notice of any fact tending to show that it has been irregularly issued.
When a corporation, upon the delivery to it of a certificate
of stock with a forged power of attorney purporting to be ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ecuted by the rightful owner, issues a new certificate to the
present holder, who sells it in the market to one who pays
value for it, with no knowledge or notice of the forgery, the
corporation is doubtless not relieved from its obligation to the
original owner, but must still recognize him as a stockholder,
because he cannot be deprived of his property without any consent or negligence of his. Midland Riailway v. Taylor, 8 11.
L. Cas. 751; Bank v. lanier,11 Wall. 369; Telegraph Company v. Davenport, 97 U. S. 369; -Prattv. Taunton Copper
Company, 123 Mass. i10; Pratt v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 126 Mass. 443. And the corporation is obliged, if not to
recognize the last purchaser as a stockholder also, at least to
respond to him in damages for the value of the stock, because
he has taken it for value without notice of any defect, and on
the faith of the new certificate issued by the corporation. In
re Bahia & San Francisco Railway, L. R. 3 Q. B. 584.
Whether, before the last sale has taken place, the corporation
is liable to the holder of the new certificate, is a question upon
which there appears to have been a difference of opinion in
England. According to the decision of Lord Northington in
Ashby v. Blackwell, 2 Eden, 299; S. C Ambler, 503; it would
seem that the corporation would be liable. According to the
decisions of Sir Joseph Jekyll in IHildyard v. South Sea Company, 2 P. Wins. 76, and of the Court of Appeal in Simm v.
Anglo-American Telegraph Company, 5 Q. B. D. 188, it would
seem that it would not, because the holder of the new certificate takes it, not on the faith of that or any other certificate of
the corporation, but on the faith of the forged power of attorney. However that may be, it is clear that the corporation is
not liable to any one taking with notice of the forgery in the
transfer, or of any other fact tending to show that the new
certificate has been irregularly issued, unless the corporation has
ratified, or received some benefit from, the transaction.
In hIart v. Frontino Mining Company, L. R. 5 Ex. 11, the
plaintiff, a bona fide purchaser of the shares, had paid assessments thereon to the company upon the faith of the certificate
issued by it to him after his purchase. In -Barwickv. English
Joint Stock Bank, L. R. 2 Ex. 259, and in illackay v. Commer-

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

167

Opinion of the Couirt.

cial Bank, L. R. 5 P. C. 394, the bank bad derived a benefit
from the fraud of its agent, and was held liable upon that
ground. The decision in Sw;ft v.
hinlerbotham, L. R. 8 Q. 3.
244, that a bank was liable upon its official manager's representation to one of its customers that the credit of a certain person
was good, was reversed in the Exchequer Chamber. Swift v.
Jewsbury, L. R. 9 Q. B. 301. The decision in the Exchequer
Chamber i Tie Queen v. Sirop,8re Union Cominlany, L. R. 8
Q. B. 420, that a railway company, owning shares of its own
stock, the legal title of which was registered in the name of one
of its directors as trustee for the corporation, should transfer
them to a person who, believing the director to be the absolute
owner of the shares, had lent him.money on the deposit of the
certificate as security, was contrary to the judgment of the
Court of Queen's Bench, and was reversed in the House of
Lords. L. :R. 7 I. L. 496.
The American cases on which the plaintiff principally relies
are decisions in the courts of Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania and Maryland, the soundness of some of which we are
not prepared to affirm, but all of which are distinguishable
from the case at bar.
The leading cases in Connecticut and New York arose out of
what have been known as the Schuyler frauds. Robert Schuyler, the president and general transfer agent of the New York
and New Haven Railroad Company, issued, beyond the capital
limited by its charter, but in the form prescribed by its by-laws,
purporting to be transferable on its books on surrender of the
certificates, a largoe amount of certificates of stock, annexed to
which were printed forms of assignment and power of attorney.
In Bridgeport Bank v. New York & New 17aven Railroad,
30 Conn. 231, a bank which bad received, as collateral security
for money lent to a firm of which Schuyler was a member, certificates of stock so issued by him, was held entitled to maintain an action against the corporation for the value of these
certificates, upon the single ground that it was admitted that
when the plaintiff took these certificates the firm held more
than an equal amount of genuine certificates. In New York &t
New H1aven Reailroad v. Se/iuyler, 34 N. Y. 30, it appeared

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that Schuyler had issued, in one and the same form, large numbers of genuine as well as of false certificates, and had raised
on both indiscriminately large amounts of money which had
been applied for the benefit of the corporation, that all his
transactions appeared on its books, and that the directors had
for years been guilty of negligence in not making any examination of the books or of the' conduct of the transfer office;
and none of the purchasers of the false certificates, fIr the value
of which the corporation was held to be liable, had any notice,
or means of knowing, that they were not such as Schuyler was
authorized to issue.
In Titus v. Great Western Turnpike, 61 N. Y. 237, the certificates upon which the corporation was held liable stated the
stock to be owned by the person who as officer of the corporation issued them, not by the person to whom they were issued,
and the latter had no notice of any fraud or irregularity in the
issue. In the other New York cases cited for the plaintiff, the
certificates had been purchased in good faith, in the ]narket.
Bruaf v. Mali, 36 N. Y. 200; Xeeil v. Tenth NationalBankc,
46 N. Y. 325; AJfoore v. Metrolitan Bank, 55 N. Y. 41;
Ifolbrooe v. NYew Jersey Zinc Company, 57 N. Y. 616. See
Aferchants' Bank v. Iivingston, 74 N. Y. 223.
In Kentucky Banc v. Sehaylkill Bank, I Parsons, 180, the
certificates upon which the corporation was held to be liable
were in the hands of innocent purchasers- without notice. The
opinion in People's Ban v. Kurtz, 99 Penn. St. 344, 349, goes
no farther. On the other hand, in IVrigld's Appeal, 99 Penn.
St. 425, where the president of a bank, having no authority to
borrow money in its behalf, induced his aunt, a stockholder
therein, to surrender to him her certificates of shares with
blank powers of attorney, by means of false and fraudulent representations that they Were needed to aid the bank; gave her
his own note therefor, sold the stock, and applied the proceeds
to his own use; and afterwards, by a fraudulent combination
with the other officers of the bank, issued stock in excess of the
lawful limit, and gave her new certificates for those that be had
obtained from her; it was held that he was her agent in the
original transaction, and that, as she gave no value to the bank

MOORES v. CITIZENS' NAT. BANK OF PIQUA.

169

Opinion of the Court.

for the new certificates, the loss must fall upon her, and not
upon the bank.
In Tome v. Parkersburg Railroad, 39 Maryland, 36, there
was no by-law requiring a surrender and transfer of old certificates before the issue of new ones, and no limit of the amount
of stock to be issued; and it was not contended that there had
been any over-issue, or that the plaintiff had any notice of fraud
or want of authority in the officers of the corporation. In
Western Jaryland Railroadv. Ilranklin Bank, 60 Maryland,
36, the certificates were not issued to the plaintiff, but bought
in the market, without any notice of their having been fraudulently or illegally issued.
In Ilackensacle Water Company v. De E(ay, to which the
plaintiff has referred us, the Court of Errors of New Jersey
said: "Indeed, as is apparent from all the cases cited, the doctrine which validates securities within the apparent powers of
the corporation, but improperly and therefore illegally issued,
applies only in favor of bonaS
fide holders for value. A person,
who takes such a security with knowledge that the conditions
on which alone the security was authorized were not fulfilled,
is not protected, and in his hands the security is invalid, though
the imperfection is in some matter relating to the internal
affairs of the corporation, which would be unavailable against
a bonafide holder of the same security." 9 Stew. (N. J.) 548,
565.
The general doctrine was stated with like limitations by this
court in the case of' 3fereiants' Bank v. State Bank: "Where
a party deals with a corporation in good faith-the transaction
is not ultrav ires-andhe is unaware of any defect of authority
or other irregularity on the part of those acting for the corporation, and there is nothing to excite suspicion of such defect or
irregularity, the corporation is bound by the contract, although
such defect or irregularity in fact exists." 10 Wall. 604, 644.
This review of the cases shows that there is no precedent for
holding that the plaintiff, having dealt with the cashier individually, and lent money to him for his private use, and received
from him a certificate in her own nmne, which stated that
shares were transferable only on the books of the bank and on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

surrender of former certificates, and no certificate having been
surrendered by him or by her, and there being no evidence of
the bank having ratified or received any benefit from the transaction, can recover from the bank the value of the certificate
delivered to her by its cashier.
The exceptions to the exclusion of evidence cannot be sustained. The evidence that in one or two other instances stock
was issued by the cashier without the surrender of old certificates,
and that the directors of the bank approved certain transfers to
its president of shares once belonging to the cashier, was quite
insufficient to prove that the bank ratified or received any benefit from the issue of the certificate to the plaintiff, or was guilty
of any fraud towards her. The action of the directors was
adapted to the single purpose of securing payment of a debt
due from the cashier to the bank.
The evidence introduced and offered being insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, the Circuit Court rightly directed
the jury to return a verdict for the defendant. RIandall v.
Baltimore & Olio Railroad,109 U. S. 478.
Juidgment affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE

1BRADLEY dissented.

MR. JUSTICE MATTIIEWS, having been of counsel, did not sit
in this case, or take any part in its decision.

WARE & Another v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

TIE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Dccidcd March 31st, 1884.

Action-imitations,Statute of-Parties-Trust.
If one deals with an agent as principal, and the right of action against the
agent becomes barred by the statute of limitations, it is also barred against
the principal, unless circumstances of equity are shown to prevent the operation of the statute, or unless it appears that there was fraud in the concealment of the agency.

