DRURY v. HAYDEN.
Statement of Facts.

the evidence offered was not of that character. The issue on
trial was, whether the notes belonged to Allen or the Cook
County Bank. To prove they did not belong to Allen, the
plaintiff had procured Allen to testify that the reason he
believed that the surplus of the notes belonged to the Cook
County Bank was because he had never given any directions to
apply the surplus to any purpose. The answer stated that the
defendant had applied the surplus by direction of Bowen.
Then, when Bowen was afterwards examined by the defendant to show that Allen owned the three notes, be testified that
Allen told hin to apply the surplus on a note of his, indorsed
by Bowen, which the defendant had. This was direct proof
on a direct issue in the case, and not proof on a collateral
matter.
Tle judgment of the Circuit Court is ajlrmed.

DRURY v. HAYDEN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

TIE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 25th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Mstalce-_lorgage.
Where in a recorded deed of land subject to a mortgage, an agreement of the
grantee to assume and pay it is inserted by mistake of the scrivener and
against the intention of the parties, and on the discovery of the mistake the
grantor releases the grantee from all liability under the agreement, a court
of equity will not enforce the agreement at the suit of one who, in ignorance
of the agreement, and before the execution of the release, purchases the
notes secured by the mortgage ; although the grantee, after the deed of conveyance to him, paid interest accruing on the notes.

This was an appeal from a decree in equity, in favor of the
holder of promissory notes secured by a mortgage of land
in Chicago, for the payment by the appellant personally of the
sum due on those notes. The material facts appearing by the
pleadings and proofs were as follows:
On July 28th, 1875, Solomon Snow, owning the land, made

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

two mortgages thereof, in the form of trust deeds, with power
of sale in case of default in payment of the principal or interest
of certain promissory notes of the same date, made by him to
Joseph E. Lockwood; the first mortgage to Edwin C. Lamed
as trustee, to secure the payment of a note for $28,000, payable
in five years, and the second mortgage to Roswell B. Bacon as
trustee, to secure the payment of two notes for 6,000 each,
payable in two and three years respectively; and on December 14th, 1875, conveyed the land by warranty deed to William
C. Snow, subject to the two mortgages, which the latter assumed
and agreed to pay and save him harmless from. On January
28th, 18 76 William C. Snow conveyed the land by warranty
deed to Isaac M. Daggett, subject to the two mortgages, but
without any stipulation that Daggett should assume and pay
them. On April 12th, 1876, Daggett conveyed the land by
warranty deed to William Drury, subject to the two mortgages,
"both of which said encumbrances the party of the second part
herein assumes and agrees to pay." Each of the mortgages and
deeds was duly recorded within a few days after its date.
Drury, after receiving the conveyance to him, paid interest accruing on the notes secured by each mortgage.
The testimony of Daggett, of Drury, and of the broker who
negotiated the sale between them, conclusively showed that the
clause in this last deed, by which Daggett agreed to assume and
pay the encumbrances, was inserted by mistake of the scrivener,
without the knowledge and contrary to the intention and agreement of the parties. On July 12th, 1877, as soon as the mistake
was discovered, Daggett executed a deed of release to Drury,
reciting the mistake, and therefore releasing him from all
liability, demand, or right of action, arising from or out of that
agreement. This release was recorded on July 18th, 1877.
About November 1st, 1876, Annie E. Hayden, the appellee,
purchased from Lockwood, for a valuable consideration, the
two notes held by him and secured by the second mortgage.
But she did not allege, or offer any evidence tending to prove,
that at the time of purchasing the notes she knew of or
relied upon the clause in the deed of April 12th, 1876. Her
original bill in this case was filed on January 26th, 1878,

DRURY v. HAYDEN.
Argument for Appellee.

against the mortgagor, the trustees named in each mortgage,
and the successive purchasers of the equity of redemption, for
a foreclosure of the second mortgage and a sale of the land, by
reason of default in the payment of interest on her notes, and
for a personal decree against Drury for the amount of any deficiency, in the proceeds of the sale, to pay her debt. After
answer and replication, the case was referred to a master, who
on February 6th, 1880, reported that the suni due to her was
$15,194.21. It was alleged in a supplemental bill filed on
February 13th, 1880, and was admitted in the answer thereto,
that pending this suit the holder of the first mortgage had filed
a bill and obtained a decree of foreclosure, under which the
land had been sold and conveyed to the purchaser, and that
the mortgagor was insolvent. The Circuit Court entered a final
decree, in accordance with the prayer of Ihayden's supplemental
bill, for the payment by Drury of the sum reported by the
master. See laydcen v. Snow, 9 Bissell, 511. From that decree
this appeal was taken.
.Mr.
J. A IT Burgett for appellant.
.hr.]oswell B. Bacon for appellee.-I. The effect, construction, and interpretation of the assumption clause in the deed
from Daggett to Drury, the appellant, is governed and controlled by the law of the State of Illinois, where it was made
and was to be performed, and such law, whether embraced in
the statutes of said State or in the decisions of its courts, is
binding upon this court. .XeGoonv. Scales, 9 Wall. 27; Brine
v. Insurance Company, 96 U. S. 627; Jackson v. Chew, 12
Wheat. 153 ; Orvis v. Powell, 98 U. S. 176.-Il. The appellant became liable to pay the mortgage indebtedness by virtue
of the assumption clause contained in the deed from his grantor,
Daggett, to him and accepted by him, and such liability
inured to the benefit of the appellee as the owner of the mortgage indebtedness; and it is immaterial whether his grantor,
Daggett, was personally liable for the mortgage debt or not.
Ihand v. Kennedy, 83 N. Y. 149; Ross v. _Kenison, 38 Iowa,
396; Comstock v. -tll, 37 Ill. 542; Fitzgerald v. Barker, 70
VOL. CxI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Mo. 685; fleimn v. Vogel, 69 Mo. 529; Bassett v. h1ughes, 43
Wis. 319; Urquhart v. Brayton, 12 R. I. 169; Merriam v.
Jloore, 90 Penn. St. 78; Brewer v. Maurer, 38 Ohio St. 543;
Rogers v. flerron, 92 Il. 583; Twic ell v. XJ/ear, 8 Bissell,
211; ]Jlagg v. Geltmacher, 98 Ill. 293; Jones on Mortgages,
3d Ed. § 758.-III. The release from Daggett was inoperative
to divest appellee's rights as a bona fide purchaser for value,
and before maturity and with out notice of the mortgage notes,
while said assumption clause stood upon the record unreleased.
Campbell v. Smith, 71 N. Y. 26; Douglass v. Wfells, 18 Hun
(N. Y.) 88; Judson v. Dada, 79 N. Y. 373; fireeman's National Bank v. Savery, 127 Mass. 75; Coolidge v. Sm ith, 129
Mass. 554; Muhlig v. _Fiske, 131 Mass. 110; Rogers v. Gosnell,
58 Mo. 589; Crawford v. Edwards, 33 Mich. 354; Miller v.
Thompson, 34 Mich. 10; Bassett v. fluglws, 43 Wis. 319; Betts'
Trustee, &c., v. Drew et al., United States Circuit Court, Northern District of Illinois, Chicago Legal News, November 8th,
1879; Jones on Mortgages, 3d Ed. §§ 763 and 764; Parkinson
v. Sherman, 74 N. Y. 88; Swift v. Smith, 102 U. S. 442-449.
-IV. The alleged mistake of the scrivener who drew the deed
cannot be set up by the appellant as against the appellee, a
bonafide purchaser for value and without notice. Sickmon v.
IWood, 69 Iil. 329; EKmery v. Jfohler, 69 Ill. 221; Bowen v.
Galloway, 98 Ill. 41-46 ; Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, page 346 ;
Story's Eq. Jur. § 165; New Orleans, &e., Coinpany v. Montgomery, 95 U. S. 16.--V. The citizenship of the parties gave
the court jurisdiction of both the parties and the subject matter, and it was competent for it to grant final relief and, under
the 92d rule in equity of the United States courts to render
a personal decree against the appellant for a deficiency, in
accordance with the prayer of the bill. The decree is sustained by the law and evidence in this case and should be
affirmed. Betts' Trustee v. Drew, United States Circuit Court,
Northern District Illinois, Chicago Legal News, November
8th, 1879.
MR. JuSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:

He

DRURY v. HAYDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

The case presented by the pleadings and proofs appears to
us a plain one.
It is unnecessary, for the purpose of deciding it, to consider
any of those questions, suggested at the argument, upon which
there have been varying decisions in different States; such as,
whether an agreement of the grantee, in a deed poll of land,
to assume and pay an existing mortgage, is in the nature of an
assumpsit, implied from the acceptance of the deed, or is in the
nature of a covenant, being in an instrument sealed by the
other party ; whether a suit upon such an agreement must be
brought by the grantor, from whom alone the consideration
moves, or may be brought by the mortgagee, as a person to
whose benefit the agreement inures; how far the mortgagee
is entitled, by way of subrogation, to avail himself in equity of
the rights of the grantor; and whether or not the mortgagee
has any rights under such an agreement in a deed from one
who is not himself personally liable to pay the mortgage debt.
The appellee, by her purchase of the notes secured by the
second mortgage, doubtless acquired all the rights of the mortgagee.
rew Orleans Canal Company v. Montgomery, 95 U.
S. 16; Swift v. Smdith, 102 U. S. 442. But having purchased
in ignorance of the supposed agreement of Drury in the deed
of conveyance from Daggett to him, and having done nothing
upon the faith of that agreement, she has no greater right by
estoppel against Drury than the mortgagee had. The mortgagee had no part in obtaining, and paid no consideration for,
that agreement, and, upon the most favorable construction, had
no greater right under it than Daggett, with whom it purported
to have been made.
On the facts of this case, Daggett, in a court of equity at
least, never had any right to enforce that agreement against
Drury. The payment of interest on the mortgage notes
would naturally be made by Drury to prevent a foreclosure of
the mortgage on his land, and cannot be held to be an affirmance of an agreement of which he had no actual knowledge.
The clause containing the agreement being conclusively proved
to have been inserted in the deed by mistake of the scrivener,
without the knowledge and against the intention of the parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

a court of equity, upon a bill filed by Drury for the purpose,
would have decreed a reformation of the deed by striking out
that clause. Elliott v. Sackett, 108 U. S. 133. The release
executed by Daggett to Drury has the same effect, and no
more.
It follows that the appellee has no equity against the appellant, and
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

HAYES, by his next Friend, v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL
RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIlE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Railroad-MunicipalCorporations.
A statute authorizing a municipal corporation to require railroad companies to
provide protection against injury to persons and property confers plenary
power in those respects over the railroads within the corporate limits.
When the line of a railroad runs parallel with and adjacent to a public park
which is used as a place of recreation and amusement by the inhabitants of
a municipal corporation, and the corporation requests the company to erect
a fence between the railroad and the park, it is within the design of a statute conferring power upon the municipal corporation to require railroad
companies to protect against injuries to persons.
A grant of a right of way over a tract of land to a railroad company by a municipal corporation by an ordinance which provides that the company shall
erect suitable fences on the line of the road and maintain gates at street
crossings is not a mere contract, but is an exercise of the right of municipal
legislation, and has the force of law within the corporate limits.
If a railroad company, which has been duly required by a municipal corporation to erect a fence upon the line of its road within the corporate limits,
for the purpose of protecting against injury to persons, fails to do so, and
an individual is injured by the engine or cars of the company in consequence, he may maintain an action against the company and recover, if he
establishes that the accident was reasonably connected with the want of
precaution as a cause, and that he was not guilty of contributory negligence.

