BARRETT v. FAILING.
Statement of Facts.

BARRETT v. FAILING & Wife.
APPEAL FROM TIE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOrI

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued April 16th, 17th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Conflict of Law--Dower-Divoce.
A divorce from the bond of matrimony bars the wife's right of dower, unless
preserved by the lex i'ei sitce.
Under § 495 of the Oregon Code of Civil Procedure, as amended by the statute
of December 20th, 1865, providing that whenever a marriage shall be declared void or dissolved the party at whose prayer the decree shall be made
shall be entitled to an undivided third part in fee of the real property
owned by the other party at the time of the decree, in addition to a decree
for maintenance under § 497, and that it shall be the duty of the court to
enter a decree accordingly, a wife obtaining a decree of divorce in a court
of another State, having jurisdiction of the cause and of the parties, acquires no title in the husband's land in Oregon.

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon, by Mary E. Barrett, a citizen
and resident of the State of California, against Charles D. Failing and Xarifa J. Failing, his wife, citizens and residents of the
State of Oregon.
The bill alleged that on September 25th, 1866, the plaintiff
was, and for more than two years theretofore had been, the
wife of Charles Barrett, and was a citizen and resident of the
State of California; that on that day she commenced a suit for
divorce against him, for his misconduct, in a District Court of
the State of California for the Fifteenth Judicial District, that
court having jurisdiction thereof, and being authorized to grant
divorces according to and by virtue of the laws of that State;
that be was duly served with process and appeared and made
defence; and that on April 18th, 1870, the plaintiff being still
a citizen of that State, that court rendered a decree in her favor,
dissolving the bond of matrimony between him and her.
The bill further alleged that at the time of the commencement of that suit Charles Barrett was not the owner of any
real estate in the State of California, but was the owner in fee

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

simple of certain land (particularly described), in Portland, in
the State of Oregon; that on February 4th, 1868, he fraudulently conveyed this land to his daughtee', the female defendant, without consideration, and with intent to defraud the
plaintiff of her just rights in it, and for the purpose of preventing her from asserting her claim thereto or interest therein;
that at the time of the commencement of the suit for divorce
the plaintiff did not know that he was the owner of this land;
that he died in Oregon in July, 1870; and that by the laws of
the State of Oregon, and under and by virtue of the decree of
divorce, the plaintiff became and was entitled to one-third of
this land.
The bill prayed for a decree that the plaintiff was the owner
in fee simple of one-third of this land and that the defendants
held it in trust for her, and for a conveyance, a partition, an
account of rents and profits, and further relief.
The defendants filed a general demurrer to the bill, which
was sustained by the Circuit Court, and the bill dismissed. See
6 Sawyer, 473. The plaintiff appealed to this court.
Xr. W W1
1apnai , X2Jfr. W:. S. Beebee, and Kfrr. Sidney Dell
submitted for appellant on their brief.
Ir. J. N7. Dolph for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. le
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is not doubted that the decree of divorce from the bond of
natrimony, obtained by the plaintiff in California, in a court
having jurisdiction to grant it, and after the husband had appeared and made defence, bound both parties and determined
their status. The question considered by the court below and
argued in this court is whether, by virtue of that decree, and
under the law of Oregon, the wife is entitled to one third of the
husband's land in Oregon.
Unless otherwise provided by local law, a decree of divorce
by a court having jurisdiction of the cause and of the parties,
dissolving the bond of matrimony, puts an end to all obligations
of either party to the other, and to any right which either has

BARRETT v. FAILING.
Opinion of the Court.

acquired by the marriage in the other's property, except so far
as the court granting the divorce, in the exercise of an authority
vested in it by the legislature, orders property to be transferred
or alimony to be paid by one party to the other. In estimating and awarding the amount of alimony or property to be so
paid or transferred, the court of divorce takes into consideration
all the circumnstances of the case, including the property and
means of support of either party; and the order operates in
person im, by compelling the defendant to pay the alimony or
to convey the property accordingly, and does not of
itself transfer any title in real estate, unless allowed that
effect by the law of the place in which the real estate is situated.
Accordingly, it has been generally held that a valid divorce
from the bond of matrimony, for the fault of either party, cuts
off the wife's right of dower, and the husband's tenancy by the
curtesy, unless expressly or impliedly preserved by statute.
_Barber v. Root, 10 Mass. 260; flood v. Ilood, 110 Mass. 463;
Piee v. urmnley, 10 Ohio St. 596 ; Lamicin v. napp, 20 Ohio
St. 454; Gould v. Crow, 57 Missouri, 200; 4 Kent Coin. 54;
2 Bishop Marriage & Divorce (6th ed.), § 706, 712, and cases
cited. In each of the Massachusetts cases just referred to, the
divorce was obtained in another State. The ground of the decision of the Court of Appeals of New York in W-ait v. Wait,
4 N. Y. 95, by which a wife was held not to be deprived of her
right of dower in her husband's real estate by a divorce from
the bond of matrimony for his fault, was, that the legislature
of New York, by expressly enacting that "in case of divorce
dissolving the marriage contract for the misconduct of the wife,
she shall not be endowed," had manifested an intention that
she should retain her right of dower in case of a divorce for
the misconduct of the husband. See also Reynold8 v. Reynolds, 24 Wend. 193. The decisions of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania in Colvin v. Reed, 55 Penn. St. 375, and in Reel
v. Elder, 62 Penn. St. 308, holding that a wife was not barred
of her dower in land in Pennsylvania by a divorce obtained by
her husband in another State, proceeded upon the ground that,
in the view of that court, the court which granted the divorce

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

had no jurisdiction over the wife. And see CMeely v. Clayton,
110 U. S. 701.
Whether a statute of one State, securing or denying the
right of dower in case of divorce, extends to a divorce in a
court of another State, having jurisdiction of the cause and of
the parties, depends very much upon the terms of the statute,
and upon its interpretation by the courts of the State by the
legislature of which it is passed, and in which the land is situated. In ian8field v. ilfehtyre, 10 Ohio, 27, it was held that
a statute of Ohio, which provided that in case of divorce for
the fault of the wife she should be barred of her dower, was
inapplicable to a divorce obtained by the husband in another
State; and the wife was allowed to recover (ower, upon
grounds hardly to be reconciled with the later cases in Ohio
and elsewhere, as shown by the authorities before referred to.
In ilarding v. Alden, 9 Greenl. 140, a wife who had obtained
a divorce in another State recovered dower in Maine under a
statute which, upon divorce for adultery of the husband, directed
"her dower to be assigned to her in the lands of her husband
in the same manner as if such husband was actually dead;"
but the point was not argued, and in the case stated by the
parties it was conceded that the demandant was entitled to
judgment if she had been legally divorced. The statute of
Missouri, which was said in 'Gould v. Crow, 57 Missouri, 205, to
extend to divorces obtained in another State, was expressed in
very general terms: "If any woman be divorced from her husband for the fault or misconduct of such husband, she shall not
thereby lose her dower; but if the husband be divorced from
the wife, for her fault or misconduct, she shall not be endowed."
The Oregon Code of Civil Procedure of 1862 contained the
following section:
" SECT. 495. Whenever a marriage shall be declared void or
dissolved, the real property of the husband or wife shall be discharged from any claim of the other to any estate therein, or
right to the possession or profits thereof, except as in this section
specially provided. If the marriage is declared dissolved on account of the adultery, or conviction of a felony, of either party,

BARRETT v. FAILING.
Opinion of the Court.

the adverse party shall be entitled as tenant in dower or by the
curtesy, as the case may be, in the real property of the other, the
same as if the party convicted of felony or committing the
adultery were dead."

But by the statute of Oregon of December 20th, 1865, § 11,
that section was repealed, and the following enacted in place
thereof :
"SECT. 495.
Whenever a marriage shall be declared void or
dissolved, the party at whose prayer such decree shall be made
shall in all cases be entitled to the one undivided one-third part
in his or her individual right, in fee, of the whole of the real estate owned by the other at the time of such decree, in addition to
the further decree for maintenance provided for in section 497 of
this act ; and it shall be the duty of the court in all such cases to
enter a decree in accordance with this provision."

By section 497, thus referred to, the court, upon declaring
a marriage void or dissolved, has power to further decree
"for the recovery of the party in fault such an amount of
money, in gross or in instalments, as may be just and proper
for such party to contribute to the maintenance of the other ;"
and "for the delivery to the wife, when she is not the
party in fault, of her personal property in the possession or
control of the husband at the time of giving the decree;" as
well as for the future care and custody, nurture and education
of the minor children of the marriage, and for the appointment
of trustees to collect, receive, expend, manage or invest any
sum of money decreed for the maintenance of the wife, or for
the nurture and education of minor children committed to her
care and custody.
The changes in the provisions of section 495 are significant.
The section in its amended form substitutes, for the former
provision that the innocent party, in the case of a divorce for
adultery, or for conviction of felony, should be entitled as tenant in dower or by the curtesy in the real property of the guilty
party as if the latter were dead, a provision that the party at
whose prayer the decree is made shall in all cases be entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to an estate in fee in one-third of the real property owned by
the other party at the time of the decree ; it declares that this
shall be "in addition to the further decree for maintenance
provided for in section 497;" and it further provides that "it
shall be the duty of the court in all such cases to enter a decree
in accordance with this provision."
Considering that this enactment is contained in a code of
civil procedure, and not in a statute regulating and defining
titles in real estate ; that the right conferred is a new title in
fee, acquired only by virtue of this statute, and distinct from a
tenancy in dower or curtesy, as at common law or under the
former statute, which was only for life; that it is declared to
be in addition to maintenance or alimony to be awarded by the
court granting the divorce; and that it is made the duty of
that court to enter a decree in accordance with this provision;
we are clearly of opinion that the statute is limited, in intention and effect, to divorces granted by the courts of Oregon,
which are the only courts within the control of the legislature
which passed the statute.
To extend the provisions of this statute to the case of a divorce obtained in another State would be inconsistent with a
series of decisions of the Supreme Court of Oregon, by which
it has been held that, even where the wife obtains a decree of
divorce in that State, the title in fee in one-third of the husband's real property, which the statute declares she shall have
and that the court shall decree to her, cannot vest in her without a provision to that effect in the decree of divorce, with this
single exception, that if the husband has made a fraudulent
conveyance of his real estate with intent to defeat the right of
his wife therein, and she does not know of his title, or of the
fraud, until after the decree of divorce, she may assert her
right by a bill in equity, which, although required by other
provisions of the Code to be in the form of an oiiginal suit,
brought in the county where the land lies, is in the nature of a
bill of review for newly discovered evidence. Ban .ord v.
Banford, 4 Oregon, 30; JFetmore v. Wetmore, 5 Oregon, 469;
flall v. H ll, 9- Oregon, 452; Weis v. Belthd, 8 Oregon, 522;
Oregon Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 376, 377, 383.

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

529

Syllabus.

The other cases cited in behalf of the appellant are quite
unlike the case at bar.
In Barett v. Barrett,5 Oregon, 411, the suit was not to
assert a title in real estate, but to enforce, out of the land
fraudulently conveyed by the husband to his daughter, payment of the alimony awarded to this appellant by the California decree of divorce, which was held, in accordance with
the decisions of other courts, to be so far in the nature of a
debt, that the wife might sue the husband for it in another
State, and might contest the validity of a conveyance of property made by him with the fraudulent intent of preventing her
from recoverino the alimony. Barber v. Barber, 21 How.
582; ]iieermore v. Boutelle, 11 Gray, 217 ; Bouslough v. Bouslough, 68 Penn. St. 495.
In De Godcy v. De Godey, 39 California, 157, and in Il[etstone v. Coffey, 48 Texas, 269, the point decided was that land
acquired by the husband or the wife during the marriage, the
title in which by the local law vested in neither separately, but
in both in common, continued to belong to both after the divorce, and that a division thereof between them, if not made
by the decree of divorce, might be obtained by a subsequent
suit for partition in the State in which the divorce was granted
and the land was situated.
Judgment aflrmed.

THOMPSON & Another, Administrator, v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF TOLEDO.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURi'T OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OI[TO.
Submitted April 22d, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Partne'ship-'rial--Excel)tions.
A person sued as a partner, and whose name is shown to have been signed by
another person to the articles of partnership, may prove that before the
articles were signed, or the partnership began business, he instructed that
person that he would not be a partner.
VOL. CXI-34

