OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

These motions are denied. The value of the two sections of
land which are in dispute is conceded to be more than $5,000.
The complaint alleges a joint entry and ouster, and the answer
does not set up separate claims to distinct parcels of the land
by the several defendants. The judgment for the recovery of
the possession is against all the defendants jointly. In this
respect the case is entirely different from those of Tapper v.
Wise and _Lynch v. Bailey, 110 U. S. 398. We have jurisdiction therefore.
The questions arising on the merits are, some of them, of a
character that ought not to be disposed of on a motion to
affirm.

KILLIAN v. EBBINGHAUS.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

-fandate-Pracice.
An appeal was taken from the court below by appellant under an incorrect
description, not corresponding with the title in the court below. Under
this incorrect title proceedings were conducted to final judgment here
and a mandate issued. That mandate is now recalled and a new one issued
conforming the title and description to those in the court below.

This was a motion to correct an error in the mandate issued
on the judgment reported in Killian v. Ebbing/aus, 110 U. S.
568.
XTr'. Gcrnet and

[r. Robinson for the motion.

ilir. Cupy and iJXr. Dye opposing.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought against the trustees of the German
Evangelical Concordia Church, then in possession of the premises in dispute. They answered by that name, setting up their
title to the property and their claim to the possession. The
record shows a notice by Ebbinghaus, the appellee and comMR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE

KILLIAN v. EBBINGJAUS.
Opinion of the Court.

plainant below, to the trustees of the German Evangelical
Lutheran Concordia Church. The final decree was against the
"trustees or authorities of the said Concordia Church, whether
under the name of the trustees of the German Evangelical Concordia Church, or under the name of the trustees of the German
Lutheran Evangelical Concordia Church." The trustees appealed, but in their appeal bond they described themselves
as trustees of the German Lutheran Evangelical Concordia
Church. The case was entered here promptly and docketed in
the name of John 0. KOllian et al., trustees of the Germ)n,
Lutlaran Ecangelical Goncordi ch1urch Apl_)ellants v. John TV
Ebbinghaus, trustee. Both parties appeared and argued the
case, as presented by the record, on its merits. No objection
was made to the form of the appeal. A mandate which was
sent to the court below described the appeal as "taken by John
G. Killian et al., trustees of the German Lutheran Evangelical
Concordia Church." As in this there was error, the mandate
has been recalled, and we now order that a new mandate issue
describing the cause below as between John W. Ebbinghaus,
trustee, complainant, and John G. Killian et al., trustees of the
German Evangelical Concordia Church, and August Sievers
el al., trustees of the First Reformed church defendants
(Equity, No. 5,688) and the appeal as "taken by John G.
Killian et al., trustees of the German Evangelical Concordia
Church."
I is so ordered.

