OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

a court of equity, upon a bill filed by Drury for the purpose,
would have decreed a reformation of the deed by striking out
that clause. Elliott v. Sackett, 108 U. S. 133. The release
executed by Daggett to Drury has the same effect, and no
more.
It follows that the appellee has no equity against the appellant, and
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

HAYES, by his next Friend, v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL
RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIlE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Railroad-MunicipalCorporations.
A statute authorizing a municipal corporation to require railroad companies to
provide protection against injury to persons and property confers plenary
power in those respects over the railroads within the corporate limits.
When the line of a railroad runs parallel with and adjacent to a public park
which is used as a place of recreation and amusement by the inhabitants of
a municipal corporation, and the corporation requests the company to erect
a fence between the railroad and the park, it is within the design of a statute conferring power upon the municipal corporation to require railroad
companies to protect against injuries to persons.
A grant of a right of way over a tract of land to a railroad company by a municipal corporation by an ordinance which provides that the company shall
erect suitable fences on the line of the road and maintain gates at street
crossings is not a mere contract, but is an exercise of the right of municipal
legislation, and has the force of law within the corporate limits.
If a railroad company, which has been duly required by a municipal corporation to erect a fence upon the line of its road within the corporate limits,
for the purpose of protecting against injury to persons, fails to do so, and
an individual is injured by the engine or cars of the company in consequence, he may maintain an action against the company and recover, if he
establishes that the accident was reasonably connected with the want of
precaution as a cause, and that he was not guilty of contributory negligence.

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Statement of Facts.

This action was brought by the plaintiff in error to recover
damages for personal injuries alleged to have been caused by the
negligence of the defendant in error. After the evidence in
the cause had been closed, the court directed the jury to return
a verdict for the defendant. A bill of exceptions to that ruling
embodied all the circumstances material to the case, and
presented the question, upon this writ of error, whether there
was sufficient evidence to entitle the plaintiff below to have the
issues submitted to the determination of the jury.
The defendant in running its trains into Chicago, used the
tracks of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, under an
arrangement between them; and no question was made but that
the defendant is to be treated, for the purposes of this case, as
the owner as well as occupier of the tracks.
The tracks in question were situated for a considerable distance in Chicago, including the place where the injury coinplained of was received, on the lake shore. They were built in
fact, at first, in the water on piles; a breakwater, constructed
in the lake, protecting them from winds and waves, and on the
west or land side, the space being filled in with earth, a width
of about 280 feet, to Michigan avenue, running parallel with
the railroad. This space between Michigan avenue and the railroad tracks was public ground, called Lake Park, on the south
end of which was Park Row, a street perpendicular to Michigan
avenue and leading to and across the railroad tracks to the
water's edge. Numerous streets, from Twelfth street north to
Randolph street, intersected Michigan avenue at right angles,
about 400 feet apart, and opened upon the park, but did not
cross it. Nothing divided Michigan avenue from the park, and
the two together formed one open space to the railroad.
The right of way for these tracks was granted to the company by the city of Chicago over public grounds by an ordinance of the common council, dated June 14th, 1852, the 6th
section of which was as follows:
" Suc. 6. The said company shall erect and maintain on the western or inner line of the ground pointed out for its main track on the
lake shore, as the same is hereinbefore defined, such suitable walls,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

fences, or other sufficient works as will prevent animals from
straying upon or obstructing its tracks and secure persons and
property from danger, said structure to be of suitable materials
and sightly appearance, and of such height as the common
council may direct, and no change therein shall be made except
by mutual consent; provided, however, that the company shall
construct such suitable gates at proper places, at the ends of the
streets which are now or may hereafter be laid out, as may be required by the common council, to afford safe access to the lake;
and provided, also, that in case of the construction of an outside
harbor, streets may be laid out to approach the same, in the
manner provided by law, in which case the common council may
regulate the speed of locomotives and trains across them."

It was also provided in the ordinance, that it should be
accepted by the railroad company within ninety days from its
passage, and that thereupon a contract under seal should be
formally executed on both parts, embodying the provisions of
the ordinance and stipulating that the permission, rights, and
privileges thereby conferred upon the company should depend
upon their performance of its requirements. This contract was
duly executed and delivered March 28th, 1853.
The work of filling in the open space between the railroad
tracks and the natural shore line was done gradually, more
rapidly after the great fire of October 9th, 1871, when the
space was used for the deposit of the debris and ruins of buildings, and the work was completed substantially in the wipter
of 1877-8.
In the mean time several railroad tracks had been constructed
by the railroad company on its right of way, used by itself and
four other companies for five years prior to the time of the
injury complained of, and trains and locomotives were passing
very frequently, almost constantly.
The railroad company had also partially filled with stones
and earth the space east of its tracks, to the breakwater,
sufficiently so in some places to enable people to get out to it.
This they were accustomed to do, for the purpose of fishing
and other amusements, crossing the tracks for that purpose.
At one point there was a roadway across the park and the

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Statement of Facts.

tracks, used by wagons for hauling materials for filling up the
space, and a flagman was stationed there. At this point great
numnbers of people crossed to the breakwater; from two streets,
the public were also accustomed to cross over the tracks from
the park to ferry-boats.
From Park Row, at the south end of the park, running
north a short distance, the railroad company, in 1872, had
erected on the west line of its right of way a five-board fence,
the north end of which at the time of the injury to the plaintiff was broken down. The rest of it was in good order.
The park was public ground, free to all, and frequented by
children and others as a place of resort for recreation, especially
on Sundays. Not far from the south end, and about opposite
the end of the fence, was a band-house for free open-air
concerts.
The plaintiff was a boy between eight and nine years of age,
bright and well grown, but deaf and dumb. His parents were
laboring people, living, at the time of the accident, about four
blocks west of Lake Park. Across the street from where they
lived was a vacant lot where children in the neighborhood frequently played. On Sunday afternoon, March 17th, 1878, St.
Patrick's day, the plaintiff, in charge of a brother about two
years older, went to this vacant lot, with the permission of his
father, to play ; while playing there a procession celebrating
the day passed by, and the plaintiff, with other boys, but without the observation of his brother, followed the procession to
Michigan avenue at Twelfth street, just south of Lake Park;
he and his companions then returned north to the park, in
which they stopped to play; a witness, going north along and
on the west side of the tracks, when at a point a considerable
distance north of the end of the broken fence, saw a freight
train of the defendant coining north ; turning round toward it
he saw the plaintiff on the track south of him, but north of the
end of the fence; he also saw a colored boy on the ladder on
the side of one of the cars of the train motioning as if he
wanted the plaintiff to come along; the plaintiff started to run
north beside the train, and as he did so, turned and fell, one or
more wheels of the car passing over his arm. There were four

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

tracks at this point, and the train was on the third track from
the park. The plaintiff had his hands reached out towardsthe
car, as he ran, as if he was reaching after it, and seemed to the
witness to be drawn around by the draft of the train, and fall
on his back. Amputation of the left arm at the shoulder was
rendered necessary, and constituted the injury for which
damages were claimed in this suit.
After the evidence in the case had been closed, the court instructed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, to which
ruling the plaintiff excepted. Judgment was entered on the
verdict and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
X'. A. D. Riek, Mi. George C.Fry, and 21r. J. W. Jferriamn
for plaintiff in error submitted on their brief.
Mr. Asidey Pond for defendant in error.-There is no statute of the State of Illinois under which it was the duty of the
Illinois Central or Michigan Central to fence the right of way
at the place of the accident. It is not so claimed by the plaintiff. It is alleged that the duty exists (1) at common law, (2)
by force of the ordinance of the city of Chicago granting the
right of way to the Illinois Central, and not otherwise.-I. The
defendant is not liable at common law for failure to fence the
right of way. Van dergrft v. DelawareRailroad Co7npany, 2
Houston (Del.) 287; Alton, &e., Railroad Con2pany v. Baugl ,
14 Ill. 211 ; Boston c Albavy Railroad Company v. Briggs,
132 Mass. 24; Riehmond v. Sacramento, &c., Railroad Company, 18 Cal. 351; Jacon, &c.,Railroad Company v. Baker,
42 Geo. 300; Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Reedy, 17
Ill. 580; Williams v. New Albany, &c., Railroad Company, 5
Ind. 111 ; hlenry v. Dubuque Railroad Cony)any, 2 Iowa, 288;
Louisville, me., Railroad Conpany v. 21ilton, 14 13. Mon. 75;
Louisville Railroad Conpany v. Ballard, 2 Met. (Ky.) 165;
Kniglt v. Opelousas, &c., Railroad Company, 15 La. Ann. 105;
Perkins v. Eastern, &e., Railroad Company, 29 Maine, 307;
Stearns v. Old Colony Railroad Company, 1 Allen, 493;
Ifillianms. v. Michigan Central Railroad Company, 2 Mich.
259; Locke v. First Div., &c., Railroad Company, 15 Minn.

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

350; New Orleans, &e., Company v. Field, 46 Miss. 573;
emphis, &e., Co'pany v. Orr, 43 Miss. 279; Gorman v. ])acqfti Railroad, 26 Mo. 441; Vandergrift v. Rediker, 2 Zabriskie (N. J. L.) 185; Woolson v. Northern Railroad Compang, 19 N. I. 267; Oapin v. Sullivan Railroad Company,
39 N. II. 53; Tonawanda Railroad Company v. Xfnger, 5
Den. 255; S. C. aff. 4 N. Y. 345; Corwin v. vew York, &e.,
Company, 13 N. Y. 42; Nerwhacker v. C. C., &e., Comp)any, 3
Ohio, 185 ; RailroadCompany v. Riblet, 66 Penn. St. 164; Railroad Company v. Skinner, 10 Penn. St. 287; Tower v. Providence, &c., Company 2 R. I. 404; Hard v. Rutland, &c., Rcailroad Company, 25 Vt. 116; Stucke v. 11ilwaukee, &e., Company,
9 Wis. 202. In re Rensselaer, &e., Railroad Company, 4 Paige,
553, contra, has been disregarded and practically overruled by
the subsequent decisions in New York cited above. Quimby
v. Vermont Central Railroad Company, 23 Vt. 387, also contra,
is followed as to the corporation involved in Trow v. Railroad
Company, 24 Vt., but the doctrine above set forth is fully
recognized in the ffurd case, 25 Vt. 487, cited above, where the
company's liability is put wholly upon the ground of the statutory provision.-II. The defendant is not liable under the
ordinance referred to in the declaration. (1.) The ordinance
and agreement between the city and the railroad company
created no liability other than in covenant. The railroad company may be liable for a breach, but the ordinance and agreement cannot be made the basis of liability to a citizen. Atkinson
v. Newcastle Water Works Company, 2 Exch. Div. 441. (2.)
No default is shown in the performance of the conditions of
the ordinance and agreement. Some direction from the council
as to the character of the structure was a condition precedent
to the obligation of the company to erect it. Lent v. Padelford, 2 Am. L. C. 57, citing WVatson v. W,
1alker, 23 N. I-.
471; Bas/ford v. Shiaw, 4 Ohio St. 263; Walker v. Forbes, 25
Ala. 139; Vyse v. WVakef eld, 6 M. & N. 442; S. C. 7 M. & N.
126; see also West v. Yewton, 1 Duer, 277; Coombe v. Greene,
11 M. & N. 480; Brooklyn v. Brooklyn City Railroad,47 N.
Y. 475. (3.) A failure to perform the terms of the ordinance
and agreement between the city and the railroad company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

would give no rights except interyartes. Lowery v. Brooklyn
City Railroad, 76 N. Y. 28. (4.) The ordinance imposed no
duties towards intruders on the track. (5.) The requirements
of the ordinance had no reference to the place of the accident.
(6.) The ordinance, dissociated from the agreement between the
city and the company, cannot create a civil liability enforceable at common law. The power of the legislature is plenary
to compel action on the part of the citizen; but a municipality
cannot by ordinance create a civil duty. -Van Dyke v. Cincinnal, 1 Disney (0.) 532; P/iladellIhia & R2eading Railroad,
v. Erwin, 89 Penn. St. 71; Ifeeney v. 8Sprague, 11 R. I. 456;
Flynn v. Canton Conpany, 40 Maryland, 312.--III. There is
no evidence that the alleged failure to fence was the proximate
cause of the injury.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWs delivered the opinion of the court.
ie stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
The question of contributory negligence does not appear to
us to arise upon this record. It is not contended by the counsel for the defendant in error, that, if there was evidence tending to prove negligence on its part, the case could properly
have been withdrawn from the jury on the ground that it appeared as matter of law that the plaintiff was not entitled to
recover by reason of his own contributory negligence. The
single question, therefore, for present decision is whether there
was evidence of negligence on the part of the defendant which
should have been submitted to the jury.
The particular negligence charged in the declaration and
relied on in argument, is the omission of the railroad company
to build a fence on the west line of its right of way, dividing
it from Lake Park; a duty, it is alleged, imposed upon it by
the ordinance of June 14th, 1852, a breach of which resulting in
his injury, confers on the plaintiff a right of action for damages.
It is not claimed on the part of the plaintiff in error that the
railroad company was under an obligation, at common law, to
fence its tracks generally, but that, at common law, the ques,
tion is always whether, under the circumstances of the particular case, the railroad has been constructed or operated with

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

such reasonable precautions for the safety of others, not in
fault, as is required by the maxim 81i utere tuo ut non alienum
lcdas; that, consequently, in circumstances where the public
safety requires such a precaution as a fence, to prevent danger
from the oMinary operations of the railroad, to strangers not
themselves in fault, the omission of it is negligence; and that
it is a question of fact for a jury, whether the circumstances
exist which create such a duty.
This principle has been recognized and applied in cases of
collisions at crossings of railroads and public highways, when
injuries have occurred to persons necessarily passing upon and
across railroad tracks in the use of an ordinary highway.
"These cases," said the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in
Eaton v. Ficlthburg Railroad Company, 129 Mass. 364, "all
rest on the common-law rule that when there are different
public easements to be enjoyed by two parties at the same
time and in the same place, each must use his privilege with
due care, so as not to injure the other. The rule applies to
grade crossings, because the traveller and the railroad each has
common rights in the highway at those points. The fact that
the legislature has seen fit, for the additional safety of travellers,
imperatively to require the corporation to give certain warnings at such crossings, does not relieve it from the duty of
doing whatever else may be reasonably necessary." It was
accordingly held in that case, that the jury might properly consider, whether, under all the circumstances, the defendant was
guilty of negligence in not having a gate or a flagman at the
crossing, although not expressly required to do so by any
statute or public authority invested with discretionary powers
to establish such regulations.
And the same principle has been applied in other cases than
those of the actual coincidence, at crossings, of public highways.
In Barnes v. 1Vard, 9 C. B. 392, it was decided, after much
consideration, that the proprietor and occupier of land making
an excavation on his own land, but adjoining a public highway,
rendering the way unsafe to those who used it with ordinary
care, was guilty of a public nuisance, even though the danger
consisted in the risk of accidentally deviating from. the road,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and liable to an action for damages to one injured by reason
thereof; for the danger thus created may reasonably deter
prudent persons from using the way, and thus the full enjoyment of it by the public is, in effect, as much impeded as in the
case of an ordinary nuisance to a highway. This doctrine has
always since been recognized in England. Ilardastlev. South
Yorkshire Ry. Co. 4 Hurl. & Nor. 67; Ilownsell v. Smyth,
7 C. B. N. S. 731; Binks v. South Yorkshire fly. Co., 3 B. &
S. 244.
It has also been generally adopted in this country. Norwich
v. Breed, 30 Conn. 535; Beck v. Carter, 68 N. Y. 283; JIoman
v. Stanley, 66 Penn. St. 464; B. &} 0. -R. i. co. v. Boteler,
38 IV[d. 568; Stratton v. Stap-les, 59 Me. 94; Young v. liarvey, 16 Ind. 314; Cogyswell v. Inliabitants of Lexington, 4
Cush. 307; although Iowland v. Vincent, 10 Metc. 371, is an
exception.
The enforcement of this rule in regard to excavations made
by proprietors of lots adjacent to streets and public grounds in
cities and towns, in the prosecution of building enterprises, and
in the construction of permanent areas for cellar ways, is universally recognized as an obvious and salutary exercise of the
common police powers of municipal government; and the
omission to provide barriers and signals, prescribed by ordinance
in such cases for the safety of individuals in the use of thoroughfares, is a failure of duty, charged with all the consequences of
negligence, including that of liability for personal injuries of
which it is the responsible cause. The true test is, as said by
Ho ar, S., in Alger v. City of lowell, 3 Allen, 402, "not whether
the dangerous place is outside of the way, or whether some
small slip of ground not included in the way must be traversed
in reaching the danger, but whether there is such a risk of a
traveller, using ordinary care, in passing along the street, being
thrown or falling into the dangerous place, that a railing is requisite to make the way itself safe and convenient."
As the ground of liability in these cases is that of a public
nuisance, causing special injury, the rule, of course, does not
apply where the structure complained of on the defendant's
property, and the mode of its use, are authorized by law; and,

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

consequently, what has been said is not supposed to bear directly and strictly on the question in the present case, but
rather as inducement, showing the ground of legislative
authority implied in the ordinance, the breach of which is
imputed to the defendant as negligence towards the plaintiff,
and as serving to interpret the meaning and application of its
provisions.
The ordinance cannot, we think, be treated as a mere contract between the city, as proprietor of the land over which
the right of way is granted, and the railroad company, to which
no one else is privy, and under which no third person can derive immediately any private right, prescribing conditions of
the grant, to be enforced only by the city itself. Although it
takes the form of a contract, provides for its acceptance and
contemplates a written agreement in execution of it, it is also
and primarily a municipal regulation, and as such, being duly
authorized by the legislative power of the State, has the force
of law within the limits of the city. _Mason v. Sktawneelown,
77 Ill. 533.
Neither can the ordinance be limited by construction to the
mere purpose of preventing animals from straying upon or
obstructing the railroad tracks; because, in addition to that, it
expressly declares that the walls, fences, or other works required shall be suitable and sullicient to secure persons and
property from danger. This cannot refer to persons and
property in course of transportation and already in care of the
railroad company as common carrier, for the duty to carry and
deliver them safely was already and otherwise provided for by
law; nor, can it be supposed, from the nature of the case, that
the stipulation was intended as security for any corporate
interest of the city. The proviso in the 6th section, that the
company shall construct such suitable gates at crossings as
thereafter might be required by the common council to afford
safe access to the lake, clearly designates the inhabitants of the
city as at least within the scope of this foresight and care, the
safety of whose persons and property was in contemplation.
The prevention or animals from straying upon the tracks,
and the security of persons and property from danger, are two

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

distinct objects, for both which the requirement is made of
suitable walls, fences, or other protections; and the ordinance,
in these two particulars, is to be referred to distinct legislative
grants of power to the municipal body. The general act to
provide for the incorporation of cities and villages, which constitutes the charter of the city of Chicago, confers upon its city
council power: "Twenty-sixth. To require railroad companies
to fence their respective railroads, or any portion of the same,
and. to construct cattle guarcls, crossings of streets, and public
roads, and keep the same in repair within the limits of the corporation. In case any railroad company shall fail to comply
with any such ordinance, it shall be liable for all damages the
owner of any cattle or horses or other domestic animal may
sustain, by reason of injuries thereto while on the track of such
railroad, in like manner and/extent as under the general laws
of this State, relative to the fencing of railroads." Cothran's
Rev. Stat. Ill. 1884, 227. By the general law of the State,
requiring railroads to be fenced, except within the limits of
municipal corporations, the company omitting performance of
the duty is liable to the owner for all damages to animals, irrespective of the question of negligence. Cothran's R1ev. Stat.
Ill. 1884, 1151.
Whether this provision is limited to the protection of animals,
and covers only the case of damage done to them, or whether
a failure to comply with the ordinance authorized thereby
might be considered as evidence of negligence, in case of injury
tc person or property, in any other case, it is not necessary for
us now to decide; for in the same section of the statute there
is this additional power conferred upon the city council:
"Twenty-seventh. To require railroad companies to keep
flagmen at railroad crossings of streets, and provide protection
agairnst injury to persons and property in the use of such railroads," &c.
The latter clause of this provision is general and unrestricted.
It confers plenary power over railroads within the corporate
limits, in order that by such requirements as in its discretion it
may prescribe, and as are within the just limits of police regulation, the municipal authority may provide protection against

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.

239

Opinion of the Court.

injury to persons and property likely to arise from the use of
railroads. And as we have shown by reference to analogous
cases, the erection of a barrier between the railroad tracks and
the public highways and grounds, particularly such a resort as
the Lake Park is shown to be, in the present case, is a reasonable provision, clearly within the limits of such authority. To
leave the space between the park and the breakwater, traversed
by the numerous tracks of the railroad company, open and free,
under the circumstances in proof, was a constant invitation to
crowds of men, women and children frequenting the park to
push across the tracks at all points to the breakwater, for recreation and amusement, at the risk of being run down by constantly passing trains. A fence upon the line between them
might have served, at least, as notice and signal of danger, if
not as an obstacle and prevention. For young children, for
whose health and recreation the park is presumably in part intended, and as irresponsible in many cases as the dumb cattle,
for whom a fence is admitted to be some protection, such an
impediment to straying might prove of value and importance.
The object to be attained-the security of the persons of the
people of the city-was, we think, clearly within the design of
the statute and the ordinance; and the means required by the
latter to be adopted by the railroad company was appropriate
and legitimate. iayor, &ce., of vew York v. Williams, 15
N. Y. 502.
It is said, however, that it does not follow that whenever a
statutory duty is created, any person who can show that he has
sustained injuries from the non-performance of that duty can
maintain an action for damages against the person on whom
the duty is imposed; and we are referred to the case of Atkdinson
v. Newcastle Water Worlks Co., L. R. 2 Exch. Div. 441, as authority for that proposition, qualifying as it does the broad
doctrine stated by Lord Campbell in Couch.v. Steel, 3 E. & B.
402. But accepting the more limited doctrine admitted in the
language of Lord Cairns in the case cited, that whether such an
action can be maintained must depend on the "purview of the
legislature in the particular statute, and the language which
they have there employed," we think the right to sue, under

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the circumstances of the present case, clearly within its limits.
In the analogous case of fences required by the statute as a
protection for animals, an action is given to the owners for the
loss caused by the breach of the duty. And although in the
case of injury to persons by reason of the same default, the
failure to fence is not, as in the case of animals, conclusive of
the liability, irrespective of negligence, yet an action will lie
for the personal injury, and this breach of duty will be evidence
of negligence. The duty is due, not to the city as a municipal
body, but to the public, considered as composed of individual
persons; and each person specially injured by the breach of
the obligation is entitled to his individual compensation, and to
an action for its recovery. "The nature of the duty," said
Judge Cooley in Taylor v. 1. S. do X. S. R. Company, 45 Mich.
74, " and the benefits to be accomplished through its performance, must generally determine whether it is a duty to the
public in part or exclusively, or whether individuals may claim
that it is a duty imposed wholly or in part for their especial
benefit." See, also, Railroad Company v. Teriune, 50 Ill. 151 ;
Schmidt v. T/e Mbilwaukfree & St. Paul Railway Company, 23
Wise. 186 ; Siemers v. Eisen, 54 Cal. 418; Galena & CieaYo
Union -RailroadCompany v. Loomjs, 13 Ill. 548 ; 0. & f.
LRailroad Company v. McClelland, 25 Ill. 140 ; St. I. V. & T. IL
Railroad Company v. Dunn, 78 Ill. 197; Jassoth.v. Delaware
& Hudson Canal Company, 64 N. Y. 521; B. &o0. Railroad
Company v. State, 29 Md. 252; Pollock v. Eastern Railroad
Company, 124 Mass. 158; Cooley on Torts, 657.
It is said, however, that, in the present case, the failure or
omission to construct a fence or wall cannot be alleged as negligence against the company, because, as the structure was to
be, as described in the ordinance, of suitable materials and
sightly appearance, and of such height as the common council
might direct, no duty could arise until after the council had
directed the character of the work to be constructed, of which
no proof was offered. But the obligation of the company was
not conditioned on any previous directions to be given by the
city council. It was absolute, to build a suitable wall, fence, or
other sufficient work as would prevent animals from straying

HAYES v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the tracks and secure persons and property from danger.
The right of the council was to give specific directions if it saw
proper, and to supervise the work when done, if necessary ; but
it was matter of discretion, and they were not required to act
in the first instance, nor at all, if they were satisfied with the
Talbnan v.
work as executed by the railroad company.
Syracuse, Bingbagnon & IV. Y Railroad Comp)any, 4 Keyes,
128 ; Brooklyn v. Brooklyn City Railroad Company, 47 N. Y.
475.
It is further argued that the direction of the court below was
right, because the want of a fence could not reasonably be alleged as the cause of the injury. In the sense of an efficient
cause, causa causans, this is no doubt strictly true; but that is
not the sense in which the law uses the term in this connection.
The question is, was it causa sine qua non, a cause which if it
had not existed, the injury would not have taken place, an occasional cause ? and that is a question of fact, unless the causal
connection is evidently not proximate. 9filwaukee & St. Paul
Railroad Company v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469. The rule laid
down by Willes J., in Daniel v. Jfetriopolitan Railway Gonapany, L. R. 3 C. P. 216, 222, and approved by the Exchequer
Chamber, L. R. 3 C. P. 591, and by the House of Lords, L. R.
5 11. L. 45, was this: " It is necessary for the plaintiff to
establish by evidence circumstances from which it may fairly
be inferred that there is reasonable probability that the accident
resulted from the want of some precaution which the defendants might and ought to have resorted to;" and in the case of
Williamns v. Great Vestern Railhway Comp)any, L. R. 9 Excheq. 157, where that rule was applied to a case similar to the
present, it was said (p. 162) : " There are many supposable circumstances under which the accident may have happened,
and which would connect the accident with the neglect. If the
child was merely wandering about and he had met with a stile,
he would probably have been turned back; and one at least
of the objects for which a gate or stile is required, is to warn
people of what is before them and to make them pause before
reaching a dangerous place like a railroad."
The evidence of the circmnstances showing negligence on the
VOL. CxI-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

part of the defendant, which may have been the legal cause of
the injury to the plaintiff, according to the rule established in

Railroad Comnpany v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657, and Randall v. B.
& 0. Railroad Conq2any, 109 U. S. 478, should have been submitted to the jury; and for the error of the Circuit Court in
directing a verdict for the defendant,
IlViejudgment is reversed and a new trial awarded.

TEAL v. WALKER.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued March 25th, 26th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Xlortgage-Pleading.
When a demurrer to a complaint for failure to state a cause of action is overruled, the defendant, by answering, does not lose his right to have the judgment on the verdict reviewed for error in overruling the demurrer.
A conveyance to a trustee, absolute on its face, but with an instrument of dofeasance showing that it is to secure payment of a debt due to a third
party, is a mortgage, and is subject to the rule that a mortgagee is not
entitled to the rents and profits until he acquires actual possession.
The rule that the mortgagee is not entitled to the rents and profits before
actual possession, applies even when the mortgagor covenants in the mortgage
to surrender the mortgaged property on default in payment of the debt, and
nevertheless refuses to deliver it after default, and drives the trustee to his
action to enforce the trust.
The statute of Oregon which provides that "a mortgage of real property shall
not be deemed a conveyance so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to
recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale according to law," establishes absolutely the rule that a mortgagee is not entitled
to the rents and profits before foreclosure.

This was an action at law brought by Walker, the defendant
in error, against Teal, the plaintiff in error. The record disclosed the following facts: On August 19th, 1874, Bernard
Goldsmith borrowed of James D. Walker the sum of $100,000,
and gave to the latter his note, dated Portland, Oregon,.

