PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.

49

Syllabus.

The assertion that although no Federal question was raised
below, and although the mind of the state court was not directed to the fact that a right protected by the Constitution of
the United States was relied upon, nevertheless it is our duty
to look into the record and determine whether the existence
of such a claim was not necessarily involved, is demonstrated
to be unsound by a concluded line of authority. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S.131, 181; 1French v. H opkins, 124 U. S. 524;
Chlappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132; Baldwin v. K~ansas,
129 U. S. 52; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Oxley Stave Co.
v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648; Columbia TFater Power Co.
v. Columbia Street Railway Co., 172 U. S. 475.
The error involved in the argument arises from failing to observe that the particular character of Federal right which is
here asserted is embraced within those which the statute requires to be "specially set up or claimed." The confusion of
thought involved in the proposition relied upon is very clearly
pointed out in the authorities to which we have referred, and
especially in the latest case cited, Columbia Water Power Co.
v. Columbia Street Railway Co., supra.
Dismissedfor want of jursditio.

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 194.

Submitted March 13, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1901.

Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway Company, 179 U. S.658, sustained and
followed as to the relations of the trial court to the jury in regard to its
finding.
The question whether the deceased did or did not commit suicide was one
of fact, and after the jury had found that he did not, and its finding had
been approved by the trial court and by the Court of Appeals, this court
would not be justified in disturbing it.
On April 5, 1895, a certificate of membership, in the amount of $3000, was
issued by the Supreme Lodge to Frank E. Beck, payable on his death to
his widow, Mrs. Lillian H. Beck. The application for membership conVOL. cLxxxi--4

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
tained this stipulation: "It is agreed that, if death shall result by suicide, whether sane or insane, voluntary or involuntary, or if death is
caused or superinduced by the use of intoxicating liquors or by the use of
narcotics or opiates, or in consequence of a duel, or at the hands of justice,
or in violation of or attempt to violate any criminal law, then there shall
be paid only such a sum in proportion to the whole amount of the certificate as the matured life expectancy at the time of such death is to the
entire expectancy at date of acceptance of the application by the board
of control." It was on the conduct of Beck before he committed suicide
an instruction was asked for, which the trial court, in its charge to the
jury referred to as follows: "Here is an instruction asked, which I refused,
and I wish to state here that is the instruction that if Frank B. Beck was
violating any law at the time he was killed, why under the policy he cannot recover-under the by-laws. As I understand that by-law, it must
be a case where a man is in the act of violating the law. For instance,
if a man in breaking into a house is killed in the act, he cannot recover.
If a man is in a quarrel and gets killed he cannot recover. But if a man
contemplating that he was going to kill his wife if she didn't go home with
him, but was not in the act and doing that at the time le was killed, that
clause of the policy does not apply." Held, that this instruction correctly
states the law.
The plaintiff, in her proofs of loss, stated that the deceased came to his
death by suicide, and to that effect was the verdict of the coroner's jury.
With respect to this the court charged that there was no estoppel; that
the plaintiff could explain the circumstances under which she signed the
statement, and that, while standing alone, it would justify a verdict for
the defendant, yet, if explained, and the jury were satisfied that the death
did not result from suicide, she was not concluded by this declaration.
Held, that there was no error in this ruling.

ON April 5, 1895, a certificate of membership, in the amount
of $3000, was issued by the plaintiff in error to Frank E. Beck,
payable on his death to his widow, Lillian 1. Beck. The application for membership contained this stipulation:
"It is agreed that, if death shall result by suicide, whether
sane or insane, voluntary or involuntary, or if'
death is caused
or superinduced by the use of intoxicating liquors or by the use
of narcotics or opiates, or in consequence of a duel, or at the
hands of justice, or in violation of or attempt to violate any
criminal law, then there shall be paid only such a sum in proportion to the whole amount of the certificate as the matured
life expectancy at the time of such death is to the entire expectancy at date of acceptance of the application by the board

of control."

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.

51

Opinion of the Court.

On October 31, 1896, he was killed by the discharge of a gun
at the time held in his hands. After his death a coroner's jury
found that he died "by shooting himself in the head with a
double barrel shotgun, with the purpose and intent of committing suicide, while temporarily insane, due probably to the use
of intoxicants. That the shooting was done in the outside water
closet of the premises now occupied by the family of C. B.
Nolan, and that he threatened to kill his wife before killing
himself." Proofs of death were furnished by his widow, in
which question 14 and answer were as follows: "14. Was death
caused by suicide or violence or from other than natural causes?
A. Suicide."
On April 13, 1897, an action was commenced in the District
Court of the First Judicial District of the State of Montana, in
and for the county of Lewis and Clark, by his widow to recbver
$3000, the amount of the insurance. This action was removed
by the defendant to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Montana. The answer set up specifically that
the insured died from "self-destruction and suicide," and further, "that prior to said Beck taking his own life said Beck was
attempting to and did violate the criminal laws of the State of
Montana." In the Circuit Court a trial was had, which resulted
in a verdict and judgment for plaintiff. The judgment was
taken by the defendant to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and by that court affirmed May 16,
1899, 36 C. C. A. 467, to reverse which judgment of affirmance
this writ of error was sued out.
21'. Carlos S. Hardy for plaintiff in error.
21r. C. B. Nolan for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question discussed by counsel for plaintiff in
error, and the important question in the case, is whether the
trial court erred in refusing a peremptory instruction to find a

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

verdict for the defendant. It is said that the testimony established the fact of suicide, and that there was no sufficient doubt
in respect thereto to justify a submission of the question to a
jury. We have recently had before us a case coming, like this,
from the trial court, through the Court of Appeals, Patton v.
Texas & Pacifio Railway Comlany, 179 U. S. 658, in which
the action of the trial court in directing a verdict was vigorously
attacked as an invasion of the province of the jury to determine
every question of fact. That case stands over against this, for
there the trial court directed a verdict. Here it refused to
direct one. In each case its action was approved by the Court
of Appeals. In that case, although the question was doubtful,
we sustained the rulings of the lower courts, and the considerations which then controlled us compel a like action in the present'case. We said that a trial court had the right, under certain
conditions, to direct a verdict one way or the other, (citing several cases to that effect,) but added:
"It is undoubtedly true that cases are not to be lightly taken
from the jury ; that jurors are the recognized triers of questions
of fact, and that ordinarily negligence is so far a question of
fact as to be properly submitted to and determined by them.
Riehmond &fDanville .Railroadv. Powers, 149 U. S. 43.
"Hence it is that seldom an appellate court reverses the action
of a trial court in declining to give a peremptory instruction
for a verdict one way or the other. At the same time, the
judge is primarily responsible for the just outcome of the trial.
He is not a mere moderator of a town meeting, submitting questions to the jury for determination, nor simply ruling on the
admissibility of testimony, but one who in our jurisprudence
stands charged with full responsibility. He has the same opportunity that jurors have for seeing the witnesses, for noting
all those matters in a trial not capable of record, and when in
his deliberate opinion there is no excuse for a verdict save in
favor of one party, and he so rules by instructions to that effect,
an appellate court will pay large respect to his judgment. And
if such judgment is approved by the proper appellate court,
this court, when called upon to review the proceedings of both
courts, will rightfully be much influenced by their concurrent
opinions." p. 660.

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.

53

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the deceased committed suicide was a question of
fact, and a jury is the proper trier of such questions. It is not
absolutely certain that the deceased committed suicide. The
following are the facts, at least, from the testimony, the jury
was warranted in finding them to be the facts: The deceased
and his wife had been married some six years. They had one
child, a little girl, of whom he was very fond. They lived happily together except when he was drinking, and then he became
irritable, and they quarreled. For six weeks prior and up to
four days before his death he had not been drinking. The only
evidence that he ever thought of taking his life is the testimony
of a domestic, who had worked in the family for two or three
years but had left a year and four months before his death,
that when once she called his attention to the fact that he was
drinking heavily, his reply was that "a man that has as much
trouble as he had, the sooner the end came the better," and a
similar remark at another time, that such a man "would be
better off dead than living." Two days before his death his
wife left her home and went to a neighbor's. He tried to persuade her to return, but she refused to do so while he was drinking. There were two guns in his house, one a single barrel shotgun, belonging to his wife, and one a double barrel shotgun, his
own. The domestic then employed had concealed both by direction of Mrs. Beck. The day before the killing he went to a store
in the city and hired a gun. He was at home the day of his
death, sleeping a good deal. Late in the afternoon he got up and
called for his gun, saying he was going hunting. Evidently he
got his own gun or the gun he had hired the day before. In
the evening he went to the house where his wife was staying
and sought admission. A friend was with him. Admission
was refused. He became demonstrative, and a call was made
for a policeman, who soon came in a hack. The breaking of
glass suggested that he had gotten into the house. The policeman went inside, when the hack driver, who had brought the
policeman, called out that the deceased had gone into the back
yard and into a water closet. The hack driver heard him go
into the closet, and after a minute or so heard him step outside,
and immediately the gun was discharged, and on examination

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

he was found with the upper part of his head shot off. It was
so dark that no one saw the circumstances of the shooting.
Whether it was accidental or intentional is a matter of surmise.
The undertaker testified that there was a mark on the face under the left eye as though the face had been pressed to the barrel of the gun; that there were no powder marks on the face
as there would have been had the gun not been held close to
the skin. But whether that mark, if it came from the gun, was
because he deliberately placed his head on .the top of the gun,
or, as a drunken man, stumbled and fell against it, is a matter
of conjecture. There was a dispute as to whether, in view of
the length of the gun and the shortness of his arm, he could
have reached the trigger without the aid of a pencil or piece
of wood, no trace of which was found, or indeed looked for.
Under those circumstances it is impossible to say that beyond
dispute he committed suicide. The discharge of the gun may as
well have happened from the careless conduct of a drunken man
as from an intentional act. At any rate, the question was one of
fact, and the jury found that he did not commit suicide, and
after its finding has been approved by the trial court and the
Court of Appeals, we are not justified in disturbing it.
Neither can it be said that death came "in violation of or attempt to violate any criminal law." Before he left home with
the gun he said he was going hunting. While from his conduct
he apparently changed his mind, and doubtless went to the
house where his wife was stopping with the view of persuading
or compelling her to return home, and may have intended violence against her if she refused, yet the death resulted not as a
consequence of any violation or attempt to 'iolate the criminal
law. In this respect the court charged the jury as follows:
"1Here is an instruction asked which I refuse, and I wish to
state here that is the instruction that if Frank E. Beck was
violating any law at the time he was killed, why under the
policy he cannot recover-under the by-laws. As I understand
that by-law, it must be a case where a man is in the act of violating the law. For instance, if a man in breaking into a house
is killed in the act, he cannot recover. If a man is in a quarrel
and gets killed he cannot recover. But if a man contemplating

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.

55

Opinion of the Court.

that he was going to kill his wife if she didn't go home with
him, but was not in the act and doing that at the time he was
killed, that clause of the policy does not apply."
This instruction correctly states the law. The death must in
some way come as a consequence of the violation or attempted
violation of the criminal law, and the stipulation does not apply
when it is simply contemporaneous and in no manner connected
with the alleged violation or attempt to violate. For instance,
if the deceased had started with the avowed intent to kill his
wife, and while walking down the street a tree had fallen and
killed him, the fact that he was starting upon an intentional
violation of the law would not make this stipulation applicable,
because the cause of his death would be entirely disconnected
from the criminal act. So here, whatever may have been the
general thought and purpose running in his mind as he went to
the house where his wife was, his act in going into and stepping
out of the water closet was in no manner connected with or
part of an attempt to carry out any criminal purpose, and at
that time came the shot, intentional or accidental, which killed
him.
These are the substantial matters presented in the record.
There are one or two minor questions. For instance, when the
undertaker was on the witness stand, the defendant produced a
gun and asked him to show the jury how the mark which he
said he found on the face of the deceased could be caused, and
the gun was used for that purpose. On cross-examination it
appeared that his arm was not long enough to reach the trigger,
and, therefore, to fire it off in the position in which he had
placed it he needed a pencil or something of that kind. Subsequently, the plaintiff introduced testimony tending to show the
length of the arm of the deceased and the improbability of his
being able to reach the trigger, with his face on the muzzle, as
described by the undertaker, which testimony was objected to
on the ground that the gun had not been identified as the one
which bad caused the death, but the objection was overruled and
the testimony admitted. There was testimony subsequently
offered by her as to its identity, but that testimony was, to say
the least, not clear and satisfactory, so that it cannot be said

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that the gun was fully identified as the one which caused his
death. Still, we cannot think that this furnishes a sufficient
ground for reversing the judgment. The defendant produced
the gun, and while it cannot be said that the mere production
carried with it a declaration that this was the gun which caused
the death, yet it certainly suggested the fact, and if not so it
ought to have offered testimony to that effect. It presented
the gun for use and illustration before the jury, and there
was no material error in permitting the plaintiff to use the
same gun for the purposes of other illustration, especially when
she followed that with testimony tending, although, perhaps,
only slightly, to identify it.
Another matter is this: The plaintiff in her proofs of loss
stated that the deceased came to his death by suicide, and to
that effect was the verdict of the coroner's jury. With respect
to this matter the court charged that there was no estoppel;
that the plaintiff could explain the circumstances under which
she signed the statement, and that while standing alone it would
justify a verdict for the defendant, yet if explained and the jury
were satisfied that the death did not arise from suicide, she was
not concluded by this declaration. We see no error in this ruling. INone of the elements of estoppel enter into the declaration. The condition of the defendant was not changed by it,
and if under a misapprehension of facts she made a statement
which was not in fact true, she could explain the circumstances
under which she made the statement and introduce testimony
to establish the truth.
Some other matters are mentioned in the brief of plaintiff in
error, but nothing that we deem of sufficient importance to deserve notice. We see no error in the judgment, and it is
A4firmned.

