EASTERN BUILDING ASSN. v. WELLING.
Statement of the Case.

EASTERN BUILDING &c. ASSOCIATION v. WELLING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 190.

Argued March 11, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1901.

After the Supreme Court of South Carolina had construed the mortgage
contract in accord with the claim of the plaintiffs, and gave judgment
accordingly, in an application for a rehearing it was setup for the first time
that this was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
Held, that this came too late.
The assertion that, although no Federal question was raised below, and
although the mind of the state court was not directed to the fact that a
right protected by the Constitution of the United States was relied on,
nevertheless it is the duty of this court to look into the record, and determine whether the existence of such a claim was not necessarily involved, was unsound, as shown by authority.

THis action was commenced in the Court of Common Pleas
of Darlington County, South Carolina, by Welling and Bonnoitt to recover of the Eastern Building and Loan Association
of Syracuse, New York, the penalty provided by the statutes
of South Carolina for wrongfully failing to enter in the proper
office satisfaction of a mortgage which had been executed by
Welling and Bonnoitt to the association.
The controversy presented by the issue joined was whether
the mortgage in question secured merely the payment of seventyeight promissory notes, each maturing monthly, and aggregating $6065.10, or whether in addition such mortgage secured
the payment of the dues and assessments upon certain shares
of stock in said association which had been subscribed for by
Welling and Bonnoitt. The trial court ruled that the mortgage secured only payment of the notes. A judgment entered
in favor of the plaintiff upon the verdict of a jury was subsequently affirmed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina. 34
S. E. Rep. 409. Thereupon a writ of error was allowed.

M r. William Hepburn Russell for plaintiff in error. M'.
William Beverly Winslow and X'. A. A. Pierce were on his
brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

AXr. Henry A. -M. Smith for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The Federal questions asserted to be presented by the record
are in substance the following:
1. That the Supreme Court of South Carolina, by its decision,
refused full faith and credit to public acts of the State of New
York ;
2. That by such decision the obligation of a contract was impaired; and,
3. That the decision deprived the plaintiff in error of its
property without due process of law.
While in various forms, in the trial court, the association in
effect claimed that the law of its incorporation formed a part
and parcel of the mortgage contract, and that the decisions of
the courts of New York respecting the powers and contracts
of associations thus incorporated should be given effect, now here
does it appear that it was claimed that to refuse to concur in
the view stated would operate to deny the protection of the
Constitution of the United States. The trial court disposed of
the case solely upon what it regarded as the plain import of the
terms of the contract, irrespective of the laws of New York
and the decisions of the New York courts, yet in the numerous
exceptions predicated on the rulings of that court there was
not contained, either directly or indirectly, any contention that
rights of the association protected by the Constitution of the
United States had been invaded. It was not until after the
Supreme Court of South Carolina construed the mortgage contract in accord with the claim of the plaintiffs, and that court
had hence affirmed the judgment of the trial court and remitted
the cause to that court, that, in an application for a rehearing,
numerous grounds were set forth in which were contained assertions that the adverse decision of the Supreme Court of the
State was in conflict with several clauses of the Constitution of
the United States. But this caine too late. Bobb v. Jamiwon,
155 U. S. 416; Winonct & St. Peter Land Co. v. .innesota,
159 U. S. 540, and cases cited.

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.

49

Syllabus.

The assertion that although no Federal question was raised
below, and although the mind of the state court was not directed to the fact that a right protected by the Constitution of
the United States was relied upon, nevertheless it is our duty
to look into the record and determine whether the existence
of such a claim was not necessarily involved, is demonstrated
to be unsound by a concluded line of authority. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S.131, 181; 1French v. H opkins, 124 U. S. 524;
Chlappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132; Baldwin v. K~ansas,
129 U. S. 52; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Oxley Stave Co.
v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648; Columbia TFater Power Co.
v. Columbia Street Railway Co., 172 U. S. 475.
The error involved in the argument arises from failing to observe that the particular character of Federal right which is
here asserted is embraced within those which the statute requires to be "specially set up or claimed." The confusion of
thought involved in the proposition relied upon is very clearly
pointed out in the authorities to which we have referred, and
especially in the latest case cited, Columbia Water Power Co.
v. Columbia Street Railway Co., supra.
Dismissedfor want of jursditio.

PYTHIAS KNIGHTS' SUPREME LODGE v. BECK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 194.

Submitted March 13, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1901.

Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway Company, 179 U. S.658, sustained and
followed as to the relations of the trial court to the jury in regard to its
finding.
The question whether the deceased did or did not commit suicide was one
of fact, and after the jury had found that he did not, and its finding had
been approved by the trial court and by the Court of Appeals, this court
would not be justified in disturbing it.
On April 5, 1895, a certificate of membership, in the amount of $3000, was
issued by the Supreme Lodge to Frank E. Beck, payable on his death to
his widow, Mrs. Lillian H. Beck. The application for membership conVOL. cLxxxi--4

