OCTOBER TERMAE, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

WALL v. COX.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APIPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 504. Submitted April 15, 1901.-Decided April 29, 1901.

Under the Bankrupt Act of 1898, the District Court of the United States
in which proceedings in bankruptcy are pending has no jurisdiction, unless by consent of the defendants, of a bill in equity by the trustee in
bankruptcy against persons to whom the bankrupt, before the proceedings in bankruptcy, made a sale and conveyance of property which the
plaintiff seeks to set aside as fraudulent as against creditors, but which
the defendants assert to have been made in good faith and to havo vested
title in them.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.MX'. Clement .Manlyfor appellants.
Mi'. Iouis X. Swink and Mr1&. Lindsay Patterson for ap
pellee.
MR.

JUSTMCE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

On October 12, 1899, certain creditors of W. HT. Gilbert filed
against him a petition in bankruptcy in the District Court of
the United States for the Western District of North Carolina,
alleging that he was insolvent, and on October 10, 1899, transferred his stock of goods, with intent to hinder, delay and defraud his creditors, by a bill of sale to John D. Wall and Thomas
W. Huske.

On October 14, 1899, the District Court issued an order of
notice to Wall and lfuske to show cause on October 24, 1899,
why they should not be perpetually enjoined from disposing of
the goods alleged to have been purchased- by them from Gilbert, and meanwhile restraining them from disposing of it. At
the time of the issue of that order, Wall and Huske had those
goods in their possession.

WALL v. COX.
Opinion of the Court.

The District Court, on October 27, 1899, adjudged Gilbert
a bankrupt; and on November 6, 1899, "ordered that the restraining order heretofore issued be continued until the appointment and qualification of trustee of W. H. Gilbert, bankrupt.
Upon the appointment and qualification of said trustee, in a
proper case and upon a proper showing, an injunction or restraining order may be obtained upon application, in which Wall and
Htuske, defendants above named, may be made parties, restraining the sale or other disposition of any of the property until a
hearing may be had and the matters at issue be determined,
either by a suit in equity or action at law in the United States
courts or the courts of the State, as petitioners may be advised."
Walter D. Cox, on November 23, 1899, was duly elected and
qualified as trustee of Gilbert, bankrupt; and on December 6,
1899, filed a plenary bill in equity in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of North Carolina
against Wall and Huske, to set aside as fraudulent the sale by
Gilbert to them, alleging that Cox had requested them to deliver the property to him as trustee to be divided among Gilbert's creditors, but they had refused to do so and alleged that
the sale to them was valid, and they thereby acquired title to
the property, and were purchasers in good faith and for a present fair consideration. The bill prayed that the sale be set
aside, and the property be decreed to belong to Cox as part of
the bankrupt's estate, and for an injunction and a receiver.
On December 16, 1899, Cox filed a supplemental bill, setting
forth the former bill, and its service upon Wall and Huske, alleging that the property was within the District and in the
jurisdiction of this court, and was deteriorating in value by
reason of being stored.
At the time of the filing of these bills, and of the service of the
subpcena upon Wall and Huske, they were in possession of the
stock of goods, holding it under the bill of sale from Gilbert.
On the filing of the bill, the District Judge issued an order
to Wall and Huske to show cause why a receiver should not
be appointed to take charge of the stock of goods, and issued
an injunction restraining them from disposing of it until the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

further order of the court. By consent, the hearing was postponed until January 9, 1900.
On January 6, 1900, Wall and Huske, "specially appearing
under protest for the purpose of this plea, and for no other,"
filed a plea and demurrer, assigning as reasons, that the plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law; that the District Court
had no jurisdiction to entertain this bill, or to determine the
question arising between the plaintiff, as trustee in bankruptcy
of Gilbert, and these defendants; that the defendants claimed
title to the property described in the bill under a purchase from
Gilbert prior to the institution of proceedings in bankruptcy
against him; that both the plaintiff and the defendants were
citizens of the State of North Carolina; and that the defendants do not consent to the jurisdiction of the court.
On January 9, 1900, a hearing was had on the motion for a
receiver and an injunction, and the demurrer and plea, without
objection to its form; and on January 15, 1900, the District
Court overruled the demurrer and plea to the jurisdiction of
the court, ordered the injunction to be continued until the final
hearing of the cause, and appointed a temporary receiver to
take into his possession the stock of goods. 99 Fed. Rep. 546.
On January 22, 1900, Wall and Huske filed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals a petition asking the supervisory power of
that court under the Bankrupt Act of 1898. Upon that petition the decision of the District Court was affirmed on May 1,
1900. 101 Fed. Rep. 403.
On June 2, 1900, Wall and Hluske fied a motion for a rehearing, which was granted by the Circuit Court of Appeals;
and that court certified the following questions on which it
desired the instructions of this court:
" First. Under the facts and the pleadings above stated, had
the District Court of the United States for the Western District
of North Carolina jurisdiction over the controversy?
"Second. Said District Court having adjudicated bankruptcy
on account of an alleged fraudulent transfer of the bankrupt's
property, and having appointed a receiver to hold the estate
thus conveyed, had it, in said proceedings, or in ancillary proceedings instituted either by the original petitioners, the receiver

WALL v. COX.
Opinion of the Court.

of the court, the bankrupt's trustee, or of the court's own motion,
jurisdiction to bring in the alleged fraudulent transferee of the
property thus in the court's possession, and do fall and complete
jtstice in one litigation ?"
In disposing of the questions certified, we are confined to the
facts stated in the certificate, and cannot consider the allegations, made in the briefs, of other facts.
According to the statements of the certificate, the present
case is a bill in equity, filed by a trustee in bankruptcy in the
District Court of the United States in which bankruptcy proceedings are pending, against persons to whom the bankrupt,
before the petition in bankruptcy, had made a sale and conveyance of property, which the plaintiff sought to set aside as
fraudulent against creditors, but which the defendants asserted
to have been made in good faith and to have vested title in
them. This is a bill, of which, unless by consent of the defendants, the District Court of the United States, as was directly
adjudged by this court at the last term, since the first hearing
of this case in the Circuit Court of Appeals, has no jurisdiction
under the Bankrupt Act of 1898. Bardes v. Hawarden Bank,
178 U. S. 524; Alitchell v. ZfcClure, 178 U. S. 539; Hicks v.
Knost, 178 U. S. 541. The statement certified distinctly shows
that the defendants, specially appearing for the purpose, protested that the District Court had no jurisdiction to entertain
this bill, or to determine the question arising between the trustee and the defendants, and that the defendants did not consent
to the jurisdiction of the court. The answer to the first question certified must therefore be that the District Court had no
jurisdiction of the case.
The second question, if it does not depend on the first, is too
comprehensive and indefinite to be answered at all. It speaks
generally of the District Court having appointed a receiver; but
does not state, nor does the certificate show, that the receiver
was appointed before the election of the trustee in bankruptcy.
Beyond this, the question comprehends what the District Court
may do, not merely on this bill by the trustee, but on proceedings, original or ancillary, by the petitioning creditors, or by
the receiver, or on the court's own motion.
First question answered itn te negative.

