OCTOBER TERI, 1900.

248

Syllabus.

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS OF THE SECOND SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 155.

Submitted January 31,1901.-Decided April 22, 1901.

Article 5043c of the Revised Statutes of Texas, 1895, provides: "It shall
be the duty of the commission provided for in article 5043a to protect
the domestic animals of this State from all contagious or infectious diseases of a malignant character, whether said diseases exist in Texas
or elsewhere; and for this purpose they are hereby authorized and empowered to establish, maintain and enforce such quarantine lines and
sanitary rules and regulations as they may deem necessary. It shall
also be the duty of said commission to coperate with live stock quar-

antine commissioners and officers of other States and Territories, and
with the United States Secretary of Agriculture, in establishing such
interstate quarantine lines, rules and regulations as shall best protect
the live stock industry of this State against Texas or splenetic fever.
It shall be the duty of said commission, upon receipt by them of reliable
information of the existence among the domestic animals of the State of
any malignant disease, to go at once to the place where any such disease
is alleged to exist, and make a careful examination of the animals believed to be affected with any such disease, and ascertain, if possible,
what, if any, disease exists among the live stock reported to be affected,
and whether the same is contagious or infectious, and if said disease is
found to be of a malignant, contagious or infectious character, they shall
direct and enforce such quarantine lines and sanitary regulations as are
necessary to prevent the spread of any such disease. And no domestic
animals infected with disease or capable of communicating the same,

shall be permitted to enter or leave the district, premises or grounds so
quarantined, except by authority of the commissioners. The said commission shall also, from time to time, give and enforce such directions
and prescribe such rules and regulations as to separating, feeding and
caring for such diseased and exposed animals as they shall deem necessary to prevent the animals so affected with such disease from coming in
contact with other animals not so affected. And the said commissioners
are hereby authorized and empowered to enter upon any grounds or
premises to carry out the provisions of this act." Reld,that this statute, as construed and applied, in this case, is not in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States.
The prevention of disease is the essence of a quarantine law. Such law is

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 249
Statement of the Case.
directed not only to the actually diseased, but to what has become exposed to disease.

Trois case involves the constitutionality of certain quarantine
regulations of the State of Texas. The laws of Texas provide
for the creation of a Live Stock Sanitary Commission, consisting of three members appointed by the Governor, and prescribe
their duty. The particular provisions which are material to the
case are inserted in the margin.'
The Governor of the State issued the following proclamation:
"Whereas, the Live Stock Sanitary Commission of Texas
IArticle 5043c of the Revised Statutes, 1895, provides: "It shall be the
duty of the commission provided for in article 5043a to protect the domestic animals of this State from all contagious or infectious diseases of a malignant character, whether said diseases exist in Texas or elsewhere; and
for this purpose they are hereby authorized and empowered to establish,
maintain and enforce such quarantine lines and sanitary rules and regulations as they may deem necessary. It shall also be the duty of said commission to co6perate with live stock quarantine commissioners and officers
of other States and Territories, and with the United States Secretary of
Agriculture, in establishing such interstate quarantine lines, rules and regulations as shall best protect the live stock industry of this State against
Texas or splenetic fever. It shall be the duty of said commission, upon
receipt by them of reliable information of the existence among the domestic animals of the State of any malignant disease, to go at once to the place
where any such disease is alleged to exist, and make a careful examination of
the animals believed to be affected with any such disease, and ascertain, if
possible, what, if any, disease exists among the live stock reported to be
affected, and whether the same is contagious or infectious, and if said disease is found to be of a malignant, contagious or infectious character, they
shall direct and enforce such quarantine lines and sanitary regulations as
are necessary to prevent the spread of any such disease. And no domestic
animals infected with disease or capable of communicating the same, shall
be permitted to enter or leave the district, premises or grounds so quarantined, except by authority of the commissioners. The said commission
shall also, from time to time, give and enforce such directions and prescribe such rules and regulations as to separating, feeding and caring for
such diseased and exposed animals as they shall deem necessary to prevent
the animals so affected with such disease from coming in contact with other
animals not so affected. And the said commissioners are hereby authorized
and empowered to enter upon any grounds or premises to carry out the provisions of this act."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

has this day recommended the adoption of the following regulations:
"' The Live Stock Sanitary Commission of the State of Texas
have been reliably informed that the cattle, mules and horses in
the southern portion of Jefferson County, State of Texas, are
affected with disease, known as charbon or anthrax, and are
liable to impart such disease to cattle, mules and horses ranging in upper portion of Jefferson and other counties, from this
time forth to the 15th day of November, 1897, no cattle, mules
or horses are to be transported or driven north or west of Taylor and Salt bayous, said bayous running across the southern
portion of Jefferson County, State of Texas. This order is
given for the purpose of quarantining all cattle, mules and
horses south and east of said Taylor and Salt bayous. The
Texas Live Stock Commission has reason to believe that charbon or anthrax has or is liable to break out in the State of
Louisiana, from this time forth until the 15th day of November, 1897, no cattle, mules or horses are to be transported or
driven into the State of Texas from the State of Louisiana.
The Live Stock Sanitary Commission of the State of Texas
hereby order that any violation of any of the aforesaid rules
and regulations by moving of any cattle, mules or horses north
of said bayous, or out of Louisiana into the State of Texas, is
contrary to said rules and regulations, and shall be an offence
and punishable as provided by the laws of the State of Texas:'
"Now, therefore, I, C. A. Culberson, Governor of Texas, in
conformity with the provisions of chapter 7, title 102, of the
Revised Statutes of Texas of 1895, do hereby declare that the
quarantine lines, rules and regulations set forth in the aboverecited order of the Live Stock Sanitary Commission of Texas
shall be in full force and effect from and after this date.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and
caused the seal of the State to be affixed, at Austin, this 5th
day of June, A. D. 1897.
"C. A.

CULBERSON,

"Governor of Texas."

In consequence of this proclamation the railway company

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 251
Statement of the Case.

refused to deliver certain cattle to their owners, of whom the
plaintiff in error was one, which it had received as freight from
a connecting carrier, and which had been delivered to the latter
in the State of Louisiana. The facts, or as many of them as is
necessary to state, are as follows:
The shipment of cattle was made upon a through bill of
lading issued by the St. Louis and Southwestern Railway Company, at Plain Dealing, La., for Fort Worth, Tarrant County,
Texas, and was a through and continuous shipment. The cattle arrived at Fort Worth on the 28th of August, 1897. The
owners were ready to receive them, and tendered the amount
of freight due thereon. The tender was rejected, and the delivery of the cattle refused. The cattle remained in the pens
of the plaintiff in error, the stockyards at Fort Worth refusing to receive them on account of the proclamation of the Governor, and permission, which was asked by the railway company
of the Live Stock Sanitary Commission, to deliver them to their
owners, was also refused on account of the Governor's proclamation. Thereafter the railway company shipped the cattle
back to Texarkana, to the line of railway from which they were
received, by which line they were returned to Plain Dealing, and
there tendered to the shippers, who refused to receive them.
Thereupon they were sold, after proper advertising, and the
proceeds of the sale, less pasturage at Plain Dealing, were tendered to the owners, which was also refused. At the time of
the shipment the Live Stock Sanitary Commission had recommended the adoption of the following regulation with reference to Louisiana cattle:
"The Texas Live Stock Commission has reason to believe
that charbon or anthrax has or is liable to break out in the State
of Louisiana, and from this time forth until the 15th day of
N'ovember, 1891, no cattle, mules or horses are to be transported
or driven into the State of Texas from the State of Louisiana."
The quarantine established (if valid) was in full force at the
time of the shipment of the cattle. The bill of lading contained
stipulations as to a measure of damages in case of a total loss
of the cattle and other provisions, which, as they do not raise
Federal questions, we are not concerned with on this record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The trial court held that"1. The quarantine regulations above mentioned, established
by the Governor of the State, is a regulation of or an interference with interstate commerce, in that its effect is to prohibit
the importation of all cattle from the State of Louisiana into
the State of Texas, whether affected with or capable of communicating the disease mentioned in said proclamation or not,
and is therefore void as being in contravention of section 8 of article 1 of the Constitution of the United States.
"Had the Live Stock Sanitary Commission of the State found
upon investigation that charbon or anthrax had broken out
among the entire cattle of the State of Louisiana, and that all
cattle of the State of Louisiana were liable to communicate
either of said diseases to cattle of the State of Texas, and had
said proclamation of the Governor been based upon said finding,
then I think it would have been in law a police regulation of
no greater scope than necessary to the protection of cattle in
the State of Texas, and therefore valid, even though it did interfere with interstate commerce."
It also held that the stipulation in the contract of shipment
limiting the damages at a fixed sum per head was void, and
gave judgment for the actual cash value of the cattle, less freight
charges.

The judgment amounted to $5T8.10.

The judgment was reversed by the Court of Civil Appeals,
and thereupon the Chief Justice of that court granted this writ
of error. Before the commencement of the action the plaintiff in error became the vendee of the interests of the other
owners.
. F. E Albright and 3Er. Wallace Hendricks for plaintiff
in error.
A[. Samuel H. West for defendant in error.
Mnr. JusTiEri M oKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

There are other questions in the record besides the Federal

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 253
Opinion of the Court.

one, upon which the writ of error is based. They seem not to
have been earnestly pressed either in the trial court or in the
Court of Civil Appeals. They were not passed on by either
court. The Court of Civil Appeals, however, said:
"It was shown that appellee's vendors had actual notice of
the quarantine, and that appellant had not. It was also shown
that after such notice was brought home to appellant it sought
permission of the sanitary commission to deliver the cattle.
The sanitary commission ruled and ordered otherwise. It has
been given power to make rules. It has the power to call upon
the sheriff and peace officers to enforce them. It was the duty
of such officers to obey the orders of such commission. Our
law also provides heavy penalties for a violation of the rules
and regulations of the sanitary commission."
It is possible that the court may have concluded that the defence which those facts suggest could not be made by the railway company, and that, notwithstanding, the plaintiff in error
could compel the company to receive his cattle and force it to
contest the constitutionality of the Texas statute either by resisting the imposition of its penalties or in some other way.
At any rate, the court rested its decision on the statute, holding it valid, and it is its judgment which we are called upon to
review.
To what extent the police power of a State may be exerted
on traffic and intercourse with the State without conflicting
with the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States has not been precisely defined. In the case of Henderson v. fayor'of ffew York, 92 U. S. 259, it was held that the
statute of the State, which, aiming to secure indemnity against
persons coming from foreign countries becoming a charge upon
the State, required ship owners to pay a fixed sum for each
passenger-that is, to pay for all passengers-not limiting the
payment to those who might actually become such charge, was
void. Whether the statute would have been valid if so limited
was not decided.
In Chy Lung v. F]Ireeman et al., 92 U. S. 275, a statute declaring the same purpose as the New York statute, and apparently directed against persons mentally and physically infirm,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and against convicted criminals and immoral women, was also
declared void, because it imposed conditions on all passengers
and invested a discretion in officers which could be exercised
against all passengers. The court, by Mr. Justice Miller, said:
"We are not called upon by this statute to decide for or
against the right of a State, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, to protect herself by necessary and proper laws
against paupers and convicted criminals from abroad; nor to
lay down the definite limit of such right if it exists. Such a
right can only arise from a vital necessity for its exercise, and
cannot be carried beyond the scope of that necessity. When a
state statute, limited to provisions necessary and appropriate
to that object alone, shall, in a proper controversy, come before
us, it will be time enough to decide that question."
In Railroad Company v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, a statute of

Missouri which provided that "no Texas, Mexican or Indian
cattle shall be driven or otherwise conveyed into or remain in
any county in this State between the first day of March and
the first day of November in each year by any person whatever," was held to be in conflict with the clause of the Constitution which gives to Congress the power to regulate interstate
commerce.
The case was an action for damages against the railroad company for bringing cattle into the State in violation of the act.
A distinction was made between a proper and an improper
exertion of the police power of the State. The former was confined to the prohibition of actually infected or diseased cattle
and to regulations not transcending such prohibition. The
statute was held not to be so confined, and hence was declared
invalid.
The relation of the police power of a State and the power of
Congress to regulate commerce came up again in Bowman v.
Chicago & gorthwestern Railway, 125 U. S.465. The principle

which underlies both powers and the range and operation of
those powers was considered. The action was against the railroad company for refusing to transport beer from Chicago to
Marshalltown in Iowa. The refusal was attempted to be justified under a statute of Iowa against traffic in intoxicating liquors

SIITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 255
Opinion of the Court.

and the conveyance of the same by an express or railway company into the State except under certain conditions. The statute was decided to be a regulation of commerce-to be not
within the police power of the State, and therefore void. Lxisy
v. Hfardin, 135 U. S. 100, is of the same general character, and
need not be commented upon. See also Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58.
In Schollenberger v. Pen sylvania, 171 U. S. 1, some prior
cases were reviewed, and the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Peckham, said:
"The general rule to be deduced from the decisions of this
court is that a lawful article of commerce cannot be wholly excluded from importation into a State from another State where
it was manufactured or grown. A State has power to regulate
the introduction of any article, including a food product, so as
to insure purity of the article imported, but such police power
does not include the total exclusion even of an article of food.
"In finnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, it was held that an
inspection law relating to an article of food was not a rightful
exercise of the police power of the State if the inspection prescribed were of such a character or if it were burdened with
such conditions as would wholly prevent the introduction of
the sound article from other States. This was held in relation
to the slaughter of animals whose meat was to be sold as food
in the State passing the so-called inspection law. The principle was affirmed in Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, and in
Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 97."
The exclusion in the case at bar is not as complete as in the
cited cases. That, however, makes no difference if it is within
their principle, and their principle does not depend upon the
number of States which are embraced in the exclusion. It depends upon whether the police power of the State has been
exerted beyond its province-exerted to regulate interstate commerce-exerted to exclude, without discrimination, the good and
the bad, the healthy and the diseased, and to an extent beyond
what is necessaryfor any proper quarantine. The words in
italics express an important qualification. The prevention of
disease is the essence of a quarantine law. Such law is directed

OCTOBER TER]M,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

not only to the actually diseased but to what has become exposed to disease. In Morgan's Steamship Co. v. Louisiana
Board of Health, 118 U. S. 455, the quarantine system of Louisiana was sustained. It established a quarantine below New
Orleans, provided health officers and inspection officers, and fees
for them to be paid by the ships detained and inspected. The
system was held to be a proper exercise of the police power of
the State for the protection of health, though some of its rules
amounted to regulations of commerce with foreign nations and
among the States. In Ximmish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217, certain
sections of the laws of Iowa were passed on. One of them imposed a penalty upon any person who should bring into the State
any Texas cattle unless they had been wintered at least one
winter north of the southern boundary of the State of Missouri
or Kansas; or should have in his possession any Texas cattle
between the first day of November and the first day of April
following. Another section made any person having in his possession such cattle liable for any damages which might accrue
from allowing them to run at large, "and thereby spreading the
disease among other cattle, known as the Texas fever," and
there was besides criminal punishment. The court did not pass
upon the first section. In commenting upon the second, some
pertinent remarks were made on the facts which justified the
statute, and the case of Railroad Company v. Husen, supra,
was explained. It was said that the case "interpreted the law
of Missouri as saying to all transportation companies, ' You shall
not bring into the State any Texas cattle or any Mexican cattle
or Indian cattle between March 1st and December 1st in any
year, no matter whether they are free from disease or not, no
matter whether they may do an injury to the inhabitants of the
State or not; and if you do bring them in, even for the purpose
of carrying them through the State without unloading them, you
shall be subject to extraordinary liabilities.' p. 473. Such a
statute, the court held, was not a quarantine law, nor an inspection law, but a law which interfered with interstate commerce,
and therefore invalid. At the same time the court admitted
unhesitatingly that a State may pass laws to prevent animals
suffering from contagious or infectious diseases from entering

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 257
Opinion of the Court.

within it. p. 472.

No attempt was made to show that all

Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle coming from the malarial
districts during the months mentioned were infected with the
disease, or that such cattle were so generally infected that it
would have been impossible to separate the healthy from the
diseased. Had such proof been given, a different question would
have been presented for the consideration of the court. Certainly all animals thus infected may be excluded from the State
by its laws until they are cured of the disease, or at least until
some mode of transporting them without danger of spreading it
is devised."
In [issouri, -Kansas& Texas Railway v. Haber, 169 U. S.
613, the ifusen case was again commented upon, and what the
law of Missouri was and was not was again declared. A statute of Kansas, however, which made any person who shall
drive or ship into the State "any cattle liable or capable of
communicating Texas, splenetic or Spanish fever to any domestic cattle of the State liable for damages," was held not to
be a regulation of commerce. It was also held that the statute
was not repugnant to the act of Congress of March 29, 1884,
23 Stat. 31, c. 60, known as the Animal Industry Act.
What, however, is a proper quarantine law-what a proper
inspection law in regard to cattle-has not been declared. Under the guise of either a regulation of commerce will not be
permitted. Any pretense or masquerade will be disregarded,
and the true purpose of a statute ascertained. Henderson v.
.Aayor of -New York, and Chy Lung v. _Freeman, supra. But
we are not now put to any inquiry of that kind. The good
faith and sincerity of the Texas officers cannot be doubted, and
the statutes under which they acted cannot be justifiably complained of. The regulations prescribed are complained of, but
are they not reasonably adaptive to the purpose of the statutes
-not in excess of it? Quarantine regulations cannot be the
same for cattle as for persons, and must vary with the nature
of the disease to be defended against. As the Supreme Court
of Tennessee said: "The necessities of such cases often require
prompt action. If too long delayed the end to be attained by
VOL. CLXx=-17

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of the power to declare a quarantine may be defeated and irreparable injury done."
It is urged that it does not appear that the action of the
Live Stock Sanitary Commission was taken on sufficient information. It does not appear that it was not, and the presumption which the law attaches to the acts of public officers must
obtain and prevail. The plaintiff in error relies entirely on
abstract right, which he seems to think cannot depend upon
any circumstances or be affected by them. This is a radical
mistake. It is the character of the circumstances which gives
or takes from a law or regulation of quarantine a legal quality.
In some cases the circumstance would have to be shown to sustain the quarantine, as was said in Kiimmish v. Ball, supra.
But the presumptions of the law are proof, and such-presumptions exist in the pending case arising from the provisions of
and the duties enjoined by the statute and sanction the action
of the sanitary commission and the Governor of the State. If
they could have been they should have been met and overcome,
and the remarks of the Court of Civil Appeals become pertinent:
"The facts in this case are not disputed. The plaintiff sues
as for a conversion, because of a refusal to deliver his cattle at
Fort Worth. It isnecessary to his recovery that he show that
it was the legal duty of the defendant company to make such
delivery. It is for the breach of this alleged duty he sues; yet
it nowhere appears from the record that before the quarantine
line in question was established the sanitary commission did
not make the most careful and thorough investigation into the
necessity therefor, if, indeed, that matter could in any event be
inquired into. So far as the record shows, every animal of the
kind prohibited in the State of Louisiana may have been actually affected with charbon or anthrax, and it is conceded that
this is a disease different from Texas or splenetic fever, and
that it is contagious and infectious and of the most virulent
character."
Judgment affirmed.

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 259
JUSTICES HARLAN and WHITE, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE HRLAN, with whom concurred MR. JusTiE.

WEITE, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the

court. The grounds of my dissent are these: (1) The railroad
company was bound to discharge its duties as a carrier unless

relieved therefrom by such quarantine regulations under the
laws of Texas as were consistent with the Constitution of the
United States. It could not plead in defence of its action the
quarantine regulations adopted by the state sanitary commission and the proclamation of the Governor of that State, if
such regulations and proclamation were void under the Constitution of the United States. (2) The authority of the State to
establish quarantine regulations for the protection of the health
of its people does not authorize it to create an embargo upon

all commerce involved in the transportation of live stock from
Louisiana to Texas. The regulations and the Governor's proclamation upon their face showed the existence of a certain cattle disease in one of the counties of Texas. If under any circumstances that fact could be the basis of an embargo upon the
bringing into Texas from Louisiana of all live stock during a
prescribed period, those circumstances should have appeared
from the regulations and the proclamation referred to. On the
contrary there does not appear on the face of the transaction
any ground whatever for establishing a complete embargo for
any given period upon all transportation of live stock from Louisiana to Texas.
I think therefore that the regulations and proclamation upon
which the defendant relied were to be deemed void and therefore inapplicable to the particular transportation referred to in
the complaint.
It seems to me that the present case comes within the principles announced in Henderson v. Mayor ofYew York, 92 U. S.
259. That case involved the validity of a statute of New York
having for its object the protection of the people of that State
against the immigration of foreign paupers. It was held by
this court to be unconstitutional, because "its practical result
was to impose a burden upon all passengers from foreign coun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
M

.JUSTICE BRoww, dissenting.

tries." In that case it was said that in whatever language a
statute was framed, its purpose must be determined by its natural and reasonable effect. So also in Railroad Co. v. IHusen,
95 U. S. 465, 473, we held that a statute of Missouri relating
to the bringing into that State of any Texas, NMexican or Indian
cattle between certain dates was a plain intrusion upon the exclusive domain of Congress. This court said: "It is not a quarantine law. It is not an inspection law. It says to all natural
persons and to all transportation companies, 'You shall not
bring into the State any Texas cattle or any Mexican cattle or
Indian cattle, between March 1st and December 1st in any
year, no matter whether they are free from disease or not, no
matter whether they may do an injury to the inhabitants of
the State or not; and if you do bring them in, even for the
purpose of carrying them through the State without unloading
them, you shall be subject to extraordinary liabilities.' Such a
statute, we do not doubt, is beyond the power of a State to enact. To hold otherwise would be to ignore one of the leading
objects which the Constitution of the United States was designed to secure." What was said of the Missouri statute may
be repeated as to the regulations adopted by the Sanitary Commission and the proclamation of the Governor of Texas forbidding the bringing of cattle into that State from Louisiana. The
result in my judgment is, in view of our former decisions, that
the quarantine regulations and proclamation in question involved, by their natural and practical operation, an unauthorized obstruction to the freedom of interstate commerce. This
must be so, even if the statute of Texas, reasonably interpreted,
was itself not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Mn.

TusTlcE

WHITE

authorizes me to say that he concurs in

these views.
Mn.

JUSTIOE BmRowx,

dissenting.

The law of Texas for the creation of a live stock sanitary
commission, cited in the opinion of the court, provides that "it

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 261
MR.JUSTrCE BROWN, dissenting.

shall be the duty of said commission, upon receipt by them of
reliable information,

.

.

.

of any malignant disease, to go

and make a careful examination of the animals believed
and if said disease is found to be of a
to be affected,
malignant, contagious or infectious character, they shall direct
and enforce such quarantine lines and sanitary regulations as
are necessary to prevent the spread of any such disease. And
no domestic animals affected with disease, or capable of communicating the same, shall be permitted to enter or leave the
district, premises or grounds so quarantined, except by authority of the commissioners."
I had supposed the authority of the commissioners to be fixed
by this act, and their right to quarantine or forbid the entry of
animals was limited to such as were infected with disease or
capable of communicating the same.
The proclamation of the Governor, based upon the report of
the sanitary commission, covers two separate classes of cases.
It finds that cattle in the southern portion of Jefferson County,
Texas, are affected with disease and liable to impart such disease to cattle ranging in the upper portion of Jefferson and
other counties, and therefore forbids such cattle from being
transported north or west of certain bayous running across the
southern portion of Jefferson County. So far the order is
within the statute.
But it also finds that the commission "has reason to believe
that charbon and anthrax has [broken out] or is liable to break
out in the State of Louisiana," and hence that no cattle are to
be transported into Texas from Louisiana. This portion of the
order seems to me a plain departure from the terms of the statute. It does not find that there are cattle in Louisiana "infected with disease or capable of communicating the same,"
but simply that the disease is liable to break out in that State.
It does not even find that it has broken out, or that there are
any cattle in that State capable of communicating the disease.
If the fact that a contagious disease is liable to break out in a
certain locality be sufficient to justify a quarantine against such
locality, then it is possible that every port of the United States
may quarantine against Cuban or other West Indian ports,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Mu.JUST CE BRowN, dissenting.

since it is a well-known fact that yellow fever is liable to break
out there at almost any time, and especially during the summer
months.

The sweeping nature of this order is manifest by comparing it with the first order relating to the Jefferson County
cattle. There is a finding there that the cattle in the southern
portion of a particular county "are affected with disease, known
as charbon or anthrax, and are liable to impart such disease to
cattle" ranging in the upper portion of Jefferson County, and
therefore no cattle shall be transported north or west of the
infected district. In other words, it finds the actual existence
of disease within a definite and circumscribed locality, and prohibits the transportation of cattle from such locality to noninfected districts.
On the other hand, the second order assumes to quarantine
against cattle from the entire State of Louisiana, without any
finding that the disease has broken out there, or that the cattle
in such State are liable to communicate such disease to other
cattle. The order is not limited to cattle coming from any
particular portion of the State, but applies to the whole State,
regardless of the actual existence of the disease or the liability
to communicate contagion.
It seems to me that the proclamation goes far beyond the
authority of the statute, beyond the necessities of the case, and
is a wholly unjustifiable interference with interstate commerce.
The statute thus construed puts a power into the hands of a
sanitary commission which is liable to be greatly abused and
to be put forward as an excuse for keeping out of Texas perfectly healthy animals from other States, and putting a complete stop to a large trade.
In the case of the .Afissour"i, Kansas & Texas Railway v.
Haler, 169 U. S.613, the statute of Kansas in question applied
only to "cattle capable of communicating, or liable to impart
what is known as Texas, splenetic or Spanish fever to any domestic cattle" of the State, and was a proper exercise of the
power of quarantine, since healthy cattle were not interfered
with. These were substantially the terms of the Texas statute,
to which I see no objection ; but the action of the commission

SMITH v. ST. LOUIS AND SOUTHWESTERN RY. CO. 263
Mi.

JUSTICE

BROWN, dissenting.

was a plain departure from the terms of the statute, and I think
unauthorized by law. It was practically as sweeping as the
statute of Missouri, condemned by this court in Railroad Co. v.
Husen, 95 U. S. 465, which provided that "no Texas, Mexican
or Indian cattle shall be driven or otherwise conveyed into, or
remain, in any county in this State, between the first day of
March and the first day of November in each year, by any person or persons whatever," regardless of the fact whether these
cattle were diseased or were capable of communicating disease.
This was held to be in conflict with the interstate commerce
clause of the Constitution. As justly observed of the opinion in
that case by the court in its opinion in this case, "a distinction was
made between a proper and an improper exertion of the police
power of the State. The former was confined to the prohibition of actually infected or diseased cattle, and to regulations
not transcending such prohibition. The statute was held not
to be so confined, and hence was declared invalid." This is the
precise objection I make to the finding of the commission, and
to the proclamation of the Governor in this case.
It is sufficient to say of the finding of the Supreme Court of
Texas that "so far as the record shows, every animal of the
kind prohibited in the State of Louisiana may have been actually
affected with charbon or anthrax," that there is no such finding
in the report of the commission or in the Governor's proclamation, and that, under the statute, there must be a finding either
of disease, or of a liability to communicate disease, to justify
the action of the commission. It cannot of its own motion put
in force the quarantine laws of the State without the finding
of some facts that such enforcement is necessary to the protection of Texas cattle. I am therefore constrained to dissent
from the opinion of the court.

