COLBURN v. GRANT.
Statement of the Case.

raised or considered in the Criminal Court or in the Superior
Court, in respect to the admission of the evidence. So that
there was no basis on which to claim error in this respect in
those courts. Nor did the Supreme Court, in passing upon the
contention, deal with it as a Federal question, but as a mere
question arising under the administration of the criminal law
of the State, and there is, therefore, nothing in its action for us
to review.
But we do not wish to be understood as implying that, even
if this question had been duly presented in the state courts as
a Federal question, there was error in admitting the evidence
complained of.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina is
Afflmed.

COLBURN v. GRANT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 221. Argued and submitted April 8, 9, 1901.-Decided May 20, 1901.

The statements below of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
in this case, that abandonment of discretionary power by a trustee to
his cotrustee, is a fact to be proved by him who alleges it; that so
likewise is negligence in the supervision of a trust; and that neither
abandonment nor negligence is to be implied without satisfactory proof
of the fact, or of circumstances sufficient to warrant the inference, and
that the court does not find that proof in the statement of facts contained in the record, are cited and approved by this court.
The treatment of facts and law in the opinion of the courts below was full
and satisfactory, and releases this court from further discussion.

THIs is an appeal from a decree of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, which affirmed a decree of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing a bill in equity, which
had been filed in that court. The complainants were legatees
of one Augustus G. P. Colburn and their trustee, Franklin H.
Mackey, against Robert E. Grant, the executor of the estate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

George Fitz James Colburn, a deceased trustee of the estate of
said Augustus Colburn, for an accounting, it being alleged that
there had come into the hands of said trustee and his cotrustee,
both of whom were deceased, a large sum of money, namely,
$28,000, and that only $5000 thereof had been accounted for.
The codefendants of the defendants' executor were those persons who would be entitled to distribution of his testator's estate. The case was heard upon the pleadings and an agreed
statement of facts.
The stipulation of facts was as follows:
"In order to obviate the expense of taking testimony in relation thereto, it is hereby stipulated and agreed that the following are conceded as facts, and that the statements herein
may be read and taken in this cause as established.
"That the complainant Franklin H. Mackey, trustee, was appointed by decree of this court in equity cause No. 18,728, and
has qualified as such.
"That the complainants iRollinson Colburn and Edward A.
Colburn are the only surviving children of Hlervey Colburn,
who was a brother to Augustus G. P. Colburn.
"That the complainants Elizabeth F. Colburn, Gertrude TI.
Colburn, F. Helen Colburn and Louise B.Colburn are the only
children of IT. Hobart Colburn, a deceased child of the said
Hervey Colburn; that said IT. Hobart Colburn predeceased
the said George Fitz James Colburn, and that all the abovenamed parties are now of full age.
"That George Fitz James Colburn died in September, 1897,
unmarried and without issue, his wife having died before him,
and that all the brothers and sisters of Augustus G. P. Colburn
predeceased the said George Fitz James Colburn except P. D.
Miranda Kimball, who died on the 22d day of December, 1897.
"That under the will of the said Augustus G. P. Colburn
the said George Fitz James Colburn and John W. Taylor were
named as trustees, without bond, for the management of the
trust portion of said estate, with power to sell the same.
"That the real estate in the city of Newark, State of New
Jersey, mentioned in the will of the said Augustus G. P. Colburn, was sold by said trustees shortly after the death of the

COLBURN v. GRANT.
Statement of the Case.

testator, the net proceeds arising therefrom amounting to
twenty-seven thousand dollars, which was paid part in cash and
the remainder in subsequent instalments, the latter instalments
being collected by the said Taylor.
"That the said George Fitz James Colburn removed from the
city of Newark in the year 1873 to the city of Washington,
D. C., where he resided, except for a few months, up to the day
of his death.
"That John W. Taylor, one of the said trustees, was a prominent lawyer of the city of Newark at the time of his appointment, and continued so to be up to the date of his death in the
year 1893, and that he was regarded by the general public as a
man of business integrity at the time of his death by his own
hands on November 20, 1898.
"That after the death of the said Taylor it was found that he
had squandered many estates under his custody, amongst others
the said estate of Augustus G. P. Colburn, except the sum of
five thousand dollars, which was under the exclusive control of
the said George Fitz James Colburn, and which latter sum of
$5000 has been turned over by the executor of said George
Fitz James Colburn to said Franklin H. Mackey, trustee, by
order of this court in equity cause 18,728.
"That the said trust estate, except the said sum of five thousand dollars referred to, was by the said George Fitz James
Colburn left solely to the collection, management and discretion
of the said Taylor, who handled said sum without the cobperation, supervision or knowledge of the said George Fitz James
Colburn, the latter only requiring from said Taylor the payment
of the income of said estate to him, said George Fitz James Colburn, as provided by said will.
"Upon the death of said Taylor, trustee, the said George
Fitz James Colburn, as surviving trustee, made claim against
the estate of said Taylor for the amount of the trust fund by
him squandered, as aforesaid, and upon said claim of twentytwo thousand dollars he received a dividend of $3342.45.
"That by paper writings dated respectively September 6, 9
and 11, 1895, Rev. Edward A. Colburn, Rollinson Colburn, and
H. Hobart Colburn released all claim to the said $3342.45 unto

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the said George Fitz James Colburn, and that thereupon the
said George Fitz James Colburn purchased an annuity for himself, which he enjoyed until his death. Said paper writing is
in the following form: 'I hereby give my full assent that my
cousin, George Fitz James Colburn, shall have full right to use
the sum of $3342.45 received by him from his father's estate,
should he so have need, and do resign any interest I may have
in said sum of $3342.45 if he so desire to use it.' Originals of
above paper to be filed in this suit."
Xr. Franklin. Hff
Aackey for appellants.
Xi'. JJIoldsworth Gordon, for appellee, submitted on his
brief.
AIR. JUSTIE SinRAs, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The case was heard in the Supreme Court of the District on
bill, answers and an agreed statement of facts. Some complaint
is made in appellants' brief of the alleged fact that the court
treated certain allegations in the answer of the defendant executor as evidence, although an answer under oath had been dispensed with, and it is said that only those portions of the answer which admitted the allegations of the bill, or contained
admissions against interest, should have been considered.
We are inclined to think that, upon the record made up and
presented at the hearing, the court had a right to consider all
the allegations of the answer. No replication, putting the allegations of the answer in issue, appears to have been filed, and
the court may have well supposed that the complainants had
agreed to have the case disposed of on bill, answers and stipulation. If such a course was a surprise to counsel, application
should have been made to have the decree suspended, and for
leave to take rebutting evidence.
However, we have examined and compared the respective
allegations of the bill and answer, and do not perceive that,
even upon the theory of appellants' counsel, any such substan-

COLBURN v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

tial difference in the facts could have been made to appear as
would have justified a different result.
Not only, then, is there an agreement as to the controlling
facts, but there also seems to be little or no controversy in respect to the principles of law involved. The learned counsel
for the appellants concedes, in effect, the propositions of law
found in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, but contends that
a proper application of those propositions would call for a different decree.
The purpose of the bill is to have the estate of George Fitz
James Colburn held liable for a defalcation by John W. Taylor, who was united with said Colburn in the administration of
a trust estate created by the will of Augustus G. P. Colburn,
father of George F. J. Colburn.
The father, who was a resident of Newark, New Jersey, died
on May 27, 1872, and in his will, dated May 25, 1872, devised
to said son, for and during his natural life, a certain dwelling
house and lot in said city, with power to the trustees named in
the will, who were his said son and John W. Taylor, to sell the
same at any time, and to invest the proceeds of such sale as advantageously as possible, and to pay over the income arising
therefrom to his said son during his life. Shortly after the
death of the testator the trustee sold this real estate for the
sum of $27,000, which was paid partly in cash and partly in
instalments. George F. Colburn subsequently removed to the
city of Washington, where he died in September, 1897.
John W. Taylor was a prominent lawyer in the city of Newark at the time of his appointment, and continued so to be up
to the date of his death, and was regarded by the general public as a man of business integrity at the time of his death by
his own hand on November 20, 1893.
After Taylor's death it was discovered that he had squandered many estates in his custody, among others the said estate
of Augustus G. P. Colburn, except the sum of $5000, which
was under the exclusive control of George F. J. Colburn, and
which latter sum is not in controversy here.
Upon the death of Taylor, George F. J. Colburn, as surviving
trustee, made claims against the estate of Taylor for the amount

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of his defalcation in the estate of Augustus G. P. Colburn, and
upon said claim of twenty-two thousand dollars he received a
dividend of $3342.45. The amount so received was subsequently, with the consent of the residuary legatees under his
father's will, invested by George F. J. Colburn in an annuity
for himself, which he enjoyed until his death.
Without going into further details, it is evident, and, indeed,
is conceded, that George F. J. Colburn was not involved in the
dishonest acts of his cotrustee, and which resulted in the loss of
the larger part of the trust estate. Nor is it contended that, as
a matter of law, was George F. J. Colburn liable for the malfeasance of his cotrustee.
What is contended is that an abandonment of discretionary
power by a trustee to a cotrustee, where the trust is entitled to
the united discretion of both, is such an act of supine negligence
as to render the trustee who has abandoned his active participation in the management of the trust liable for the losses occasioned by the misconduct of the cotrustee; that George F. J.
Colburn did so abandon his functions as trustee, and that, accordingly, he was, and his estate now is, liable for the money misapplied by Taylor.
The courts below did not refuse to recognize the soundness of
appellants' statement of the law as a general proposition, and,
indeed, stated it strongly in the following language:
"Cotrustees may not act independently of one another, nor
ignore each other in the management of the trust. The trust
is entitled to the united judgment, discretion and ability of all
the trustees selected. For this reason they may not delegate
discretionary powers among themselves."
But it was the opinion of those courts that, while such is the
general doctrine, yet the facts of the present case do not call
for its application; that the conduct of Colburn was not in the
nature of an abandonment by him of duties devolved upon him
as trustee under his father's will.
The Supreme Court thus expressed its conclusion:
"After a loss has occurred, as in this case, by the positive
fault of some one, it may be easy to say how it could have been
prevented; but in order to hold some one else fairly responsible,

COLBURN v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

the point of view held by the party sought to be made liable at
and before the loss occurred is the only safe point of view to asFrom the light of the circumstances shown, I
sume....
cannot convince myself that George F. J.Colburn was guilty
of any such negligence as to render him liable, nor that the
claim now made by the bill in this case is a proper one to be allowed against his executor."
The Court of Appeals, after a full statement of the facts and
the law applicable thereto, expressed the following conclusion:
"But we fail to find in the agreed statement of facts sufficient
proof of the abandonment of the duties of the trust by George
Fitz James Colburn, 16 App. Gas. D. C. 107, 114, or any proof
of negligence on his part in the supervision of the trust in such
manner as to render himself or his estate liable.
"It is true that it is said in the statement that the trust estate, to the extent of twenty-two thousand dollars, was left by
Colburn to ' the collection, management and discretion solely
of Taylor,' and that Taylor 'handled said sum without the cooperation, supervision or knowledge of Colburn.' But this is
not sufficient. The statement may be consistent with the relinquishment only by Colburn of the ministerial duties which
he might well have intrusted to Taylor. In order to bold Colburn responsible there should be some evidence of abandonment
by him of the discretionary duties which it was not proper for
him to delegate to his cotrustee.
"It is very evident that the testator had confidence in Taylor, whom he designates as his friend, and who was in all probability his legal adviser; and the joinder of Taylor in the trust
is, under the circumstances, strong evidence that it was the testator's intention that his should be the controlling mind in the
mnanagement of the trust; and this view is fully corroborated
by the fact that Colburn, in view of his own special interest in
the trust and that there was a residuary devise of the trust
fund, might not be entirely impartial or entirely judicious in
such management. If the real estate which originally constituted the trust fund had remained unsold, and no duty had
been imposed on the trustee Taylor other than to collect the
rents and to remit them to Colburn in Washington, and this

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

duty had been left exclusively to him, we do not think that it
would be reasonable to infer from this fact alone that Colburn
had abandoned the trust; and yet in that contingency this
would have been the only duty to be performed under the trust,
except the payment of taxes and insurance, and all this would
necessarily have been under the supervision of Colburn and
subject to his approval and ratification in the acceptance of the
rents remitted to him. When the real estate was sold and the
proceeds invested or reinvested, did any different condition
arise? It does not anywhere in the record appear how this
fund of twenty-two thousand dollars, alleged to have been left
to the management of Taylor, was invested. It does not appear
that, after having been once invested, there was ever need or
occasion for reinvestment. Indeed, it may reasonably be conjectured that the amount remained as a mortgage on the property sold; and inasmuch as there is nothing to show that such
mortgage was ever paid and that the proceeds were reinvested,
it would not be unreasonable to assume that the investment remained as it was first placed. At all events, we cannot assume
the contrary in the absence of proof. We cannot assume that
the money became due, and that Taylor received it and reinvested it without the concurrence of Colburn, or that he wholly
failed to reinvest it and converted it to his own use. That
Taylor obtained control of the fund and misappropriated it is
very clear, but when, or how, or under what circumstances he
did so, we are not told. For all we know, he may have come
into possession of the fund in the last week or the last month
of his life, and he may have been the ministerial agent to receive the money when it was due and payable. He may have
come properly into possession of it, and the misappropriation
may have been an afterthought. We cannot infer delinquency
on the part of Colburn when there is no more proof than is
contained in this record that, by his abandonment of his trust,
or by his negligence in the supervision of it, he had put it in
the power of his cotrustee to prove faithless in his duty. Abandonment of discretionary power by a trustee to his cotrustee
is a fact to be proved by him who alleges it, and so likewise is
negligence in the supervision of a trust. INeither abandonment

COLBURN v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

nor negligence is to be implied without satisfactory proof of the
fact or of circumstances sufficient to warrant the inference, and
we do not find that proof in the statement of facts contained
in this record."
Another fact in this case is not without weight.
After Taylor's death, and when it appeared he was a defaulter,
Coiburn at once presented a claim, as cotrustee, against his estate, and was allowed a dividend in the sum of $3342.45. Thereupon the residuary legatees consented in writing that Colburn
should have a right to use said sum in the purchase of an annuity on his own account.
While we are not disposed to accept the suggestion, on behalf of the appellees, that by consenting to such a use by Colburn of the money received from the estate of Taylor, the
residuary legatees were estopped from claiming liability for the
rest of the fund misapplied by Taylor, we yet think that such

a consent tends strongly to show that the residuary legatees,
who were fully aware of all the facts .and circumstances, did
not regard Colburn's conduct as subjecting him to liability for
Taylor's misconduct. And the further fact, shown by the record, that no intention to hold Colburn for Taylor's defalcation
was ever disclosed till more than two years after Colburn's
death, and nearly six years after that of Taylor, tends to show
that the effort to so hold him is an afterthought, not entitled
to the approval of a court of equity.
The treatment of facts and law in the opinions of the courts
below, contained in the record, was so full and satisfactory as
to relieve us from further discussion.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is

.Afzpmed.
VOL oLxxxi-39

