OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Pick v. Atchison, Topeka & Sante Pj Railroad, 167 U. S. 673,
677; Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362.
These are the only questions of a Federal nature which are
presented by the record, and finding no error in them the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is

4Affnired.

WHITINEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

CLAIMS.

No. 133. Argued March 1, 1901.-Decided April 15, 1901.

In reviewing questions arising out of Mexican laws relating to land titles,
it is difficult to determine with anything like certainty what laws were
in force in Mexico at any particular time prior to the occupation of the
country in 1846-1848.
Looking through the provisions to which its attention has been called the
court finds nothing in them providing in terms, or by inference, for a general delegation of power by the supreme executive to the various governors to make a grant like the one set up in this case; and it holds that
the appellants have not borne the burden of showing the validity of the
grant which they set up, either directly, or by facts from which its validity could be properly inferred within the cases already decided by this
court.

THE appellants in this case come here on appeal from a judgment of the Court of Private Land Claims rejecting their claim,
which arose under a grant of land in New Mexico called La
Estancia grant, consisting of some 415,000 acres, made in 1845
by Governor Armijo to one Antonio Sandoval, under whom
they claim. Upon the trial it appeared that Sandoval in 1845
was a Mexican citizen of high distinction residing in the Territory of New Mexico. By petition, dated December 5, 1845,
and presented on the 7th of that month, Sandoval petitioned
the governor of New Mexico for a grant of land in the name
of the supreme authority of the Mexican nation, the land being
described in the petition, and the petitioner stating that it was

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

vacant land in a condition of mortmain, and might be granted
without prejudice to any third party. He stated in his petition
that he had for the last thirty years and more been rendering
services to the country, both by personal service and property,
and without ever having been paid anything in the way of compensation for such services, and in consideration of all of which
he asked and prayed the governor for the sake of justice to accede to his prayer. On December 7, 1845, Governor Armijo
granted the petition, and placed the following memorandum
thereon:
"This government being convinced of the valuable services
Don Antonio Sandoval has rendered, and is now rendering the
country, as well during the time to which he refers as also during the six years he served administering the prefecture of the
second district, with the salary of one thousand five hundred
dollars, of which not even a half real has been paid to him, the
sum due him amounting to nine thousand dollars, and the statements in this petition being true, I do, in the exercise of the
power in me vested by the laws, and also in consideration of
all the premises and as a just title acquired, make to him the
grant for the land he solicits, with all the dimensions and pasture land he asks, that he may enjoy the same in the name
of the supreme government of the Mexican nation and under
my concession, free and exempt from all tax or tribute.
"MANUEL

A-RitMJO."

Following the memorandum is a written certificate signed by
the comptroller of the departmental treasury of New Mexico
and acting treasurer of the same, certifying that Antonio Sandoval, during the period of forty years, as appears from the
record of the books of the treasury, has been serving the nation as a military and civil officer, and has loaned during that
time numerous sums of money to the nation without receiving
one half real interest, and that there are now due him large
sums as appears from the interest entries in the office and the
evidences in possession of the parties interested on account of
salaries and loans. Then follows the written certificate of Jose
Baca y Ortiz, dated at La Estancia, December 15, 1845, in which

106,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

he certifies that on that day he, accompanied by witnesses, placed
Antonio Sandoval, through his agent, Juan Antonio Aragon, in
juridical possession of the granted lands.
On July 8, 1848, Sandoval conveyed, by a deed of gift, the
above described land to his nephew, Gervacio Nolan. This
conveyance was acknowledged before the clerk of the county
of Bernalillo, Territory of New Mexico, on July 8, 1848.
After the passage of the act of Congress, July 22, 1854, establishing the office of surveyor general in New Mexico, and
on July 12, 1855, Nolan, the grantee of Sandoval, filed in the
office of the surveyor general the papers above described, upon
which he asked for the approval of that officer, and that he
would recommend the grant for confirmation by Congress.
Nolan died in 1858, before anything was done in regard to his
petition. After his death his widow and children, by guardian,
applied to the surveyor general, stating the fact of his death,
and asked that the grant of the land should be confirmed to
them as the present owners, and that a patent should be issued
in their favor. Testimony was taken in 1861, relating to the
petition, before the then surveyor general, but no final action
was bad in the case until it was submitted to Surveyor General
Proudfit, who, on January 4, 1873, reported that in his opinion
the title was perfect in the legal representatives of Nolan, deceased, and recommended that it be confirmed by Congress.
Congress did not, however, confirm the grant, and under instructions from the Commissioner of the General Land Office
the case was reexamined by Surveyor General Julian, who, in
a report to the Commissioner, dated July 21, 1886, recommended
the rejection of the claim by Congress for the reasons therein
stated by him. This report was concurred in by the Commissioner, and by him transmitted on December 17, 1886, to Mr.
Lamar, Secretary of the Interior. No further action seems to
have been taken. The appellants herein take title from the
widow and children of Nolan by conveyance dated September 23, 1880.
-Ab'. John H. Knaebel for appellants. X.. Ernest Ifnaebel
was on his brief.

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

.M£'. 3fatthew G. Reynolds for the United States.
licitor General was on his brief.

Mri. So-

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The judges of the court below, while rejecting the claim of
appellants, differed widely in regard to the grounds upon which
such rejection should be placed. Mr. Justice Sluss, in an opinion that was concurred in by Mr. Justice Fuller, said that the
case was to be decided under the Mexican colonization law of
August 18, 1824, and the regulations of November 21, 1828,
which in his judgment had not been totally repealed by the
law of April 4, 1837, and the grant, being subject to the first
named law and to the regulations above mentioned, could not
be valid for a greater quantity than eleven square leagues, nor
become a perfect title until the grant had been approved by the
departmental assembly.
It appears that eleven square leagues would embrace about
50,000 acres of land, and hence a grant of 415,000 acres would,
under the law and regulations, be far beyond the power of the
officials to make to any one person.
Mr. Justice Murray, while concurring in the conclusion to
reject the claim, was of opinion that the law of 1824 and the
regulations of 1828 had been entirely repealed by the law of
April 4, 1837, but he did not think that the governor had the
power merely as representative of the supreme executive to
make the grant, and there was no evidence of any special power
having been delegated to him.
Mr. Chief Justice Reed also concurred in the conclusion to reject the claim but did not agree with all that was said in the
opinion of Mr. Justice Sluss, being himself of opinion that, while
the law of 1824 was repealed by that of 1837, the regulations of
1828 were not thereby wholly repealed. He thought that the
grant in this case was made, not under the law of 1824, but
under the regulations of 1828; that the law regulated the matter of the disposition of the public lands within the States, and
conferred upon the executive the power to make all necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

regulations for the disposition of such lands within the T'er2itories, of which New Mexico was one, and the question in his
judgment was, not whether ihe law remained in force but
whether the regulations continued operative when the grant
was made; that it was manifest the law which governed the
matter within the States might be repealed without at all affecting the regulations established by the executive governing the
same subject within the Territories. Being subject to those
regulations, we suppose the quantity of the grant was an insuperable bar to its validity, in the view of the Chief Justice.
Mr. Justice Stone dissented from the decree rejecting the
claim, and was of opinion that the making of the grant in question was within the competency of the supreme executive, and
that Governor Armijo was his appropriate ministerial agent in
its execution.
In reviewing questions arising out of Mexican laws relating
to land titles we recognize what an exceedingly difficult matter
it is to determine with anything like certainty what laws were
in force in Mexico at any particular time prior to the occupation
of the country by the American forces in 1846-1848. This difficulty exists because of the frequent political changes which
took place in that country from the time the Spanish rule was
first thrown off down to the American occupation. Revolutions
and counter-revolutions, empires and republics, followed each
other with great rapidity and in.bewildering confusion, and
emperors, presidents, generals and dictators, each for a short
period, played the foremost part in a country where revolution
seems during that time to have been the natural order of things.
Among the first acts of each government was generally one repealing and nullifying all those of its predecessors.
If, however, the validity of this grant were to be decided
under the provisions of the colonization law of 1824, and the
regulations passed in 182S, it seems to us there would be little
difficulty in determining that the appellants had failed to make
out their case. The provisions of the act of 1824 were plainly
violated in this grant, because it contained more than eleven
square leagues. This was prohibited by that law. Reynolds'

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Compilation of Spanish & Mexican Land Laws, pp. 121, 122,
see. 12; Hall's Mexican Law, p. 149, sec. 498.
And also, before the grant in question was made, there had
been a previous one, dated November 28, 1845, conveying to
Sandoval the land embraced in what was called the Bosque del
Apache grant, which also exceeded eleven square leagues in
extent, the grant being made by the same governor (Armijo),
although juridical possession was not delivered until March 7,
1846. Having obtained a grant of more than eleven square
leagues before he made his petition for the grant now in issue,
he had acquired all that the law of 1824 permitted him to take,
and the subsequent grant was not valid. UnitedStates v. Hartnell, 22 How. 286.
Another objection to the title is that there is no record of its
existence in the archives of New Mexico. Although no question is made as to the genuineness of the papers set forth in the
foregoing statement of fact, namely, the petition of Sandoval,
its allowance by Governor Armijo, the certificate of the comptroller and acting treasurer, and the certificate of the delivery
of juridical possession by the justice of the peace, yet none of
these came from the archives of the country, and there is no
record that the departmental assembly ever concurred in the
grant, as is necessary under the law of 1824. Reynolds, p. 142,
sec. 5. If the approval of that body could not be obtained, the
governor was to report to the supreme government, forwarding
the proceedings in the matter for its consideration. Sec. 6.
Nothing of this kind appears in the archives or in the records
of the assembly. Nor has there been produced even from the
hands of the claimants any approval of the grant by the assembly. No matter how formal and complete the written documentary evidence of title may be, yet when coming from private hands it is insufficient to establish a Mexican grant if there
is nothing in the public records to show that it ever existed.
Peraltav. United States, 3 Wall. 434, 440. Mr. Justice Davis,
in delivering the opinion of the court in that case, said:
"The Mexican nation attached a great deal of form to the
disposition of its lands, and required many things to be done
before the proceedings could ripen into a grant. But the im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

portant fact to be noticed is, that a record was required to be
kept of whatever was done. This record was a guard against
fraud and imposition, and enabled the government to ascertain
with accuracy what portions of the public lands had been alienated. The record was t/he grant, and without it the title was
not divested. The governor was required to give a document
to the party interested, which was evidence of title, and enabled
him to get possession; but this ' titulo ' did not divest the title,
unless record was made in conformity with law."
The title here is incomplete because there is no evidence
whatever of approval by the assembly, or, failing in that, any
record of further proceedings to obtain the approval of the
supreme government.
In United States v. Teschmaker, 22 How. 392, Mr. Justice
Nelson said, at page 405: "We do not say that the absence of
the record evidence is of itself necessarily fatal to the proof of
the title; but it should be produced, or its absence accounted
for to the satisfaction of the court."
In Berreyesa v. United States, 154 U. S. 623, the court held
that the case came within the principle of those cases in which
it had decided adversely to claims made under alleged Mlexican
grants, all because it did not appear that a grant from the
Mexican government had been "deposited and recorded in the
proper public office among the public archives of the republic."
See also United States v. Ortiz, 176 U. S.422; United States v.
Elder, 177 U. S. 104.
In this case, as we have said, there is no record or mention
of the case in the archives in New M exico. The papers came
from private hands, the claimant Nolan presenting them to the
surveyor general in 1855, when he applied to that officer for
his recommendation to Congress for a confirmation of the grant.
That they have remained in the surveyor general's office since
that time does not make them a record or an archive of the
government within the meaning of those cases above cited.
The certificate of Baca, the justice of the peace, certifying to
his delivery of juridical possession to Sandoval on December 15,
1845, bears the indorsement that it was recorded in book letter B, pages 166, 167, and is certified to by the recorder Dona-

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ciano Vigil at Santa F6, November 17, 1849. This book has
been lost, but it was kept in obedience to a provision contained
in what is called the "Kearney Code," providing for the recording of papers brought to the recorder by parties, which
affected or constituted their title to lands they claimed to own.
The book was not an original archive of the country. The certificate of record indorsed upon the paper shows that it was
produced from private hands, and no presumption that any
papers relating to this grant were recorded in or placed among
the archives of the government of New Mexico arises from the
fact that a record of this paper was made pursuant to the provisions of the Kearney Code. There is no proof that this paper
or any document connected with the grant under discussion
had ever been delivered to the recorder for record and retained
by him in his official custody from 1849 until it had been turned
over to the custody of the surveyor general upon the creation
of that office in 1854. The language contained in the report
of Surveyor General Proudfit would negative any such presumption, because he says that the papers were filed in his
office July 12, 1855, by Gervacio Nolan, the claimant himself.
The fact, however, would have been immaterial in any event.
The paper would not have been a document found in the records
or archives of New Mexico, because it came from private hands
and was by the claimant delivered to the recorder, and his
keeping it thereafter and turning it over to the surveyor general
would not have constituted it a record or a paper found among
the archives and turned over to that officer.
It does appear from the evidence that there may have
been some loss or destruction of papers which constituted a
part of the records or archives of New Mexico in the possession
of the territorial librarian in the year 1869 or 1870. The history of the transaction is stated by the witness Bond, and it
would seem from his account that it was extremely doubtful
whether any really important papers relating to grants of land
had in fact been destroyed, although some of them may have
been. Unless we should regard this possibility as a sufficient
excuse in every case of a land grant in New Mexico for the
failure to show any archive title or record of title of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

grant, it cannot be admitted in this particular case. That it is
not a sufficient excuse has been decided by this court. United
States, Applts., v. Castro et al., 24 How. 346. The appellants (lid
prove by the witness Tipton, whose great experience in connection with the surveyor general's office in New Mexico is well
known, that he had not seen in the archives of the government
any record of grants made by Armijo or signed by him, although the witness knew nothing about the condition of the
archives prior to the spring of 1876. We think this is insufficient to show the destruction of all archives pertaining to grants
made by Armijo about this time (1845).
Taking all these objections to the title into consideration we
think it clear that no case for confirmation under the colonization law of August, 1821, and the regulations of 1828 was
made out.
In the early history of these Mexican land titles it had been
supposed that the colonization law and the regulations above
mentioned were all that were in force in Mexico after their
dates. United States 'v. Cambuston, 20 IHow. 59, 63; United
States v. lFallejo, 1 Black, 541, 552; United States v. Tigil, 13
rall. 449, 450.
Subsequently, the claim was urged that that law and the
regulations had been repealed by virtue of the law of April 4,
1837. Reynolds, p. 222. See also law of April 17, 1837, P. 224
of Reynolds' Compilation.
The claim was urged by way of argument by counsel, and referred to by Mr. Justice Lamar in his opinion in 17terstateLand
Grant Compoany v. .ffaxwell Land Grant Company, 139 U. S.
569, 578. Again, in United States v. Coe, 170 IT. S. 681, 696,
Mr. Justice McKenna, in speaking of the colonization law of
August 18, 1824, said that "by a law passed April 4, 1837, all
colonization laws were certainly modified and may be repealed."
The weight of the argument of counsel for appellants rests
upon the assumption and assertion that this grant was not made
under the law of 1824 or the regulations of 1828, nor under the
law of 1837 above mentioned, but that it was made by the supreme executive of Mexico through his trusted minister and
agent, Governor and Commandant-General Manuel Armijo,

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

who in making such grant was not restricted by any prescribed
rules or limitations. This broad proposition counsel has sought
to maintain by reference to the various acts of -Mexico subsequent to 1828, and up to the making of this grant.
Treating Armijo as the alterego in New Mexico of the supreme
executive of Mexico, and claiming for the latter full and absolute power to dispose of the public lands in accordance with the
views held by that oficer, counsel ask that the same presumption of the validity of grants made by Governor Armijo should
be indulged, which was accorded to the grants of certain officials in the Louisiana and Florida cases, herein referred to. We
think no such presumption ought to obtain in this case.
In United States v. Cambuston, supra, Mr. Justice Nelson,
in speaking of the difference between the cases involving Spanish titles in the Territories of Louisiana and Florida, such as
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 729 ; Delassus v. United
States, 9 Pet. 117, 134; United States v. Peralta,19 How. 343,
347, and those which involved Mexican titles, said:
"But no such presumptions are necessary or admissible in
respect to Mexican titles granted since the act of the 18th of
August, 1824, and the regulations of the 21st of November,
1828. Authority to make the grants is there expressly conferred on the governors, as well as the terms and conditions
prescribed, upon which they shall be made. The court must
look to these laws for both the power to make the grant, and
for the mode and manner of its exercise; and they are to be
substantially complied with, except so far as modified by the
usages and customs of the government under which the titles
are derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of this
court. 17 How. 542."
The case was decided under the act of Congress of the 3d of
March, 1851, to adjudicate private land claims arising under
our treaty with Mexico, and the decision, as is seen from the
above extract, proceeds upon the assumption that the law of
1824 and the regulations of 1828 furnished the rule of decision.
Their existence is denied by counsel for the appellants, and it is
upon the assumption of their non-existence that his argument
rests. Assuming, however, that the law and regulations were
VOL. CLXXXI-8

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not in force, we still cannot base a presumption that the governor was authorized by the supreme executive to make the grant
simply because the governor exercised the power. The difference
between the act relating to Spanish titles to lands above referred
to and the act of 1891 under which Mexican titles to lands have
been examined by the Court of Private Land Claims, and by
this court, is clearly recognized and enforced in United States
v. Ortiz, 176 U. S. 422. In that case it was held that under
the provisions of the act establishing the Court of Private Land
Claims, (sec. 13, act of March 3, 1891, c. 539; 26 Stat. 854,)
the burden of showing the existence of the grant was upon the
person claiming under it, and that no presumption of authority
on the part of the granting officer existed, as in the case of the
above mentioned territories. This last case was approved in
the Elder case, 177 U. S. 104, where it was again held that the
claimant must prove his title by a preponderance of evidence,
and no presumption of authority existed.
And in Hays v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, 647, 648, this
difference is also pointed out by Mr. Justice White. Speaking
of the act of 1891, he said:
" But in the act of 1891 the court is required to be satisfied
not simply as to the regularity inform,but it is made essential
before a grant can be held legally valid that it must appear
that the title was 'lawfully and regularly derived,' which imports that the court must be satisfied, from all the evidence,
that the official body or person assuming to grant was vested
with authority, or that the exercise of power, if unwarranted,
was subsequently lawfully ratified." Page 648.
We are not satisfied that there was a general power on the
part of the governor of a territory at any time to make a valid
grant of lands in all cases and simply as the agent of the supreme executive, such as is contended for by counsel for the
appellants. No evidence that the governors legally had that
power has been given other than the fact that they sometimes
exercised it. It appears, however, that for some years prior to
1845 grants of land were made not only by governors, but even
by alcaldes, prefects, justices of the peace, and by judges of first
instance, so that, in the language of one of the judges of the

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

court below, "1it was a poor officer, indeed, who did not assume
to be able to dispose of the public domain belonging to the nation." Hence the reluctance to presume the validity of a power
because of its exercise. It may be that in some particular period
of those disturbed times, and up to 1846, the supreme executive
of the Mexican nation exercised arbitrary and irresponsible
power, and granted the public lands according to his own views
of what was proper and needful for the nation, and upon occasion delegated such power to a governor, but the exercise of that
kind of power was in violation of the ordinary and general laws
which had been adopted by the nation, and no presumption
that the supreme executive had delegated his power to a governor or political chief of a province or state can be indulged
for the purpose of upholding a grant of land made by the governor in violation of the constitution or laws which had theretofore been adopted or passed.
Counsel also urges that such power is to be found in the
"Bases of 1835," the "constitution of 1836," and the "Bases of
1843," not to speak of the "Plan of Tacubaya," and the attending laws or decrees, in which it is contended there are
specific provisions plainly expressive of the intimate representative and ministerial relations which the governor and commandant general bore the supreme executive. It might be
assumed that the relations between the supreme executive or
Dictator and his governors and commandants general were intimate and confidential, but such relations of intimacy and confidence do not take the place of an actual delegation of power
to the governors to make grants of this description; nor do we
find any such delegation in the various provisions contained in
the Bases of 1835 or of 1843 and the constitution above referred
to. The governor does not assume to make the grant by virtue
of any special or general delegation of authority to him by the
supreme executive, but he asserts in his grant above quoted
that he makes it "in virtue of the power in me vested by the
laws," etc.
Section 10 of the "Bases for the New Constitution," law of
October 23, 1835, Reynolds, p. 201, simply provides that the
executive power of the departments shall reside in the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ernors in subordination to the supreme executive of the nation.

The same law divides the national territory into departments
on the basis of population, etc., and provides that there shall
be governors and departmental boards for the government of
these departments. This obviously gives no authority to tle
governor to make a grant of the public lands within his territory according to his own unrestrained views of propriety.
It does not assume to alter the general laws in relation to
the disposition of the public lands or of the manner in which
they shall be disposed of. The same may be said regarding
the constitution of 1836, which entrusts the interior departments to the governors in subordination to the general government. Reynolds, pp. 203, 204. The law of March 20, 1837,
Reynolds, p. 211, subdivision 17, p. 215, provides that the governors shall be the usual channels of communication between
the supreme powers of the nation and the departmental councils (juntas), and between the latter and the officials of the department. This provision does not tend to show the power
contended for.
In fine, looking through the provisions to which our attention
has been called by counsel, and without specific reference to
each one of them, we may say in regard to all of them that we
find therein nothing providing in terms or by inference for the
general delegation of power by the supreme executive (assuming that he himself had it) to the various governors to make a
grant like this. The appellants are, therefore, compelled to
show some specific delegation of authority from the supreme
executive for making such a grant. If that were shown, we
might say, following the case of United States v. Castillero, 23
How. 464, the other conditions therein mentioned being fulfilled, that the grant was a valid one and ought to have been
confirmed by the court below, and within the case of United
States v. Osio, 23 How. 273, if there had been a special delegation of power it would follow that the conditions contained in
such special delegation must be fulfilled before title passed.
The necessity for showing what the special power was becomes
evident from these cases.
What we have already said as to the absence of all record in

BAKER v. CUMMINGS.
Statement of the Case.

the archives, relating to the grant, applies to the case as here
considered.
Looked at from any point of view we do not think the appellants have borne the burden of showing the validity of their
grant, either directly or by facts from which its validity could
be properly inferred within the cases already decided by this
court. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

BAKER v. CUMMINGS.
CERTIORARI TO THE coURr OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 207. Argued March 19, 20, 1901. -Decided

April 15, 1901.

The question in this case involves the construction and effect of the decision
of this court in the case of Baker v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189, between the
same parties, and growing out of the same transaction which is the subject of the litigation in this case.
Matters which have been fully investigated between the parties and determined by the court, shall not be again contested, and the judgment of
the court upon matters thus determined shall be conclusive on the parties, and never subject to further inquiry.
This doctrine applies to this case.

THE petitioner (plaintiff below) commenced this action at law
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on December 19, 1889, to recover from the defendant the sum of $2712.81
with interest at six per centum from July 31, 1889, and annexed
to his declaration a bill of particulars of his demand. Plaintiff
claimed in his declaration that the money was due, among other
things, on an account stated between the parties. The plaintiff
obtained judgment in the trial court for the amount of his claim,
which was reversed by the Court of Appeals of the District.
A case between the same parties and growing out of the same
transaction has already been before this court and decided. 169
U. S. 189. The question in this case involves the construction

