LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Syllabus.

committed by that body, and after doing so to remand the case
to the commission so as to afford it the opportunity of examining the evidence and finding the facts as required by law. The
investigation which we have given the questions which arise in
these cases and the consideration which we have bestowed on
the issues which were involved in the case of the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad have served but to impress
upon us the necessity of adhering to that rule, in order that the
statute may be complied with both in letter and spirit. Acting
in accordance with this requirement, whilst affirming the decree
below which refused to enforce the order of the commission,
we shall do so without prejudice to the right of the commission,
if it so elects, to make an original investigation of the questions
presented in these records.
Tie decrees of the Circit Court of Appeals and of the Circuit Court must be modified by p)roviding that the dismissal
of the bills shall be without.,prJudice to the right of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, if it so elects, to make an
original investigation of the questions contained in the records pertinent to the complaints _presented to that body, and,
as so modified, said decrees must be afflrmed, and it is so
ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

dissented.

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMAE COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 160.

Argued January 31, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1901.

The question whether the benefit accruing to each particular tract of real
estate assessed by the park commissioners for the payment of the Douglas boulevard equalled the sum of the assessment placed thereon, was
foreclosed by the findings of fact of the trial court, to which the case was
submitted without the intervention of a jury.
VOL. CLXXXI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
The powerof the State of Illinois to levy a special assessment in proportion
to benefits, for the execution of a local work, and the authority to confer
on a municipality the attribute of providing for such an assessment, is
not denied.
Where a special municipal assessment to pay for a particular work has been
held to be illegal, no violation of the Constitution of the United States
arises from a subsequent authority given to make a new special assessment to pay for the complete work.
The Supreme Court of Illinois decided a local, and not a Federal question,
when it held that it was competent on a now assessment to determine the
questions of benefit from the proof, even though in so doing a different
result was reached from that which had been arrived at when the former
assessment, which had been set aside, was made.

TnE West Chicago Park Commissioners, in virtue of authority
vested in them by the laws of the State of Illinois, proposing to
improve Douglas boulevard, and requiring a special assessment to
enable them to pay for the work, applied, as the law directed in
such case, to the municipal authorities of West Chicago to cause
such special assessment to be levied and collected according to
law. In March, 1893, the town, acting on this request, adopted an
ordinance providing for executing the work and for a special
assessment on the abutting property to pay for the same. The
only provision of this ordinance which it is essential to note for
the purposes of the issues which are now before us is the second
section thereof, which provided that the sum of the assessment
when made should be payable in instalments, the first being
twenty per cent of the whole, and the deferred portions to bear
interest at a rate fixed in the ordinance. Following the requirements of the state laws, after the passage of this ordinance, application was made to the county court of Cook County to
take the necessary steps to execute the provisions of the ordinance. Pursuant to the directions of the Illinois statutes the
court appointed commissioners, who examined and made a full
report on the work, and exhibited an assessment roll stating the
sum due by the abutting property; the amount assessed on each
piece being stated to have been fixed in accordance with the
benefits which it was ascertained would result to each piece from
the performance of the contemplated work. After notice to
those concerned to appear and urge objections, if any they had,
to the assessment roll, and after due proceedings in which am-

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Statement of the Case.

ple opportunity was afforded to resist the assessment, the court
passed a decree of confirmation fixing the amount due by each
piece of property in accordance with the report of the commissioners, and declaring that the sum assessed against each piece
of property did not exceed the benefit conferred on the property. This decree, however, did not in all respects uphold the
assessments made by the commissioners, as it sustained the objections of certain property holders on the ground that the sum
assessed against them exceeded the benefits, and as to these objecting property holders, the amount assessed was reduced to
correspond with what the court concluded was the actual benefit shown to result. J. L. Lombard was the owner of a piece of
property within the assessment district, which had, it seems,
been omitted from the roll returned by the commissioners. The
decree recited that this property (describing it) had been by consent found to be within the district, and would be benefited to
a certain amount, and the sum of this benefit was by consent
awarded against the property as described. The assessment,
the decree of confirmation provided, was to be paid in instalments as specified.
The collection of the assessment proceeded according to the
roll, and the execution of the proposed improvement was undertaken. Some of those who were assessed paid; others did not;
and on proceedings being taken as authorized by the laws of
Illinois to enforce payment, a controversy arose which, in its
final stage, was considered by the Supreme Court of the State
of Illinois, and the court decided that the assessment was void
and could not be enforced. The reasoning by which the court
so decided was this: That under the statutes of Illinois there
was no authority to provide for a payment of a special assessment in instalments, and therefore, as the ordinance had fixed
that method of payment, it was void. Culver v. The People,
161 Illinois, 89. And the principle of this case was applied in
subsequent cases. Farrellv. T/e Town of lfest Chicago, 162
Illinois, 280; Connor v. Town of IFest Chicago, 162 Illinois,
287; White v. Town of West Chicago, 164 Illinois, 196. The
improvement had in the mean while been constructed. The
West Chicago Park Commissioners, after the decisions in ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

tion, dismissed the previous proceedings which had taken place
in relation to the assessment. In July, 1895, an act was passed
by the legislature of Illinois, which authorized park authorities,
whenever a special assessment had been declared void by a
court of competent jurisdiction, to " collect a new special assessment on property benefited by said improvement or completed
portion thereof in the same manner as in other cases, and the
lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land found benefited by said
improvements, or the completed portion thereof, shall each
severally be liable to pay for said benefits to the same extent
and the same proportion as in other cases." Iurd's Statutes
of Illinois, 1899, chap. 105, sec. 20, p. 12-44.
After the passage of this law the West Chicago Park Commissioners in July, 1896, adopted an ordinance providing an
assessment to pay for the work of improving Douglas boulevard, which had been completed, as above stated. The first
section of the ordinance, by way of preamble, recited the occurrences substantially as above stated. The second and third
sections were as follows:
"SEC. 2. That a new special assessment on the property benefited by said improvement, to the amount that the same may
be legally assessed for, be levied to pay the cost of said boulevard improvement above specified, and the remainder of such
cost be paid by general taxation, viz., from the general funds
of this board, all in accordance with an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled 'An act to enable the
park commissioners or park authorities to make local improvements, and provide for the payment thereof,' approved June 24
and in force July 1, 1895.
"SEC. 3. That the estimate of the cost of the said improvement
be made by this commission and spread of record."
Subsequently the park commissioners made an estimate and
report, and application was made to the county court of Cook
County for the enforcement of an assessment roll prepared by
the park commissioners in accordance with the estimate. This
roll stated the total amount of the cost of the work, and charged
the individual proprietors in the aggregate with a large portion
of the total amount because of the special benefits conferred by

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Statement of the Case.

the work upon them, the remainder-an insignificant part-of
the cost was charged to the public, because of the general benefit to the public which, it was found, had been produced by the
doing of the work. The sum charged against the individual
property holders was distributed among them, and this distribution was shown by a statement containing the name of the
owners, the lot owned by him, the total amount of the assessment, the sum to be deducted from this total in consequence of
the instalments which had been paid on the former and void
assessment, the net result of the benefit after making this deduction being stated in a separate column. To this roll was
appended the certificate of the park commissioners, as required
by law, that"Before entering upon their said duties they examined the
locality where the said completed improvement has been made,
and the lots, blocks, tracts and portions of land which are
specially benefited thereby, and did estimate what proportion
of the total cost of said completed improvement is of benefit to
the public, and what proportion thereof is of benefit to the property benefited, and did apportion the same between the said
park district and such property, so that each should bear its
that having found said
relative equitable portion; .
assess
the amount so found of
apportion
and
they
did
amounts
benefit to said property upon the several lots, blocks, tracts and
parcels of land in the proportion in which they are benefited by
said completed improvement, and that no lot, block, tract or
parcel of land has been assessed the greater amount than it has
been actually benefited thereby; that said assessment roll also
shows the credit to which each lot, block, tract of land so specially
assessed is entitled to, if any, for or on account of payments on
previous assessments or instalments thereof, and the net amount
of benefits assessed thereon."
The amount of the assessment against the individual lot owners for benefits in the new roll differed from the sum assessed
in the previous one. Indeed, the new roll disregarded the reductions which had been decreed in the previous proceedings
as to certain of the lot owners, since it increased the amount
due by these owners over the sum fixed by the previous decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

The property of Lombard, which had been placed upon the
previous roll by consent at a particular amount, was placed upon
the new roll for a larger sum than that shown in the previous
roll. After publication of notice of the filing of the roll the
present plaintiffs in error appeared in the county court of Cook
County and objected to the confirmation of the roll. The objections which were urged were numbered from 1 to 18, and
denied the validity of the new roll upon many grounds, all of
which involved purely matters of local and non-Federal concern.
They subsequently filed a motion to cancel the assessment on
eight specified grounds, none of which involved the Constitution or laws of the United States. And this is also true of
amended objections which were filed. Later, additional objections were filed, numbered from 1 to 5. The first charged, in
general terms, that the assessment and the proceeding to confirm the same were in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States; the second, that as
the proceeding was not authorized by any valid ordinance at the
time the work was done, to confirm the assessment under the
assumption that it was sustained by the act of 1895 would be a
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States; the third charged that as the ordinance
under which the previous assessment was made had been held
to be void, there was no authority for doing the work at the
time when it was done, and hence to enforce the subsequent
ordinance would also violate the Fourteenth Amendment; the
fourth but reiterated that as the work was completed before
the Illinois act of 1895 had been passed, to construe that law
as authorizing the assessment would also violate the Constitution of the United States; and the fifth repeated in different
form the same proposition by asserting that the law of 1895, if
held to be retroactively applicable to the work which had been
completed at the time of its passage, would be repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
On the hearing by objections to evidence, by motions to strike
out, and by additional pleadings, the grounds above stated were
repeated, but were all overruled. Following this, it is stated
in the bill of exceptions-

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Statement of the Case.

"And thereupon all the said motions and legal objections having been disposed of, the said cause came on to be tried upon
the objections triable by a jury; and thereupon it was stipulated
in open court by the petitioners and by said objectors that the
said cause should be submitted to the court for trial without a
jury upon the said issues and upon the same evidence in all respects which has been offered upon the said motions and legal
objections as hereinbefore set forth, without recalling witnesses
or introducing or recalling or offering the said testimony, the
same to be treated as having been offered upon the said issues,
which was all the evidence offered on the said hearing. And
thereupon the objectors contended that it was shown by the
said evidence that the property of the said objectors and each
of them, severally, was assessed more than its proportionate
share of the cost of the said improvement; but said objections
were overruled, and the court found the issues for the petitioners.

"

The decree which was entered expressly found that in each
particular case the property assessed was benefited to the sum
of the assessment. An appeal was taken from this decree to the
Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, and on such appeal errors
were assigned numbered from 1 to 20. They repeated in various
forms of statement all the objections of a Federal nature which
had been previously urged and asserted, besides a number of
grounds of purely local concern. The Supreme Court of Illinois
decided that although it was settled by a course of decisions in
that State that there must exist authority for making a special
assessment at the time the levy was made and before the work
was done, yet the original ordinance under which the first assessment which had been declared illegal was made afforded
such an authority. Construing its former opinions, the court
said that whilst it had declared the previous assessment to be
void because it provided for a payment in instalments contrary
to the state statutes, nevertheless the ordinance to the extent
that it directed an assessment, remained, albeit it had been held
that the provision as to payment by instalments could not be
enforced. The court then reviewed all the various objections to
the form of the assessment, and held them to be without merit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It moreover decided that, as the previous assessment had been
set aside because of the instalment feature, the sums fixed
therein were not conclusive, and on the new assessment it was
competent to reexamine the question of benefits and to restate
the amounts due, even although in doing so it was ascertained
that a larger sum was assessable upon some portions of the property than had been decreed by the order which confirmed the
previous assessment. As to the property of Lombard, the court
decided that the proof established that a change in condition
had caused the property to be justly assessed for a larger proportion of benefit than had been attributed to it by consent in
the first assessment. 181 Illinois, 136. To this decision the
present writ of error is prosecuted.
.A'. _atvam G,ier _Moore for plaintiffs in error. _Y. Jotn
P. Wilson and Mr1i&. William B. .cllvaine filed a brief for
same.
.2Xr. Robert A. O]hilds for defendant in error.
Hudson was on his brief.
Mn. JUSTICE

WHITE,

Xr. Charles

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignments of error contained in the record are nine in
number, and eleven in addition have been made since the record
was filed in this court. The question whether the benefit accruing to each particular piece of property assessed equalled the
sum of the assessment placed thereon was foreclosed by the findings of fact of the trial court, to which court the case was submitted without the intervention of a jury. It is suggested, although under the statutes of Illinois a special assessment can
only be made for the amount of the benefit shown to exist, this
is of no concern in this case since this levy is not a special assessment, but is a special tax. Where a special tax is imposed
under the law of Illinois, it is asserted, no inquiry into the benefits can be had, and, therefore, there arises no question whether
the levy was invalid, as exceeding the benefits to be derived,

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Opinion of the Court

since all investigation into the amount of the benefits was, as a
matter of law, excluded. But this proposition is plainly an afterthought. From the statement of the case which precedes,
it is apparent that the objectors to the assessment considered
that their defence raised the issue of benefit, that they tendered
proof, submitted the question to the trial court without a jury
and had an award against them. It is plain, also, that this contention was not raised by the assignment of errors in the Supreme Court of Illinois, and such question was not by that
court in any way considered. Putting out of view questions of
form, the principal contentions made in the Supreme Court of
Illinois, as shown by the assignment of errors in that court, were
as follows: That as under the law of the State of Illinois, an authority existing at the time the work was done was necessary
to justify an assessment, a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment would be brought about by holding that authority for the
assessment was supplied by the Illinois act of 1895, since such
law was enacted after the work was completed, and that as the
previous ordinance had been declared void by the Supreme Court
of Illinois, to hold such void ordinance to be an authority for
the subsequent assessment would also violate the Fourteenth
Amendment, since it would amount to a want of due process of
law and a denial of the equal protection of the laws. And these
propositions, stated in varying form, really express every substantial issue raised by the twenty assignments which are here
pressed. We do not take up each assignment in detail to show
that this is the case, since a statement of them all, as summed
up in argument of counsel, is in the margin, and renders a more
detailed enumeration unnecessary.
1 "1st. As the court will see, this is a hard case. The controversy arises
out of an effort to compel a ribbon of land 125 feet wide, along the margin
of a boulevard 250 feet in width, decorated and ornamented as a park, to
pay the entire cost of its improvement, although it is made for the general
benefit of the inhabitants.
"2d. The original ordinance for the improvement was declared by the
Supreme Court, in a direct proceeding, to be void, and so utterly without
effect as to form no basis for an adjudication thereon by the county court.

"3d. The constitution and laws of the State, as uniformly construed, permit no such charge to be created against private property without a previ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The power of the State of Illinois to levy a special assessment
in proportion to benefits, for the execution of a local work, and
the authority to confer on a municipality the attribute of providing for such an assessment, is not denied.
It is no longer open to question that where a special assessment to pay for a particular work has been held to be illegal,
no violation of the Constitution of the United States arises from
a subsequent authority given to make a new special assessment
to pay for the completed work. 8pencer v. 3erc]hant, 125
U. S.345.
With these two propositions in mind it is certain that if the
power flowing from the ordinance which the Supreme Court of
the State of Illinois upheld existed, prior to the work, the assessment was valid. So, also, if the authority was only given
subsequent to the work, it was, from the point of view of the
Constitution of the United States, legally conferred. In either
contingency, therefore, there was no cause of complaint so far
as Federal rights were concerned. The contention advanced,
ous valid ordinance providing that the cost be paid by special assessment
or special tax.
"4th. The previous assessment havingbeen extinguished completely by the
decision of the Supreme Court, there remained no authority of law to charge
this property. The legislature thereupon passed a law, after the work had
been completed, providing that, notwithstanding the said provisions of the
constitution of the State, the work previously completed might be charged
upon the private property by a procedure therein for the first time provided.
"5th. On the application for such an assessment the property owners
protested, setting up the provisions of the Constitution of the United States
in denial of the right.
"6th. The courts of the State, although they had held the original ordinance void, so as to confer no jurisdiction on the courts even to consider it,
held that it was valid for the purpose of creating a charge on property of
plaintiffs in error.
"7th. If the ordinance was in fact valid, then the original judgment of
confirmation, reducing this assessment, was valid and effectual, and should
have been applied here.
"8th. By the whipsawing process we have referred to, the courts of the
State have held that the ordinance of March 28, 1893, was void, so as to
deprive plaintiffs in error of the benefits of its adjudication reducing the
amount of their assessment; but valid for the purpose of creating a charge
upon their property."

LOMBARD v,. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore, amounts to this, that a violation of the Constitution

of the United States has been produced by the exercise of a
power which, whatever view may be taken, could be brought
into play without giving rise to a conflict with such Constitution.
But in effect, it is asserted, this deduction is inapposite to this
case, since the proposition here relied upon is that the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois maintained the assessment on a
void ordinance, and, therefore, in effect decided that a valid assessment could be made where there was no authority whatever
for the levy. This, however, rests upon an entirely false assumption, since it is manifest that the court below held that
there was a valid ordinance, that is, one which sufficiently conferred the authority to make the assessment. Whether the ordinance was or was not valid, and the extent to which it was
so, having regard to the state constitution and laws, was wholly
a state and not a Federal question, and we are not concerned
with it. Accepting the conclusion of the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois as to the existence of the ordinance by virtue
of the state law and constitution, the proposition pressed upon
us comes to the result which we have above indicated, and,
therefore, is obviously without merit. Indeed, the nisconception involved in the argument was pointed out in Castillo v. 3fConnico, 168 U. S. 674. There it was asserted that a particular
assessment was void because of a mistake in the name of the
person whose property had been assessed. The Supreme Court
of Louisiana, interpreting the statutes of that State, otherwise
decided. It was urged, however, that such decision was in conflict with many prior rulings of that court, and therefore a Federal question was presented. But it was held that as it was
within the power of the State of Louisiana, without violating
the Constitution of the United States, to direct the assessment
without giving the name of the owner, by an adequate description of the property assessed, the decision of the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana raised no Federal question. The court
said (p. 683):
"The vice which underlies the entire argument of the plaintiff in error arises from a failure to distinguish between the
essentials of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ment and matters which may or may not be essential under
the terms of the state assessing or taxing law. The two are
neither correlative or coterminous.
"The first, due process of law, must be found in the state
statute, and cannot be departed from without violating the
Constitution of the United States. The other depends on the
lawmaking power of the State, and as it is solely the result of
such authority may vary or change as the legislative will of
the State sees fit to ordain. It follows that, to determine the
existence of the one, due process of law is the final province of
this court, whilst the ascertainment of the other, that is, what
is merely essential under the state statute, is a state question,
within the final jurisdiction of the courts of last resort of the
several States."
And the principle thus inculcated not only disposes of the
argument which we have previously considered, but also makes
it clear that the Supreme Court of Illinois decided a local
and not a Federal question when it held that it was competent
on a new assessment to determine the questions of benefit from
the proof, even though in so doing a different result was reached
from that which had been arrived at when the former assessment which bad been set aside was made. The theory lying at
the foundation of all the arguments advanced to show that the
court below committed error of a Federal nature is this, and
nothing more, that the equal protection of the laws was denied
by the Supreme Court of Illinois, because that court, although
it treated the assessing ordinance as invalid for the purposes of
the first assessment, upheld that ordinance as valid for the second assessment. This but asserts that because it is considered
that there was inconsistency in the reasoning by which the
Supreme Court of Illinois sustained its conclusion, therefore
the equal protection of the laws was denied. If the proposition
as thus understood was held to be sound, as it cannot be, every
case decided in the courts of last resort of the several States
would be subject to the revisory power of this court, wherever
the losing party deemed that the reasoning by which the state
court had been led to decide adversely to his rights was inconsistent with the reasoning previously announced by the same

DAINGERFIELD NATIONAL BANK v. RA.GLAND.

45

Opinion of the Court.

court in former cases. In thus stating the ultimate deduction
to which the proposition necessarily leads, we do not wish to
be understood as implying that we think the reasoning upon
which the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois placed its
decision in this case is amenable to the inconsistency which it
is insisted it embodies. As that consideration is wholly beyond
the pale of our jurisdiction, we have not even approached its
consideration.
JTudgment affi'rmed.

DAINGERFIELD NATIONAL BANK v. RAGLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH JUDICIAL
DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 200. Submitted March 18, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1931.

Brown v. Marion Natonal Bank, 169 U. S. 416, followed on the point that
"if an obligee actually pays usurious interest as such, the usurious transaction must be held to have occurred then, and not before, and he must
sue within two years thereafter."

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

_Y. J. . Turner for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

At various times between January 1, 1895, and May 22, 1896,
the defendant in error, 0. W. Ragland, with sureties, executed
promissory notes to the Daingerfield National Bank, for various
sums of money loaned to said Ragland. The bank was a national banking association doing business in Daingerfield, Morris County, Texas. Each original note embraced not only the
amount of the loan but interest to the date of maturity of the
note, calculated at a rate higher than that allowed by law.
Certain of the notes were renewed from time to time, the additional interest for the extended period being added, calculated

