FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Both defences were overruled, and judgment rendered for the
plaintiff. The case was then carried on error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which gave judgment dismissing the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction. In this we think the court erred,
and that a certiorari should issue that its judgment to that effect
may be revised. As the record is before us on the return to the
rule hereinbefore entered, and full argument has been had, it
will be unnecessary for another return to be made to the writ,
or further argument to be submitted.
Writ of certiorarito issue; return to rule to stand as return
to Writ; judgment thereupon reversed and cause remanded
with a direction to take jurisdictionand disTose of the cause.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY concurred in the result.

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 226. Argued December 13, 1900. -Decided April 15, 1901.
A stamp tax on a foreign bill of lading is, in substance and effect, equivalent
to a tax on the articles included in that bill of lading, and therefore is a
tax or duty on exports, and therefore in conflict with article I, section 9
of the Constitution of the United States, that "No tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State."
An act of Congress is to be accepted as constitutional, unless on examination it clearly appears to be in conflict with provisions of the Federal Constitution.
If the Constitution in its grant of powers is to be able to carry into full effect the powers granted, it is equally imperative that where prohibition
or limitation is placed upon the power of Congress, that prohibition or
limitation should be enforced in its spirit and to its entirety.

ON March 7, 1900, plaintiff in error was convicted in the District Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
on the charge of issuing as agent of the Northern Pacific Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

way Company an export bill of lading upon certain wheat exported from Minnesota to Liverpool, England, without affixing
thereto an internal revenue stamp, as required by the act of
June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448. Upon that conviction he
was sentenced to pay a fine of $25. His contention on the trial
was that that act, so far as it imposes a stamp tax on foreign
bills of lading, is in conflict with article I, section 9, of the Constitution of the United States, which reads: "No tax or duty
shall be laid on articles exported from any State." This contention was not sustained by the trial court, and this writ of
error was sued out to review the judgment solely upon the foregoing constitutional question.
Section 6 of the act reads :
"SEc. 6. That on and after the first day of July, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, there shall be levied, collected and
paid, for and in respect of the several bonds, debentures or certificates of stock and of indebtedness, and other documents, instruments, matters and things mentioned and described in Schedule A of this act, or for or in respect of the vellum, parchment
or paper upon which such instruments, matters or things, or any
of them, shall be written or printed, by any person or persons, or
party, who shall make, sign or issue the same, or for whose use or
benefit the same shall be made, signed or issued, the several taxes
or sums of money set down in figures against the same respectively, or otherwise specified or set forth in the said schedule."
In Schedule "A" is this clause:
"Bills of lading or receipt (other than charter party) for any
goods, merchandise or effects, to be exported from a port or
place in the United States to any foreign port or place, ten cents."
Also the following:
"It shall be the duty of every railroad or steamboat company,
carrier, express company or corporation, or person whose occupation is to act as such, to issue to the shipper or consignor, or his
agent, or person from whom anygoods are accepted for transportation, a bill of lading, manifest or other evidence of receipt and
forwarding for each shipment received for carriage and transportation, whether in bulk or in boxes, bales, packages, bundles,
or not so enclosed or included; and there shall be duly attached

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and canceled, as is in this act provided, to each of said bills of
lading, manifests or other memorandum, and to each duplicate
thereof, a stamp of the value of one cent."
And this proviso at the end of the schedule:
"Provided, That the stamp duties imposed by the foregoing
schedule on manifests, bills of lading and passage tickets shall
not apply to steamboats or other vessels plying between ports
of the United States and ports in British North America."
MAr. C. W. Bunn for plaintiff in error. Mr. George A. King
and A r. William. B. King filed a brief on behalf of plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
MR.JUSTICe. BRFwFR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The constitutionality of an act of Congress is a matter always
requiring the most careful consideration. The presumptions
are in favor of constitutionality, and before a court is justified
in holding that the legislative power has been exercised beyond
the limits granted, or in conflict with restrictions imposed by
the fundamental law, the excess or conflict should be clear.
And yet, when- clear, if written constitutions are to be regarded
as of value, the duty of the court is plain to uphold the Constitution, although in so doing the legislative enactment falls.
The reasoning in support of this was in the early history of this
court forcibly declared by Chief Justice Marshall in Marbury v.
.Afadison, 1 Cranch, 137, 177, and nothing can be said to add to
the -trength of his reasoning. His language is worthy of
quotation:
"The Constitution is either a superior paramount law, unchangeable by ordinary means, or it is on a level with ordinary
legislative acts, and, like other acts, is alterable when the legislature shall please to alter it.
"If the former part of the alternative be true, then a legislative act contrary to the Constitution is not law; if the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

part be true, then written constitutions are absurd attempts, on
the part of the people, to limit a power in its 'ownnature illimitable.
"Certainly all those who have framed written constitutions
contemplate them as forming the fundamental and paramount
law of the nation, and, consequently, the theory of every such
government must be that an act of the legislature repugnant to
the Constitution is void.
"This theory is essentially attached to a written constitution
and is consequently to be considered, by this court, as one of
the fundamental principles of our society.
"It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is. Those who apply the rule to
particular cases must of necessity expound and interpret that
rule. If two laws conflict with each other, the courts must decide on the operation of each.
"So if a law be in opposition to the Constitution; if both the
law and the Constitution apply to a particular case, so that the
court must either decide that case conformably to the law, disregarding the Constitution, or conformably to the Constitution,
disregarding the law, the court must determine which of these
conflicting rules governs the case. This is of the very essence
of judicial duty.
"If, then, the courts are to regard the Constitution, and the
Constitution is superior to any ordinary act of the legislature,
the Constitution, and not such ordinary act, must govern the
case to which they both apply.
"The particular phraseology of the Constitution of the United States confirms and strengthens the principle, supposed to
be essential to all written constitutions, that a law repugnant
to the Constitution is void; and that courts as well as other
departments are bound by that instrument."
This judicial duty of upholding the provisions of the Constitution as against any legislation conflicting therewith has become now an accepted fact in the judicial life of this nation.
That in the enforcement of this rule the decisions, national
and State, are not all in harmony is not strange. Conflicts

FAIRBANK '. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

between constitutions and statutes have been easily found by
some courts. It has been said, and not inappropriately, that
in certain States the courts have been strenuous as to the letter of the state constitution and have enforced compliance
with it under circumstances in which a full recognition of the
spirit of the constitution and the general power of legislation
would have justified a different conclusion. We do not care
to enter into any discussion of these varied decisions. We
proceed upon the rule often expressed in this court that an
act of Congress is to be accepted as constitutional unless on
examination it clearly appears to be in conflict with provisions
of the Federal Constitution.
In the light of this rule the inquiry naturally is upon what
principles and in what spirit should the provisions of the Federal Constitution be construed? There are in that instrument
grants of power, prohibitions and a general reservation of ungranted powers. That in the grant of powers there was no
purpose to bind governmental action by the restrictive force
of a code of criminal procedure has been again and again asserted. The words expressing the various grants in the Constitution are words of general import, and they are to be
construed as such, and as granting to the full extent the powers named. Further, by the last clause of see. 8, art. 1, Congress is authorized "to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof." This construed on the same principles vests in Congress a wide range of discretion as to the means by which the
powers granted are to be carried into execution. This matter
was at an early day presented to this court, and it was affirmed
that there could be no narrow and technical limitation or construction; that the instrument should be taken as a constitution. In the course of the opinion the Chief Justice said:
"The subject is the execution of those great powers on which
the welfare of a nation essentially depends. It must have been
the intention of those who gave these powers to insure, as far
as human prudence could insure, their beneficial execution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

This could not be done by confining the choice of means to such
narrow limits as not to leave it in the power of Congress to
adopt any which might be appropriate, and which were conducive to the end. This provision is made in a Constitution intended to endure for ages to come, and, consequently, to be
adapted to the various crises of human affairs. To have prescribed the means by which government should, in all future
time, execute its powers, would have been to change, entirely,
the character of the instrument, and give it the properties of a
legal code. It would have been an unwise attempt to provide,
by immutable rules, for exigencies which, if foreseen at all,
must have been seen dimly, and which can be best provided for
as they occur. To have declared that the best means shall not
be used, but those alone without which the power given would
be nugatory, would have been to deprive the legislature of the
capacity to avail itself of experience, to exercise its reason, and
to accommodate its legislation to circumstances." .M'Culloch
v. Xaryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 415.
And thereafter, in language which has become axiomatic in
constitutional construction (p. 421)"We admit, as all must admit, that the powers of the Government are limited, and that its limits are not to be transcended.
But we think the sound construction of the Constitution must
allow to the national legislature that discretion, with respect to
the means by which the powers it confers are to be carried into
execution, which will enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in the manner most beneficial to the people.
Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
It is true that in that and other kindred cases the question
was as to the scope and extent of the powers granted, and the
language quoted must be taken as appropriate to that question
and as stating the rule by which the grants of the Constitution
should be construed.
We are not here confronted with a question of the extent of
the powers of Congress but one of the limitations imposed by

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution on its action, and it seems to us clear that the
same rule and spirit of construction must also be recognized.
If powers granted are to be taken as broadly granted and as
carrying with them authority to pass those acts which may
be reasonably necessary to carry them into full execution; in
other words, if the Constitution in its grant of powers is to be
so construed that Congress shall be able to carry into full effect
the powers granted, it is equally imperative that where prohibition or limitation is placed upon the power of Congress that
prohibition or limitation should be enforced in its spirit and to
its entirety. It would be a strange rule of construction that
language granting powers is to be liberally construed and that
language of restriction is to be narrowly and technically construed. Especially is this true when in respect to grants of
powers there is as heretofore noticed the help found in the last
clause of the eighth section, and no such helping clause in respect to prohibitions and limitations. The true spirit of constitutional interpretation in both directions is to give full, liberal construction to the language, aiming ever to show fidelity
to the spirit and purpose.
With this rule in mind we pass to a consideration of the precise question presented. The constitutional provision is "no
tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State."
The statute challenged imposes on "bills of lading for any goods,
merchandise, or effects, to be exported from any port or place
in the United States to any foreign port or place, ten cents."
The contention on the part of the Government is that no tax
or duty is placed upon the article exported ; that so far as the
question is in respect to what may be exported and how it should
be exported, the statute, following the Constitution, imposes no
restriction; that the full scope of the legislation is to impose a
stamp duty on a document not necessarily though ordinarily
used in connection with the exportation of goods; that it is a
mere stamp imposition on an instrument, and, similar to many
such taxes which are imposed by Congress by virtue of its general power of taxation, not upon this alone, but upon a great
variety of instruments used in the ordinary transactions of business. On the other hand, it is insisted that though Congress by
VOL CLXXXI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

virtue of its general taxing power may impose stamp duties on
the great bullk of instruments used in commerce, yet it cannot
in the exercise of such power interfere with that freedom fromi
governmental burden in the matter of exports which it was the
intention of the Constitution to protect and preserve. It must
be noticed that by this act of 1898 while a variety of staml)
taxes are imposed, a discrimination is made between the tax
imposed upon an ordinary internal bill of lading and that upon
one having respect solely to matters of export. An ordinary
bill of lading is charged one cent; an export bill of lading ten
cents. So it is insisted that there was not simply an effort to
place a stamp duty on all documents of a similar nature but by
virtue of the difference an attempt to burden exports with a
discriminating and excessive tax.
The requirement of the Constitution is that exports should
be free from any governmental burden. The language is "no
tax or duty." Whether such provision is or is not wise is a
question of policy with which the courts have nothing to do.
We know historically that it was one of the compromises which
entered into and made possible the adoption of the Constitution.
It is a restriction on the power of Congress; and as in accordance with the rules heretofore noticed the grants of powiers
should be so construed as to give full efficacy to those powers
and enable Congress to use such means as it deems necessary
to carry them into effect, so in like manner a restriction should
be enforced in accordance with its letter and spirit, and no legislation can be tolerated which, although it may not conflict
with the letter, destroys the spirit and purpose of the restriction
imposed. If, for instance, Congress may place a stamp duty of
ten cents on bills of lading on goods to be exported it is because
it has power to do so, and if it has power to impose this amount
of stamp duty it has like power to impose any sum in the w'ay
of stamp duty which it sees fit. And it needs but a moment's
reflection to show that thereby it can as effectually place a
burden upon exports as though it placed a tax directly upon
the articles exported. It can, for the purposes of revenue, receive just as much as though it placed a duty directly upon the

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

articles, and it can just as fully restrict the free exportation
which was one of the purposes of the Constitution.
The power to tax is the power to destroy. And that power
can be exercised not only by a tax directly on articles exported,
but also and equally by a stamp duty on bills of lading evidencing the export. To the suggestion that a stamp duty is necessarily small in amount, we reply that the fact is to the contrary.
The act by which the stamp tax in question was imposed imposes a like tax on many other instruments, and in some instances graduating the amount thereof by the value of the
property conveyed or affected by the instrument taxed. Thus,
"each sale, agreement of sale, or agreement to sell any products
or merchandise at any exchange, or board of trade, or other
similar place" is subject to a stamp tax in the sum of one cent
for each hundred dollars of value of the property sold or agreed

to be sold. Bills of exchange are likewise taxed by a graduated
scale. Deeds or other instruments for the conveyance of land
are charged with a stamp tax of fifty cents for each five hundred
dollars of value of property conveyed. And so of others. It
is a well-known fact that under this graduated system many
instruments are subject to stamp duties of large amount. No
question has ever been raised as to this power of graduating,
and if valid in the cases of bills of exchange, agreements of sale,
or conveyances of property, it is equally valid as to bills of lading. The fact that Congress has not graduated the stamp tax
on bills of lading does not affect the question of power. By a
graduated system, although the tax is called a tax on "the vellum, parchment or paper" upon which transactions are written,
or by which they are evidenced, a burden may be cast upon exports sufficient to check or retard them, and which will directly
conflict with the constitutional provision that no tax or duty
shall be laid thereon. The question of power is not to be determined by the amount of the burden attemptedto be cast. The
constitutional language is "no tax or duty." A ten cent taxor
duty is in conflict with that provision as certainly as an hundred
dollar tax or duty. Constitutional mandates are imperative.
The question is never one of amount but one of power. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

applicable maxim is "obstaprincipiis," not "de minimis non
cairatu lex.

Counsel for the Government in his interpretation of the scope
and meaning of this constitutional limitation says:
"To give Congress the power to lay a tax or duty 'on articles exported from any State,' meant to authorize inequality as
among the States in the matter of taxation. If the North happened in control in Congress, it might tax the staples of the
South; if the South were in power, it might place a duty on
the exports of the North. As a part, therefore, of the great
compromise between the North and the South, this clause was
inserted in the Constitution. The prohibition was applied not
to the taxing of the act of exportation or the document evidencing the receipt of goods for export, for these exist with
substantial uniformity throughout the country, but to the laying of a tax or duty on the articles exyorted, for these could not
be taxed without discriminating against some States and in favor of others."
This argument does not commend itself to our judgment.
Its implication is that the sole purpose of this constitutional restriction was to prevent discrimination between the States by
imposing an export tax on certain articles which might be a
product of only a few of the States, and which should be enforced only so far as necessary to prevent such discrimination.
If mere discrimination between the States was all that was contemplated it would seem to follow that an ad valorem tax upon
all exports would not be obnoxious to this constitutional prohibition. But surely under this limitation Congress can impose
an export tax neither on one article of export, nor on all articles of export. In other words, the purpose of the restriction
is that exportation, all exportation, shall be free from national
burden. This intent, although obvious from the language of
the clause itself, is reinforced by the fact that in the constitutional convention Mr. Clymer moved to insert after the word
"duty" the words "for the purpose of revenue" but the motion
was voted down. So it is clear that the framers of the Constitution intended not merely that exports should not be made a
source of revenue to the National Government, but that the

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.

293

Opinion of the Court.

National Government should put nothing in the way of burden
upon such exports. If all exports must be free from national
tax or duty, such freedom requires not simply an omission of a
tax upon the articles exported, but also a freedom from any tax
which directly burdens the exportation, and, as we have shown,

a stamp tax on a bill of lading, which evidences the export is
just as clearly a burden on the exportation as a direct tax on
the article mentioned in the bill of lading as the subject of the
export.
In Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, we had occasion to consider
this very act in reference to another stamp duty required by
the same schedule, "A," to wit, the clause:
"Upon each sale, agreement of sale, or agreement to sell, any
products or merchandise at any exchange, or board of trade, or
other similar place, either for present or future delivery, for
each one hundred dollars in value of said sale or agreement of
sale or agreement to sell, one cent, and for each additional one
hundred dollars, or fractional part thereof in excess of one hundred dollars, one cent."
We sustained that tax as a tax upon the privilege or facilities
obtained by dealings on exchange, saying (p. 521):
"A tax upon the privilege of selling property at the exchange
and of thus using the facilities there offered in accomplishing
the sale differs radically from a tax upon every sale made in
any place. The latter tax is really and practically upon property."
If it be true that a stamp tax required upon every instrument
evidencing a sale is really and practically a tax upon the property sold, it is equally clear that a stamp duty upon foreign
bills of lading is a tax upon the articles exported.
These considerations find ample support in prior adjudications of this court. Thus, in Almy v. California,24 How. 169,
174, it appeared that the State of California had imposed a
stamp tax on bills of lading for gold or silver shipped to any
place outside of the State, and the contention was that such
stamp tax was not a tax on the goods themselves, but the court
said :
"But a tax or duty on a bill of lading, although differing in

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

form from a duty on the article shipped, is in substance the
same thing; for a bill of lading or some written instrument of
the same import is necessarily always associated with every
shipment of articles of commerce from the ports of one country
to those of another. The necessities of commerce require it.
And it is hardly less necessary to the existence of such commerce than casks to cover tobacco or bagging to cover cotton
when such articles are exported to a foreign country; for no
one would put his property in the hands of a ship master without taking written evidence of its receipt on board the vessel,
and the purposes for which it was placed in his hands. The
merchant could not send an agent with every vessel, to inform
the consignee of the cargo what articles he had shipped, and
prove the contract of the master if he failed to deliver them in
safety. A bill of lading, therefore, or some equivalent instrument of writing, is invariably associated with every cargo of
merchandise exported to a foreign country, and consequently a
duty upon that is, in substance and effect, a duty on the article
exported."
It is true that thereafter, in IFoodrtff v. Parham, S Wall.
123, it was held that the words "imports" and "exports" as
used in the Constitution were used to define the shipment of
articles between this and a foreign country and not that between the States, and while therefore that case is no longer an
authority as to what is or what is not an export, the proposition that a stamp duty on a bill of lading is in effect a duty on
the article transported remains unaffected. In other words,
that decision affirms the great principle that what cannot be
done directly because of constitutional restriction cannot be
accomplished indirectly by legislation which accomplishes the
same result. But that principle is not dependent alone upon
the case cited. It was recognized long anterior thereto in
Brown v. 3faryland, 12 Wheat. 419. In that case it appeared
that the State of Maryland, in order to raise a revenue for state
purposes, required all importers of certain foreign articles to
take out a license before they were authorized to sell the goods
so imported, and it was held that such license tax, although in
form a tax upon the person importing for the privilege of sell-

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the goods imported, was in fact a tax on imports, and that
the mode of imposing it by giving it the form of a tax on the
varied the form without changoccupation of importer merely
ing the substance. The argument in the opinion in that case,
announced by Chief Justice Marshall, remains unanswered.
As the States cannot directly interfere with the freedom of imports they cannot by any form of taxation, although not directly on the importation, restrict such freedom, Congress alone
having the power to prescribe duties therefor. In like manner
the freedom of exportation being guaranteed by the Constitution it cannot be disturbed by any form of legislation which
burdens that exportation. The form in which the burden is
imposed cannot vary the substance. In the course of his argument Chief Justice Marshall used this illustration:
"All must perceive that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only for sale, is a tax on the article itself. It is true the
State may tax occupations generally, but this tax must be paid
by those who employ the individual, or is a tax on his business.
The lawyer, the physician or the mechanic must either charge
more on the article in which he deals or the thing itself is taxed
through his person. This the State has a right to do, because
no constitutional prohibition extends to it. So a tax on the
occupation of an importer is, in like manner, a tax on importation. It must add to the price of the article, and be paid by
the consumer or by the importer himself, in like manner as a
direct duty on the article itself iyould be made. This the State
has not a right to do, because it is prohibited by the Constitution." p. 444.
The first clause of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
gives to Congress "power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises." Were this the only constitutional provision in respect to the matter of taxation there would be no doubt
that, tried by the settled rules of constitutional interpretation,
Congress would have full power and full discretion as to both
objects and modes of taxation. But there are also expressed in
the same instrument three limitations. As said by Chief Justice Chase, in the License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471 t
"It is true that the power of Congress to tax is a very exten-

OCTOBER TER-AT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

sive power. It is given in the Constitution, with only one exception and only two qualifications. Congress cannot tax exports,
and it must impose direct taxes by the rule of apportionment,
and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. Thus limited, and
thus only, it reaches every subject, and may be exercised at
discretion."
This proposition is restated by counsel for Government at
the commencement of his argument, and is undoubtedly correct.
We have hitherto had occasion to consider the two qualifications-the one that direct taxes must be imposed by the rule of
apportionment and the other that indirect taxes shall be uniform
throughout the United States. In the Income Tax Cases, Pollock v. Earmers' Loan & Tiust Co., 157 U. S 429; 158 U. S.
601, the constitutional provision as to the apportionment of
direct taxes was elaborately considered, and it was held that a
tax on the income made up of the rents of real estate and one
on the income from personal property were substantially direct
taxes on the real estate and the personalty. In the first of these
cases, on page 581, discussing the principles of constitutional
construction, the Chief Justice said:
"If it be true that by varying the form the substance may
be changed, it is not easy to see that anything would remain of
the limitations of the Constitution or of the rule of taxation and
representation, so carefully recognized and guarded in favor of
the citizens of each State. But constitutional provisions cannot
be thus evaded. It is the substance and not the form which
controls, as has indeed been established by repeated decisions
of this court. Thus in Brown v. ffaryland, 12 Vheat. 419,
444, it was held that the tax on the occupation of an importer
was the same as a tax on imports, and therefore void. And
Chief Justice Marshall said: ' It is impossible to conceal from
ourselves that this is varying the form without varying the
substance. It is treating a prohibition which is general, as if it
were confined to a particular mode of doing the forbidden thing.
All must perceive, that a tax on the sale of an article, imported
only for sale, is a tax on the article itself.'
"In IFeston, v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, it was held that a tax
on the income of United States securities was a tax on the

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

securities themselves, and equally inadmissible. The ordinance
of the city of Charleston involved in that case was exceedingly
obscure; but the opinions of Mr. Justice Thompson and Mr.
Justice Johnson, who dissented, make it clear that the levy was
upon the interest of the bonds and not upon the bonds, and they
held that it was an income tax, and as such sustainable; but
the majority of the court, Chief Justice Marshall delivering the
opinion, overruled that contention.
"So in Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, it was decided
that the income from an official position could not be taxed if
the office itself was exempt.
"In Almy v. California, 24 How. 169, it was held that a
duty on a bill of lading was the same thing as a duty on the
article which it represented; in Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall.
262, that a tax upon the interest payable on bonds was a tax not
upon the debtor, but upon the security ; and in Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, that a tax upon the amount of sales of
goods made by an auctioneer was a tax upon the goods sold.
"In PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S.
326, and Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, it was held that a
tax on income received from interstate commerce was a tax
upon the commerce itself; and therefore unauthorized. And
so, although it is thoroughly settled that where by way of
duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of interstate
commerce, and on the receipts derived therefrom, or on the
occupation or business of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a
State on interstate commerce, such taxation amounts to a regulation of such commerce, and cannot be sustained, yet the
property in a State belonging to a corporation, whether foreign or domestic, engaged in foreign or domestic commerce,
may be taxed, and when the tax is substantially a mere tax on
property, and not one imposed on the privilege of doing interstate
commerce, the exaction may be sustained. 'The substance,
and not the shadow, determines the validity of the exercise of the
power.' Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 698."
In Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, we considered the qualification in the matter of uniformity. The question presented
was the validity of the inheritance tax imposed by the act of

OCTOBER TERf, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

June 13, 1898. 30 Stat. 448. After showing that the tax was
not a direct tax within the constitutional meaning of the term,
we examined the objection that it was not uniform throughout
the United States, and, after full consideration, held that the
uniformity required was a geographical and not an intrinsic
uniformity, and was synonymous with the expression "to operate generally throughout the United States." While upon
some of the questions in that case there was a difference of
opinion, yet concerning the construction of the uniformity
clause the Justices who took part in the decision were agreed.
After discussing the construction of the uniformity clause, Mr.
Justice White, speaking for the court, proceeded to show that
the tax in question did not violate such uniformity. There was
no suggestion that the qualification could be disregarded or
limited in any legislation; the opinion proceeded upon the assumption that the uniformity provision was an absolute restriction on the power of Congress, and the argument was to
demonstrate that the tax in question in no manner conflicted
with either the letter or spirit of such restriction. If it had
been in the mind of the court that such restriction as to uniformity could be evaded by a mere change in the form of legislation the opinion could have been less elaborate and the difficulties of the case largely avoided.
We have referred to these cases for the purpose of showing
that the rule of construction of grants of powers has been also
applied when the question was as to restrictions and limitations.
Other cases may also well be referred to in this connection.
In Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489,
the question presented was whether an act of the State of Tennessee, requiring "all drummers and all persons not having a
regular licensed house of business in the taxing district of
Shelby County, offering for sale, or selling goods, wares or mnerchandise therein by sample," to pay a certain tax to the county
trustee, could be enforced as to those drummers who were engaged simply in soliciting business in the State of Tennessee in
behalf of citizens of other States. It was held that it could
not, that such act of solicitation, being a matter of interstate
commerce, was, therefore, beyond the power of the State to

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

regulate. In the opinion, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the
court, said:
"In view of these fundamental principles, which are to govern
our decision, we may approach the question submitted to us in
the present case, and inquire whether it is competent for a
State to levy a tax or impose any other restriction upon the
citizens or inhabitants of other States for selling or seeking to
sell their goods in such State before they are introduced therein.
Do not such restrictions affect the very foundation of interstate
trade? How is a manufacturer, or a merchant, of one State to
sell his goods in another State, without, in some way, obtaining orders therefor? Must he be compelled to send them at a
venture, without knowing whether there is any demand for
them? This may, undoubtedly, be safely done with regard to
some products for which there is always a market and a demand, or where the course of trade has established a general
and unlimited demand. A raiser of farm produce in New Jersey or Connecticut, or a manufacturer of leather or wooden.ware, may, perhaps, safely take his goods to the city of New
York and be sure of finding a stable and reliable market for
them. But there are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of articles
which no person would think of exporting to another State
without first procuring an order for them. It is true, a merchant or manufacturer in one State may erect or hire a warehouse or store in another State, in which to place his goods,
and await the chances of being able to sell them. But this
would require a warehouse or store in every State with which
he might desire to trade. Surely, he cannot be compelled to
take this inconvenient and expensive course. In certain branches
of business it may be adopted with advantage. Many manufacturers do open houses or places of business in other States
than those in which they reside, and send their goods there to
be kept on sale. But this is a matter of convenience, and not
of compulsion, and would neither suit the convenience nor be
within the ability of many others engaged in the same kind of
business, and would be entirely unsuited to many branches of
business. In these cases, then, what shall the merchant or
manufacturer do who wishes to sell his goods in other States I

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

Must he sit still in his factory or warehouse, and wait for the
people of those States to come to him? This would be a silly
and ruinous proceeding.
"The only other way, and the one, perhaps, which most extensively prevails, is to obtain orders from persons residing or
doing business in those other States. But how is the merchant
or manufacturer to secure such orders? If he maybe taxed by
such States for doing so, who shall limit the tax? It may
amount to prohibition. To say that such a tax is not a burden
on interstate commerce, is to speak at least unadvisedly and
without due attention to the truth of things." p. 494.
The scope of this argument is that inasmuch as interstate
commerce can only be regulated by Congress, and is free from
state interference, state legislation, although not directly prohibiting interstate commerce, if in substance and effect directly
casting a burden thereon, cannot be sustained. Or, in other
words, constitutional provisions, whether operating by way of
grant or limitation, are to be enforced according to their letter
and spirit, and cannot be evaded by any legislation which,
though not in terms trespassing on the letter, yet in substance
and effect destroy the grant or limitation.
In .fonongahela N1avigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312, it appeared that Congress bad passed an act authorizing
the condemnation of a lock and dam known as the Upper Lock
and Dam on the Monongahela River, belonging to the navigation company, with a proviso, "that in estimating the sum to
be paid by the United States the franchise of said corporation
to collect tolls shall not be considered or estimated "-the idea
being that simply the value of the tangible property was all
that need be paid for; and it was held that such proviso could
not be sustained; that while the right of condemnation was
clear, it was limited by the clause in the Fifth Amendment,
"nor shall private property be taken for public use without
just compensation," and that that language required payment
of the entire value of the property of which the owner was
deprived, the court saying:
"Congress has supreme control over the regulation of commerce, but if, in exercising that supreme control, it deems it

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary to take private property, then it must proceed subject to the limitations imposed by this Fifth Amendment, and
can take only on payment of just compensation. The power
to regulate commerce is not given in any broader terms than
that to establish post offices and post roads; but, if Congress
wishes to take private property upon which to build a post
office, it must either agree upon a price with the owner, or in
condemnation pay just compensation therefor. And if that
property be improved under authority of a charter granted by
the State, with a franchise to take tolls for the use of the improvement, in order to determine the just compensation, such
franchise must be taken into account. Because Congress has
power to take the property, it does not follow that it may destroy the franchise without compensation. Whatever be the
true value of that which it takes from the individual owner
must be paid to him, before it can be said that just compensation for the property has been made. And that which is true
in respect to a condemnation of property for a post office is
equally true when condemnation is sought for the purpose of
improving a natural highway. Suppose, in the improvement
of a navigable stream, it was deemed essential to construct a
canal with locks, in order to pass around rapids or falls. Of
the power of Congress to condemn whatever land may be necessary for such canal, there can be no question; and of the
equal necessity of paying full compensation for all private property taken there can be as little doubt. If a man's house must
be taken, that must be paid for; and, if the property is held
and improved under a franchise from the State, with power to
tak tolls, that franchise must be paid for, because it is a substantial element in the value of the property taken. So, coming to the case before us, while the power of Congress to take
this property is unquestionable, yet the power to take is subject
to the constitutional limitation of just compensation." p. 336.
In short, the court held in that case that Congress could not
by any declaration in its statute avoid, qualify or limit the
special restriction placed upon its power, but that it must be
enforced according to its letter and spirit and to the full extent.
In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, the fifth section of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 186, which authorized a court
of the United States in revenue cases, on motion of the District
Attorney, to require the defendant or the claimant to produce
in court his private books, invoices and papers, or else that the
allegations of the attorney as to their contents should be taken
as confessed, was held unconstitutional and void as applied to
an action for penalties or to establish a forfeiture of the party's
goods, because repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments
to the Constitution. The case is significant, for the statute was
not so much in conflict with the letter as with the spirit of the
restrictive clauses of those amendments, and in respect to this
the court said:
"Though the proceeding in question is divested of many of
the aggravating incidents of actual search and seizure, yet, as
before said, it contains their substance and essence, and effects
their substantial purpose. It may be that it is the obnoxious
thing in its mildest and least repulsive form; but illegitimate
and unconstitutional practices get their first footing in that way,
namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal
modes of procedure. This can only be obviated by adhering to
the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of person
and property should be liberally construed. A close and literal
construction deprives them of half their efficacy, and leads to
gradual depreciation of the right, as if it consisted more in sound
than in substance. It is the duty of the courts to be watchful
for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any
stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto should be obslta
principiis." p. 635.
On the other hand, Pace v. Burgess, Collector, 92 U. S. 372,
is cited as an authority against these conclusions; but an examination of the case shows that this is a mistake. The act of
1868, 15 Stat. 125, inposed certain taxes on the manufacture
of tobacco for consumption or use, required as evidence of
the payment of such taxes the affixing of revenue stamps to the
packages, and forbade the removal of any tobacco from the
factory without payment of the taxes and affixing of the stamps.
It further provided that tobacco might be manufactured for export and exported without payment of any tax. Sections 73

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and 74, page 157, are the sections making provision for such
export, and authorized the removal of the tobacco from the
manufactory to certain designated warehouses at ports of entry
upon the giving of suitable bonds. The latter part of section 74
reads :
"All tobacco and snuff intended for export, before being removed from the manufactory shall have affixed to each package
an engraved stamp indicative of such intention, to be provided
and furnished to the several collectors, as in the case of other
stamps, and to be charged to them and accounted for in the same
manner; and for the expense attending the providing and affixing such stamps, twenty-five cents for each package so stamped
shall be paid to the collector on making the entry for such transportation."
This act was amended in 1872, 17 Stat. 230, the amendments
to sections 73 and 74 being found on page 254; but they have
no significance in respect to the present question. Now, it was
the cost of these removal stamps which was complained of as
in conflict with the constitutional provision against a tax or
duty upon exports, but the contention was overruled, the court
saying (pp. 374, 375, 376):
"The plaintiff contends that the charge for the stamps required to be placed on packages of manufactured tobacco intended for exportation was and is a duty on exports, within
the meaning of that clause in the Constitution of the United
States which declares that 'no tax br duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State.' But it is manifest that such
was not its character or object. The stamp was intended for
no other purpose than to separate and identify the tobacco
which the manufacturer desired to export, and thereby, instead
of taxing it, to relieve it from the taxation to which other tobacco was subjected. It was a means devised to prevent fraud,
and secure the faithful carrying out of the declared intent with
regard to the tobacco so marked.

.

.

.

We know how next

to impossible it is to prevent fraudulent practices wherever the
internal revenue is concerned; and the pretext of intending to
export such an article as manufactured tobacco would open the
widest door to such practices, if the greatest strictness and pre-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cautions were not observed. The proper fees accruing in the
due administration of the laws and regulations necessary to be
observed to protect the Government from imposition and fraud
likely to be committed under the pretence of exportation are
in no sense a duty on exportation. They are simply the compensa.tion given for services properly rendered. The rule by
which they are estimated may be an arbitrary one; but an arbitrary rule may be more convenient and less onerous than any
other which can be adopted. The point to guard against is, the
imposition of a duty under the pretext of fixing a fee. In
the case under consideration, having due regard to that latitude of discretion which the legislature is entitled to exercise
in the selection of the means for attaining a constitutional object, we cannot say that the charge imposed is excessive, or that
it amounts to an infringement of the constitutional provision
referred to. We cannot say that it is a tax or duty instead of
what it purports to be, a fee or charge, for the employment of
that instrumentality which the circumstances of the case render necessary for the protection of the Government.
"One cause of difficulty in the case arises from the use of
stamps as one of the means of segregating and identifying the
property intended to be exported. It is the form in which many
taxes and duties are imposed and liquidated; stamps being seldom used except for the purpose of levying a duty or tax. But
we must regard things rather than names. A stamp may be
used, and, in the case before us we think it is used for quite a
different purpose from that of imposing a tax or duty; indeed,
it is used for the very contrary purpose-that of securing exemption from a tax or duty. The stamps required by recent
laws to be affixed to all agreements, documents and papers,
and to different articles of manufacture, were really and in
truth taxes and duties, or evidences of the payment of taxes
and duties, and were intended as such. The stamp required
to be placed on gold dust exported from California by a law of
that State was clearly an export tax, as this court decided in the
case of Almy v. The State of Cal;fwrnia, 24 IIow. 169. In all
such cases no one could entertain a reasonable doubt on the
subject."

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Obviously, this opinion, taken as a whole, makes against
rather than in favor of the contention of counsel for the Government. Its argument is to the effect that the stamp required
was in no proper sense a tax for revenue; that there was no
burden of any kind on the export; that it was something to
facilitate rather than to hinder exports; that it was only a
means of identification and to enable parties to remove their
tobacco from the manufactory to the warehouse, and that the
sum demanded was simply a matter of compensation for services rendered. The statute itself declared that the twenty-five
cents was to be paid "for the expense attending the providing
and aixing" of the stamps. This clearly excludes the idea
that any tax or duty was intended to be imposed, and the opinion notes the fact that the difficulty arises because ordinarily
stamps are used for the purpose of duty or tax, says that we
must always regard things rather than names, and that this
stamp was not used for the purpose of tax or duty but only for
identification and to prevent frauds on the Government. If it
had been supposed that a stamp tax could properly be charged,
the line of argument would have been entirely different. In
the case before us the stamp is distinctly for the purpose of revenue and not by way of compensation for services rendered, so
that the question is whether revenue can be collected from exports by changing the form of the tax from a tax on the article
exported to a tax on the bill of lading which evidences the export.
Again, it is said that if this stamp duty on foreign bills of
lading cannot be sustained it will follow that tonnage taxes and
stamp duties on manifests must also fall. The validity of such
taxes is not before us for determination, and, therefore, we
must decline to express any opinion thereon, and yet it may
be not improper to say that even if the suggested result should
follow it furnishes no reason for not recognizing that which in
our judgment is the true construction of the constitutional limitation. Mingling in one statute two or three unconstitutional
taxes cannot be held operative to validate either one, and if the
reasoning we have stated and followed in reaching the conclusion in this case shall also lead to the result that such taxes are
VoL. orxxxi-20

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

invalid, it of itself does not weaken the force of the reasoning
or justify us in departing from its conclusions. But we may be
permitted to suggest, without deciding, that there may be a
valid difference as indicated by the decisions of this court in
respect to interstate commerce. It has been distinctly held
that no State could by a license or otherwise impose a burden
on the business of interstate commerce. Pickard v. Pullmanb
Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, and cases cited in the opinion.
And yet that decision was followed by decisions that it might
tax the vehicles and property employed in interstate commerce
so long and so far as they were a part of the propcrty of the
State. .PuZmai's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.
18, and cases cited in the opinion. This difference may have
significance in respect to these other taxes. As heretofore said,
we do not decide the question, but only make these suggestions
to indicate that the matter has been considered.
Another matter pressed upon our attention, which deserves
and has received careful consideration, is the practical construction of this constitutional provision by legislative action. On
July 6, 1797, an act was passed entitled "uAn act laying duties
on stamped vellum, parchment and paper," (1 Stat. 527,) which
contained this clause:
"Any note or bill of lading, for any goods or merchandise
to be exported, if from one district to another district of the
United States, not being in the same State, ten cents; if to be
exported to any foreign port or place, twenty-five cents," etc.
p. 528.
This was changed by the act of February 28, 1799, 1 Stat.
622, but only as to the amount. On April 6, 1802, 2 Stat. 148,
a repealing act was passed. Again, on July 1, 1862, 12 Stat.
432, a similar stamp duty was imposed on foreign bills of lading, which was continued by the act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat.
223, 291, finally repealed by the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat.
230, 256; and then followed the act in question. In .nowlton
v. .oore, suyra, in which the inheritance tax was considered,
the significance of this practical construction by legislative action was referred to, and on pages 56, 57, we said:
"The act of 1797, which ordained legacy taxes, was adopted

FAIRBANK v. UNITED .STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

at a time when the founders of our Government and framers of
our Constitution were actively participating in public affairs,
thus giving a practical construction to the Constitution which
they had helped to establish. Even the then members of the
Congress who had not been delegates to the convention which
framed the Constitution must have had a keen appreciation of
the influences which had shaped the Constitution and the restrictions which it embodied, since all questions which related
to the Constitution and its adoption must have been, at that
early date, vividly impressed on their minds. It would, under
these conditions, be indeed surprising if a tax should have been
levied without question upon objects deemed to be beyond the
grasp of Congress because exclusively within state authority.
It is, moreover, worthy of remark that similar taxes have at
other periods and for a considerable time been enforced; and
although their constitutionality was assailed on other grounds
held unsound by this court, the question of the want of authority of Congress to levy a tax on inheritances and legacies was
never urged against the acts in question."
And again, when the construction of the uniformity clause
was being considered (p. 92):
"But one of the most satisfactory answers to the argument
that the uniformity required by the Constitution is the same as
the equal and uniform clause which has since been embodied
in so many of the state constitutions, results from a review of
the practice under the Constitution from the beginning. From
the very first Congress down to the present date, in laying duties,
imposts and excises, the rule of inherent uniformity, or, in other
words, intrinsically equal and uniform taxes, has been disregarded, and the principle of geographical uniformity consistently enforced."
That was not the first case in which this matter has been considered by this court. On the contrary, it has been often presented. See in the margin a partial list of cases in which the
subject has been discussed.' An examination of the opinions
1 Stuart v. Laird, I Cranch, 299; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat.
304, 351; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 418; Edwards's Lessee v. Darby,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in those cases will disclose that they may be grouped in three
classes : First, those in which the court, after seeldng to demonstrate the validity or the true construction of a statute, has
added that if there were doubt in reference thereto the practical construction placed by Congress, or the department charged
with the execution of the statute, was sufficient to remove the
doubt; second, those in which the court has either stated or
assumed that the question was doubtful, and has rested its determination upon the fact of a long continued construction by
the officials charged with the execution of the statute; and,
third, those in which the court, noticing the fact of a long continned construction, has distinctly affirmed that such construction cannot control when there is no doubt as to the true meaning of the statute.
The first class is illustrated by Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264. There the question presented was the jurisdiction of this
court over proceedings by indictment in a state court for a violation of a state statute. In an elaborate argument Chief Justice Marshall sustained the jurisdiction, and then added (p. 418):
"Great weight has always been attached, and very rightly
attached, to contemporaneous exposition. No question, it is
12 Wheat. 206, 210; United States v. State Bank of North Carolina, 6 Pet.
29, 39 ; United States v. .Mfacdaniel, 7 Pet. 1; Prigg v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539; Union Insurance Company v. Ioge, 21 How. 35,
66; United States v. Alexander, 12 Wall. 177, 181; Peabody v. Stark, 16
Wall. 240, 243; Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 237;
Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, 382; United States v. Moore, 95 U. S. 760,
763; Swift Company v. United States, 105 U. S. 691, 695; Hahn v. United
States, 107 U. S. 402, 406; United States v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219, 221;
.LithographicCompany v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53, 57; Brown v. United States,
113 U. S. 568, 571; Cooper Manufacturing Company v. Ferguson, 113 U. S.
727, 733; The Laura, 114 U. S. 411, 410; United States v. Philbriek, 120
U. S. 52, 59; United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169, 182; United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S. 236, 253; Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607, 613; Merritt
v. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542, 552; Schell's Executors v. Fauchg, 138 U. S. 562,
570; United States v. Alabama R. B. Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621; McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1; United States v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661, 663; United
States v. Union Pacific By. Co., 148 U. S. 562, 572; United States v. Alger,
152 U. S. 384, 397; Websterv. Luther, 163 U. S. 331, 342; Wisconsin Central
R. B. Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190, 205; Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.
139-156.

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

believed, has arisen to which this principle applies more unequivocally than to that now under consideration."
And in support of that referred to the writings in The Federalist, which were presented before the adoption of the Constitution, and were generally recognized as powerful arguments
in its favor; also to the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73, the
decisions of this court and the assent of the courts of several
States thereto, saying (p. 421):
"This concurrence of statesmen, of legislators, and of judges
in the same construction of the Constitution may justly inspire
some confidence in that construction."
Again, in United States v. State Bank of N orth Carolina.,6
Pet. 29, 39, Mr. Justice Story, in like manner, said:
"It is not unimportant to state, that the construction which
we have given to the terms of the act, is that which is understood to have been practically acted upon by the Government, as
well as by individuals, ever since its enactment. Many estates,
as well of deceased persons, as of persons insolvent who have
made general assignments, have been settled upon the footing
of its correctness. A practice so long and so general would, of
itself, furnish strong grounds for a liberal construction, and
could not now be disturbed without introducing a train of
serious mischiefs. We think the practice was founded in the
true exposition of the terms and intent of the act, but if it were
susceptible of some doubt, so long an acquiescence in it would
justify us in yielding to it as a safe and reasonable exposition."
In the second class may be placed Stuart v. -Laird,1 Cranch,
299; Burrow Lithographic Company v. Sarony, 111 U. S.53,
in which last case Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court,
used this language (p. 57):
"The construction placed upon the Constitution by the first
act of 1790, and the act of 1802, by the men who were contemporary with its formation, many of whom were members of
the convention which framed it, is of itself entitled to very
great weight, and when it is remembered that the rights thus
established have not been disputed during a period of nearly a
century, it is almost conclusive."
See also The Laura, 114 U. S.411 ; United States v. Phil-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

brick, 120 U. S. 52, 59; United States v. Hill,120 U. S. 169, 182;
Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607, 613, and Seltel's Evecutors v. FauctM, 138 U. S. 562, 572, in which it was said:
"In all cases of ambiguity, the contemporaneous construction,
not only of the courts, but of the departments, and even of the
officials whose duty it is to carry the law into effect, is universally held to be controlling."
The third class is the largest. While the language used by
the several Justices announcing the opinions in these cases is
not the same, the thought is alike. Thus, in Swift Company v.
United States, 105 U. S. 691, 695, Mr. Justice Matthews said:
"The rule which gives determining weight to contemporaneous
construction, put upon a statute, by those charged with its execution, applies only in cases of ambiguity and doubt."
In United States v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219, 221, Chief Justice Waite thus stated the law:
"Such being the case it matters not what the practice of the
departments may have been or how long continued, for it can
only be resorted to in aid of interpretation, and ' it is not allowable to interpret what has no need of interpretation.' If
there were ambiguity or doubt, then such a practice, begun so
early and continued so long, would be in the highest degree
persuasive, if not absolutely controlling in its effect. But with
language clear and precise, and with its meaning evident, there
is no room for construction, and consequently no need of anything to give it aid. The cases to this effect are numerous."
In United States v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661, 663, it was said by
Mr. Justice Brown :
"If it were a question of doubt, the construction given to
this clause prior to October, 1885, might be decisive; but, as it
is clear to us that this construction was erroneous, we think it
is not too late to overrule it. l7nited States v. Graham, 110
U. S. 219; Swift Company v. United States, 105 U. S. 691. It is
only in cases of doubt that the construction given to an act by
the department charged with the duty of enforcing it becomes
material."
In United States v. Alger, 152 U. S. 384, 397, Mr. Justice
Gray used this language:

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"If the meaning of that act were doubtful, its practical construction by the Navy Department would be entitled to great
weight. But as the meaning of the statute, as applied to these
cases, appears to this court to be perfectly clear, no practice inconsistent with that meaning can have any effect."
In Welbter v. Luthe?, 163 U. S. 331, 342, iMr. Justice Harlan stated the rule in these words:
The practical construction given to an act of Congress,
fairly susceptible of different constructions, by one of the executive departments of the Government, is always entitled to
the highest respect, and in doubtful cases should be followed
by the courts, especially when important interests have grown
up under the practice adopted. Bate Refrigerating Co. v.
Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 34; United States v. Healey, 160 U. S.

136, 141. But this court has often said that it will not permit
the practice of an executive department to defeat the obvious
purpose of a statute."
From this r9sktme' of our decisions it clearly appears that
practical construction is relied upon only in cases of doubt.
We have referred to it when the construction seemed to be demonstrable, but then only in response to doubts suggested by
counsel. Where there was obviously a matter of doubt, we
have yielded assent to the construction placed by those having
actual charge of the execution. of the statute, but where there
was no doubt we have steadfastly declined to recognize any
force in practical construction. Thus, before any appeal can be
made to practical construction, it must appear that the true
meaning is doubtful.
We have no disposition to belittle the significance of this
matter. It is always entitled to careful consideration and in
doubtful cases will, as we have shown, often turn the scale;
but when the meaning and scope of a constitutional provision
are clear, it cannot be overthrown by legislative action, although
several times repeated and never before challenged. It will be
perceived that these stamp duties have been in force during
only three periods: First, from 1797 to 1802; second, from
1862 to 1872; and, third, commencing with the recent statute
of 1898. It must be borne in mind also in respect to this mat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, WHITE and MOKENNA, dissenting.

ter that during the first period exports were limited, and the
amount of the stamp duty was small, and that during the second
period we were passing through the stress of a great civil war
or endeavoring to carry its enormous debt; so that it is not
strange that the legislative action in this respect passed unchallenged. Indeed, it is only of late years, when the burdens of
taxation are increasing by reason of the great expenses of government, that the objects ald modes of taxation have become a
matter of special scrutiny. But the delay in presenting these
questions is no excuse for not giving them full consideration
and determining them in accordance with the true meaning of
the Constitution.
Without enlarging further on these matters, we are of opinion that a stamp tax on a foreign bill of lading is in substance
and effect equivalent to a tax on the articles included in that
bill of lading, and, therefore, a tax or duty on exports, and in
conflict with the constitutional prohibition. The judgment of
the District Court will be reversed and the case remanded with
instructions to grant a new trial.
M . JUSTICE HARLAN, (with whom concurred MR. J1rSTIcL
GRAY, Mni. JUSTICE WnITE and Mn. JUSTICE MOKENNA,) dissent-

ing.
By the act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, imposing certain stamp
duties, it was declared that there should be levied, collected and
paid the sum of ten cents "forand in 'reqpectof the vellum, parehment or _paper upon which. . . shall be written or printed

by anyperson or persons or party who shall make, sign or issue
the same, or for whose use or benefit the same shall be made,
signed or issued,

.

.

. bills of lading or receipt (other than

charter party) for any goods, merchandise or effects, to be exported from a port or place in the United States to any foreign
port or plaGe.

.

.

. Provided,That the stamp duties imposed

by the foregoing Schedule on manifests, bills of lading and passage tickets shall not apply to steamboats or other vessels plying
between ports of the United States and ports in British North
America." 30 Stat. 448, 451, 458, 459, 462,  6 and 24, Schedule A.

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HABLAN,

GRAY, WHITE

and

MOKENNA,

dissenting.

Itis contended that this stamp duty is forbidden by the clause
of the Constitution declaring that "no tax or duty shall be laid
on articles exported from any State," art. I,  9; and that the
stamp duty here in question was, within the meaning of that
instrument, a tax or duty on the wheat received by the Northern Pacific Railway Company to be carried from Minnesota to
Liverpool, and for which the company issued its bill of lading.
We are of opinion that this contention cannot be sustained
without departing from a rule of constitutional construction by
which this court has been guided since the foundation of the
Government. Let us see to what extent Congress has exercised
the power now held not to belong to it under the Constitution.
As early as July 6, 1797, Congress passed an act entitled " An
act laying duties on stamped vellum, parchment and paper."
By the first section of that act it was provided that from and
after the 31st day of December thereafter there should be
"levied, collected and paid throughout the United States the
several stamp duties following, to wit: For every skin or piece
of vellum, or parchment, or sheet or piece of paper upon which
shall be written or printed any or either of the instruments or
writings following, to wit: . . . any note or bill of lading for
to be exported to any foreign
any goods or merchandise
port or place, twenty-five cents." 1 Stat. 527, 528, c. 11,  1. The
same act provided: "That if any person or persons shall write
or print, or cause to be written or printed upon any unstamped
vellum, parchment or paper, (with intent fraudulently to evade
the duties imposed by this act), any of the matters and things
for which the said vellum, parchment or paper is hereby charged
to pay any duty, or shall write or print, or cause to be written
or printed any matter or thing, upon any vellum, parchment or
paper, that shall be marked or stamped for any lower duty than
the duty by this act payable, such person so offending shall for
every such offence forfeit the sum of one hundred dollars." 1
Stat. 527, 528, c. 11,  13.
By an act approved December 15, 1797, c. 1, it was provided
that the duties prescribed by the act of July 6, 1797, should be
levied, collected and paid from and after June 30, 1798, and not
before. 1 Stat. 536.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES HARLANw, GRAY, WHITE

and MOKENWA, dissenting.

The above act of July 6, 1797, was amended in certain particulars by an act approved :March 19, 1798, c. 20, by which
certain provisions were made for furnishing the vellum, parchment or paper required by the former act to be stamped and
marked. 1 Stat. 545.
It not having occurred to any of the great statesmen and jurists who were connected with the early history of the Government that enactments such as that of July 6, 1797, violated the
Constitution, Congress passed another act on the 28th day of
February, 1799, c. 17, imposing a duty of ten cents "on every
skin or piece of vellun or parchment on which shall be written
or printed any or either of the instruments following, to wit:
Any note or bill of lading, or writing or receipt in the
to be
nature thereof, for any goods or merchandise
exported to any foreign port or place." 1 Stat. 622.
Congress, still supposing that it was acting within the limits
of its powers under the Constitution, again, bythe act of April 23,
1800, c. 31, amended and extended that of July 6, 1797. By
the latter act a general stamp office was established, and provision was made, among other things, for the punishment, by fine
and imprisonment, of those who, with the intent to defraud the
United States of any of the duties laid by the original act of
1797, counterfeited or caused to be forged or counterfeited any
vellum, parchment or paper provided for by Congress under that
act. 2 Stat. 40,42. The act of April 23, 18O, was amended by
an act passed March 3, 1801, c. 19, by which it was provided that
deeds, instruments or writings, issued without being stamped,
could be thereafter stamped and become valid and available as
if they had been originally stamped as required by law. 2 Stat.
109.
By an act approved April 6, 1802, c. 17, internal duties on
stamped vellum, parchment and paper " were discontinuedfor the reason, doubtless, that the further imposition of such
duties was unnecessary. 2 Stat. 148.
As late as March 3, 1823, Congress passed a general statute
in execution of the act of April 23, 1800, establishing a general
stamp office. 3 Stat. 779.
By an act approved July 1, 1862, c. 119, Congress provided

FAIRBANX v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HARLAw, GRAY, WHITE and MOCENNA, dissenting.

that there should be levied, collected and paid a stamp duty of
ten cents" for and in respect of the vellum, parchment or paper"
upon which was written or printed any "bill of lading or receipt
(other than charter party) for any goods, merchandise or effects,
to be exported from a port or place in the United States to any
foreign port or place." 12 Stat. 432, 475, 479, 480,  94, 110.
By the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, the stamp duties provided
by the act of July 1, 1862, were continued in force until August 1, 1864, and it was provided that from and after the latter
date there should be levied, collected and paid a stamp duty of
ten cents "for and in respect of the vellum, parchment or paper
upon which shall be written or printed" any "bill of lading or
receipt (other than charter party) for any goods, merchandise
or effects, to be exported from a port or place in the United
States to any foreign port or place." 13 Stat. 223, 291, 292,
298,  151, 170, Schedule B. But by an act approved June 6,
1872, c. 315, all the taxes imposed under and by virtue of Schedule B of section 170 of the act of June 30, 1864, and the several
acts amendatory thereof, were abrogated from and after October 1, 1872, excepting only the tax of two cents on bank checks,
drafts or orders. 17 Stat. 230, 256.
We have referred somewhat in detail to the above enactments
for the purpose of bringing out clearly the fact that stamp duties were imposed specifically for and in respect of the vellum,
parchment or paper upon which was written or printed a bill
of lading for goods or merchandise to be exported to foreign
countries, and had no reference to the kind, quality or value of
the property covered by such bill of lading. Congress ex industria declared in each act that the tax was for and in respect
of the vellum, parchment or paper upon which the bills of lading were written or printed. This fact plainly distinguishes the
present case from Almy v. State of California, 24 How. 169,
which involved the validity, under the Constitution of the United States, of a statute of California, passed April 26, 1858, imposing a stamp tax on bills of lading for the transportation from
that State, to any port or place without the State, of any quantity of gold or silver coin, in whole or in part, gold dust, or gold
or silver in bars or other form. This court, after observing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICs HARLAN, GRAY, WMTE

and

MoKENNA,

dissenting.

a tax laid on the gold or silver exported from California was forbidden by the clause (leclaring that "no State shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing
its inspection laws," said: "In the case now before the court,
the intention to tax the export of gold and silver, in the form
of a tax on the bill of lading, is -too plain to be mistaken. The
duty is imposed only on bills of lading of gold and silver, and
not upon articles of any other description. And we think it is
impossible to assign a reason for imposing the duty upon the
one and not upon the other, unless it was intended to lay a tax
upon the gold and silver exported, while all the other articles
were exempted from the charge. If it was intended merely
as a stamp duty on a particular description of paper, the bill
of lading of any other cargo is in the same form, and executed in the same manner and for the same purposes, as one
for gold and silver, and so far as the instrument of writing
was concerned, there could hardly be a reason for taxing one
and not the other. In the judgment of this court the state
tax in question is a duty upon the export of gold and silver,
and consequently repugnant to the clause in the Constitution
hereinbefore referred to." This interpretation was demanded
by the words of the statute of California which provided: "The
following duty or stamp tax is hereby imposed on every sheet
or piece of paper, parchment or other material, upon which may
be written, printed, engraved, or lithographed, or other means
of designation, of either of the following-described instruments,
to wit: Any bill of lading, contract, agreement, or obligation
for the transportation or conveyance from any point or place
in this State, to any point or place without the limits of this
State, of any sum, amount or quantity of gold or silver coin, in
bars or other form, by or between any person or persons, firm or
firms, corporation or corporations, or other associations, either
as principal or agent, or attorney or consignee, or consignor, to
wit: for one hundred dollars, thirty cents; and all sums over
one hundred dollars, a stamp tax or duty of one-fifth of one per
cent upon the amount or value thereof, the payment whereof to
be included in the bill of lading, contract, or agreement, or, ob-

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

ligation for the transportation or conveyance thereof, as in this
section provided, having attached thereto or stamped thereon a
stamp or stamps expressing in value the amount of such tax
duty," etc. Stat. Cal. 1858, p. 305 ; Stat. Cal. 1857, p. 301.
The difference between the California statute and the act of
Congress is manifest. By the former the amount of the tax
upon bills of lading depended upon the value of the gold or
silver specified in them and exported, while the latter imposed
a tax of only ten cents on the vellum, parchment or paper upon
which was written or printed a bill of lading for property to be
exported, without regard to its quantity or value. If Congress
had graduated the stamp duty according to the quantity or value
of the articles exported, there might have been ground for holding that the purpose and the necessary result was to tax the property and not the vellum, parchment or paper on which the bill
of lading was written or printed.
This rule of interpretation was recognized in Pacev. Burgess,
Collector, 92 U. S. 372, 375. That case arose under the act of
July 20, 1868, c. 176, imposing duties on distilled spirits and
tobacco, and for other purposes, and which provided that "all
tobacco and snuff intended for export, before being removed
from the manufactory, shall have affixed to each package an
engraved stamp indicative of such intention, to be provided
and furnished to the several collectors, as in the case of other
stamps, and to be charged to them and accounted for ia the
same manner; and for the expense attending the providing and
affixing such stamps, twenty-five cents for each package to be
stamped shall be paid to the collector on making the entry for
such transportation." 15 Stat. 125, 158,  74. The contention
was that the statute imposed a tax or duty in violation of the
constitutional prohibition of taxes or duties " on articles exported
from any State." Art. 1,  9. This court overruled that contention upon the ground that it was apparent from the statute
that "the stamp was intended for no other purpose than: to
separate and identify the tobacco which the manufacturer desired to export, and thereby, instead of taxing it, to relieve it
from the taxation to which other tobacco was subjected. It
was a means devised to prevent fraud, and to secure the faith-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES HARLAN,

GRAY, WuITE

and MCKENNA, dissenting.

ful carrying out of the declared intent with regard to the tobacco so marked. The payment of twenty-five cents or of ten
cents for the stamp was no more a tax on the export than was
the fee for clearing the vessel in which it was transported, or for
making out and certifying the manifest of the cargo." The
court added-and this is important in its bearing on the case
before us: "It [the stamp] bore no proportion whatever to the
quantity or value of the _paccage an which it was qffi.xed. These
were unlimited, except by the discretion of the exporter or the
convenience of handling. The large amount paid for such
stamps by the plaintiff only shows that he was carrying on an
immense business." As in Pacev. Burgess, Collector, so in the
present case the stamp duty imposed was without any reference
to the quantity or value of the property.
In our judgment, the small stamp duty imposed by the act
of 1898 specifically upon the vellum, parchment or paper upon
which was written or printed a bill of lading for property, of
whatever value, intended for export, cannot be regarded as a
duty on the property itself.
It is said that the power to tax is the power to destroy, and
that if Congress can impose a stamp tax of ten cents upon the
vellum, parchment or paper on which is written a bill of lading
for articles to be exported from a State, it could as well impose
a duty of five thousand dollars and thereby indirectly tax the
articles intended for export. That conclusion would by no means
follow. A stamep duty has now, and has had for centuries, a
well-defined meaning. It has always been distinguished from
an ordinary tax measured by the value or kind of the property
taxed. If Congress, in respect of a bill of lading for articles to
be exported, had imposed a tax of five thousand dollars for and
in respect of the vellum, parchment or paper upon which such
bill was written, the courts, looking beyond form and considering substance, might well have held that such an act was contral-y to the settled theory of stamp tax laws, and that the purpose and necessary operation of such legislation was, in violation of the Constitution, to tax the articles specified in such
bill and not to impose simply a stamp duty. Here, the small
duty imposed, without reference to the kind, quantity or value

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

of the articles exported, renders it certain that when Congress
imposed such duty specifically on the vellum, parchment or
paper upon which the bill of lading was written or printed, it
meant what it so plainly said; and no ground exists to impute
a purpose by indirection to tax the articles exported.
There is another view of this case which presents considerations of a serious character. In the opinion just rendered it is
conceded that a stamp tax on vellum, parchment or paper on
which is printed or written a bill of lading of goods fo be shipped
out of the United States, could be sustained, if regard be had to
the practice of the Government since its organization. But that
practice, covering more than a century, must, it seems, go for

naught.
In Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299, 309, (1803) the question
arose whether the Justices of this court had the right, although
authorized by an act of Congress, to sit as Circuit Judges, not
having been appointed as such nor having any distinct commissions for that purpose. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Patterson, said: "To this objection, which is of recent date, it
is sufficient to observe, that practice and acquiescence under it

for a period of several years, commencing with the organization
of the judicial system, affords an irresistible answer, and has indeed fixed the construction. It is a contemporary interpretation
of the most forcible nature. This practical exposition is too
strong and obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Of course, the
question is at et,and ought not now to be disturbed."
In P9'igg v. Pennsylvania,16 Pet. 541, 608, 621, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Story, after referring to the section of
the act of February 12, 1793, requiring a certificate to be given,
under certain circumstances, to the owner of a fugitive slave
apprehended under that act, said: "So far as the judges of the
courts of the United States have been called upon to enforce it
and to grant the certificate required by it, it is believed that it
has been uniformly recognized as a binding and valid law; and
as imposing a constitutional duty. Under such circumstances,
if the question were one of doubtful construction, such long acquiescence in it, such contemporaneous expositions of it, and such
extensive and uniform recognition of its validity, would, in our

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES "ARLAx,

GRAY, WITE

and MOKENNA, dissenting.

judgment, entitle the question to be considered at rest; unless,
indeed, the interpretation of the Constitution is to be delivered
over to interminable doubt throughout the whole progress of
legislation and of national operations. Congress, the executive
and the judiciary have, upon various occasions, acted upon this
as sound and reasonable doctrine "--citing among other cases
that of Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299.
In The Laura, 114 U. S. 411, 416, in which the question arose
as to the validity of an act of Congress approved March 3, 1797,
1 Stat. 506, c. 13, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to
remit a forfeiture of property after final sentence of condemnation, this court said: "Touching the objection now raised as to
the constitutionality of the legislation in question, it is sufficient
to say, as was said in an early case, that the practice and acquiescence under it, 'commencing with the organization of the
judicial system, affords an irresistible answer, and has indeed
fixed the construction. It is a contemporary interpretation of
the most forcible nature. This practical exposition is too strong
and obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Of course, the question is at rest, and ought not now to be disturbed.' Stuart v.
LTaird, 1 Cranch, 308. The same principle was announced in
Burrow Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 11l U. S. 53, 57, where a
question arose as to the constitutionality of certain statutory
provisions reproduced from some of the earliest statutes enacted
by Congress. The court said: ' The construction placed upon
the Constitution by the first act of 1790, and the act of 1802, by
the men who were contemporary with its formation, many of
whom were members of the Convention which framed it, is, of
itself, entitled to very great weight; and when it is remembered
that the rights thus established have not been disputed during
a period of nearly a century, it is [almost] conclusive." This
quotation in The Laura from the opinion in Sarony's case was
defective in that it omitted, by mistake in printing, the word
"almost" before "conclusive." But the error does not affect
the substance of the decision rendered, as the court, in the case
of The Laura,approved and reaffirmed what was said in St uart
v. Laird.
In Schell's Eecutors v. FauchU, 138 U. S. 562, this court,

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

speaking by Mr. Justice Brown, cited with approval what is
above quoted from Stuart v. Laird, adding: "In all cases of
ambiguity, the contemporaneous construction, not only of the
courts, but of the departments, and even of the officerg whose
duty it is to carry the law into effect, is universally held to be
controlling."

In -McPhersonv. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 27, this court, speaking by the present Chief Justice, said: "The framers of the
Constitution employed words in their natural sense; and where
they are plain and clear, resort to collateral aids to interpretation is unnecessary and cannot be indulged in to narrow or enlarge the text; but where there is ambiguity or doubt, or where
two views may well be entertained, contemporaneous and subsequent practical construction are entitled to the greatest weight.
Certainly, plaintiffs in error cannot reasonably assert that the
clause of the Constitution under consideration so plainly sustains their position as to entitle them to object that contemporaneous history and practical construction are not to be allowed
their legitimate force, and, conceding that their argument inspires a doubt sufficient to justify resort to. the aids of interpretation thus afforded, we are of opinion that such doubt is thereby resolved against them, the contemporaneouspracticalexposition of the Constitution being too strong and obstinate to be

shaken or controlled. Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299, 309."

Cases almost without number could be referred to in which
the same principles of constitutional construction are announced
as in the cases above cited. In the latest case-Inowlton v.
Z.oore, 178 U. S. 41, 56-this court had occasion in its review
of taxing legislation by Congress, to refer to the act of July 6,
1797, the very act in which Congress first imposed a stamp duty
on vellum, parchment or paper upon which was written a bill
of lading for articles to be exported. Touching the objection
that Congress could not constitutionally impose, as by that act
was imposed, a tax on inheritances or legacies, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice White, said: "It is to be remarked that
this proposition denies to Congress the right to tax a subjectmatter which was conceded to be within the scope of its power
very early in the history of the Government. The act of 1797,
VOL. CLXXXI-21

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
JUSTICES 1ARLA

, GRAY, WHITE and MCKENNA,

dissenting.

which ordained legacy taxes, was adopted at a time when the
founders of our Government and framers of our Constitution
were actively participating in public affairs, thus giving a practical cohstruction to the Constitution which they bad helped to
establish. Even the then members of the Congress who had
not been delegates to the Convention which framed the Constitution, must have had a keen appreciation of the influences
which had shaped the Constitution and the restrictions which
it embodied, since all questions which related to the Constitution and its adoption must have been, at that early date, vividly
impressed on their minds. It would, under these conditions,
be indeed surprising if a tax should have been levied without
question upon objects deemed to be beyond the grasp of Con-

gress because exclusively within state authority."
Many cases have been cited which hold that the uniform,
contemporaneous construction by executive officers charged with
the enforcement of a doubtful or ambiguous law is entitled to
great weight and should not be overturned unless it be plainly
or obviously erroneous. If such respect be accorded to the
action of mere executive officers, how much greater respect is
due to the legislative department when it has at different periods
in the history of the country exercised a power as belonging to
it under the Constitution, and no one in the course of a century
questioned the existence of the power so exercised. Besides,
we have here a question of the constitutional power of Congress
under the Constitution, and not a question relating merely to

the practice of executive officers acting under a law susceptible
of different interpretations. No one of the acts of Congress imposing a stamp duty on the vellum, parchment or paper on
which a bill of lading of articles to be exported was written,
can be classed among laws that are doubtful or ambiguous in
their meaning. iNo person, however skilful in the use of words,
who attempts to frame a statute imposing a stamp duty, pure
and simple, on such vellum, parchment or paper, could possibly
employ language expressing that thought more distinctly than
Congress has done in the several acts relating to stamp duties
of that character. The words of those acts are clear, and are
capable of but one construction; and the court determines the

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

case upon the ground alone of want of power in Congress to
impose the stamp duty in question.
Without further discussion or citation of authorities, we submit that the denial, at this late day, of the power of Congress
to impose what is strictly a stamp duty on the vellum, parchment or paper upon which is written or printed a bill of lading
for goods to be exported to a foreign port or place, involves
not only a departure from canons of constitutional construction
by which it has been controlled for more than a century, but,
in the words of Prigg v. Commonwealth, delivers the interpretation of the Constitution "over to interminable doubt throughout the whole progress of legislation and of national operations." Practically no weight has been given in the opinion
just filed to the fact that the power now denied to Congress
has been exercised since the organization of the Government
without any suggestion or even intimation by a single jurist or
statesman during all that period that the Constitution forbade
its exercise. It is said that the question of power never was
presented for judicial determination prior to the present case,
and therefore this court is at liberty to determine the matter
as if now for the first time presented. But the answer to that
suggestion is that, in view of the frequent legislation by Congress and its enforcement for nearly a century, the question
must have arisen if it had been supposed by any one that such
legislation infringed the constitutional rights of the citizen.
Within the rule announced in Stuart v. 1aird,and in other
cases, the question should be considered at rest.
In view of the importance of the case, we have deemed it
appropriate to state the reasons of our dissent from the opinion
and judgment just rendered.

