OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

The fourth question is whether the court erred in these rulings. Defendant's instruction was clearly wrong, and it seems
to us that plaintiff's instructions fairly submitted the contention
as to penalties and forfeitures to the jury. If strict performance by plaintiff was prevented or waived by defendant as contended on the facts, then the claim for fines or penalties for delay or failure to deliver the pipe could not be sustained.
The court left the matter of interest to the jury, and refused
to give at defendant's request an instruction that no interest
should be allowed except from the time of the institution of
the suit. Exception was taken to this refusal, but, in view of
the evidence, the trial court committed no error in that regard.
Rev. Stat. D. 0. ยง 829 ; Waskington & Georgetown Railroadv.
Harmon's Admr., 147 U. S. 571, 585. To the general charge
of the court in respect of interest no exceptions were preserved.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.TUsTIcE

BRowN and MR. JUSTICE

M KENNA

dissented.

THE BARNSTABLE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

No. 178.

Argued March 8, 1901.-Decided Iay 13,1901.

In a suit for a collision against a vessel navigated by charterers, it is competent for the court to entertain a petition by the general owners that the
charterers be required to appear and show cause why they should not be
held primarily liable for the damages occasioned by the collision.
A. ship is liable in rem for damages occasioned by a collision through the
negligence of the charterers having her in possession and navigating her.
If a stipulation in the charter party that "the owners shall pay for the insurance on the vessel" imposes any other duty on the owner than that of
paying the premiums, it goes no farther than to render them liable for
losses covered by an ordinary policy of insurance against perils of the

THE BARNSTABLE.
Statement of the Case.
sea; and as such policy would not cover damage done to another vessel
by a collision with the vessel insured, the primary liability for such damage rests upon the charterers, who undertook to navigate the vessel with
their own officers and crew, and not upon the owners.

THIS case originated in a libel by the owners of the schooner
Fortuna against the British steamship Barnstable, for a collision
which took place off Cape Cod on January 13, 1896, and resulted
in a total loss of the schooner, and the personal effects of her
master and crew. Nine of the crew were drowned.
A claim was interposed by the master of the Barnstable on
behalf of the Turret Steamshipping Company, a British corporation, and the owner of the steamship; and an order was
subsequently entered substituting that corporation as claimant.
Before the time to answer expired, the Turret Company presented a petition, setting forth that at the time of the collision
the Barnstable was chartered to the Boston Fruit Company, a
Massachusetts corporation; that the charterer supplied its own
officers and crew, who were navigating the vessel at the time
of the collision, and that, if there were any faults on the part
of the Barnstable, they were the faults of the charterer and
not those of the owner. In compliance with the prayer, a
summons was issued to the Boston Fruit Company to appear
before the District Court to answer the petition. The company appeared and answered, admitting the charter, (copy of
which was annexed to the petition,) but denying liability for
the negligence of the officers and crew of the steamship, or
that it had assumed liability therefor under its charter.
Subsequently, however, but after certain testimony had been
taken, counsel for the owners and also for the charterer became
satisfied that the Barnstable was in fault, and assented to a decree against her, leaving the question of liability as between the
owner and charterer to be passed upon by the court.
The material provisions of the charter party, which was for
thirty-six months from March, 1894, were that the charterer
should "provide and pay for all oils and stores for the vessel,
gear, tackle and appliances for loading and discharging the
cargo, and for all the provisions and wages of the captain, officers, engineers, firemen and crew, who, except the guarantee
VOL.

c.xxXI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

engineer, shall be appointed by them;" that the owners should
"maintain the vessel in a thoroughly efficient state" for the
service, but the charterer should " provide and pay for all the
coals, fuel, port charges, pilotage, agencies, commissions and
all other chargeswhatsoever, excepting for painting and repairs to
hull and machinery and everything appertaining to keeping
the ship in proper working order;" to pay for her use C550
per month, and that "in the event of loss of time from collision, stranding, want of repairs, break down of machinery,
or any cause appertaining to the duties of the owner, preventing the working of the vessel for more than twenty-four working hours, the payment of hire shall cease from the hour when
detention begins until she be again in an efficient state to assume her service." There was a final and most important provision, upon the construction of which the case turned, "that
the owners shall pay for the insurance on the vessel."
The case, as thus presented between the owner and the charterer, was submitted to the District Court, which dismissed the
owner's petition, holding it to be liable under the charter for
the consequences of the collision. 84 Fed. Rep. 895. This
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 94 Fed.
Rep. 213.
-Mr. J. Parker Hirlinfor petitioner.
2fr. Airthur HZ.Russell opposing.
Russell was on his brief.

r'. Cliarles Theodore

MR. JusTIcE BnowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question involved in this case is, whether the owners of
a vessel, who have let it out upon charter party and agreed to
pay "for the insurance on the vessel," are liable, as between
themselves and the charterers, for damage done to another
vessel by a collision resulting from the negligence of the officers and crew, who are appointed and paid by the charterers.
1. It was within the power of the court, under general Ad-

THE BARNSTABLE.
Opinion of the Court.

miralty Rule 59, to entertain the petition of the Turret Steamshipping Company, owner and claimant of the Barnstable, and
to call in the charterer to show cause why it should not be
condemned for the damage resulting from this collision. The
Alert, 40 Fed. Rep. 836. Such proceeding, though not within
the words, is clearly within the spirit of the rule; and the case,
as between the Turret Company and the Fruit Company, thereafter proceeded substantially as an independent cause, in which
the original libellants had no substantial interest, their claim
being adequately protected by the decree against the Barnstable. The position of the Turret Company was in no manner
affected by the failure of the libellants to appeal from their
own decree.
2. Whatever may be the English rule with respect to the
liability of a vessel for damages occasioned by the neglect of
the charterer, as to which there appears to be some doubt, The
Ticonderoga, Swabey, 215; The lemingtor, 9 Asp. Mar. Law
Ca. 475; The Ruby Queen, Lush. 266; The Tasmania,13 P. D.
110; The ParlernentBelge, 5 P. D. 197; The Castlegate,(1893)
App. Ca. 38, 52; The Utopia, (1893) App. Cas. 492, the law in
this country is entirely well settled, that the ship itself is to be
treated in some sense as a principal, and as personally liable for
the negligence of any one who is lawfully in possession of her,
whether as owner or charterer. Te Little Charles, 1 Brock.
347, 354. It was said by this court in the case of The Palmyra,
12 Wheat. 1, 14, referring to a seizure in a revenue case: "The
thing is here primarily considered as the offender, or rather
the offence is attached primarily to the thing; and this whether
the offence be ,malura prohibitum or malurn in se. The same
principle applies to proceedings in remn, on seizure in the admiralty." So in United States v. Brig Kalek Adhel, 2 How. 210,
speaking of a forfeiture incurred by a piratical aggression, Mr.
Justice Story remarked (p. 233): "That the act makes no exception whatsoever, whether the aggression be with or without
the co6peration of the owners. The vessel which commits the
aggression is treated as the offender, as the guilty instrument
or thing to which the forfeiture attaches, without any reference
whatsoever to the character or conduct of the owner. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not an uncommon course in the admiralty, acting under
the law of nations, to treat the vessel in which, or by which,
or by the master or crew thereof, a wrong or offence has been
(lone, as the offender, without any regard whatsoever to the
personal misconduct or the personal responsibility of the owner
thereof." This was the principle upon which this court held,
in the case of The China, 7 Wall. 53, that a vessel was liable
for a collision occasioned by the fault of a compulsory pilota marked distinction from the English rule, which, by statute,
exempts the vessel from such consequences.
Indeed, the liability of the vessel for the negligence of the
charterers is now fixed by statute in this country. IRev. Stat.
sec. 4286. "The charterer of any vessel, in case he shall man,
victual and navigate such vessel at his own expense, or by his
own procurement, shall be deemed the owner of such vessel
within the meaning of the provisions of this title relating to
the limitation of the liability of owners of vessels; and such
vessel, when so chartered, shall be liable in the same manner
as if navigated by the owner thereof."
As the charterers hired the Barnstable for a definite period,
and agreed to select their own officers and crew, and pay all
the running current expenses of the vessel, including the expense of loading and discharging cargoes-the owners only assuming to deliver the vessel to the charterers in good order and
condition, and to maintain her in an efficient state during the
existence of the charter party, there can be no doubt that, irrespective of any special provision to the contrary, the charterers
would be liable for the consequences of negligence in her navigation, and would be bound to return the steamer to her owners
free from any lien of their own contracting, or caused by their
own fault. Thop v. Hammond, 12 Wall. 408; Villiams v.
Hays, 143 N. Y. 442; Scott v. Scott, 2 Starkie, 386; IFebster v.
Disharoon,64 Fed. Rep. 143; Galzoni v. Tyler, 64 Cal. 334,
386.
This, indeed, is but the application to charter parties of the
ordinary law of bailment, which requires that the bailee return
the property to the owner in the condition in which it was received, less the ordinary results of wear and tear, and such in-

THE BARNSTABLE.
Opinion of the Court.

juries as are caused by a peril of the sea, or inevitable accident.
Coupg Co. v. Aaddick, (1891) 2 Q. B. 413; Sturmn v. Boker, 150
U. S. 312; Story on Bailments, sees. 25 to 32.
If, then, the owners be liable for the negligence of the charterers, such liability must arise from the particular stipulation
in the charter party that "the owners shall pay for the insurance on the vessel." The language of the clause is peculiar and
significant. It is not an agreement to insure, or to procure or
provide insurance, but to pay for such insurance as the owner
should see fit to take out-and perhaps inferentially to apply
such insurance toward the extinguishment of any liability of
the charterers for losses covered by the policy. It is entirely
clear that, under this stipulation, the owners could not charge
the charterers with the expense of insurance, that is, the premiums, whatever form of policy the owner might select, though
insurance be in fact a part of the running expenses of the vessel,
and perhaps, in the absence of a special clause, covered by the
stipulation that "the charterers shall provide and pay for all
the coals and fuel, port charges, pilotages, agencies, commissions, and all other charges whatsoever, except for painting and
repairs to hull and machinery, and anything appertaining to
keeping the ship in proper working order."
It may be conceded, however, that for any damage to the
vessel coverable by an ordinary policy of insurance "on the
vessel" the owners must look to the companies, at least for
the insured proportion of such damage, and not to the charterers. It may also be conceded that the owner might have
selected a form of policy containing a special running-down
clause that would have covered damages done to another vessel,
though the rule in this court is, following the English case of
De Vaux v. Salvador, 4 Ad. & El. 420, that an ordinary policy
against perils of the sea does not cover damage done to another
vessel by collision. Gen. 3futual Ins. Co. v. Sherwood, 14 How.
351. Mr. Justice Curtis remarked in this case (p. 363): "We
believe that, if skillful merchants, or underwriters, or lawyers,
accustomed to the practice of the commercial law, had been
asked whether the insurers on one vessel were liable for damage done to another vessel, not insured by the policy, by a col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

lision occasioned by the negligence of those on board the vessel
injured, they would, down to a very recent period, have answered unhesitatingly in the negative." This case was decided
in 1853, although shortly before that the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts had held in HSelson v. Suiolk Ins. Co., 8 Cush.
477, that a policy on the vessel covered damages which the
vessel insured might do to another vessel. The same view had
already been taken by Mr. Justice Story in Hale v. IFashington
Ins. Co., 2 Story, 176. In speaking of these cases Mr. Justice
Curtis observed (p. 367): "But with great respect for that eminent judge, and for that learned and able court, we think the
rule we adopt is more in conformity with sound principle, as
well as with the practical interpretation of the contract by underwriters and merchants, and that it is the safer and more expedient rule. We cannot doubt that the knowledge by owners,
masters and seamen that underwriters were responsible for all
the damage done by collision with other vessels through their
negligence would tend to relax their vigilance and materially
enhance the perils, both to life and property, arising from this
case [cause]." As the construction of a policy of insurance is
one of general rather than one of local law, (Livepool & Great
Western Stean Co. v. Ptenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S.397, 443; Gloucester Ins. Co. v. Younger, 2 Curt. 322,) we are constrained to
adopt our own views as to such construction, though the courts
of the State in which the cause of action arose have adopted a
different view.
o
But, whatever be the obligation as between the insured and
his underwriters, this clause in the charter party should be construed in consonance with its other provisions, and with the obvious intention of the parties that the duty of the owner is discharged by keeping the vessel in good order and condition, and
that the charterers assumed and agreed to pay all her running
expenses. Conceding that damages done to another vessel are
neither the one nor the other, they are incident rather to the
navigation than to the preservation of the vessel, although the
cost of the premiums may be referable to the preservation of
the ship, inasmuch as the owner obtains the benefit of them in
case of damages or loss, for which, as between him and the char-

THE BARNSTABLE.
Opinion of the Court.

terer, he is chargeable. If the responsibility for an extraordinary class of damages that is done to another vessel be thus
shifted from the charterer, by whose agents the damage is done,
and to whom its reimbursement properly belongs, to the owners,
it should be evidenced by some definite undertaking to that effect, and not be inferred from an obscure provision of the charter
party, which seems to have been designed for a different purpose. Itis scarcely credible that the owners could have intended
to assume a liability for the acts of men not chosen by themselves and entirely beyond their control, which in this case
equalled the hire of the ship for eight months, and might, had
the Fortuna been of greater value, have exceeded the whole
amount of rent payable by the charterers.
There is undoubtedly weight to be given to the proposition
that, unless we hold the owners liable for everything a policy
of insurance could have covered, the clause is of little value,
since the charterers would not in any event be liable for damages resulting from the perils of the sea or other risks ordinarily
covered by insurance upon the vessel. But this argument loses
'much of its force in view of the ruling of this court that an ordinary policy of insurance on a vessel does not cover damages
done to another vessel; and as there seems to be a difference
in practice, some charters providing that the insurance shall be
paid by the charterer, Latson v. Sturm, 2 Ben. 327, and others
providing that it shall be paid by the owner, we think the probable object of the clause was to fix beyond cavil the responsibility for premiums. It was probably inserted in this charter
to negative the inference derivable from that provision of the
charter, imposing upon the charterers the obligation to pay the
running expenses of the vessel, and all other cha'ges whatsoever.
But, however this may be, we find ourselves unable to give it
the broad construction that it was intended to fix upon the
owners a new and extraordinary liability, which we think could
not have been within the contemplation of the parties.
The evidence of a parol understanding as to the meaning of
the insurance clause in this connection, is entitled to no weight
whatever. In answer to a question put to the broker who negotiated the charter, upon cross examination, he testified as
follows:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. You have had no experience, I understand you, of the
actual working out of this clause in any particular cases?
"A. I have had considerable experience in various insurance
claims-so much so that I clearly expressed to the owner that
he would have to pay for all insurance on the vessel in any
way, shape or manner against stranding, collision and everything, as is usually done in all vessels, unless he wanted to take
the risk and not insure.
"Q. Tell us what experience you have actually had of these
insurance clauses, or the working out of them.
"A. I have never known an owner to insure a charter for
damage by collision before. He has always taken that risk."
Several answers may be made as to any inference derivable
from this testimony. In the first place, the answer to the first
question was not responsive to the question at all. In the second place, it was not the testimony of an expert as to the meaning of this clause among underwriters, and their customers, in
which case it might properly have been admissible, but an attempt in respect to the particular charter, to introduce the antecedent understanding of the parties, and thereby to explain,
control and qualify the language of the charter. This was obviously impossible.

Seitz v. Brewers' Refrigerating 3/achine

Co., 14:1 T. S. 510. Finally, giving to the answer its full effect,
his statement of the owner's liability does not include damage
which might be done to other vessels.
The statement of the witness, too, differs from his testimony
upon direct examination, which was as follows:
"Q. Did you have any conversation with Mr. Craggs (the
then owner of the vessel) with regard to that clause?
"A. I did; several.
"Q. Please state the substance of that conversation.
"A. I told him that he would have to insure for his vessel
the same as the charter party stated.
"Q. Did he make any reply?
"A. Of course, I told him if he did not want to insure, he
could take that risk. IBut his intention was to insure."
In addition to this, however, the testimony was quite inadmissible as against the Turret Steamshipping Company, the

HALE v. LEWIS.
Syllabus.

purchaser of the vessel and the assignee of the charter party,
since it was not shown to have had any notice of the conversation, and therefore, in taking over the charter, was only bound
by the obligations imported by the words of the insurance clause
in their ordinary commercial sense. Paige v. Cagwin, 7 Hill,
361; Bristol v. Dann, 12 Wend. 142; Clews v. Iehr, 90 N. Y.
633; Truax v. Slater, 86 N. Y. 630; Tabor v. Yan Tassell, 86
N. Y. 642.
In conclusion, we are of opinion that, if anything more were
intended by the insurance clause than to impose on the owners
the duty of paying the premiums, it was fully satisfied by an
ordinary policy of insurance against perils of the sea; that such
policy would not cover damage done to another vessel by a
collision with the vessel insured, and that the primary liability
for such damage rested upon the charterers and not upon the
owners. We express no opinion as to the effect of any payment that may have been actually made by the underwriters
upon this loss.
The decrees of both courts must therefore be reversed, and the
case remanded to the .District Court for the District of
MAfassachusetts, forfurtherproceedingsnot inconsistent with
this opinion.

HALE v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OP THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 151. Argued January 28, 29, 1901.-Decided Way 13, 1901.

A statute of Wisconsin required building and loan associations to deposit
with the state treasurer securities to a certain amount, to be held in trust
.for the benefit of local creditors. The receiver of a Minnesota building
and loan association, which had made the deposit required by the Wisconsin statute, prayed that such securities might be turned over to him,
and the proceeds distributed among all the shareholders of the association, wherever they might reside, upon the ground that the association

