OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Syllabus.

and to assume the position of a shareholder. An individual
may become a shareholder in a national bank by his own voluntary act. He can, if he choose, so act as to be estopped from
saying that he is not a shareholder and liable as such for the
contracts, debts and engagements of the bank. But a national
bank is without authority to use its funds for the purchase of
the stock of another national bank merely for purposes of investment, and therefore, as held in the Hawkins case, it could
not under such circumstances become a shareholder within the
meaning of section 5151. Of the powers of a national bank
under the statutes providing for their creation every one must
take notice. Whether a national bank may not be deemed a
shareholder, within the meaning of section 5151, if it holds
shares of another bank as security for previous indebtedness, is
a question suggested in former cases, but not decided, and upon
which, in this case, no opinion need be expressed.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL NAVIGATION COMPANY v. FARR
AND BAILEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 193. Argued March 12, 13,1901.-Decided April 22,1901.
The Hiarter act, so-called, does not relieve the ship owner from liability
for damages caused by the unseaworthy condition of his ship at the commencement of her voyage.
Nor is the ship owner exempted from liability under that act, "1for damage
or loss resulting from faults or errors of navigation, or in the management of said vessel," unless it appears that she was actually seaworthy
when she started or that the owner had exercised due diligence to make
her so in all respects.
The mere fact that the owner provides a vessel properly constructed and
equipped is not conclusive that the owner has exercised due diligence
within the meaning of the act, for the diligence required is diligence on

INT. NAV. CO. v. FARR & BAILEY MFG. CO.

219

Statement of the Case.
the part of all the owner's servants in the use of the equipment before
the commencement of the voyage and until it has actually commenced;
and the law recognizes no distinction founded on the character of the
servants employed to accomplish that result.
Whether a ship is reasonably fit to carry her cargo is a question to be determined on all the facts and circumstances, and the difference in the
facts of this case from those in The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462, was such that
the Court of Appeals was at liberty to reach a different result.

THIS was an action brought by the Farr and Bailey Mainufacturing Company against the International Navigation Company, owner of the steamship Indiana, in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in
admiralty, to recover the sum of $2084.15, for damages to twenty
bales of burlaps which were delivered to the Navigation Company at Liverpool, England, on board that steamship, in good
order and condition, for carriage to the Manufacturing Company at Philadelphia. Upon the arrival of the steamship at
Philadelphia the burlaps were found to have been damaged by
sea water. The case was heard in the District Court and the
libel sustained, and the cause referred to a commissioner to determine the extent of the loss. 94 Fed. Rep. 675. The Navigation Company applied for a reargument, which was had, and
thereupon the libel was dismissed. 94 Fed. Rep. 678. From
this decree the Manufacturing Company appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and that court, one of
its members dissenting, reversed the decree of the District Court,
and held the Navigation Company liable. 98 Fed. Rep. 636.
The case was then brought to this court on certiorari.
In the first opinion of the District Court it was stated that"In May, 1895, twenty bales of burlaps in good condition
were received by the vessel at Liverpool, consigned to the libellant, in Philadelphia, and a bill of lading was given therefor.
The bales were stowed with some other goods in compartment
No. 3 of the lower steerage deck; but the compartment was
not full, only one tier of cargo, two or three feet high, covering
the floor, so that access to the ports was very easy and unobstructed. Four or five days after the vessel left Liverpool water
was discovered in the compartment; and when the hatches
were opened, a day or two later, it was found that the after

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

port on the starboard side was admitting water freely as the
vessel rolled. Both covers of the port were unfastened and
open, but there was no sign of injury to either, or to the surroundings of the port. No severe weather had been encountered, and no accident was known to have happened to the vessel. The ports in the compartment were inspected the day
before the vessel sailed, and were believed to be closed; but
several hours elapsed between the time of inspection and the
time of sailing. The libellant's burlaps were injured by the
water thus taken into the ship, and the present suit has been
brought to determine the respondent's liability."
"We have little difficulty in coming to the conclusion that
the vessel was a staunch boat, properly manned, equipped, and
supplied, and that she was in all respects fit for the voyage,
except in the one respect of which the libellant complains,the condition of the after port on the starboard side in compartment No. 3."
And it was found "as a fact, that the port in question was
either not fastened at all, or was insecurely fastened, when the
vessel left Liverpool."
In the second opinion it was said:
"It seems to me that, although the owners of the vessel provided the proper equipment for the porthole under consideration, and although the failure to close it properly was due to
negligence in the use of such equipment, nevertheless the result
was unseaworthiness, because the vessel set sail with a hole in
her side that was not only unknown to her officers, but was
believed not to exist. She was, therefore, not in a condition to
afford due protection to the cargo in this particular compartment. If the hole had been caused by collision while she lay
at her berth, and she had been sent upon her voyage without
repair, it could not be successfully asserted that she was seaworthy, although the proper tools and materials might have
been among the ship's stores, and the failure to repair might be
properly said to have been due to negligence in failing to use
the equipment at hand."
The Circuit Court of Appeals said that"These goods were stowed in a compartment on the lower

lNT. NAV. CO. v. FARR & BAILEY MFG. CO.

221

Opinion of the Court.

steerage deck in such manner as to admit of free access being
had to the port through which the water subsequently entered.
This port, and others similarly situated, were inspected on the
day before the vessel sailed, and they were believed to be closed
and properly fastened; but, after the Indiana had proceeded
for four or five days upon her voyage, water made its appearance in the compartment, and a day or two later investigation
disclosed that both the glass cover and the iron dummy of the
port in question were open, and that through this opening the
water was admitted. There had been no severe weather, no
accident was known to have happened, and the port, its covers,
fastenings, and surroundings, did not appear to have been in
any way broken or impaired."
And found as to the port:
"The impression made upon us by the evidence is that it was
probably closed, but, be this as it may, certain it is that it was
not securely fastened; and we are of opinion that, by reason
of this fact, the vessel was unseaworthy."
.3.

J _odman Paul for petitioner.

Mr. John F. Lewis for respondent.
was on his brief.

-Yr. Horace 1..Cheyney

MR. OHIrF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
Counsel for petitioner states that the question raised on this
record is: "Was the Indiana unseaworthy at the time of beginning her voyage from Liverpool to Philadelphia, or was the
failure to securely fasten the port covers and keep them fastened a fault or error in the management of the vessel under
the exemption of the ' Harter act ?' "
IAct of February 13, 1893, 27 Stat. 445, c. 105, entitled " An act relating
to navigation of vessels, bills of lading, and to certain obligations, duties,
and rights in connection with the carriage of property." The first, second
and third sections read:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The courts below concurred in the conclusion that the Indiana was unseaworthy when she sailed because of the condition
of the port hole, but the District Judge on the reargument felt
constrained to yield his individual convictions to the rule he understood to have been laid down in The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462.
T]he Silvia was decided, as all these cases must be, upon its
particular facts and circumstances. The case is thus stated by
Mr. Justice Gray, who delivered the opinion of the court:
"The Silvia, with the sugar in her lower hold, sailed from
States of America in Congress assembled, That it shall not be lawful for
the manager, agent, master, or owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of the United States and foreign
ports to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any clause, covenant, or agreement whereby it, he, or they shall be relieved from liability
for loss or damage arising from negligence, fault, or failure in proper loading, stowage, custody, care, or proper delivery of any and all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their charge. Any and all words
or clauses of such import inserted in bills of lading or shipping receipts
shall be null and void and of no effect.
"SEc. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of the United States of America
and foreign ports, her owner, master, agent, or manager, to insert in any
bill of lading or shipping document any covenant or agreement whereby
the obligations of the owner or owners of said vessel to exercise due diligence, properly equip, man, provision, and outfit said vessel, and to make
said vessel seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage, or
whereby the obligations of the master, officers, agents, or servants to carefully handle and stow her cargo and to care for and properly deliver same,
shall in anywise be lessened, weakened, or avoided.
"Src. 3. That if the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or property to or from any port in the United States of America shall exercise due
diligence to make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly
manned, equipped, and supplied, neither the vessel, her owner or owners,
agent, or charterers shall become or be held responsible for damage or loss
resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of said
vessel nor shall the vessel, her owner or owners, charterers, agent, or master
be held liable for losses arising from dangers of the sea or other navigable
waters, acts of God, or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality, or vice
of the thing carried, or from insufficiency of package, or seizure under legal
process, or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the shipper or
owner of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving orattempting to save life or property at sea, or from any deviation in rendering such
service."

INT. NAV. CO. v. FARR & BAILEY MFG. CO.

223

Opinion of the Court.

Matanzas for Philadelphia on the morning of February 16,
1894. The compartment between decks next the forecastle
had been fitted up to carry steerage passengers, but on this
voyage contained only spare sails and ropes, and a small quantity of stores. This compartment had four round ports on each
side, which were about eight or nine feet above the water line
when the vessel was deep laden. Each port was eight inches
in diameter, furnished with a cover of glass five eighths of an
inch thick, set in a brass frame, as well as with an inner cover
or dummy of iron. When the ship sailed, the weather was
fair, and the glass covers were tightly closed, but the iron covers
were left open in order to light the compartment should it become necessary to get anything from it, and the hatches were
battened down, but could have been opened in two minutes by
knocking out the wedges. In the afternoon of the day of sailing, the ship encountered rough weather, and the glass cover
of one of the ports was broken-whether by the force of the
seas or by floating timber or wreckage, was wholly a matter of
conjecture-and the water came in through the port, and damaged the sugar."
And again:
"But the contention that the Silvia was unseaworthy when
she sailed from Matanzas is unsupported by the facts. The
test of seaworthiness is whether the vessel is reasonably fit to
carry the cargo which she has undertaken to transport. The
port holes of the compartment in question were furnished both
with the usual glass covers and with the usual iron shutters or
dead lights; and there is nothing in the case to justify an inference that there was any defect in the construction of either.
When she began her voyage, the weather being fair, the glass
covers only were shut, and the iron ones were left open for the
purpose of lighting the compartment. Although the hatches
were battened down they could have been taken off in two
minutes, and no cargo was stowed against the ports so as to
prevent or embarrass access to them in case a change of weather
should make it necessary or proper to close the iron shutters.
Had the cargo been so stowed as to require much time and
labor to shift or remove it in order to get at the ports, the fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that the iron shutters were left open at the beginning of the
voyage might have rendered the ship unseaworthy. But as no
cargo was so stowed, and the ports were in a place where these
shutters would usually be left open for the admission of light,
and could be speedily got at and closed ifoccasion should require, there is no ground for holding that the ship was inseaworthy at the time of sailing."
In the present case the compartment in which the burlaps
were stowed was used exclusively as a cargo hold; the glass and
iron covers were intended to be securely closed before any cargo
was received; the person whose duty it was to close them or
see that they were closed, supposed that that had been properly
done; and the hatches were battened down with no expectation
that any more attention would be given to the port covers during
the voyage; but in fact the port was not securely covered, and
there was apparently nothing to prevent the influx of water,
even under conditions not at all extraordinary, the port being
only two or three feet above the water line.
We are of opinion that the difference in the facts between
the two cases was such that the Court of Appeals was at liberty
to reach a different result in this case from that arrived at in
The Silvia. The latter decision simply demonstrated the justness of Lord Blackburn's observation in Steele v. State -LineS. S.
CO., L. R. 3 App. Cases, 72, that the question whether a ship is
reasonably fit to carry her cargo must be "determined upon
the whole circumstances and the whole evidence."
On the question of fact in this case, we have the concurrent
decisions of the two courts that the Indiana was unseaworthy
at the commencement of the voyage, and as we find no adequate
ground to conclude that the finding was erroneous, the settled
doctrine that it should be accepted is applicable. The Carib
Prince,170 U. S. 655.
But it is contended that in spite of the fact that the condition
of the port hole rendered the ship unseaworthy when she saile(d,
the omission to securely cover it was a fault or error in management and within the exemption of the third section of the Hlarter
act. The proposition is that if the owner provides a vessel
properly constructed and equipped, he is exempted from lia-

INT. NAV. CO. v. FARR & BAILEY MFG. CO.

225

Opinion of the Court.

bility, no matter how unseaworthy the vessel may actually be,
at the commencement of the voyage, through negligent omission or commission in the use of the equipment by the owner's
servants. Or, to put it in another way. If the unseaworthiness
is not the result of error or fault in management, the third section does not apply, and even if it were, the exemption still cannot obtain unless it appears that the owner used due diligence
to make the vessel seaworthy. And it is said that the owner
does exercise such diligence by providing a vessel properly con-

structed and equipped, and that while he is responsible for the
misuse or nonuse of the structure or equipment by his "shore"
agents, he exercises due diligence by the selection of competent
"C
sea)) agents, and that he is not responsible for the acts of the
latter, although they produce unseaworthiness before the commencement of the voyage.
We cannot accede to a view which so completely destroys the
general rule that seaworthiness at the commencement of the
voyage is a condition precedent, and that fault in management
is no defence when there is lack of due diligence before the vessel breaks ground.
We do not think that a ship owner exercises due diligence
within the meaning of the act by merely furnishing proper structure and equipment, for the diligence required is diligence to
make the ship in all respects seaworthy, and that, in our judgment, means due diligence on the part of all the owners' servants
in the use of the equipment before the commencement of the
voyage and until it is actually commenced.
The ruling in Dobell & Co.v. Steamship Rossmore Co., (1895)
2 Q. B. 408, is in point. The Rossmore left Baltimore with
a port improperly caulked, which rendered the vessel unseaworthy, through the negligence of the ship's carpenter, who was
a competent person. Sea water entered through this port and
damaged the cargo. The bill of lading incorporated the Harter
act by reference, and it was held, as correctly stated in the syllabus, that "to exempt the ship owner from liability it was not
sufficient merely to shew that he had personally exercised due
diligence to make the vessel seaworthy, but that it must be
shewn that those persons whom he employed to act for him in
VOL CLXXXI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

this respect had exercised due diligence;" and that, therefore,
the negligence of the ship's carpenter prevented the exemption
from applying, and the ship owner was liable.
The obligation of the owner is, in the language of section two
of the act, "to exercise due diligence, to properly equip, man,
provision, and outfit said vessel, and to make said vessel seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage;" and
that obligation was not discharged when this vessel sailed with
a hole in her side, under the circumstances disclosed, whether
the duty of seeing that it was closed devolved on officers of the
ship, or the foreman of the stevedores, or on all of them. The
obligation was to use due diligence to make her seaworthy before she started on her voyage, and the law recognizes no distinction founded on the character of the servants employed to
accomplish that result.
We repeat that even if the loss occur through fault or error
in management, the exemption cannot be availed of unless the
vessel was seaworthy when she sailed, or due diligence to make
her so had been exercised, and it is for the owner to establish
the existence of one or the other of these conditions. The word
"management" is not used without limitation, and is not,
therefore, applicable in a general sense as well before as after
sailing.
It is, of course, not to be understood as intimated that failure
to close port holes necessarily creates unseaworthiness. That
depends on circumstances, and we accept the finding of the District Court, and of the Court of Appeals, that it did so under
the circumstances of this case.
Nor do we say that the liability rests alone on the ignorance
of the officers that the port covers were not securely fastened.
This is not a case where it appears that the port would ordinarily have been left open, to be closed as the exigency might
require, and where failure to close it during the voyage might
be an error or fault in management. The importance of this
point is well illustrated by Dallas, J., in the Court of Appeals,
thus: "But in the present case the port in question was not
designedly left open, and its shutters ought not to have been
left unfastened. They would not 'usually be left open for the

BEDFORD v. EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN ASSN. 227
Syllabus.

admission of light,' or for any purpose. They were believed by
all concerned to have been securely closed, and that they would
remain so throughout the voyage. It was neither intended nor
expected that they would require or receive any attention at
sea. It was not supposed that any control of them in the course
of navigation and management would be necessary, and no duty
to exercise control existed, simply because no need nor occasion
for it could have been foreseen or perceived."
Decree affirmed.

BEDFORD v. EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN
ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 153.

Argued January 30, 31, 1901.-Decided

April 22, 1901.

The Building Association, a corporation organized under the laws of New
York, was authorized by law to make advances to its members. The
statutory provisions regarding such advances and the securing of the
same are stated in the opinion of the court. Bedford, a resident in Tennessee, became a shareholder by subscription to the stock, and by payment therefor. The statutes of Tennessee authorized the corporation to
do business in that State. Bedford, after subscribing to the stock, paid
his subscription, and on his application secured a loan from the corporation and mortgaged his property to secure it. All this was authorized
by the statutes of Tennessee at the time when it was done. Subsequently
a new statute was enacted, the provisions in which are set forth in the
opinion of the court, and an act was passed concerning building associations, the parts of which thereof, relating to foreign building associations,
are also set forth in the opinion of the court. The Building Association
subsequently filed its charter with the secretary of state of Tennessee,
and an abstract of the same in the office of the Register of Shelby County,
but it did not comply with the building association laws. Bedford defaulted in his payments on the notes, and the association filed a bill in
equity in the United States Circuit Court to foreclose the mortgage, and
collect the amount due under his contract. Bedford answered that

