AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 277
Statement of the Case.

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. NEW
ORLEANS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 535. Argued and submitted March 18, 1901.-Decided April 29, 1901.
The Circuit Courts of A.ppeals have power to review the judgments of the
Circuit Courts in cases where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attaches solely by reason of diverse citizenship, notwithstanding constitutional questions may have arisen after the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court attached.
But in any such case, where a constitutional question arises on which the
judgment depends, a writ of error maybe taken directly from this court
to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court, although the case may nevertheless be carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, but if so, and final
judgment is there rendered, the jurisdiction of this court cannot thereafter be invoked directly on another writ of error to the Circuit Court.
When the plaintiff invokes the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the sole
ground that the suit arises under the Constitution or laws or some treaty
of the United States, as appears on the record from his own statement of
his cause of action, in legal and logical form, and a dispute or controversy as to a right which depends on the construction of the Constitution,
or some law or treaty of the United States, is determined, then the appellate jurisdiction of this court is exclusive.

Tis was a petition for a writ of certiorari requiring the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit to certify to this court for its review and determination the case of

- v.
the American Sugar efi#ning Company, Plaintiff i Error,
The City of ew Orleans,Defendant in Error,No. 920, November Term, 1899; oy in the alternative for a writ of mandamus
to command the judges of said court to hear, try and adjudge
said cause.
The petition alleged that on June 14, 1899, the city of New
Orleans brought suit by rule in the civil district court for the
parish of Orleans, Louisiana, against the American Sugar Refining Company for a city license tax for the year 1899 for the
sum of $6250 with interest thereon claiming said license tax

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

solely by virtue of the laws of Louisiana and an ordinance of
the city of New Orleans, as an occupation tax for carrying on
the business of refining sugar and molasses in that city ; that
the American Sugar Refining Company petitioned the district
court for an order removing the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, the petition
for removal being based solely upon the ground that the defendant was a corporation of New Jersey, and the plaintiff, a
corporation of Louisiana, which petition was granted, the bond
required given, a certified copy of the record filed, and the suit
docketed in the Circuit Court.
That thereafter, by order of the court, the city reformed its
pleadings in some parts, "the only difference of substance between said reformed petition and the original rule being that
said reformed petition omitted the formal prayer for a recognition of a lien and privilege on defendant's property, and for an
injunction against defendant carrying on its business."
That the defendant answered:
"1?irst. That it was a manufacturer, and as such exempt from
license taxation under article 229 of the constitution of the State
of Louisiana of 1898, which exempts all manufacturers from
state and municipal license taxation, except those of distilled,
alcoholic and malt liquors, tobacco, cigars and cottonseed oil;
and
",Second.That the ordinance of the city of New Orleans under which said tax was claimed was based upon act No. 171 of
the general assembly of Louisiana of 1898, and that the said act
was in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, in that it exempted from license
taxation planters and farmers who refine their own sugar and
molasses, and thereby sought to make an illegal discrimination
against those sugar refiners who were not planters and farmers,
and denied to defendant, as one of such sugar refiners, the equal
protection of the laws of the State of Louisiana; and that tb
said act and city ordinance based thereon were therefore unconstitutional and void as to defendant."
That the suit was tried before the court and a jury, and
evidence was adduced showing the nature and character of

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 279
Opinion of the Court.

defendant's business in support of its claim that it was a manufacturer, which evidence of the defendant was uncontradicted
in every particular; and also showing that the gross receipts
of defendant's business were of such amount that if liable at all
for license tax, it was liable for the sum claimed; and defendant also filed an exception of no cause of action.
That at the close of the evidence defendant requested the
court to direct the jury to render a verdict in its favor, which
the court refused to do, and charged in plaintiff's favor, and
plaintiff obtained a verdict and judgment. On defendant's application a bill of exceptions was duly settled and signed by the
presiding judge; and the case carried on error to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The
cause was there heard, and on May 29, 1900, judgment was
rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing the writ
of error on the ground of want of jurisdiction. 104 Fed. Rep.
2. Petitioner thereupon applied for a rehearing, which was
denied November 20, 1900.
Petitioner prayed for the writ of certiorari, or for the writ
of mandamus as before stated. Leave was granted to file the
petition, and a rule to show cause was thereupon entered, to
which due return was made.
XA. Joseph W. Carrollfor petitioner.
was on his brief.

.fr. Charles Carroll

Xr. Samuel L. Gilmore, for respondent, submitted on his
brief.
MR. C.HIEF JusTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested on diverse citizenship, and not on any other ground, and had the Circuit Court
of Appeals gone on and decided the case, its decision would
have been final, and our interposition could only have been invoked by certiorari.
This was so notwithstanding one of the defences was the unconstitutionality of the ordinance. Colorado Central XMining

OCTOBER TERMI. 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Turkc,

150 U. S. 138; Press PublishingCo. v. .onroe,

164: U. S. 105 ; Ex Parte Jones, 164 U. S. 691. These, and
many other cases to the same effect, related to the appellate
jurisdiction of this court over the Court of Appeals under the
sixth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, but they
necessarily involved consideration of our jurisdiction under the
fifth section, and that of the Court of Appeals under the sixth
section. By the fifth section appeals or writs of error may be
taken from the District or Circuit Courts direct to this court
in any case that "involves the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States;" "in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the validity or
construction of any treaty made under its authority, is drawn
in question;" "in which the constitution or law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States." Section six provides that the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review the final
decisions of the District and Circuit Courts "in all cases other
than those provided for in the preceding section of this act,
unless otherwise provided by law, and the judgments or decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in
which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy being aliens or citizens of the
United States or citizens of different States." The jurisdiction
referred to is the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and as the
judgment of the Court of Appeals is made final in all cases in
which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attaches solely by
reason of diverse citizenship, it follows that the Court of Appeals has power to review the judgment of the Circuit Court
in every such case, notwithstanding constitutional questions
may have arisen after the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attached, by reason whereof the case became embraced by section five.
Thus it was held in .Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179
U. S.472, where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested on
diverse citizenship, but the state statute involved was claimed
in defence to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, that a writ of error could be taken directly from

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 281
Opinion of the Court..

this court to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court, although
it was also ruled that the plaintiff might have carried the case
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that if a final judgment
were rendered by that court against him, he could not thereafter have invoked the jurisdiction of this court directly on
anobher writ of error to review the judgment ol the Circuit
Court.
The intention of the act in general was that the appellate
jurisdiction should be distributed, and that there should not be
two appeals, but in cases where the decisions of the Courts of
Appeals are not made final it is provided that "there shall be
of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the case by the
Supreme Court of the United States where the matter in controversy exceeds one thousand dollars besides costs."
And the right to two appeals would exist in every case (the
litigated matter having the requisite value,) where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested solely on the ground that the
suit arose under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, if such cases could be carried to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, for their decisions would not come within the category
of those made final.
As, however, a case so arises where it appears on the record,
from plaintiff's own statement, in legal and logical form, such
as is required by good pleading, that the suit is one which does
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to
a right which depends on the construction or application of the
Constitution, or some law, or treaty of the United States, Gold
Washing & Water Co. v. Zeyes, 96 U. S. 199; Blackburn v.
Portland Gold Aining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Testern Union
'elegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor Railroad Company, 178 U. S. 239;
and as those cases fall strictly within the terms of section five,
the appellate jurisdiction of this court in respect of them is exclusive.
If plaintiff, by proper pleading, places the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court on diverse citizenship, and also on grounds independent of that, a question expressly reserved in Colorado Central Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138, and the case is taken to
the Court of Appeals, propositions as to the latter grounds may

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

be certified, or, if that course is not pursued and the case goes to
j'udgment, (and the power to certify assumes the power to decide,) an appeal or writ of error would lie under the last clause
of section six, because the jurisdiction would not depend solely
on diverse citizenship. Union Pacific Railway Comjpany v.
Harris,158 U. S. 326.
In Carter v. Boberts, 177 U. S. 496, we said: " When cases
arise which are controlled by the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States, a direct appeal lies to
this court, and if such cases are carried to the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, those courts may decline to take jurisdiction, or where
such construction or application is involved with other questions, may certify the constitutional question and afterwards
proceed to judgment, or may decide the whole case in the first
instance." These observations perhaps need some qualification.
Undoubtedly where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends
solely on diverse citizenship and it turns out that the case involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States; or the constitutionality of a law of the United
States or the validity or construction of a treaty is drawn in
question; or the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be
in contravention of the Constitution of the United States; the
Circuit Court of Appeals may certify the constitutional or treaty
question to this court, and proceed as thereupon advised; or
may decide the whole case; but language should not have been
used susceptible of the meaning that in cases where the jurisdiction below is invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship the
Circuit Court of Appeals might decline to take jurisdiction, or,
in other words, might dismiss the appeal or writ of error for
want of jurisdiction. The mere fact that in such a case one or
more of the constitutional questions referred to in section five
may have so arisen that a direct resort to this court might be
had does not deprive the Court of Appeals of jurisdiction or
justify it in declining to exercise it.
In the case at bar, the jurisdiction rested on diverse citizenship. Two defences were interposed, one of which asserted exemption from the license tax, and the other denied the constitutionality of the legislation under which the tax was imposed.

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Both defences were overruled, and judgment rendered for the
plaintiff. The case was then carried on error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which gave judgment dismissing the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction. In this we think the court erred,
and that a certiorari should issue that its judgment to that effect
may be revised. As the record is before us on the return to the
rule hereinbefore entered, and full argument has been had, it
will be unnecessary for another return to be made to the writ,
or further argument to be submitted.
Writ of certiorarito issue; return to rule to stand as return
to Writ; judgment thereupon reversed and cause remanded
with a direction to take jurisdictionand disTose of the cause.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY concurred in the result.

FAIRBANK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 226. Argued December 13, 1900. -Decided April 15, 1901.
A stamp tax on a foreign bill of lading is, in substance and effect, equivalent
to a tax on the articles included in that bill of lading, and therefore is a
tax or duty on exports, and therefore in conflict with article I, section 9
of the Constitution of the United States, that "No tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State."
An act of Congress is to be accepted as constitutional, unless on examination it clearly appears to be in conflict with provisions of the Federal Constitution.
If the Constitution in its grant of powers is to be able to carry into full effect the powers granted, it is equally imperative that where prohibition
or limitation is placed upon the power of Congress, that prohibition or
limitation should be enforced in its spirit and to its entirety.

ON March 7, 1900, plaintiff in error was convicted in the District Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
on the charge of issuing as agent of the Northern Pacific Rail-

