DETROIT v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

DETROIT v. PARKER.
APPEAL 'OM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 411. Argued February 26, 1901.-Decided April 29,1901.
Cass Farm Company v. Detroit, ante, 396, followed in holding that it was
not the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment to subvert the systems
of the States pertaining to general and special taxation; that that amendment legitimately operates to extend to the citizens and residents of the
States the same protection against arbitrary state legislation affecting life,
liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment against similar legislation by Congress; and Federal courts ought not to interfere when
what is complained of is the enforcement of the settled laws of the State,
applicable to all persons in like circumstances and conditions, but only
when there is some abuse of law, amounting to confiscation of property,
or deprivation of personal rights, as was instanced in the case of Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Timothy E. Tarsney for appellants.
.r.

Elbridge F. Bacon for appellee.

MR.

JUSTICE SHIIAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was the case of a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan by
Ralzemond A. Parker, a citizen of the State of Michigan,
against the city of Detroit and certain officers of said city,
seeking to set aside certain assessments and tax sales of complainant's land for the paving of Woodward and Blaine avenues
in the city of Detroit. The paving in question was done in pursuance of certain statutes of the State of Michigan, constituting the charter of the city of Detroit, and of ordinances of the
common council of said city.
There was no allegation or proof that, in the proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

which resulted in the making of the improvements and in assessing complainant's lots for a portion of the costs thereof,
there had been any disregard of the provisions of the statutes
and ordinances, or that complainant's property had been charged
differently from that of the other lot owners. Nor was it alleged that the portion or share of the cost of making the improvements assessed against complainant's property in point of
fact exceeded the benefits accruing to each property by reason
of such paving.
The only foundation of the bill was the allegation that "the
said statutes and ordinances providing for the paving and grading of streets are in violation of the rights of the complainant
under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, in that they do not provide for any hearing or
review of assessments at which the property owner can show
that his property was not benefited to the amount of such assessments, but that the same shall be made arbitrarily according to the foot front."
The case was thus disposed of by the learned judge in the
Circuit Court:
"It is the claim of complainant that the charter, in the provisions mentioned, that the entire cost of the street improvements, except for street and alley crossings, etc., shall be assessed
against the abutting property by the fronting measurement,
without any regard to the special benefits received by the property or their relation to the cost of the improvement, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, and is null and void; that such legislation
constitutes taking of property without just compensation, and
is a denial of equal protection of the law. The case of the village of .Norwood v. Baker,, 172 U. S. 269, is the foundation for
this position, and seems fully to sanction it.

.

.

.

The Su-

preme Court of lichigan has declined to depart from its decisions sustaining the constitutionality of le statutes providing
for assessments per foot front, on the ground that the ruling in
Baker v. NYorwood must be confined to the facts of that case
and has no application to an assessment for paving. With all
respect for that learned tribunal, I am constrained under the

DETROIT v. PARKER.
JusTIoEs HARLAN, WITH and McKENNA, dissenting.

cases cited, to a different opinion of the decision, and to follow
the Supreme Court of the United States upon the construction
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution."
Accordingly a decree was entered in accordance with the
prayer of the bill, and a perpetual injunction was issued. Parker v. City of -Detroit,103 Fed. Rep. 357.
This court has just decided, in the case of Cass -FarmCompany v. Detroit,affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Michigan, that "it was not the intention of the Fourteenth
Amendment to subvert the systems of the States pertaining to
general and special taxation ; that that amendment legitimately
operates to extend to the citizens and residents of the States
the same protection against arbitrary state legislation affecting
life, liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment against similar legislation by Congress, and that the Federal courts ought not to interfere when what is complained of
is the enforcement of the settled laws of the State, applicable
to all persons in like circumstances and conditions, but only
when there is some abuse of law, amounting to confiscation of
property or deprivation of personal rights, as was instanced in
the case of -rorwood v. Baker," ante, 396.
Like conclusions were reached, after a full consideration of
the authorities, in French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Company
and in Might v. Davidson, ante, 324, 371.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint.
MR. JUs'rTICE HRLAN, (with whom concurred MR. JUsTIcE
and MR. JusTIcE McKENA,) dissenting.

WHITE

The controlling question in the above case is the same as is
presented in French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., ante, 321,
Wight v. Davidson, ante, 371, and Tonawanda v. Lyon, ante,
389, just decided. For reasons stated in my opinions in those
cases, I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case.
VOL. CLXXXI-26

