OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case

NORTHERN

PACIFIC

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

PATTERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 857. Argued and submitted April 12, 1894.-

Decided May 26, 1894.

When the laws of a State create a tribunal for the correction and equalization of assessments, and provide that persons feeling aggrieved by a valuation may apply to such board for its correction, and confer upon the
board power so to do, it is for the Supreme Court of the State to determine whether the statute remedy is exclusive or whether it is only cumulative; and its action in that respect raises no Federal question.

THIs was an action commenced by the Northern. Pacific
Railroad Company against J. L. Patterson, county treasurer
of Gallatin County, Montana, for an injunction to restrain
the defendant from selling certain lands, blocks, and lots for
taxes which had been levied thereon in the year 1889, or
collecting the same, and also for a decree adjudging said
taxes to be void. The complaint set out three separate and
distinct causes of action, but it is not claimed that any Federal question was presented by the allegations in respect of
the second and third causes, and no error as to the ruling of
the state court thereon was assigned in this court. The
complaint asserted an interest in. the lands in question under
the act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, entitled "An act
granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound 6n the
Pacific Coast on the northern route;" but insisted' that the
lands were not so segregated from the public domain and
identified as a part of the lands granted by said act as to
extinguish all interest of the United States therein and render
them taxable. And the grounds set up are thus stated in
the brief of counsel :"That a grant was made to the plaintiff by said act of J'uly 2, 1864; that plaintiff definitely fixed
the line of its road and filed a plat thereof in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office; that the road

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PATTERSON. 131
Statement of the Case.

was duly constructed and was accepted by the president.
That the lands involved are on and within 40 miles of the
line of the road as definitely fixed; and that plaintiff has performed all the things and conditions upon its part to be done
and performed to entitle it to the lands inuring to it under
the grant; except that it has not repaid to the United States
the cost of surveying these lands; that it is now, and has
been at all times, ready and willing to pay such costs, and
has so advised the United States, but is unable to repay such
costs until the United States shall determine what lands are
granted to it.
That the lands have not been certified or
patented to plaintiff, and that the United, States have failed
and refused to certify said lands, or to certify any lands in
Gallatin .County to plaintiff, for the reason that it is claimed
that said lands are mineral, and are excepted from the grant,
and that the question whether the title to said lands passed
to plaintiff under said grant, and plaintiff's compliance therewith, is now in controversy and pending before the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and Secretary of the
Interior. That this failure to certify or patent these lands is
solely because of their non-identification as granted lands.
That the lands granted by said act of Congress to plaintiff
in said county have never been segregated from the public
lands, or identified, and the boundaries of the specific lands
granted have never been ascertained or determined.
"That plaintiff has no other right, title, claim, interest,
property or possession of, in or to said lands described in the
complaint, than such right, title, claim, interest, property or
possession, as it obtained under said act of July 2,1864.
"That in 1889, the county officers of Gallatin County assessed these lands to plaintiff and proceeded to levy taxes
thereon, and defendant, the county treasurer, having advertised
the same for sale in satisfaction of these taxes, is about to sell
them."
The complaint alleged that a sale would greatly impair the
rights of the plaintiff in and to the lands, and cloud its title
thereto, and cause a multiplicity of suits with reference to
.such title, etc. The defendant demurred on the ground that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, which demurrer wis sustained, and, plaintiff

electing to stand on the complaint, judgment was entered in
favor of defendant. From this judgment plaintiff appealed
to the Supreme Court of the State, by which it was affirmed.
10 Montana, 90. Thereupon plaintiff sued out this writ of
error.
.2r. JaTmes -MNaught for plaintiff in error.
Dudley filed a brief for s4me.

-Mr. F. X.

.Mr. VI. W. Diion for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief; on which were also -Mr. H. J. laskell, Attorney General of the State of Montana, Mr. H C. Cockrill, and -Mr. Ela
I. Knowles.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the Court.
The ground upon which it was asserted that these lands
were not subject to taxation was that they had not been
identified as lands passing to the plaintiff under its grant,
because the United States had refused to certify them, and
held them suspended "for the reason that it is claimed that
such lands are mineral and are excepted from the grant .to the
plaintiff." It was said in Visconsin CentralRailroadv. Price,
133 U. S. 496, 505, that "he who has the right to property,
and is not excluded from its enjoyment, shall not be permitted
to use the legal title of the government to avoid his just share
of state taxation," and plaintiff does not state whether all or
any part of the lands are mineral or non-mineral. If the legal
or equitable title to the lands or any of them was in the
plaintiff, then it was liable for the taxes on all or some of
them, and the mere fact that the title might be in controversy
would not appear in itself to furnish sufficient reason why
plaintiff should not determine whether the lands or some of
them were worth paying taxes on or not; but the ground
upon which the decision of the Supreme Court of Montana
proceeded was this: The 22d section of the statute of Montana,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD'v. PATTERSON. 133
Opinion of the Court.

entitled ", An act to provide for the levy of taxes and assessment of property," (Laws Mont., Ex. Sess. 15th Leg. Ass., 1887,
82, 92,) provided:
"The board of county commissioners of each county shall
constitute a board for the correction of the ass6ssment roll
and the equalization of assessed value of property, and on the
third Monday in the month of September, of each year, said
board shall meet at the office of the county clerk, at the
county seat, and may adjourn from time to time, as deemed
necessary. Public notice of the time and place of the meeting
of said board shall be given by the county clerk by publication
for at least two successive weeks, in a newspaper published in
said county, if there be one, otherwise by notices posted in
five public places immediately prior to the meeting of said
board of equalization; but no notice of an adjourned meeting
of said board shall be required. Any person feeling aggrieved
by any valuation, or amount of property listed, or by any
other fact appearing on such assessment, may apply to such
board for the correction thereof, and if, in the opinion of said
board, any valuation is too high or too low, as compared with
other valuations, by the assessor, of similar classes-of property,
it may equalize the same; but if such equalization results in
any increase, the party affected thereby shall be given reasonable notice of the intention to increase such valuation, with
opportunity to appear, -which notice may be sent by mail,
with" postage thereon prepaid. If any person returned as
refusing to render a list or to be sworn thereto can show good
cause therefor, the penalty provided may be remitted."
The court held that under this section plaintiff had an ample
legal remedy which it was obliged to exhaust before 'the
equitable powers of the court could be resorted to, and, as
upon the face of the bill it appeared that the plaintiff had not
applied to the, board of equalization of Gallatin County for
the correction or abatement of the assessment, that no jurisdiction existed under the complaint to grant the injunction.
It is contended, on the other hand, that where -taxes are levied
upon property which is by law exempt from taxation, the
statutory remedy by application to a board of review is only

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

cumulative and that the taxpayer may at his election seek his
remedy by injunction in the first instance. But it was for the
Supreme Court of Montana to determine whether the statute
was exclusive and whether plaintiff ca:me within its terms or
not, and its action in that regard raises no Federal question
for our consideration. It is argued that the opinion in effect
decides that, under the statute, the State of Montana has a
right to assess and levy taxes upon the lands of the United
States, and that if no application is made to the board of
equalization, the sale of such public lands cannot be restrained.
The plaintiff, however, in no respect represented the United
States, and an injunction cannot be granted to private individuals to avert the sale for taxes of the property of others,
whether exempt from taxation or not.
The writ of error must be
_D~si88ed.

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
ER OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1062. Submitted March 5, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

An indictment for murder which charges that the offence was committed on
board of an American vessel on the high seas, within the jurisdiction of
the court and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States, sufficiently avers the locality of the offence.
An Indictment which charges that A, B, and C, acting jointly, killed and
murdered D, is sufficient to authorize the conviction of one, though the
others may be acquitted.
A charge in an indictment that the accused did then and there, piratically,
wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought, strike and beat the
said D, then and there giving to said D several grievous, damaging, and
mortal wounds, and did then and there, to wit, at the time and place last
above mentioned, him, the said D, cast and throw from and out of the said
vessel into the sea, and plunge, sink, and drown him, the said D, In the
sea aforesaid, sufficiently charges that the throwing into the sea was
done wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought.
An indictment being found after the trial jury had been properly discharged,

