BALKAM1 v. WOODSTOCK IRON CO.
Syllabus.

by time, a different question would be presented upon the
merits.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider
whether the deed from Armstrong and wife to Prentice was
so acknowledged and certified as to entitle it under the laws
of Minnesota to record in that State, and, by such record,
become legal notice of its contents to Gilman and those
claiming under him.
We perceive no error in the record to the prejudice of the
plaintiff in error, and the judgment is

BALKA

v.WOODSTOOK IRON COMPANY.

ERROR TO TEE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE.

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 839. Argued March 28, 29, 1894.-Decided May 26, 1894.

An action of ejectment was brought in a state court of Alabama, in which
the parties were the same, the lands sought to be recovered were the
same, the issues were the same and the proof was the same as in this
action. That case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, and it
was there held that, whilst the plaintiffs and those whom they represented had no legal right to bring an action of ejectment pending a life
estate in the premises, yet, in view¢ of a probate sale of the reversionary
interest and the recorded title thereto, and of the payment of the purchase price into the estate and its distribution among the creditors of
the estate, the heirs had an equitable right to commence a suit to remove
the cloud on the title which the probate proceedings created; and, inasmuch as they had failed to do so during twenty years, their right of
action was barred under the doctrine of prescription. The statutes of
Alabama provide that two judgments in favor of the defendant in an
action of ejectment, or in an action in the nature of an action of ejectment, between the same parties, in which the same title is put in issue,
are a bar to any action for the recovery of the land, or any part thereof,
between the same parties or their privies, founded on the same title.
The plaiutiffz, availing themselves of this statute, brought this suit.
Held, that, although the judgment of this court might be, if the question
were before it for original consideration, that the bar of the statute
would only begin to run upon the death of the holder of the life estate,
yet that, the court of last resort of the State having passed upon the
VOL. Cri'-12

OOTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
questions when the bar of the statute of prescription began to bd operative, and when the parties were obliged to bring their action, whether
legal or equitable, those questions were purely within the province of
that court, and this court was bound to apply and enforce its conclusions.

Tn, plaintiffs in error, as heirs of Samuel P. Hudson,
brought two suits of ejectment for the recovery of certain
lands. By agreement, the suits were consolidated and tried
as one. After judgment on verdict in: favor of the defendants, the case was brought here by writ of error.
Samuel P. Hudson, a resident of Calhoun County, in the
State of Alabama, died intestate in August, 1863. At the
time of his death he was seized of certain parcels of land in
Calhoun County. He left a widow, Kezia A. Hudson, and
several children, some of whom were minors. James F.
Grant was appointed administrator of his estate by the
probate court.
The widow petitioned the court for allotment of dower,
and after due prooeedings, in accordance with the laws of
Alabama, her right of dower in the land in controversy was
duly recognized and decreed.
In January, 1866, the administrator petitioned the court to
order the sale of thd real estate, saving the rights of dower
of the widow, in order-to pay debts, alleging the insufficiency
of the personalty.
To this petition the widow and heirs were made defendants,
and a guardian ad litkm was appointed to represent the
minors. A day was set for the hearing; all parties, including
the minors' guardian, were duly notified, and a commission
was issued for the examination of certain witnesses. The
caption of the interrogatories to be addressed to these witnesses recited that the answers, when taken, "were to be
used in evidence before said court on the hearing of and in
behalf of the application made by James F. Grant, administrator of said estate, to sell land belonging to said estate."
The witnesses named appeared before the commissioners
appointed by the probate court and testified as to their
knowledge of the land and of the heirs and distributees, and
swore that, to the best of their information and belief, the

BALKAM v. WOODSTOCK IRON CO.
Statement of the Case.

personal property of the estate was insufficient to pay the
debts. The caption to the answers of each of the witnesses
recites that they were sworn and examined by virtue of a
commission issued out of the probate court of Calhoun County,
Alabama, "in the matter of the estate of Samuel P. Hudson,
deceased, the applicatipn of James F. Grant to sell land.'
The certificate of the commissioners attests "the examination
of the witnesses in the above-stated matter of Samuel P.
Hudson, deceased, on the application of J. F. Grant, Administrator, to sell land." The answers of the witnesses under
the commission were returned to the probate court, and were
filed by the judge thereof on the 10th of February, 1866.
On the 15th of February, 1866, the day set for the hearing
of the petition, the following order was entered:
"Probate Court for Calhoun County, Alabama.
"FEBRUAY 1 5 , A.D. 1866.
"This being the day set by a former order of this court,
the 9th day of January, A.D. 1866, to hear and determine
upon the petition of James F. Grant, administrator of the
estate of Samuel P. Hudson, deceased, for the sale of the
following-described lands belonging to said estate for the
purpose of paying the debts of the said estate, to wit:
[Here follows a description of the real estate.]

"And comes the said Grant and prays that his said petition
and application for the sale of the above-described land be
heard and determined at this term of the court, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the court that notice of*the filing of
said petition and of the day set for the bearing of the same
had been given according to law, thereupon the, court proceeds to hear and determine upon the facts of the said
petition; and comes into court L. W. Cannon, as the guardian
of the minor heirs of said decedent, and denies each and all
of the allegations of said petition, and thereupon said administratoi introduces witnesses to sustain the same, and, after
hearing all the testimony in the case, the court is of opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

that the allegations of said petition are fully sustained by the
evidence in the case. It is therefore ordered and decreed by
the court that the above-described lands, as belonging to
said estate, be, and the same are hereby, directed to be sold
for the payment of the debts of said estate, subject, however,
to the widow's dower interest in said lands.
"It is further ordered that said lands be sold on a credit of
one and two years, with interest from the date of sale.
"It is further ordered that said administrator, after advertising the sale of said lands in the Jacksonville Republican
for three weeks, giving the time, place, and terms of sale,
proceed to sell the said lands known as the Steam Mill tract,
at Blue Mountain, and the Kunnelly place and town lots,
before the court-house door, in the town of Jacksonville, Ala.
*X

-*

*

*-

"It is ordered that said land be sold at public auction to
the highest bidder, and that said administrator secure the
purchase-money for said lands by taking notes with two good
solvent sureties.
"A. Woons, Judge of Probate."
At the sale thus ordered, the widow, Kezia A. Hudson,
purchased the reversionary interest in the lands in controversy for $450. The administrator duly reported the sale to
the probate court, stating in his report that he had adjudicated to Kezia A. Hudson the "remainder after the demands
of the dower interest in the land," which had been set apart.
as Mrs. Hudson's dower. This report was sworn to by the
administrator, and on May 15, 1866, an order was passed
approving the same, and ordering -itto be filed. Afterwards
the administrator made a formal deed to the widow, which
reads as follows:
"Whereas I, James F. Grant, administrator of all and
singular the goods and chattels, rights, and credits of the
estate of Samuel P. Hudson, deceased, did as said administrator apply - and obtain an order from the probate court of
Calhoun County, State of Alabama, for ai- order to sell the

BALKAM v. WOODSTOCK IRON CO.
Statement of the Case.

real estate of which the said S'amuel P. Hudson died seized
and possessed, subject, however, to the widow of said deceased's
right of dower; and whereas said widow did apply to said
court of probate to have dower allowed to her out of said
lands, and prior to the time said sale was brought there was
set off and allowed to Mrs. Kezia A. Hudson, widow of said
deceased, the following lands, to wit:
[Here follows a description of the lands.]
*

*

*X

*

*X

"Now, know ye that, fok and in consideration of the
foregoing premises and the payment of the said sum of four
hundred and fifty dollars, to me in hand paid by the said
Kezia A. Hudson, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, I, as such administrator, have this day bargained and
sold, and do by these presents bargain, sell, and convey unto
the said Kezia A. Hudson, her heirs and assigns forever, all
the remaining interest or right which there is of the said
lands; to have and to hold to the said Kezia A. Hudson, her
heirs and assigns forever, but I am in no event personally
liable upon the covenants of this deed.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed my seal this 9th day of April, A.D. 1866.
"J. F. GRANT, [SEAL.]
"Administrator of Samuel P. .udson, Deceased."
Upon which-deed are the following endorsements, to wit:
"STATE OF ALABAMA,

Calhoun County.
"I, Alexander Woods, judge of probate in and for said
county, hereby certify that J. F. Grant, administrator of the
estate of S. P. Hudson, deceased, who is known to me, acknowledged before me on this day that, being informed of
the contents of the conveyance, he executed the same voluntarily as such administrator on the day the same bears date.
"Given under my hand this 9th day of April, A.D. 1866.
"A. WOODS, Judge of Probate."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Filed in office April, 9th, 1866, and recorded April 16th,
1866, and that the deed had on it fifty cents revenue stamps,
'this 16th day of April, A.D. 1866.
A. WooDs, Judge of Probate.
"T.HE STATE OF ALABAMA,
Cathoun County.
"I, E. F. Crook, judge of the court of probate and em o$ffio
clerk of said court, in and for said county and State, do
hereby certify that the foregoing three pages, inclusive,
contain a true and correct transcript of deed of J.F. Grant,
administrator of estate of S. P. Hudson, deceased, to K~zia
A. Hudson, as fully and as completely as appeaxs of record
in my office.
•"Given under my hand at office, in the town of Jacksonville, Alabama, on this the 15th day of August, A.D. 1888.
"E. F. CRooK,

"Judge of Probateand ex officio Clerk of 8aic
Court, Calhoun County, Ala."
On May 9, i866, the administrator prayed the court that
the estate of his intestate might be declared insolvent, and
after due hearing and notice to all parties in interest, the
prayer was granted.
Mrs. Hudson, the purchaser of the reversionary interest, lived
at the time of the sale, with her children, on the lands bought
by her. Subsequently she conveyed them to the firm of
Sherman & Boynton, who in turn conveyed them to H. L.
Jeffers, and he again to the Woodstock Iron Company, one
of the defendants in error, which latter sold a portion of the
lands to the Anniston Land and Improvement Company, and
that corporation conveyed it to the Anniston City Land Company, and, as was admitted, all the purchasers went into possession at the time of their respective conveyances and held
the lands openly and unequivocally as owners thereof. The
property, since the sale, has become very valuable, a portion
of it being within the municipal limits of the town of Anniston and the other portion adjacent thereto. Mrs. Hudson
died June 26, 1879.

BALKAM v. WOOT)STOGK IRON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

On June 28, 1887, action was brought by the heirs of Samuel P. Hudson in the Circuit Court of Calhoun County to
recover the lands which had been sold in the probate prodeedings. In that suit-the parties were the same, the lands were
the same, the issues were the same, and the proof was tle.
same as in the case now before us. Judgment was given in
the Circuit Court in favor of the plaintiffs. This judgment,
on appeal to the Supreme Court of Alabama, was reversed,
on the ground that whatever rights the plaintiffs might have
originally possessed were barred by prescription. lfoodstoeh
Iron Co. v. Fullenwider,$7 Alabama, 58-4, 587.
Section 2714 of the Code of Alabama provides: "Two
judgments in favor of the defendant in an action of ejectment,
or in an action in the nature of an action of ejectment, between the same parties, in which the same title is put in issue,
is a bar to any action for the recovery of the land, or any part
thereof, between the same parties or their privies, founded on
the same title." Availing themselves of this provision of the
Alabama law, the plaintiffs thereupon brought these suits in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the N~orthern District of Alabama. As before stated, the parties, plaintiff and
defendant, are the same, the issues are the same, and the
proof is the same as in the case finally decided by the Supreme
Court of the State. Under instructions from the court there
was a verdict for the defendants. The instructions will be
found reported in 43 Fed. Rep. 648. The facts were admitted
below, and therefore the, issues presented are altogether questions of law, and were all .reserved by bill of exception taken
during the trial below.
. r. J. A. W. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr.J. J. Willett and Mr. John B. -nox for defendants in
error. Mr. John . .EcKleroy
was on their brief.
7M

R. JUSTInCE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs rest their case upon an attack upon the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

bate proceedings, which they assert to be absolutely void, 1st,
because the proof as to the necessity of the sale was not
"taken by deposition, as in chancery cases;" iand, 2d, because
there was no order of the court authorizing the administrator
to make a deed of the property to the purchaser. The first
contention is based upon the language of the decree of sale,
which is as follows: "And thereupon said administrator introduces witnesses to sustain the same, and after hearing all
the testimony in the case, the court is of opinion," eec. ; and
it is urged that this statement, "the administrator introduces
witnesses," necessarily imports that depositions were not
"taken as in chancery cases," according to the requirement
of the Alabama statute.
We are also told that the depositions which were ordered
to be taken by the Probate Judge for the purpose of the inquiry, and which when taken were filed by him and constituted part of the probate record, cannot be considered, because
the opinion makes no reference to them, and, therefore, we
must presume that they do not exist; and the contention as
to the deed is that it furnishes no evidence of title, because
there was no specific order of the court to make it, although
the sale was reported to the court and by it confirmed, and
although the deed, when made, was returned to the probate
court, certified by the judge, and by him duly put of record.
These very technical contentions are in conflict with the
elementary rules by which the sanctity of probate proceedings
are upheld, and are based on the terms of an Alabama statute,
to which, we are told, a construction has been given by the
courts of that State, which, however narrow and technical,
is binding upon us.
The following provisions are found in the Alabama Code:
"2612 (3223). Civil suits must be commenced, after the
cause of action has accrued, within the periods prescribed in
this chapter, and not afterwards."
"2614 (3225). Within ten years. 1. . .
"2. Actions for the recovery of lands, tenements, hereditaments, or the possession thereof, except as herein otherwise
provided."

BALKAM v. WOODSTOCK IRON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"2624: (3236). If any one entitled to bring the actions
enumerated in this chapter, or malie an entry on land, or defence founded on the title to real property, be, at the time
such right accrues, within the age of twenty-one years, or a
married woman, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge
for any term less than for life, he or she shall have three years
after the termination of such disability to bring suit, or make
entry or defence; but no disability shall extend the period
of limitation so as to allow such action to be commenced, or
entry or defence made, after the lapse of twenty years from
th6 time the cause of action or right accrued; nor shall this
exception extend to a married woman in respect to her separate estate."
We excerpt the following from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Alabama, in the case of Woodstock Iron Co. v.
Fullenwider:
"The defendants, who are appellants in this court, contend,
on the contrary, that all irregularities of sale and defects of
title, under the admitted facts of the case, are cured by the
presumptions arising from the lapse of twenty years, under
the broad doctrine of prescription, now so thoroughly established in this State.
"The plaintiffs certainly had no right to sue in ejectment
for these lands before the death of the widow, who was tenant for life, her possession, so far at least as concerns .the
legal title in the reversion, not being adverse or hostile to
the heirs, during the continuance of such particular estate.
"In considering this question, we shall regard the contention of the appellees as well taken, so far as to assume that
the sale of the administrator conferred no legal title to the
reversion on the widow as purchaser under the probate proceedings in March, 1866.
"Regarding the proceedings in the probate court as void
at law for the reasons stated, what, we may inquire, were the
equitable rights, if any, acquired under it by the purchaser?
This question has been fully settled by our past decisions.
Where land of a decedent is sold by the probate court for the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

payment of debts, or for distribution, and the proceeding is
void for want of jurisdiction, or otherwise, and the purchasemoney, being paid to the administrator, is applied by him to
the payment of the debts of the decedent's estate, or is distributed to the heirs; while the sale is so far void as to convey no title at law, the purchaser nevertheless acquires an
equitable ,title to the lands, which will be recognized in a
court of equity. And he may resort to a court of equity to
compel the heirs or devisees to elect a ratification or rescission of the contract of purchase. It is deemed unconscionable that the heirs or devisees shopld reap the fruits of the
purchaser's payment of money, appropriated to the discharge
of debts, which were a charge on the lands, and at the same
time recover:, the lands. They are estopped to deny the
validity of the sale, and at the same time enjoy the benefits
derived from the apprt priation of the purchase-money. And
this principle applies to- minors as well as adults. Bland v.
-Bowie,53 Alabama, 152; Bell v. Craig, 52 Alabama, 215;
R bertson v. Bradford,73 Alabama, 116. See also Ganey v.
Sikes, 76 Alabama, 421."The court then proceeded to hold that, whilst the heirs of
Hudson had no legal right to bring an action of ejectment
pending-the life estate, in view of the probate sale of the
reversionary interest and the recorded title thereto, and of
the payment of the price into thegstate and its distribution
among the creditors of the estate, th, heirs had an equitable
right to bring an action to remove the cloud on the title
which the probate proceedings created; and inasmuch as they
had failed to do so during twenty years, their right of action
was barred under the doctrine of prescription. We again
quote :
"Here, then; was the. capacity to sue in a court of equity,
so as to sweep away a cloud on the title of the plaintiffs, and,
by an offer to do equity, to have the equitable title of the
defendants, acquired at the void sale, divested out of them
by decree of a court of chancery. A failure to exercise this
right for over twenty years is such latces as authorizes the
inference that. the right to do so is barred in any one of the

BALKA_

v. WOODSTOOK IRON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

modes in which that result may be effected. If the only
existing right of action on the plaintiffs' part were at lawif his only laokes, or slumbering on his rights, consisted in his
failure to sue at law -then, as we have often said, 'the only
fact open to inquiry, in such cases, would be the character of
defendants' possession, either in its original acquisition, or in
its continued use, as being, on the one hand, permissive and in
subordination, or, on the other, hostile and adverse.' Long v.
Pa'rmer, 81 Alabama, 384; and cases cited on p. 388. But
the ladies here imputed to the plaintiffs is the fact of having
allowed the probate court proceedings to remain unassailed
for over twenty years -proceedings
under which, though
void at law, a good equitable title to the reversion had been
acquired, accompanied with possession and claim of ownership, on the part of the purchaser and her sub-vendees, during
the whole of this long period."
The conclusion of the Alabama court is assailed here on the
ground that it is unsound in law. Whilst, of course, as the
statutes of the State of Alabama allow two actions in ejectment, the decree of the Supreme Court of Alabama does not
constitute "the thing adjudged" in the case before us, we
think the rule under which we follow state statutes of limitation and the construction of such statutes by the state courts
compels us to treat the doctrine here announced as conclusive
of the present case, so far as this court is concerned. The
whole subject was very fully reviewed by this court in the
case of Bausemnman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647. There, through
Mr. Justice-Gray, we said:
"By a provision inserted in the first judiciary act of the
United States and continued in force ever since, Congress has
enacted that 'the laws of the several States, except where the
Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision
in trials at common law, in the courts of the United States, in
cases where they apply.' Act of September 24, i789, c. 20'
§ 34, 1 Stat. 92; Rev. Stat. § 721. No laws of the several
States have been more steadfastly or more often recognized by
this court, from the beginning, as rules of decision in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

courts of the United States, than statutes of limitations of
actions, real and personal, as enacted by the legislature of a
State, and as construed by its highest court. Higgineon
v. .Mein, 4 Cranch, 415, 419, 420; Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat.
361, 367; Bell v. Xor2ison, 1 Pet. 351, 360; Henderson v.
Griff n, 5 Pet. 151; Green v. .Neal, 6 Pet. 291, 297-300;
McEimoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312, 327; Rarpending v. Dutch
Church, 16 Pet. 455,493; Lefflngwell v. Marren, 2 Black, 599;
Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596, 600; Tioga Railroad v.
Blossburg &f Corning Railroad,20 Wall. 137; Efibbe v. Ditto,
93 U. S. 674; Davie v..Briggs, 97 U. S. 628, 637; Amy v.
Dubuque, 98 U. S.470; Mills v. Scott, 99 U. S. 25,28; .Aoore8
v. National Bank, 104: U. S.625; Jichigan Insurance Bank
red, 130 U. S. 693, 696; Penfeld v. Chesaveake dc.
v.
Railroad,134 U. S. 351 ; Barney v. Oelrickh, 138 U. S.529.
"In Patten v. Easton, 1 Wheat. 476, 482, and again in
Powell v. Earmw, 2 Pet. 241, this court had construed a
Tennessee statute of limitations of real actions in accordance
with the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, made
since the first of those cases was certified up to this court, and
supposed to have settled the construction of the statute. Yet
n Green v. NYeal, 6 Pet. 291, a judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States, which had held itself bound by those
cases in this court, was reversed, because of more recent decisions of the state court, establishing the opposite construction."
Nor can the case before us be saved from the operation of
the rule thus stated by the contention that the Supreme Court
of the State of Alabama has misconstrued its statutes or has
adopted a rule of limitation or prescription in conflict therewith. In Leffngwell v. Tarren,2 Black, 599, 603, Mr. Justice
Swayne, speaking for the court, thus laid down the rule:
'The courts of the United States, in the absence of legislation upon the subject by Congress, recognize the statutes of
limitations of the several States, and give them the same construction and effect which are given by the local tribunals.
They are a rule of decision under the 34th section of the Judidial Act of 789. The construction given to a statute of a

BALKAM v. WOODSTOCK iLrON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

State by the highest judicial tribunal of such State is regarded
as a part of the statute, and is as binding upon the courts of the
United States as the text.

.

.

.

If the highest judicial trib-

unal of a State adopt new views as to the proper construction
of such a statute, and reverse its former decisions, this court
will follow the latest settled adjudications."
These views meet every point presented here and do not'in
any way conflidt with Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 32;
Carrollv. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 562; or Gibson v. Lyon, 115
U. S. 439. None of those cases involved the question of the
conclusiveness on this court of the decisions of the courts of a
State as to a statute of limitations and the bar created thereby.
It may be that, if the question were before us for original
consideration, we should hold that the right of the heirs to sue
did not arise until after the death of the holder of the life estate,
and therefore, that the bar of the statute would only then
begin to run; but we are not at liberty to pass upon that
question. When the bar of the statute of prescription, under
the laws and decisions of the State of Alabama, began to be
operative has been construed by the court of last resort of
that State. Necessarily the determination of when the parties had a right to sue was a question concerning the construction when the prescription commenced to run, or when they
were obliged to bring their action, whether legal or equitable.
Those questions were purely within the province of the Supreme Court of Alabama. In deciding them it passed upon
its own statutes of imlTtations or the doctrines of prescriptipn
as applied by it, and we are obliged to apply and enforce their
conclusions.
To endorse the position of the plaintiffs in error, we should
be compelled at the same time to disregard the elementary
rules by which decrees of probate are sanctioned and upheld,
on the ground of a technical construction which, it is asserted,
we are compelled to adopt because of the decisions of the state
court of Alabama, and to depart from the settled rule under
which this court adheres to the decision of state courts of last
resort in construing statutes of limitation or enforcing the
doctrine of prescription. In other words, the success of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiffs' case depends upon our adhering to the rule by
which we follow the construction of state courts in a state
matter on the one hand and departing from it on the other.
Judgmnent qj'med.
M .1. JUSTICE JACKSON, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. BABCOCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 328. Submitted March 28, 189. -Decided

May 26,1894.

In an action by the representatives of a railroad employ6 against the company, to recover damages for the death of the employ6, caused by an
accident while in its employ, which is tried in a different State from that
in which the contract of employment was made and in which the accident took place, the right to recover and the limit of the amount of the
judgment are governed by the lex loci, and not by the lexfori.
A railroad company is bound to furnish sound machinery for the use of its
employ~s, and if one of them is killed in an accident caused by a defective snow-plough, the right of his representative to recover damages
therefor is not affected by the fact that some two weeks before he was
sent out with the defective machinery, he had discovered the defect, and
had notified the master mechanic of it, and the latter had undertaken to
have it repaired.
Some alleged errors in the charge of the court below are examined and held
to have no merit.

THE plaintiff below, who was the administrator of the
estate of Hugh M. Munro, sued in the District Court of the
Fourth Judicial District of Minnesota to recover $25,000
damages for the killing of Munro on the 10th day of January,
1888, at or near a station known as Gray Cliff on the
Northern Pacific Railway in the Territory of Montana. Tha
complaint contained the following allegations:

