UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE .NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 331.

Argued March 29, 30, 1894.-

Decided May 26,1894.

Under the operation of the act of the legislature of Illinois of February 27,
1833, for the making and recording of town plats, the interest in and
control of the United States over the streets, alleys, and commons in the
Fort Dearborn addition to Chicago ceased with the record of the plat
thereof and the sale of the adjoining lots.
When a.resort is made by individuals, or by the government of the United
States to the mode provided by the statute of a State where real property is situated, for the transfer of its title, the effect and conditions.
prescribed by the statute will apply, and such operation will be given to
the instrument of conveyance as is there designated.

THis was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court, sustaining a demurrer on the part of the Illinois Central and the
Michigan Central Railroad, to an information filed by the
United States, and dismissing the information as to all the appellees. The information sought to restrain the appellees from,
diverting the public ground marked on the plat of the Fort
Dearborn addition to the city of Chicago from the easements
to which it was dedicated. On this branch of the case the
information proceeded upon the theory that the United States
being the owners of the hind in question, and having dedicated
it to certain public purposes, were entitled to enjoin its diversion
from those public purposes to private uses. The bill alleged:
That before and on the '7th day of June, A.D. 1839, the
United States possessed and owned in fee simple the southwest
fractional quarter of section 10, the same being a reservation
out of the public domain, called the Fort Dearborn reservation;
and the then Secretary of War having directed that reservation to be sold, the same was thereupon by his authority laid
off into blocks, lots, streets, alleys, and public ground, as an
addition to the municipality aforesaid, called the Fort DearVOL. Cl.IT-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

born addition to Chicago; and on the day last above mentioned
a plat thereof was made and acknowledged by one Matthew
Birchard as agent and attorney of the said Secretary of War,
and was thereupon duly recorded in the recorder's office of
the said county of Cook ; on which plat a part of the ground
therein comprised, being all that part between Lake Michigan,
on the east, and blocks 12 and 15 (as shown by the plat) on the
, west, was designated as "public ground, forever to remain
vacant of buildings," and there was a further declaration that
"the public ground between Randolph and Madison streets,
and fronting upon Lake Michigan, was not to be occupied with
buildings of any description;" as by a plat therewith filed
more fully and distinctly appeared. And afterward-the several
lots designated and shown on that plat were sold and conveyed
by the. United States to divers persons, by and according to the
plat and with reference to the same; but the United States
never parted with the title to the streets, alleys, and public
ground in the said plat designated and marked, and still own
the same in fee simple, with the rights and privileges, riparian
and otherwise, portaining to such ownership, subject to the
use and enjoyment of the same by the public.
The bill further alleged a grant of right of way to the
Illinois Central Railroad, under an act of the State of Illinois,
approved February 10, 1851, which provided, however, that
nothing in that act contained should authorize the said corporation to make location of its tracks within any city without
the consent of the common council of such city.
The bill further alleged that the common council of the
city oi Chicago, by an ordinance dated June 14, 1852, gave
the Illinois Central Railroad Company the right to enter
upon and use for the purpose.of its said railroad and works
a space 300 feet wide, for the whole length of the public
ground shown in the plat of the Fort Dearborn addition, and
that the railroad company, having accepted said act of the
legislature and said ordinance, by virtue and under color of
the same proceeded to and did build its said railroad and
extend and complete the same from the southward into the
said city, on the course indicated in the said ordinance, to

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Argument for Appellants.

a terminus near the Chicago River aforesaid; and the said
company has ever since maintained and operated its said railroad, and continues so to do. And the said District Attorney
for the United States says that no authority or license was
ever given by the United States for building or maintaining
or operating its said railroad upon or along

said

public ground shown on said plat of Fort Dearborn addition,
or any part of those tracts of ground; , that the General
Assembly of the State of Illinois passed an act on April 16,
1869, whereby it assumed and attempted, among other things,
to grant in fee to the said Illinois Central Railroad Company,
etc., .
all the right and title of the State of Illinois
in and to the lands submerged, or otherwise, lying north of
the south line of Monroe Street, and south of the south line
of Randolph Street, and between the east line of Michigan
Avenue and the. track and way of the said Illinois Central
Railroad, the said pretended act purporting to grant the said
grounds for a passenger staton" and other railroad purposes,
and providing 'that the said railroad eompanies named as
grantees should pay to the city of Chicago the sum of $800,000
.

.

.

; that the said Illinois Central Railroad Company,

etc., .... now give out and claim that the said pretended
act was and is a legal and binding act, and passed to them
respectively a valid title to the property in and by the same
attempted to be granted; and the same companies now claim
the right and threaten to take possession and exclusive control of the properzy. so in and by the said pretended act
attempted to be granted to them respectively.
Thus the information showed that the railroad companies
named claimed title to that portion of the public ground
shown on the plat of the dedication of the Fort Dearborn addition lying east of M[ichigan Avenue, and threatened to take
possession and exclusive control thereof, for the purpose of
appropriating it to a passenger station and other railroad
purposes.
-Mr. Solioitor General for appellants.
I. The Birchard plat of the Fort Dearborn addition to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

city of Chicago did not divest the United States of the fee in
the public ground for the following reasons:
1. The act of March 3, 1819, c. 88, 3 Stat. 520, under which
the Secretary of War acted, while it probably conferred authority upon him to lay out streets and .alleys as fairly incidental
to the power "to sell," which power alone was conferred upon
him in terms, did not authorize him to convey away the
fee of a large tract to be used as a public ground. By the
language of the act it was only "on the payment of the consideration" that the Secretary was authorized "to make, execute, and deliver all needful instruments, conveying and
transferring the same in fee."
2. The town-plat act of Illinois, of February 27, 1833,
Revised Laws of Illinois, 1833, 599, provides only for cases
in which "any county commissioners or other person or persons wish to lay out a town." The United States are not
fairly within the description of "person or persons," and
a plat made by or on behalf of the United States is not within
the terms of the act. Note the penalties prescribed by sections
8 and 9, to which the United States could not be subject.
3. The act of Congress under which Fort Dearborn was
sold authorized the Secretary of War "to cause to be sold"
and "to make, execute, and deliver all needful instruments,
conveying and transferring the same in fee," so that, if the
Illinois statute covers this plat at all, the Secretary of War
must be deemed to be "the person" who is authorized by its
first section "to lay out" .the addition, and "the person" who
is required under the fourth section to acknowledge the plat
before one of the judicial officers named. It has been held
that the statute does not authorize a plat to be made or acknowledged by an agent or attorney in fact. Gosselin v.
Chicago, 103 Illinois, 623, 626. Only stone planting can be
done through an agent. Ib. 626. The attempt of the Secretary
of War to act through an agent and attorney was therefore
ineffectual to accomplish a statutory dedication, assuming all
the other requirements of the statute to have been complied
with.
4. But if the Secretary of War could act through an attorney

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Argument for Appellants.

in fact, it was necessary to the validity of his power of attorney that it should be recorded under section sixteen of the
"Act concerning conveyances of real property." Rev. Stat.
Ill. 1833, 135, quoted in 103 Illinois, 627. Birchard's power
of attorney does not appear to have been recorded.
5. Section I of the Illinois act requires the plat or map of
the addition, and also the survey itself, to be made by the
county surveyor. See also section 10 providing for his fees.
On the Birchard plat the county surveyor certifies "that the
foregoing field notes of the same [plat] are correct as done by
me immediately preceding the date hereof," but he does not
certify that either the survey or the plat were made by him.
6. Section .4 requires that the surveyor, as. one of
"every person or persons -whose duty it may be to comply
with the foregoing requirements," shall acknowledge the plat
before one of the judicial officers named. No such acknowledgment was made by the county surveyor.
7. Section 4 requires that the plat or map shall be certified
not only by the surveyor but by the county commissioners.
It is suggested by counsel for the appellees that "and" in
No decision is cited to
this section should be read "or."
support that contention. The same language requiring both
the surveyor and the county commissioners to certify the plat
is found in the Revised Statutes of Illinois, 1845, p. 115, c. 25,
§ 20, and in statutes of llinois, 1869, (Gross's ed.,) c. 25, div. 1,
§ 20. The object of the statute in requiring the certified
approval of" the county commissioners to the plat is obvious,
otherwise it would be left to the option of individuals to lay
out such additions to towns as they-saw fit. Section 4 also
requires, I submit, that the county commissioners shall acknowledge the plat before one of the judicial officers named.
The Birchard plat contains neither the certificate of the
county commissioners, nor the ackfiowledgment of the county
commissioners required by this-section.
11. If either of the foregoing points is well taken, the fee
of the United States in the public ground has not been
divested, for it has been held repeatedly that a dedication
.which does not conform to the requirements of the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

does not divest the fee of the owner in streets and public
grounds, but operates only as a common law dedication. By
the express terms of section 5 it is only plats "when made
out and certified, acknowledged, and -)recorded, as required by
this act," that are effective to vest the fee. Banks v. Ogden,
2 Wall. 57 ; Gosselin v. Chicago, 103 Illinois, 623, 625; Manly
v. Gibson, 13 Illinois, 308, 312; United States v. Illinois CentraZ Rlailroad,2 Bissell, 174, 177.
The information admits that the United States have made
a common law dedication -in other words, that although
the United States are the owners of the fee in the public
ground, they are estopped to prevent its use as public ground,
or themselves to occupy it with buildings. But that is the
extent of the estoppel or of the easement which they have
granted, and as the owners of the fee, subject to such easement, they are clearly entitled to an injunction to prevent
others from occupying it with a depot or other buildings.
III. But if the court holds that the plat is good as a statutory dedication, so as to vest the fee of the public ground in
the city of Chicago, section 5 of the Illinois statute declares
that such fee "shall be held in the corporate name thereof,
intrust to and for the uses and purposes set forth and expressed orjintended.". The Supreme Court of fllinois has held,
in Zinc Company v. Za Salle, 117 Illinois, 4h1, that the fee so
vested is a base or determinable fee, and that upon the entire
and permanent abandonment of the easement the property
reverts to the dedicator.
I submit that the United States, not only as donors of the
trust, but in view of the possibility of reversion, may maintain this bill to restrain an abuse of the trust and to prevent
an occupation of the grounds with the buildings, even if they
have parted with the fee. One who dedicates property to
public uses is entitled in a court of equity to enforce the trusts
declared by the dedication, whether he accompanied the dedication with a transfer of the fee to the municipality or retained
the fee in himself.
Marren v. Lyons City, 22 Iowa, 351, 355, is a case in which
the fee of a public square had vested in the city.- The suit

UNITED STATES v. ILLIN01S CENTRAL.
Argument for Appellants.

was brought by the dedicator to enjoin the municipal authorities from selling the square or otherwise diverting it to uses
and purposes foreign to those for which the dedication was
made. The court said:
For the use contemplated, they may have parted with the
fee - the "proprietary right," but not for all purpose§; and,
therefore, if the city authorities, as the claimed trustee of the
public, should undertake to make gain by the sale, or to
authorize its use for anything else but a "public square," they
violate the trust, and the original owners, in virtue of the
terms of the grant, may demand that the trust shall be executed in good faith, and restrain any such proposed violation
of the terms upon which the grant was accepted.
Nothing can be clearer than that if a grant is made for a
specific, limited, and defined purpose, the subject of the grant
cannot be used for another, and that the grantor retains still
such an interest therein as entitles him in a court, of equity to
insist upon the execution of the interest as originally declared
aid accepted.
In Barclay v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Pet. 498, 507, Mr. Justice
McLean, in denying the right of the dedicator to recover in
ejectment, said:
If this ground had been dedicated for a particular purpose,
and the city authorities had appropriated it to an entirely
different purpose, it might afford ground for the interference
of a court of chancery to compel a specific execution of the
trust, by restraining the corporation, or by causing the removal
of obstructions.
In Hardy v. .Memphis, 10 Heiskell, 127, 128, where the
original proprietors sought to recover land, first, because not
dedicated, and second, if dedicated, because the use was
claimed to have been abandoned, the court said a misuse of
the land did not work a forfeiture, "nor entitle the original
proprietors to any relief except, upon a bill properly filed, to
have the buildings obstructing the proper use removed."
IV. The United States seek to maintain this suit, not in the
exercise .of sovereignty or of governmental or police control,
but solely by virtue of their title in and ownership of land,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

just as-any private owner might do. Fort Dearborn was land
which the United States owned in propriety and could dispose
of as Congress saw fit, and with respect to it, therefore, the
United States are in the position of a private owner; and if a
private owner, having dedicated the public ground, might
maintain this bill, the United States can do so.
The distinction between the case at bar and the case of New
Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662, 736, is clearly recognized by Mr. Justice McLean in the following passage in his
opinion: "If the common in contest, under the Spanish crown,
formed a part of the public domain or the crown lands, and
the king had power to alien it, there can be no doubt that it
passed under the treaty to the United States, and they have a
right to dispose of it, the same as other public lands. But if
the King of Spain held the land in trust, for the use of the
city," etc.
Neither that case nor Pollard's Lessee v. Eagan et al., 3
How. 212, relate to land which the United States ever
held as property, with power to sell as part of the public
domain.
In NAew Orleans v. The United States, 10 Pet. 662, relief
was denied the United States upon the ground that the King
of Spain had not power to alienate the public levee in New
Orleans, that the treaty did not pass the title to the United
States, and that the Federal government did not succeed to
the limited police jurisdiction, which had been exercised by
the King of Spain to regulate the use of the quay; in other
words, that the United States never were owners of the quay;
whereas at bar we have an abandoned military post, held as
the property of the United States and sold and dedicated by
them as such.
In United States v. Chicago, 7 How. 185, 194, this court
recognized the .right of the Federal government to hold the
very land in question as a mere proprietor. The government
is not claiming any municipal power or control over this public ground; but only the rights concerning it that an ordinary
person would have, asserting merely the legal rights which
grow out of its ownership as a proprietor.

UNITED STATES v. ILLI.Nuls CENTRAL.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Benjamin F. Ayer for the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, appellee.
Mr.John S.
&

iller for the City of Chicago, appellee.

MR. JuSTIcE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal on the part of the United States from a
decree of the Circuit Court sustaining a demurrer to an information or bill in equity, in which they were complainants
and the Illinois Central and other railroad companies were
defendants. The information charges that encroachments are
made or threatened upon property of the United States, and
the object of the information, so far as contended on the
present appeal, is to prevent their continuance in the future,
as to one particular parcel of property and to preserve it open
to the uses for which it was dedicated by the United States.
That property consists of land situated on the shore of Lake
Michigan, being part of fractional section ten in Chicago,
lying between Lake Michigan on the east and block twelve
of the plat of Fort Dearborn addition to Chicago on the west.
The several larties named- as defendants appeared to the
information, and the Illinois Central Railroad Company and
the Michigan Central Railroad Company demurred to it on
the ground that it does not state such a case as entitles the
United States to the relief prayed for, or show any right of
interference on their part, either in law or in equity, respecting the matters referred to, or allege any violation, contemplated or threatened, of any right, legal or equitable, of the
United States.
Upon the hearing of the several cases known and spoken
of together as the Lake Front case, before the Circuit Court
of the United Stateg at Chicago on the 23d of February,
1888, this demurrer was argued, and was sustained, "except
as to that part of the information which alleges, in substance,
that the Illinois Central Railroad Company claims the absolute ownership of, and threatens to take possession of, use and
occupy the outer harbor of Chicago," the opinion of the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

being "that the general government, upon the showing made
by it, has no title to any of the streets or grounds described
in said information, and has no standing in court, except so
far as it seeks to protect the said harbor against obstructions
that would impair the public right of navigation, or interfere
with any plan devised by the United States for the development or improvement of the outer harbor." 33 Fed. Rep.
730. Afterwards, on the 23d of August, 1890, the attorney
of the United States was granted leave to amend the information by striking out whatever related to the outer harbor
and the encroachments alleged to have been made, or threatened in the navigable waters of the lake; and, at the same
time, an order was entered by the district judge sustaining
the demurrer to the information as amended, and directing
that it be dismissed, "without prejudice to the United States,
however, to hereafter institute any appropriate action or proceedings for the purpose of enforcing any rights they may
have in the navigable waters of the lake or outer harbor of
Chicago;" and thereupon an appeal was prayed and allowed
to the Supreme Court.
From the decree of the Circuit Court in the -Lake Front
case, rendered in February, 1888, appeals were taken to the
Supreme Court of the United States by the Illinois Central
Railroad Company and the city of Chicago, and they were
argued and decided at its October term, 1892. illinois Central Railroad v. illinois, 146 U. S. 387. The United States
did not appear and participate in the argument on the appeal.
As they were never a party to those suits in the couit below
and never appealed from the decree, they were dropped as a
party in the designation of the title of the case. The questions involving the title and right of the parties embraced in
the cases, considered under the general designation of the
illinois Central Railroad Company v. State of Illinois, to the
navigable waters of the harbor of Chicago and in the Lake
Front property, and the encroachments on the harbor by the
railroad company, and the validity of the act of .April 16,
1869, granting submerged lands in the harbor, were fully
considered and settled as between the State and the city of

UNITED STATES v. 1LLINOIS CE.NTRAL.
Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, on the one part, and the Illinois Central Railroad
Company on the other.
The appeal now before the court is the one taken by the
United States from the decree of the Circuit Court rendered
on the 23d of August, 1890, sustaining the demurrer to
the information. The amendment allowed to the information consisted in striking out that part to which the demurrer
was not sustained, and was made in order that the demurrer
might go to the entire information. The only contention now
urged by the Solicitor General, on behalf of the appellants, is
that the information is good to the extent that it seeks to
restrain the appellees from diverting the public ground designated as such, on the plat of the Fort Dearborn addition to
the city of Chicago from the supposed public easement to
which it was dedicated. The Solicitor General states that
on this branch of the case the information proceeds upon
the theory that the United States, being the owners of the
land in question, and having dedicated it to a public purpose,
are entitled to enjoin its diversion from that public purpose to
private uses. It will, therefore, be unnecessary for the disposition of the appeal to consider any other position originally
taken by the United States in the information.
As early as 180- a military post was established by the
United States south of Chicago River, upon the southwest
fractional quarter of section ten, and was subsequently occupied by troops until its sale many years afterwards. In 1819
Congress passed an act authorizing the sale by the Secretary
of War, under the direction of the President, of such military
sites belonging to the United States as may have been found
or had become useless for military purposes. And the Secretary of War was authorized, on the payment of the consideration agreed upon into the Treasury of the United States, to
execute and deliver all needful instrunents conveying the
same in fee. And the act declared that the jurisdiction which
had been specially ceded to the United States for military
purposes, by a State, over such site or sites should thereafter
cease. Act of 'March 3, 1819, c. 88, 3 Stat. 520. Subsequently,
in 1824, upon the request of the Secretary of War, the south-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

west quarter of this fractional section ten, containing about
fifty-seven acres, and on which Fort Dearborn was situated,
was reserved from sale for military purposes by the Commissioner of the General Land Office. The land thus reserved
continued to be used for military purposes until 1837. In that
year, under the direction of the Secretary of War, it was laid
off by his authority into blocks, lots, streets, alleys, and public
ground, as an addition to the municipality of Chicago, and
called the "Fort Dearborn addition to Chicago," and in June,
1839, a plat thereof was made and acknowledged by his agent
and attorney and recorded in the recorder's office of the county
of Cook. On that plat a part of the ground situated between
Lake Michigan on the east and block twelve on the west is
designated as "public ground forever to remain vacant of
buildings." [146 U. S. 392, Map A.] It bears also a further
declaration in these words, viz.: "The public ground between
Randolph and Madison Streets and fronting upon Lake Michigan is not to be occupied with buildings of any description."
Subsequently, and for some years, several lots designated and
shown on the plat were reserved from sale and remained in
the military occupation of the government, but eventually, in
1845, or soon afterwards, all of them were sold and conveyed
by the United States to divers persons "by and according to
said plat and with reference to the same."
The statute of Illinois of February 27, 1833, then in force
for the making and recording of town plats, (Rev. Stat. of Ill.
§ 833, p. 599,) provided that every donation or grant to the
public, marked or noted as shch on the plat, should b deemed
in law a sufficient conveyance to vest the fee simple title, and
that "the land intended to be for streets, alleys, ways, commons, or other public uses, in any town or city, or addition
thereto, shall be held in the corporate name thereof in trust
to and for the uses and purposes set forth and expressed or
intended." The plat in such cases had all the force of an
express grant and operated to convey all the title and interest
of the United States in the property for the uses and purposes
intended. Zinc Company v. _L Salle, 117 Illinois, 411,
414, 415 ; Chicago v. .?umsey, 87 Illinois, 348 ; Gebhardt v.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Opinion of the Court.

Reeves, 75 Illinois, 301; 04naZ Trustees v. Hravens, 11 Illinois,
554.
It is stated in the information that the United States never
parted with the title to the streets, alleys, and public grounds
designated and marked on the plat, and that they still own
the same in fee simple "with the rights and privileges, riparian
and otherwise, pertaining to such ownership, subject to the
use and enjoyment of the same by the public."
But we do not think this position is tenable. Ak title to
some of the streets may have continued in the government so
long as the title to any of the-adjoining lots remained with it,
but not afterwards without disregard of the statutory regulations of the State and its provisions for the transfer of the
title. When a resort is made by individuals or the g6vernment to the mode provided by the statute of a State where
real property is situated, for the transfer of its title, the effect
and conditions prescribed by the statute will apply, and such
operation given to the instrument of conveyance as is there
designated. The language of the statute is clear, "that the
land intended for streets, alleys, ways, commons, or other public uses in any town or city or addition thereto shall be held
in the corporate name thereof, in trust to and for the uses and
purposes set forth and expressed or intended."
The interest in and control of the United States over the
streets, alleys, and commons ceased with the record of the
plat and the sale of the adjoining lots. Their proprietary interest passed, in the lots sold, to the respective vendees, subject to the jurisdiction of the local government, and the control over the streets, alleys, and grounds passed by express
designation of the state law to the corporate authorities of
the city.
In 1854, the validity of the survey and plat made of Fort
Dearborn reservation was recognized by Congress in an act
for the relief of one John Baptiste Beaubien, Act of August 11,
1854, c. 1M2, 10 Stat. 805, by which the Commissioner of the
General Land Office was authorized to issue a patent or patents
to Beaubien for certain lots designated and numbered on the
survey and plat of the Fort Dearborn addition to Chicago,

OCTOBER TERMA,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

made under the order of the Secretary of War. And it is
averred, as already stated, in the information that all the lots
were sold and conveyed by the United States to divers persons "by and according to the said plat and with reference
to the same."
It was the -intention of the government to have a plat
made conformably to the provisions of the statute, and it is
plain, from its inspection, that all the essential requisites
were followed. Nor is any reason suggested why a different
effect should be given to the plat and its record in this case
from that of similar plats made and recorded by other land
proprietors. And if, as we have already said, the ggvernment, charged with the duty of disposing of a tract of public
land *ithin a State, chooses to proceed under the provisions
of a particular statute of that State, it is clear that the same
legal effect should be given to its proceeding as in case of an
individual proprietor. The effect of the recording of the
plat in this case wag therefore to vest in the city of Chicago
the legal title to the streets, alleys, and public ground in Fort
Dearborn addition, and after its execution and record and
sale of the -abutting property the United States retained no
interest in them, legal or equitable. That interest was as
completely extinguished as if made by an unconditional conveyance in the ordinary form.
Again, the sale of the lots was, in law, an effectual dedication of the streets and public grounds for municipal uses, and,
as observed by counsel, the purchasers of the lots acquired
a 'pecial interest in the streets and public grounds bn which
their lots abutted, and the United States could make no disposition -of them after the sale inconsistent with the use to
which they had been dedicated.
The only parties interested in the public use for which the
ground was dedicated are the owners of lots abutting on the
ground dedicated, and the public in general. The owners
of abutting lots may be presiumed to have purchased in part
consideration of the enhanced value of the property from
the dedication, and it may be conceded they have a right to
invoke, through the proper public authorities, the jrotection

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Opinion of the Court:

of the property in the use for which it was dedicated. The
only party interested, outside of abutting owners, is the general public, and the enforcement of any rights which such
public may have is vested only in the parties clothed with
the execution of such trust, who are in.this case the corporate
authorities of the -city, as a subordinate agency of the State,
and not the United States.
The United States possess no jurisdiction to control or regulate, within a State, the execution of trusts or uses created for
the benefit of the public, or of particular conimunities or
bodies therein. The jurisdiction in such cases is with the
State or its subordinate agencies. The case of .NewOreans
v. The United States, 10 Pet. 662, furnishes an illustration of
this doctrine. In that case the United States filed a bill in
the Distrit Court for an injunction to restrain the city
of New Orleans from selling a portion of the public quay,
or levee, lying on the bank of the Mississippi River in front of
the city, or of doing any other act which would invade the
rightful dominion of the United States over the land or their
possession of it. The United States acquired title to ihe
land by the French treaty of 1803. By it Louisiana was
ceded to the United States, and it was shown that the land
had been appropriated to public uses ever since the occupation of the province by France. It was contended that the
title to the land, as well as the -domain over it during the
French and Spanish governments, were vested in the soverdign, and that the United States by the treaty of cession of
the province of Louisiana had succeeded to the previous
rights of France and Spain. The land and buildings thereon
had been used by both governments for various public purposes. The United States had -erected a building on it for
a custom-house, in which, also, their courts were held.
It was argued on behalf of the city that the sovereignty of
France and Spain over the property, before the cession, existed
solely for the purpose of enforcing the uses to which it was
appropriated, and that this right and obligation vested in the
State of Louisiana, and did not continue in the United States
after the State was formed. It -was therefore contended that

OCTOBER

TERTI, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States could neither take the property, nor dispose
of it or enforce the public use to which it had been appropriated. A decree was rendered in the District Court in favor
of the United States, and an injunction granted as prayed,
but on appeal to the Supreme Court it was reversed, and it
was held that the bill could not be maintained by the United
States because they had no interest in the property. Upon
the question whether any interest in the property passed to
the United States under the treaty of cession, the court said,
speaking through Mr. Justice McLean:
"In the second article of the treaty, I all public lots and
squares, vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications,
barracks, and other edifices, -which are not private property,'
were ceded. And it is contended, as the language of this
article clearly includes the ground in controversy, whether it
be considered a public square or vacant land, the entire right
of the sovereign of Spain passed to the United States.
"The government of the United States, as was well observed in the argument, is one of limited powers. It can exercise authority over no subjects, except those which have
been delegated to it. Congress cannot, by legislation, enlarge
the Federal jurisdiction, nor can it be enlarged under the
treaty-making power.
"If the common in contest, under the Spanish crown,
formed a part of the public domain or the -crown lands, and
the king had power to alienate it, as other lands, there can be
no doubt that it passed under the treaty to the United States,
and they have a right to dispose of it the same as other public
lands. But if the King of Spain held the land in trust for the
use of the city, or only possessed a limited jurisdiction over it,
principally, if not exclusively, for' police purposes, was this
right passed to the United States under the treaty?
"1That this common, having been dedicated to the public
use, was withdrawn from commerce, and from the power of
the king rightfully to alien it has already been shown; and
also, that he had a limited power over it for certain purposes.
Can the Federal government exercise this power? If it can,
this court has the power to interpose an injunction or interdict

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Opinion of the Court.

to the sale of any part of the common by the city if they
shall think that the facts authorize such an interposition.
"It is insisted that the Federal government may exercise
this authority under the power to regulate commerce.
"It is very clear that, as the treaty cannot give this power
to the Federal government, we must look for it in the Constitution, and that the same power must authorize a similar
exercise of jurisdiction over every other quay in the United
States. A statement of- the case is a sufficient refutation of
the argument.
"Special provision is made in the Constitution for the
cession of jurisdiction from the States over places where the
Federal government shall establish forts or other military
works. And it is only in these places, or in the Territories
of the United States, where it can exercise a general jurisdiction.
"The State of Louisiana was admitted into the Union on
the same footing as the original States. Her rights of
sovereignty are the same, and, by consequence, no jurisdiction
of the Federal government, either for purposes of police or
otherwise, can be exercised over this public ground, which'
is not common to the United States. It belongs to the local
authority, to enforce the trust and prevent what they shall
deem a violation of it by the city authorities.
"All powers which properly appertain to sovereignty,
which have not been delegated to the Federal government,
belong to the States and the people."
The' decree of the District Court was accordingly ordered
to be reversed and annulled.
This doctrine of the Supreme Court in the New Orleans
case is decisive of the question pending before us in the
present case and.must control the decision.
It was also held in -1linois Central Railroad v. Illinois,
that the ownership in fee of the streets, alleys, ways,
commons, and other public ground on the east front of the
city bordering upon Lake Michigan, in fractional section ten,
was a good title, the reason assigned being that by the
statute of Illinois the making, acknowledging, and recording
VOL. CLIV-16

-242

OCTOBER. TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

of plats operated to vest the title in the city in trust for the
public uses to which the grounds were applicable. 146 U.-S.
387,462.
It follows from these views that the United States have no
just claim to maintain their contention to control or interfere
with any portion of the public ground designated in the plat
of the Fort Dearborn reservation. The decree dismissing the
information will therefore be
Aflrmned.
MR. JusriCE BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUST[CE

,BRowN, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the views expressed.by the court
in this case. I agree that the United States have no governmental interest or control over the premises in question; that
as a sovereign they have no right to maintain this suit; that
by the act of dedication they parted with the title, and that,
in accordance with the statute of the State in respect to dedication, the fee passed to the city of Chicago, to "be held in
the corporate name thereof, in trust to and for the uses and
purposes set forth ahd expressed or intended." I agree that
the only rights which the United States have are those which
any other owner of real estate would have under a like dedication ; but I think the law is that iewho grants property to a
trustee, to be held in trust for a specific purpose, retains such
an interest as gives him a right to invoke the interposition of a
court of equity to prevent the use of that property for any
other purpose. Can it be that, if the government, believing
that the Congressional Library has become too large for convenient use in this city, donates half of it to the city of Chicago,
to be kept and maintained as a public library, that city can,
after accepting the donation for the purposes named, give
away the books to the various lawyers for their private
libraries, and the government be powerless to restrain such
disposition ? Do the donors of libraries or the grantors of real
estate in trust for specific purposes, though parting with the
title, lose all right to invoke the aid -of a court of equity to

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

compel the use of their donations and grants for the purposes
expressed in the gift or deed ? I approve the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Iowa, in the case of Warrem v. The .Mayor
of Lyons City, 22 Iowa, 351, 355, 357. In that case the plaintiffs had years -before platted certain land as a site for a city,
and on the plat filed by them there was a dedication of a piece
of ground as a "public square." After the city had been
built up on that site the authorities, for the purposes of gain,
and under the pretended authority of an act of the legislature,
attempted to subdivide the public square into lots and to lease
them to individuals for private uses. A bill was filed by the
dedicators to'restrain such diversion of the use, and a decree
in their favor was affirmed by the Supreme Court. I quote
from the opinion:
"Nothing can be clearer than that if a grant is made for a
specific, limited, and defined purpose, the subject of the grant
cannot be used for another, and that the grantor retains still
such an interest therein as entitles him in a court of equity to
insist upon the execution of the trust as originally declared
and accepted. Williams v. First PresbyterianSociety, 1 Ohio
St. 478; Barclay v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Pet. 498; Webb v.Moler,
8 Ohio, 548; Brown v. .anning, 6 Ohio, 298."
And again, after picturing the injustice which in many cases
would result by permitting such a diversion, the court adds:
"Such a doctrine would enable the State at pleasure to
trifle with the rights of individuals, and we can scarcely
conceive of a doctrine which would more effectually check
6very- disposition to give for public or charitable purposes.
No, it must be, that if the right vested in the city for a particular purpose the legislature cannot vest it for another; that,
when the dedicator declared his purpose by the plat, the land
cannot be sold or used for another and different one; that
while the corporation took the. premises as trustee, it took
them with the bbligations attached as well as the rights conferred; that while the legislature might give the control and
management of these squares and parks to the several municipal corporations, it cannot authorize their sale and use for a
purpose foreign "to the object of 'the grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Without quoting, we cite the following cases: Trustees of
Watertown v. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510; 2 Stra. 1004; Commonwealth v. Alberger, 1 Whart. 469; Pomeroy v. X[ills, 3 Vermont, 279; Abbott v. Same, 3 Vermont, 521; Adams v. S. cf&
iF. 1R. 1. Co., 11 Barb. 414; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87;
Godfrey v. City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29 ; Sedgwick's Constitutional and Statute Law, 343, 344; llaight v. City of Zfeokuk,
.4 Iowa, 199; Grant v. City of Davenport, 18 Iowa, 179;
.e Clerc v. Trustees of Gallipolis, 7 Ohio, 217; Common
Coutncil of Indianapolis v. Cross, 7 Indiana, 9; Rowans, Executor, v. Portland, 8 B. Mon. 232; Augusta v. Perkins, 3
B. Mon. 437."
I do not care to add more, but for these reasons withhold
my assent to the opinion.
I am authorized to say that MRh. JUSTICE BRowN concurs in
this dissent.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel in the court
below, took no part in the consideration and decision of this
case on appeal.

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 335.

Argued April 2, 3, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

Part-performance of an oral contract for the conveyance of an interest in
real estate in the District of Columbia takes it out of the operation of
the statute of frauds, and authorizes a court of equity to decree a full
and specific performance of it, if proved.

THIS was a bill in equity for the specific performance of
an oral contract for the sale of land.
The bill made substantially the following case: Thomas
lRiggles, ancestor both of plaintiffs and defendant, died .in
1863, leaving a will in which he made the following devises:

