DUNHAM v. DENNISON MANUFACTURING CO. 103
Statement of the Case.

DUNHAM v. DENNISON MANUFACTURING
PANY.

COM-

APPEAL. FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED- STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 294. Argued March 16,19,1894. -Decided May 26,1894.
The reissue of June 10, 1884, by which the patent of May 8, 1883, tO Joseph
T. Dunham, for a combined tag and envelope, with an end flap covering
the side of the envelope, was so enlarged as to include an envelope with
a flap of any size or shape, is void.
The patent of November 24, 1885, to Joseph T. Dunham, for an improvement in tag envelopes, with a flap so constructed that it can be opened
and the contents taken out without tearing the envelope or removing or
breaking the fastenings, is not infringed by an envelope in which the flap
is fastened down so that it cannot be opened without injury, and the
contents are taken out by opening a flap at the opposite end of the
envelope.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of two
patents for inventions, granted by the United States to the
plaintiff ; the one a reissue, dated June 10, 1884, of a patent
issued May 8, 1883, for "a new and improved combined tag
and envelope;" and the other an original patent, dated November 24, 1885, "for certain improvements in envelopes."
Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court on pleadings and proofs,
the bill was dismissed, for the reasons stated in the opinion of
Judge Coxe, which was as follows:
"This is an equity action, founded upon two letters patent
granted to the complainant. The first, a reissue patent, No.
10,488, dated June 10, 1884, is for a combined tag and envelope; and the second, No. 331,118, dated November 24, 1885,
is for an improvement in envelopes.
"The reissued patent will be first considered. The defences
are lack of novelty and invention, non-infringement, and that
the reissue is void because of an unwarrantable expansion of
its claims. The original patent, No. 277,245, was dated May
8, 1883. The application for the reissue was filed March 18,
1884, ten months and ten days thereafter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"The invention of the original was limited, as clearly as the
drawings and the language of the description and claims could
limit it, to an envelope having at one end a flap of sufficient
size to cover one side of the envelope. The inventor says:
'The object of the invention is to form an envelope with an
end flap covering its side, as hereinafter described.
An envelope, A, preferably made of strong water-proof paper,
is provided with an end flap, B, of sufficient size to cover the
entire envelope. An eyelet, 0, is secured in that end of the
envelope opposite to the one to which the flap B is attached;
and the flap B is provided on its free end with an eyelet, D,
which, when the flap B is folded over the envelope, rests upon
the eyelet 0.' He then describes the manner in which the
name of the consignee is concealed by writing it on the inside
of the flap, so that dealers engaged in the same business cannot ascertain the names of their rivals' customers. The naie
of the consignor is printed on the outer surface of the flap,
where also appears the name of the city or town to which the
goods are deitined; and a notice to carriers that the full name
of the consignee may be found on the inner surface.
"It is evident that the patentee considered this peculiar form
of flap the main feature of his invention. It isalso clear that an
envelope which does not include a flap large enough, to cover
its side does not infringe the claims, which are as follows:
"'1. A combined tag and envelope, made substantially as
herein shown and described, and consisting of an envelope
having at one end a flap of sufficient size to cover one side of
the envelope, as set forth;
"' 2. In a combined tag and envelope, the combination, with
an envelope, A, having a flap, B, at one end, of the eyelet D
in the free end of the flap, and the eyelet 0 in that end of the
envelope opposite the one to which the flap is attached, sub-'
stantially as herein shown and described, and for the purpose
set forth.'
"The specification is perfectly plain. There is no ambiguity
about the description, and the claims, in language equally
clear, cover what is said to be the invention, and the whole
thereof.

DUNHAM v. DENNISON MANUFACTURING CO.

105

Statement of the Case.

"Soon after the patent was granted, the defendant, in the
summer of 1883, commenced manufacturing tag envelopes,
which the complainant insists are infringements of the reissue, but frankly admits .that they do not infringe the original patent, for the reason that they do not have the flap B.
"The reason for the reissue is thus stated in the complainant's brief: 'Soon after putting the patented article on the
market, complainant was informed that defendant, a corporation that had for some time manufactured in Boston and
made extensive sales throughout the country of a shipping
tag, was manufacturing and selling a tag envelope similar to
complainant's. Complainant immediately applied to counsel
for the purpose of commencing suit against defendant, and
was advised by such counsel, after an examination of his
letters patent and a statement of his invention and application, that his patent was defective, indefinite and ambiguous
in its claims, so as to render it practically inoperative, and
that he had better apply for a reissue.'
"The patentee himself states that the alleged infringing
envelope of the defendant was on o of the forms 'invented by
him, but not shown in his patent,' and he therefore sought -a
reissue which would cover it.
"Turning now to the reissue, it is manifest that the effort
was to discard the flap B as an element of the invention, and
expand the claims sufficiently to cover an envel6pe, no matter
what the size or shape of its flap. The invention no longer
consists in 'an envelope with an end flap covering its side,' as
in the original, but 'in a tag provided with means for attaching it- to the merchandise, and with an envelope or pocket to
receive a bill or invoice of the merchandise.' The drawings
are referred to as showing the invention ' in its preferred
form.'- The end flap is no longer 'of sufficient size to cover
the entire envelope,' but it must cover it ' substantially.' The
claims of the reissue are as follows:
"'1. A combined tag and envelope, substantially as described, wherein the flap which closes the mouth of the
envelope is fastened down by the cord or other device which
secures the tag to the merchandise, as set forth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"'2. A combined tag and envelope, substantially as described, the flap having an eyelet hole which, when the flap
is folded down on the envelope, coincides with an eyelet hole
in the envelope, whereby the cord or hook for attaching the
tag may be passed through both holes, substantially as set
forth.
"' 3. In a combined tag and envelope, the combination, with
an envelope, A, having a flap, B, at one end, of the eyelet D
in the free end of the flap, and the eyelet C in that end of the
envelope opposite the one to which the flap is attached, substantialiy as herein shown and described, and for the purpose
set forth.'
"The third claim of the reissue is the same as the second
of the original, but it is not contended that this claim is
infringed. Claims one and two of the reissue are unquestionably broadened. They are no longer limited to a flap of
sufficient size to cover the entire envelope. Should the court
hold that they are so limited, it is admitted that they are not
infringed.
"It is thought that these expanded claims cannot escape
the force of the repeated decisions of the Supreme Court
relating to reissued patents.
"The patentee made no move until the defendant had produced its envelope, which could be sold without infringing
the original patent. If he had been the first inventor of this
new and improved form, he might have described and claimed
it in the original patent. He did neither. He now seeks by
the reissue to include structures and improvements which
were neither described nor claimed in the original. This he
cannot do. The defendant has acquired valuable rights which
cannot be trampled upon in this manner.
1"The law upon this subject is too well settled to require a
citation of authorities; but the case of Coon v. Wilson, 113
U. S. 268, seems peculiarly applicable and controlling. Substitute the nomenclature pertaining to envelopes for that
relating to collars, and the opinion in Coon v. Wilon is as
applicable to this controversy as if written for the purposes
of this action only: 'Although this reissue was applied for

DUNHEA

v. DENNISON MANUFACTURING CO.

107

Statement of the Case.

a little over ten months after the original patent was granted,
the case is one where it is sought merely to enlarge the claim
of the original patent, by repeating that claim and adding
others; where no mistake or inadvertence is shown, so far as
the extended flap is concerned; where the patentee waited
until the defendant produced its short-flafped envelope, and
then -applied for such enlarged claims as to embrace the defendant's envelope, which was not covered by the claim of the
original patent, and where it is apparent, from a comparison
of the two patents, that the reissue was made to enlarge the
scope of the original. As the rule is expressed in the recent
case of
ahan v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, a patent cannot be
lawfully reissued for the mere purpose of enlarging the claim,
unless there has been a clear mistake, inadvertently committed,
in the wording of the claim, and the application for a reissue
is made within a reasonably short period after the original
patent was granted. But a clear mistake, inadvertently committed, in the wording of the claim is necessary, without
reference to the length of time. In -the present case there
was no mistake in the wording of the claim of the original
patent. The description warranted no other claim. It did
not warrant any claim covering an envelope not provided wit h

the flp B.'
"The second patent in controversy, No. 331,118, dated
November 24, 1885, is for an improvement in envelopes intended for mailing samples and similar matter, and for use
as tags for marking goods to be shipped. The defences are
abandonment, lack of novelty and invention, and non-infringement.
"The principal object of the invention, as
stated in the
specification, was to obviate the difficulty which existed in
prior devices, which were so constructed that, in order to get
at the contents of the envelope, it was necessary to untie the
string or remove the fastening which secured the flap. The
envelope of the patent is so constructed that the flap can be
opened, when desired, and the contents inspected, without
tearing the envelope, or removing or breaking the fastenings.
The claims are as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
StAtement bf ,the Case.

'1. An envelope having a flap, 0, provided with a reinforced hole, o', and having a similar hole, c, in the front ply of
its body, and the said holes constructed to register or coincide
when the flap 0 is folded down, whereby the end of the back
ply, b,of the envelope body, which extends entirely across the
latter, is clamped and removably secured, substantially as
shown and described.
"'2. A mailing and tag envelope having a flap, 0, folded
over and secUred down to the inner face of the front ply of
the body, the said flap being also constructed to take over the
free end of the back ply of the body, as shown, whereby the
mouth of the envelope covered by the said flap C is secured
against accidental opening, substantially as and for the purposes
set forth.'
"In view of what was known when the patent was applied
for, a broad construction of these claims is out of the question.
A construction which would include the defendant's envelope
would render the claims void for lack of novelty, for the
general features of the patented envelope are shown in the.
patent No. 81,962, September 8, 1868, to Sigmund Ulman,
and in other prior structures. If the claims are limited to
the peculiar construction shown in the specification and drawings, the defendant does not infringe.. In the defendant's
envelope one eyelet is used, which aids the gum in fastening
the flap down permanently upon the back ply of the envelope.
"A large number of exhibits have been. introduced, showing
the defendant's envelope. These have been changed and
mutilated by the witnesses in illustrating opposing theories.
But both sides apparently agree that the envelopes made by
the defendant since the date of this patent are constructed
with the eyeletted flap securely fastened. The complainant's
brief contains this statement: 'After defendant put its tag.
envelope on the market, it changed the construction several
times, until it finally adopted the form introduced in evidence
as the infringing specimen. See complainant's Exhibit Taylor
and Mayo, which was received in 1883, and also has the eyeletholes, with washers only ; also complainant's Exhibit John S.

DUNI{A1

. DENNISON 3KANUFACTURING CO. 109
Statement of the Case.

Smith, which was received in 1884, and has the washers
reinforced with a short metallic eyelet, with the eyeletted end
tightly gummed down; also Exhibit Alonzo B. Smith, received
in 1886, with printed advertisement on front, which had the
eyeletted end tightly gummed, with washers reinforced by
short metallic eyelets.'
"Evidently it is not intended 'that the defendant's envelope
shall be opened and the contents removed at the end thus
securely fastened. The bill or invoice is inserted at the opposite end; the flap at that end is then fastened down, in the
well-known manner, by moistening the gum by which it is
provided, or the flap may be tucked in between the plies. In
other words, the defendant tak6s an ordinary envelope with
the opening at one end; and at the other end, which is never
intended to be opened, he puts an eyelet reinforced by washers
through the front ply, a portion of the back ply, and the flap
of the envelope. The sole object of the eyelet is to provide a
suitable hole into which the cord or hook which fastens the
envelope to the merchandise may be introduced. The effect
of the eyelet and washers is to prevent the back ply from
being left free at this end. The defendant has not the object
of the patent in view, and does not adopt the patented device.
"In complainant's envelope, according to the theory of his
expert witness, ' the leading idea or principle of the invention
is the holding down of the back ply of the envelope by the
overlapping of the flap thereon, and the omission of any
permanent or secure attachment of the flap to said back ply.
. . . The claims are limited to this end of the back ply
being left free.' This feature is entirely wanting in defendant's envelope. Instead of omitting the secure attachment,
he has added the metallic eyelet and washers to the gum of
the ordinary envelope. The claims must be restricted to the
form and description of the patent, and thus construed they
are not infringed.
"It is unnecessary to examine the other defences presented.
The bill is dismissed." 40 Fed. Rep. 667.
From the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill the
plaintiff appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. CharWes G. Coe, (with whom was
B'owne on the brief,) for appellant.

At . Arthur S.

Mrb'. f. W. Swan for appellee.
]M. J usmom GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The facts of this case, and the reasons against maintaining
the suit, are so clearly and fully stated in the opinion delivered in the Circuit Court, that there is no occasion for extended discussion.
The patent of May 8, 1883, was expressly and distinctly,
both in the specification and in the claims, limited to an envelope, with an opening at one end; with a flap, attached to
the envelope at that end, of sufficient size to cover the whole
of that side of the envelope in which the opening was; and
with an eyelet in the flap, resting on an eyelet in the opposite end of the envelope, through which eyelets the flap could
be. secured to the envelope, and both flap and envelope be
fastened to the object to be carried. The patentee thus gave
the public to understand that an envelope, the flap of which
did not cover its whole length, would not come within his
patent, and might rightfully be made by any one. After the
defendant had made envelopes with a short flap of semi-circular shape and covering little more than the 'opening of the
envelope, (which, it is admitted, did not infringe the plaintiff's patent as originally issued,) the plaintiff obtained a reissue, enlarging the claims, and altering the specification
throughout, so as to include an envelope with a flap of any
size or shape, and to make the invention consist, not, as in the
leading words of the description in the original patent, of
"an envelope with an end flap covering its side," but in " a
tag provided with means for attachiing it to -the merchandise,
and with an envelope or pocket to receive a bill or invoice of
the merchandise." The words of the description in the original patent were neither technical nor complicated; but they
were of the simplest kind, and their meaning and scope could

MORIISON v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

not have been misunderstood by any one who read them with
the slightest attention, least of all by the patentee. To uphold such a reissue under such circumstances would 'be to
grant a new and distinct privilege to the patentee at the expense of innocent parties, and would be inconsistent with the
whole course of recent decisions in this court. -Miller v.
BiaS Co., 104 U. S. 350; -Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354;
Coon v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268; Toplif v. Toplif, 145 U. S.
156; Huber v. Nelson Co., 148 U. S. 270; Leggett v. Standard
Oil Co., 149 U. S. 287; Corbin Co. v. Eagle Co., 150 U. S. 38.
The patent of November 24, 1885, has clearly not been
infringed by the defendant; for the peculiar feature of this
patent consists in the flap being constructed so that it can be
opened, and the contents taken out, without tearing the envelope or removing or breaking the fastenings; whereas in
the defendant's envelope that flap is fastened down So that
it cannot be opened without injury to it or to the envelope,
and the contents are taken out by opening a flap, no more
firmly secured than with gum, at the opposite end of the envelope.
Upon these grounds, without considering the questions of
lack of novelty and invention in the several patents, the entry
must be
Decree affJrmed.
MORRISON v. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 177. Argued December 20, 1893. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

This court has no jurisdiction to review by writ of error a judgment of the
highest court of a State, as against a right under the Constitution of
the United States, if the right was not claimed in any form before judgment in that court.

THIS was an action, in the nature of ejectment, brought
April 11, 1883, in the superior court of Richmond county in

