OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

fully as if actually brought into the visible presence of the
court. Being in the custody of the bankruptcy court, .no
other court, and no person acting under any process from any
other court, can, without the permission of the bankruptcy
coiirt, interfere with it; and, to so interfere, is a contempt
of the bankruptcy court."
Believing that the rule thus stated is the one to be applied
in this case, I hold that, when the petition in insolvency was
fileq, the corporation, the owner and possessor of the property,
surrendered it to the state court, and by no subsequent proceedings in any other court could that possession be disturbed.
I cannot agree that the respective jurisdiction of state and
Federal courts is to be determined by a scramble between
sheriff and marshal for possession.
For these reasons, while I concur in most of the reasoning
of the opinion, I am constrained to dissent from the judgment.
I am authorized to say that MR.
in the foregoing views.

JUSTICE WHITE concurs

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 612. Argued April 11, 1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

By the grant of public land made to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, all mineral lands other
than iron or coal are excluded from its operation, whether known or
unknown; and all such mineral lands, not otherwise specially provided
in the act making the grant, are reserved exclusively to the United States,
the company having the right to select unoccupied and unappropriated
agricultural lands in odd sections, nearest to the line of the road, in lieu
thereof.
Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, and Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S. 607,
explained and distinguished.

THIS was an action for the possession of certain parcels of
land containing veins or lodes of rock in place bearing gold,

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

289

Statement of the Case.

silver and other precious metals, situated within section 27
of township 10 north, range 4 west of the principal meridian
of Montana, claimed by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company - the plaintiff below, the defendant in error here - as
parts of the land granted to it by the act of Congress of July
2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, entitled "An act granting lands
to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from Lake Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific coast, by.
the northern route," and the acts and resolutions supplementary and amendatory thereof.
By its first section the plaintiff was incorporated and authorized to construct and maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph line with the appurtenances, from a point on Lake
Superior in the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin and thence
westerly by the most eligible route as should be determined
by the company, within the territory of the United States,
on a line north of the forty-fifth degree of latitude, to some
point on Puget Sound, with a branch by the valley of the
Columbia River to a point at or near Portland in the State
of Oregon. The company was invested with all the powers,
privileges, and immunities necessary to carry into effect the
purposes of the act.
By the third section a grant of land, other than mineral,
was made to the company in words of present conveyance to
aid in the construction of the railroad and telegraph line and
for other purposes. Its language is: "That there be, and
hereby is, granted to the ' Northern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and assigns, for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of said railroad and telegraph line to the
Pacific coast, and to. secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores
over the route of said line of railway every alternate section'o
.public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of
said railroad line, as said company may adopt, through the
Territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of
land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever on -the line thereof the
VOL. CLIV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

United States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or
otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other
claims or rights at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and whenever prior to said
time any of said sections or parts of sections shall have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, pr otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be s6lected by
said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections and designated by odd
numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said
alternate sections." The grant thus made is accompanied
with certain conditions or provisos-these among others:
"That all mineral lands be, and the same are hereby, excluded from the operations of this act, and in lieu thereof a
like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural
lands, in odd-numbered sections, nearest to the line of said
road, may be selected, as above provided; and provided
further, that the word 'mineral' when it occurs in this act
shall not be held to include iron or coal."
By the fourth section it was enacted: "That whenever said
Northern Pacific Railroad Company shall have twenty-five
consecutive miles of any portion of. said railroad and telegraph line ready for the service contemplated, the President
of the United States shall appoint three commissioners to
examine the same, and if it shall appear that twenty-five
consecutive miles of said road and telegraph line have been
completed in a good, substantial, and workmanlike manner,
as in all other respects required by this act, the commissioners
shall so report to the President of the United States; and
patents of lands, as aforesaid, shall be issued to said company,
confirming to said company the right and title to said lands,
situated opposite to and coterminous with said completed section of said road; and'from time to time, whenever twentyfive additional consecutive miles shall have been constructed,
completed, and in readiness as aforesaid, and verified by said
commissioners to the President of the United States, then
patents shall be issued to said company conveying the addi-

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 291
Statement of the Case.

tional sections of land as aforesaid; and so on as fast as
every twenty-five miles of said road is completed as aforesaid."
By the sixth section it was enacted: "That the President
of the United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for
forty milds in width on both sides of the entire line of said
road, after the general route shall be fixed, and as fast as
may be required by the construction of said railroad; and
the odd sections of land hereby granted shall not be liable to
sale or entry or preemption before or after they are surveyed,
except by said company, as provided in this act; but the provisions of the act of September, eighteen hundred and fortyone, granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory
theieof, and of the act entitled ' An act to secure homesteads
to actual settlers on the public domain,' approved May twenty,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, shall be, and the same are
hereby, extended to all other lands on the line of said road,
when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company ; and the reserved alternate sections shall not be sold by
the government at a price less than two dollars and fifty cents
per acre, when offered for sale."
The complaint alleges that the general route of the railroad
extending through Montana was fixed February 21, 1872, and
the lands in controversy were within forty miles of such general route, and were public lands not reserved, sold, granted,
or otherwise appropriated, and were free from preemption or
other claims or rights; that thereafter, July 6, 1882, the line
of the road extending; opposite and past the described lands,
was definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that the demanded parcels werewithin forty miles of the line thus definitely
fixed; that thereafter the plaintiff constructed and completed.
that portion of its railroad and telegraph line extending over and
along the line of definite location; that thereafter the President of the United States appointed three commissioners to
examine the same, and they reported to him that that portion
of the railroad and telegraph line had been completed in a
good, substantial, and workmanlike manner, in all respects, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

required by the act of July 2, 1864, and the act supplementary
thereto and amendatory thereof ; that the President accepted
the line as thus constructed and completed; that at the time
of filing the plat of definite location in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, namely, July 6, 1882,
the described land was not known mineral land, and was more
valuable for grazing than for mining purposes; that in 1868
all the lands in township 10 north, of range 4 west, were duly
surveyed, and the township plat was, September 9, 1868, filed
in the United States district land office for the district of
Helena, Montana, that being the district in which said township is situated, and by that survey the land of the township
was ascertained and determined to be agricultural and not
mineral, and that said determination and report have continually remained in force; that after the completion of the
railroad the plaintiff listed the section, including the lands
described, and other lands, as portions of the grant, and on
November 8, 1868, filed the list in the district land office at
Helena, and paid the fees allowed by law; that the list was
accepted and approved by the receiver and register and certified to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and has
since remained in the same district land office and in the office
of the Commissioner; that at the time of the acceptance, approval, and allowance of the list, and at all times prior thereto,
no part of the land was known mineral land, or was of greater
value for mining purposes than for grazing, agricultural, or
town-site purposes; that during the year 1888 certain veins
or lodes of rock in place bearing gold and silver and other
precious metals were discovereal on said described land; and
thereafter William B. Wells, William Muth, Harpin Davies,
and Richard P. Barden, citizens of the United States, without
the consent and against the will of the plaintiff, enter.ed upon
said land and made locations of said veins and lodes upon certain lots thereof, as follows, to wit: the Vanderbilt quartz
lode mining claim on lot 68, August 10, 1888 ; the Four Jacks
and the New York Central and Hudson River quartz lode
--mining claims on lots 72, '74, and 75, respectively, May 9, 1889;
and the Chauncey M. Depew quartz lode mining claim on lot

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

293

Statement of the Case.

73-all of said lots being within section: 27, township 10
north, range 4 west; that the defendants are in possession of
said lots, claiming under said locations, through mesne conveyances from the locators, and have been and are extracting
ore therefrom; and that the same are mineral lands.
And the complaint further alleges that the United States
have failed, neglected, and refused to issue to the plaintiff a
patent for said land, though all acts required by law to entitle
the plaintiff to a patent have been fully performed; that the
title to the premises has vested in the plaintiff under and by
virtue of the acts of Congress and its compliance therewith;
that the lots designated are of the value of over $6000, and
that the value of the ore wrongfully extracted and taken from
them by the defendants is over $100.
Wherefore the plaintiff prays judgment against defendants
for the recovery of the possession of the said lots, for the value
of the ore so extracted, and for costs.
To this complaint the defendants demured on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, and entitle the plaintiff to the relief prayed. The demurrer was argued before the Circuit Judge and the District
Judge holding the Circuit Court of the Ninth Circuit, at
Helena, in the State of Montana, and they differed in opinion
.upon the demurrer, the Circuit Judge holding that it was
insufficient and should be overruled, and the District Judge
dissenting therefrom. Judgment was accordingly entered,
overruling the demurrer, and the defendants were allowed
ten days within which to answer the complaint. But they
came into court and stated that they would abide by their
demurrer, and declined to file an answer; whereupon their
default was entered, and on application of the plaintiff's
attorneys it was ordered that judgment be entered against
them for the recovery of the possession of the lots designated,
the value of the ore taken therefrom, and costs of suit, which
was accordingly done. To the ruling of the court in overruling the demurrer exception was taken- by the defendants;
and to reverse the judgment they brought the case to this
court on writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffis in Error.

-Mr. Solicitor General, with whom was AlE. W. T. Dixon,
for plaintiffs in error.
I. This is an action in ejectment in which the plaintiff must
recover, if at all, on the strength of its own title. The complaint admits that the lands sued for are "mineral lands."
The plaintiff must, therefore, show title to mineral lands.
But its grant, instead of being for mineral lands, is of "every
alternate section of public land not mineral," etc., with the
proviso "that all mineral lands be, and the same are hereby,
excluded from the operation of this act," and with the further
proviso, in the joint resolution of January 30, 1865, (13 Stat.
567,) "that no act passed at the first session of the Thirtyeighth Congress granting lands to States or corporations to
aid in the construction of roads or for other purposes
shall be so construed as to embrace mineral lands, which, in
all cases, shall be and are reserved exclusively to the United
States, unless otherwise specially provided in the act or acts
making the grant."
Upon this simple statement of the case it would seem that
the plaintiff cannot recover, because it does not deraign title
to mineral lands.
II. But the complaint contains the further averment that
the lands were not known to be mineral until after the filing
of the map of definite location. The lands were the same
then that they are now, and were, therefore, in fact mineral
at that time. The further allegation that they were then
more valuable for grazing than for mining must be. construed
to mean that they were then, so far as was known, more valuable for grazing than for mining. So that the plaintiff's
claim reduces itself to this: that its grant must be construed
as conveying to it all lands not known to be mineral at the
time of filing its map of definite location.
Is it permissible to so construe the act of Congress? I submit not, (1) because that would be to interpolate a term not
found in the act, and to violate the rule which forbids the
enlargement of public grants by implication; (2) because the
circumstances attending the grant are inconsistent with such
a construction.

BARDEN v. -NORTHERN PACIFIC RAITMO2D. 295
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

At the time of the grant little was known of the country
through which the road was to pass. The situation is thus
disclosed in the dissenting opinion of Judge Knowles: "On
July 2, 1864, comparatively little was known of the great
mineral resources of this section. There were but two mining
camps of any importance in Montana at that time, and one of
these was south of the 40-mile limit of that road. The great
quartz mining interests of Montana were then almost, if not
entirely, unprospected. In northern Idaho no mineral developments had been made worthy of mention; nothing was
known of its great mineral resources. It may be said that
the only mines then sought for were placers. But few miners
in this section knew anything of silver or copper mining, and
none had any knowledge of the extent of these mines along
the route of the plaintiff's road.
"Silver mining had not existed in the United States for
more than five years previous to 18641, and gold quartz mining
in the western States and Territories not more than ten years.
Copper mining was only known on the shores of Lake
Superior, in Michigan. None of this country had been
surveyed. Plaintiff did not know just what route would be
selected for its road. It had not been surveyed even in a
preliminary way. Large portions of the country had never
been explored, except by wandering bands of trappers. Gold
mining, confined to placers, had existed in Montana for only
two years."
Congress could not therefore have meant to reserve simply
lands not known to be mineral at the time of the act, for
practically nothing was known, and such a reservation would
have been of no avail. Nor could Congress have meant to
reserve only lands not known to be mineral at the time of the
filing of the map of definite location, for the railroad company
was at liberty to file its map of definite location whenever it
saw fit, and when the knowledge of the country might be no
greater than at the time of the passage of the act. I submit,
then, that the grant must be construed to mean just what it
says, and as excluding from its operation not merely lands
known to be mineral, but all lands ii fact mineral.

OOTOBEIR TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

No question is raised at bar as to the character or amount
of precious metals necessary to make land mineral, for the
allegation is that those lands are "mineral lands" - in other
words, that the conditions exist, whatever they may be, which
are necessary to bring the land within the description of
mineral lands. Nor is it material that the grant is one in
.prcsenti, which attaches at the time of filing the map of
definite location, for the exception is also i&prmenti, and no
matter when the grant attaches, it cannot attach to mineral
lands, for they are not granted, but reserved.
III. But it is said that this construction, which excludes
lands in fact mineral from the operation of the grant, works a
hardship because it leaves the title of the company forever
uncertain in all its lands and liable to be defeated at any time
by the discovery of minerals, and it is upon this ground that
the opinion of the Circuit Judge proceeds. The objection
would be serious if it were well founded. But what is the
fact ?
The act itself provides for the issuing of patents to the rairroad company, and contemplates therefore that the Secretary
of the Interior, prior to such issue, shall determine whether
the lands sought to be patented come within the terms of the
grant; in other words, whether they are in odd sections, unappropriated, not mineral, etc.
But it is said that the Secretary of the Interior has no
authority to patent mineral lands, and that a patent for lands,
in fact mineral, would afford no protection to the railroad
company in the event of the future discovery of precious
metals therein. This is a mistake. After the Secretary of
the Interior has decided that any particular lands are not
mineral, and has issued a patent therefor, the title is not liable
to be defeated by the subsequent discovery of minerals. The
authorities upon this point are cited in Mr. Shields's original
brief.
The poit is also covered by the case of Davis v. Weibbold,
139 _U. S. 507, where a patent was issued for a town site, and
minerals were subsequently discovered in the lands patented..
But it was held that the title was not affected by such dis-

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 297.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

covery, and that the provision of the town-site act, Rev. Stat.
§ 2392, that "no title shall be acquired to any'mine of gold,
silver, cinnabar, or copper," does not apply where the mines
were discovered after a patent has been issued.
Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinidn of the court, quotes
with approval, at page 521, the following language of Judge
Sawyer in Cowell v. _Lamners, 10 Sawyer, 246, 257: "There
must be some point of time, when the character of the land
must be finally determined, and, for the interest of all concerned, there can be no better point to determine this question than at the time of issuing the patent."
And again, at page 523, he quotes with approval the following language of Mr. Justice Lamar, while Secretary of the
Interior: "The issue of said patent was a determination by
the proper tribunal that the lands covered by the patent were
granted to said company, and hence, under the proviso of
said act, were not mineral at the date of the issuance of said
patent." And again, page 524:: " The grant or patent, when
issued, would thus be held to carry with it the determination
of the proper authorities that the land patented was not subject to the exception stated."
In -Moore v. Smaw; 17 California, 199, it was decided, in the
first opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Field as Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court of California, that the patent of the
United Staies passes title to minerals.
Of course,. if the railroad company knows at the time of
receiving a patent that the lands covered by it are mineral,
a case of fraud is presented which entitles the Secretary of
the Interior to have the patent cancelled, as was done in
Mforton v. *Nenraska,21 Wall. 660, and in The estern Paifto
Railroad Co. v. United States, 108 U. S. 510. But, barring
cases of fraud, the issuing of a patent by the Secretary of
the Interior to the railroad company gives it an absolute title,
not liable to be defeated by the subsequent discovery of
minerals.
Here, then, is a method of adjusting the company's grant
according to the procedure contemplated by the act itself,
which protects fully the interests of both the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

and the railroad, and which is in accordance with the practice
which has always prevailed in the Department of the Interior.
In Central Pacific Railroad Company v. Valentine, 11 Land
Dec. 238, 246, Secretary Noble, speaking of that practice,
said: "The very fact, if it be true, that the office of the
patent is to define and identify the land granted, and to evidence the title which vested by the act, necessarily implies
that there exists jurisdiction in some tribunal to ascertain and
determine what lands were subject to the grant and capable
of passing thereunder. Now this jurisdiction is in the Land
Department, and it continues, as we have seen, until the lands
have been either patented or certified to, or for the use of,
the railroad company.
"By reason of this jurisdiction it has been the practice of
that department, for many years past, to refuse to issue patents
to railroad companies for lands found to be mineral in character at any time before the date of patent. Moreover, I am
informed by the officers in charge of the mineral division of
the land department that ever since the year 1867 (the date
when that division was organized) it has been the uniform
practice to 'allow and maintain mineral locations within the
geographical limits of railroad grants, based upon discoveries
made at any time before patent, or certification, where patent
is not required. This practice having been uniformly followed
and generally accepted for so long a time, there should be, in
my judgment, the clearest evidence of error, as well as the
strongest reasons of policy and justice controlling, before a
departure from it should be sanctioned. It has, in effect, become a rule of property."
IV. What plan of adjustment does the plaintiff propose?
That it shall acquire all lands not known to be mineral at the
time of filing its map of definite location. But that plan
affords no opportunity to the government to protect itself from
being divested of the mineral lands, which Congress seems to
have been so anxious to reserve; for prior to the filing of the
map the government cannot know where the road is to be
located, and cannot, therefore, make any investigation to
ascertain whether the lands which may be taken are or are

BARDEN v. NORTHEERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 299
Argument for PlaintiEs in Error.

not mineral, and after the filing it is too late, for by the act of
filing the map the rights of the railroad company axe fixed,
according to its contention. A construction so unreasonable
and unfair cannot be accepted.
V. The reservation of mineral lands from the grant does not
have the effect of diminishing the aggregate amount of land
which the company shall receive, for the act provides in terms
"that in lieu -thereof a like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands may be selected."
A decision of this case adverse to the railroad company
therefore deprives it of nothing, but simply requires it to select
the lands due to it from agricultural tracts, as the act contemplates, and to keep its hands off of mineral lands
VI. But it is said that the government may unduly postpone
an investigation and determination of the mineral or non-mieral character of land and the issuing of patents therefor, and
it is asked whether the rights of the railroad company are to
be left in that event to the mercy of the government. The
same question might be asked with respect to the surveys
which are necessary to fix the odd sections and to enable the
company to locate any lands.
The answer to both questions is that the government has
contracted by the act, in express terms, to make surveys and
to issue patents, which implies the doing of all things necessary to enable it to issue the patents, and the other provisions
of the act are to be construed upon the assumption that these
are binding obligations.
Whether they are enforceable by suit, (as to which see United
,States v. Jones, 1.31 U. S. 1,) is another matter. It is likewise
immaterial in this case to know whether the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior as to the mineral or non-mineral
character of land is final or subject to judicial review.
The essential point is that the act contemplates a procedure
which involves the issuing of patents and the investigation
prior thereto, by somebody in some way, of the facts necessary to determine whether the land applied for falls within
the terms of the act of Congress; in other words, whether,
among other things, it is "mineral land."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The delay of the government in issuing a patent does not
affect the power of the railroad company to assert, meantime,
by possessory action, as in Deseret Salt Co. v,Yarpey, 142
U. S. 241, its rights in lands which are in fact not mineral,
but such delay cannot have the effect of authorizing it to
recover, as is attempted at bar, lands which it admits to be
mineral.

-

VII. While the Secretary of the Interior may make use of
the public surveys, no conclusive effect is to be given to them
either in favor of the government or against the government
in determining whether lands are mineral or non-mineral. The
reason for this and the character generally of the government
surveys are disclosed very clearly in the opinion of Secretary
Railroad, 17 Land
Smith in Vincott v. 1ortkern Paci
Dec. 274, where he says (pp. 275 et 8e.): "The act of May
18, 1796, (1 Stat. 464,) now embodied in section 2395 of the
Revised Statutes, prescribed many of the rules which are yet
followed in surveying the public lands. It directed that the
laads be laid off into townships 6 miles square, by running
lines north and south, to be crossed by others running at right
angles to them. The corners of each township were to be
marked, and also each distance of a mile between the corners.
The townships were to be divided into sections of 640 acres
each, by running through the townships, each way, parallel
lines ' at the end of every 2 miles; and by making a corner. on.
each of said. lines at the end of every mile.' Thus the outlines
only of every other" section were run, the corner of the intermediate section only being then fixed, and the outline thereof
being protracted on the plat when made.
"Subsequently Congress directed that the lands be sold
.by half and quarter sections, and the surveyor-general was
directed to thus divide the sections by north and south and
east and west lines protracted upon the plats, it nbt being intended .that he should 'run the subdivisional lines.' 2 Public Land Laws, 820; 854.
"Subsequently the Commissioner of the General Land
Office issued a 'manual of surveying instructions' for the
guidance of surveyors and their deputies. By this manual it

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

301

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

was directed that the outlines of each section be actually surveyed and the quarter-section corners established on the line
as run. This manual has been legalized by act of Congress
and is ' deemed to be part of every contract for surveying the
public lands.' Rev. Stat. § 2399. As the public lands axe
only surveyed by contract they must necessarily be surveyed
according to .the manual, and thus, indirectly, the law requires
that the outlines of each section should be actually suirveyed.
"It results, therefore, that only the section lines or rather
the outlines of the sections are run, the minor subdivisions
not being surveyed in the field. The surveyor general in
making his plats merely protracts these imaginary subdivisional lines in red ink upon the plats, connecting the opposite
corners both ways, thus making the quarter sections; these,
in turn, axe again subdivided in like manner into quarter quarters or 40 acre tracts. Public Domain, 184. So that there
is no law nor instructions requiring the surveyor, in his line of
duty, to go anywhere than along the borders or outlines of the
section he is surveying.
"By the same act of 1796, Rev. Stat. § 2395, Seventh, it is
provided that 'every surveyor shall note in his field book the
true situation of all mines, salt licks, salt springs, and mill seats
which come to his knowledge, all watercourses over which
the line he runs may pass, and also the quality of the lands.'
"It is under this last provision that the report of the surveyor is made, which creates the presumption referred to.
"The surveyor, as a public officer, must follow the law, and
that does not require him or afford him an opportunity to pass
over the interior or body of the section he is surveying. He
is directed to report the situation of ' all mines' that ' come to
his knowledge,' and all watercourses over which ' the line he
runs may pass.' He.is not directed to search for mines or
watercourses, but to report such as come to his knowledge
whilst passing along the outlines of the section he is surveying.
This is all he is required to do in the discharge of his duty.
The law nowhere says that the report thus made is to be conelusive of even matters of fact reported; and certainly it would
be contrary to all rules of sound reason to hold that such a

OCTOBER TERf, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

report is to be conclusive or even presumptive negativelythat is, of matters not reported.
"The most that can be said in favor of such report is that
it raises a presumption as to the belief or opinion of the surveyor as to the matters of fact affirmatively stated by him.
These instructions to the surveyor relate only to his report of
' mines.' He may or may not report that the lands indicate
that valuable minerals are hid beneath their surface. Such
indications are not ' mines.' A report to that effect, not being
required by the law, is optional with him. Being something
beyond his required duty, no conclusion of law arises from it.
It is merely a statement of the officer, more or less valuable
according to his opportunities of observation, and ought not to
preclude the assertion of any right or the proof of the facts of
the case as they really exist.
"It has been seen how limited are these opportunities of observation ; the officer merely passing over the confines of the
section, with his attention more directly absorbed by the duties
of his scientific profession and the necessity for absolute accuracy in his courses and distances. Even were he a geologist
or mineralist, his opportunities of observation along the course
of his lines would be the scantiest; and beyond those lines, or
on either side of them, his duties do not carry, but prohibit him
from going. So that, practically, the interior of the section,
or that portion thereof not immediately along the line being
run, is beyond the.observation or knowledge of the surveyor,
and his opinion in relation to the same cannot be of much
value. So that the report of the surveyor must necessarily
constitute but a small element of consideration when the question is as to the true character of the land.
"And this has been the ruling of the Department and the
courts for a long time. See Cole v. Markley (2 Land Dec.
847), where the subject is ably and exhaustively discussed and
numerous authorities cited to sustain the views herein stated.
"In the case cited, it was a question as to the effect of
report of the surveyor that certain lands were salines. After
reviewing all the decisions and discussing the subject at great
length, Secretary Teller said, on p. 851:

BARDEN v. NORTHERN IACIFIC RAILROAD.

303

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

"'These cases seem to be decisive of the issue raised in the
case at bar, and to establish the rule that a notation of
"saline" on the plats, or its omission, is immaterial, and that
no land but that in fact saline is reserved from agricultural
entry. . . . The character of the lands is a question of
fact, to be determined by due proofs, and the qualified party
who first settles upon them, or applies to enter them, and
otherwise conforms to the law, has priority of right when
their non-saline character is determined.'
"To the same effect is the case of Robinson v. Forrest,29
California, 317, 321; Merrill v. Dixon, 15 Nevada, 401, 405,
et 8eq. ; 2forton v. Vebraska, 21 Wall. 660, 674. The surveyor's report in this case, therefore, has but little weight
with me in its determination."
VIII. It is asked how lands, in fact mineral, but not
]mown to be mineral, are to be dealt with under the homestead, pregmption and town-site laws. All of these laws provide for the issuing of patents, and two points are clear; first,
that the discovery of minerals after patent does not defeat
the title. It was so decided with respect to a town-site patent
in Davis v. Tfeibbold, 139 U. S. 507, and the principle is
applicable to the case of a homestead settler or preemptor.
It is equally clear that lands known to be mineral cannot be
entered for town-site, Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, or
by a preemptor or homestead settler, Morton v. NAebraska, 21
Wall. 660.
The only question that remains to be decided by this court
iswhether the discovery of minerals after preliminary entry
and before final certificate will defeat the right of the settler
to perfect his title and obtain a patent as of agricultural
lands. This question the Department of the Interior has
uniformly answered, and it is submitted correctly, by holding
that if the land is discovered to be mineral before the settler
has acquired a vested interest and become entitled to his final
certificate, he must take the land, if at all, and pay for it as
mineral land. Rea v. Stephenson, 15 Land Dec. 37.; Jones v.
Driver, 15 Land Dec. 514; Harnish v. Wallace, 13 Land
Dec. 108. It is well settled that occupation and improve-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

ment of the public lands do not confer any vested right on
the preemptor prior to final entry and payment. Fribie v.
Whitney, 9 Wall. 187.
In Colorado Coal Company v. United States, 123 U. S. 307,
328, Mr. Justice Matthews, referring to the case of a preemptor, said that "the question must be determined accord--s
ing to the facts in existence at the time of the sale;" that is,
when the preemptor makes the only entry that is required of
him and pays the purchase money.
But these questions arising under the preemption act, which
provides, Rev. Stat. § 2258, that "lands on which are situated
any known mines and salines" shall not be subject to pregmption, and under the homestead act, Rev. Stat. § 2289, which
allows the homestead settlement of lands "subject to preemption," and, therefore, of those on which are situated no known
mines or salines, are not involved in the case at bar, although
the analogies are interesting.
I submit that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company cannot claim title to unpatented land which it admits to be
mineral in fact, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
should therefore be reversed, with directions to sustain the
demurrer and dismisg the complaint.
.Mr. Edwin W. Toole and Mr. William Wallace, J., filed a
brief for plaintiffs in error.
.Yr. Nartin F. -Morrisand Mr. W. W. Dixon filed a brief
for plaintiffs in error.
Assistant Attorney General Shields filed briefs for
.Mr.
plaintiffs in error.
-r. James McNaught and Mr. A. H. Garland filed briefs
for defendant in error.
Mr. A. T. Britton, Mr. A. T. Browne and Mr. George R.
Peck, by leave of court, filed a brief on the part of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company.

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

305

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. James . Carterfor defendant in error.
I. The whole question turns upon the definition of mineral
lands. It is only lands "not mineral" which are granted by
the act. No mineral lands can pass by it.
(1) The decision of the Secretary of the Interior as to
what are mineral lands, whether evidenced by issuing a patent
or otherwise, is not final; and no method is provided in the
act for determining what such lands are. Whether any lands
described in a patent are really conveyed by it is, in any
disputed case, a question of fact to be determined by an in-.
quiry whether they conform to the description in the statute.
If the Secretary should issue a patent for lands confessedly mineral it would be absolutely void, and open to
collateral attack, just as much as a patent issued by him for
lands previously sold or otherwise disposed of.
(2) Practically, however, his decision would be generally
effective, for it would be presumed to be correct unless the
contrary were clearly shown.
(3) But he is to give a patent only for such lands as are
"not mineral," and, in order to discharge his duty, he must
know what is intended by the act as lands "not mineral;"
in other words, he must have a definition to apply, and must
apply it. Thus the whole question turns upon definition.
(4) This being so, the definition must have regard to the
apparent condition of the lands at some particular time
before patent; for he is to apply it in order to discharge his
duty.
(5) The title to the lau1s, even after the patent is granted,
must always be subject to the infirmity arising from the possibility of a question whether the lands, at the time to which
the definition looks, were mineral or otherwise. This is a
small evil. The company could not desire a patent for lands
obviously mineral at that time, for it wishes a valid patent;
nor would the Secretary be likely to issue a patent for such
lands.
(6.) But if the patent were subject to the infirmity arising
from the possibilities of a discovery of minerals at any period
VOL. CLIV-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

in all future time, the condition would be intolerable and certainly in conflict with the legislative intent.
II. The next question is, what is this time to which the
definition relates? Plainly the time when Congress intended
the title to vest. Congress intended that at this point of
time the grantee should have useful, beneficial possession.
And what this time is has been determined in a multitude of
cases. It is the moment when the lands can be identified;
that is, the moment when the route is definitely located.
It has been suggested by the decision in this court in
Kansas Paciflc Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 6-10,

that if the lands are not then surveyed, there is a possibility
that the time may be deferred until such survey may be had;
but it would seem that, in such case, the survey ought to
describe the character of the lands, whether mineral or not,
as it was when the route was located; otherwise the government could, by deferring its survey, postpone the performance
of its obligation indefinitely, and the transaction would be
robbed.of its character as a contract.
(1) -This disposes of the objection started on the part of the
government that when the definite location is made the government may have ho means of knowing whether the lands
are mineral or not, for want of. a survey. Let it take such
time as it needs for this purpose, but not change the right of
the other party by its own delay. If when the survey is
made the time of location is regarded in ascertaining the
character of the lands no harm can result and justice is done
to both sides.
-(a Mr. McIlaught's briefs have fully shown that this view
is the only one consistent with reason, with the whole legislative and administrative treatment of the subject, and, what
is more to the purpose, that num6rous decisions of this court
absolutely require it. This court has decided in more than
one case that on the completion of definite location the grant
ceases to be a float, and actually operates on the territory of
the earth, giving the grantee a right of actual possession, so
that it can maintain ejectment. To yield to the view of the
plaintiffs in error would involve the reversalof these decisions;

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

307

Argument for Defendant in Error.

for, as the plaintiff in ejectment "mustestablish affirmatively a.
title in himself or fail, he would necessarily fail, unless it
would be sufficient for him to show, that according to the
then appearance of the land, it was not mineral. If any
subsequent discovery in respect to its character might show
that it was mineral, within the meaning of the grant, it
would follow that the time for ascertaining their character
had not arrived, that the lands could not be identified, and
that the grant was still a float and nothing more.
(3) It might indeed be suggested that although the title
vested at the time of definite location, it vested subject to a
condition subsequent, that it should fail upon the discovery of
its mineral character. This must be promptly rejected. It
does, indeed, vest subject to a condition subsequent; but that
condition is, and only is, that the grantee shall pay the consideration for the lands by building the road.
And the notion of the suggested condition subsequent
would be otherwise repelled. It would reintroduce the perpetual infirmity of title; a thing which never could have been
intended. The issuing of the patent could not nullify the
condition, for, if it could, it would give a final judicial character to the determination of the Secretary, and, should he
issue a patent for lands notoriously mineral at the time of the
location of the route, would make that patent unassailable.
III. There is another and distinct aspect in which the
whole argument may be presented. The transaction between
the government and the grantee company is in every sense a
contract. The argument of the plaintiffs in error wholly
denies to it this character.
(1) Nothing can be plainer than that the government
promises to convey certain lands by way of remuneration for
the building of the railroad. It agrees to convey, or rather
conveys, to the company a present interest in these lands,
not effectual indeed, at first, but becomifg effectual upon
This interest is subject to
the location of the route.
a condition subsequent that the road shall be built; and
when that condition is performed the title is to be confirmed (not created) by the issuing of a.patent. The agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ment to build the road may not indeed be enforceable by suit,
the method provided for its enforcement being the penalty
which the company comes under of losing all its labor and
expenditure unless it completes the road. The obligation of
the government to give the patent, however, is, in its nature,
enforceable by suit, the only reason why it cannot be so enforced being that the sovereign is not liable to suit. But we
may easily suppose that the government was liable to suit for
the specific performance of the promise to give a patent. Existing statutes, indeed, come very near making it so liable,
and it was by a divided court only that it was held in this
court that such statutes did not apply to a suit for the specific
performance of the government's agreement to convey land.
(2) This view enables us very easily to demonstrate that
the notion that what lands are "not mineral" depends upon
their apparent condition at the time of the issuing of the
patent and is determinable only by the patent, is wholly erroneous. Let it be supposed that the road has been completed
and patent applied for, and that the secretary refuses to issue
one on the alleged ground that the road has not been completed according to the conditions, and that at that time, as
well as previously, the lands were, according to all appearances, not mineral, so that if the completion of the road had
not been disputed the government would have been bound to
issue a patent for them. The company now files its bill in a
district court of the United States for a specific performance,
in which the character of the lands is shown, and the dispute
turns upon the question of whether or not the road was completed at the time of the demand for the patent. The court
finds that it was not, and dismisses the bill, and an appeal is
taken to the Supreme Court of the United States. That court
decides the other way -determines that the Secretary ought
to have issued the patent When it was demanded, reverses the
decree below, and orders a decree to be entered for the company. The company has a decree entered in its favori and
presents . copy of it to the Secretary of the Interior; and
demands its patent. Pending the appeal, however, further
explorations had disclosed the fact that the Ind was really

BARDEN v. NORITHERNT PACIFIC RAILROAD.

309

Argument for Defendant in Error.

mineral, and the Secretary refuses the patent on that ground.
According to the argument of the plaintiffs in error his refusal
is justified and required -that is to say, that the wrongful
refusal of the government to perform its own obligation has
had the effect of effacing the obligation itself!
(3) The only way in which this reductio ad absurduzm can
be avoided is by at once admitting that there must be some
time fixed upon before the issue of the patent at which it is
to be determined whether the government is bound to issue
it, and that the character of the lands is to be determined as
of that time, so that the right of the company cannot be
injuriously affected by any refusal or-delay by the government after that time. This view might be expressed by saying that the government was bound to issue the patent on the
completion of the road, or within a reasonable time thereafter,
and that the character of the lands was to be determined at
the one time or the other, whichever were adopted. But
neither of these views would be at all practicable. The
second is wholly indefinite, and would leave a question of
fact open which there is no means of determining, and which
the statute never intended. The first is equally inconsistent
with the contract, for that does not contemplate that the
company is to be deprived of the useful possession of the
land until the time when it is to receive its patent. If this
were so it would never have been said that the title vested
under the language of the act when the route was definitely
located, but was subject to a condition subsequent until the
patent was issued. The statute itself, the reason of the thing,
and all the adjudications, assume that there is a useful, beneficial right of enjoyment intended and secured to the company long before the time for the issuing of the patent.
(4) It may be urged that the goVernment must *certainly
have a reasonable time in which to make an examination of
the lands in order to know what the character of them is, and
that the character of the lands is not to be finally determined
util the lapse of such reasonable time, and that the vesting
must be postponed until that time. But this in like manner
denies to the transaction the character of a pontract. Such

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

examination would be the act of the government alone, and
could be deferred or protracted at its pleasure. Of course, in
such case, it would be the obligation of the government to
make such examination as speedily as possible, and yet if it
deferred or protracted-the performance of that obligation the
character of the lands might meanwhile change, and thus one
party to the contract might, by its own wrongful delay in
performing its obligation, relieve itself altogether from such
performance.
In every contract there must be a time when the obligations
imposed by it ripen and become enforceable.
An obligation which does not mature at some definite time is no obligation at all.
It is reasonable enough and very proper that the government should make an examination as carefully as it may
choose before issuing its patent, and such examination may
cause great, delay. It is often the case that delays occur in
the performance of contracts, but who has ever heard that it
could be within the power of one party to a contract, by his
own delay, to affect the rights of the other, or relieve himself
from his own obligations? The rights of both are preserved
and no difficulty will arise if, in making the examination
respecting the character of the lands, the moment when the
title is intended to be vested is taken as the one to be regarded.
(5) The policy of the government to reserve mineral lands
should not be magnified beyond its real importance and
intent. That policy has not been, for a long period of years,
in any way similar to the ancient policy of European nations
of reserving the precious metals for themselves. The underlying idea of that policy was that the precious metals should
never be parted with by the government, but be forever kept
for the uses of State. This view has long been abandoned by
the government of the United States, if, indeed, it was ever
entertained. The public lands are thrown open, like all
others, for sale or other disposition to private individuals; no
careful exploration of them is made for the purpose of
accurately separating such as contain mineral wealth. It
must necessarily be that lands will often be disposed of as if

BARDEN vo. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

311

Opinion of the Court.

they were agricultural, but will subsequently turn out to possess mineral wealth. The only consequence of this is that in
some instances individuals may obtain valuable mineral lands
for something less than their real worth; but the instances
will not be very frequent, it being usually true that the labor
expended in extracting the minerals is equal to their value
when extracted.
It is very plain that Congress regarded the opening up of
the Territories of the nation by means of railroads as a matter
far superior in importance to that of husbanding mineral lands
by a careful segregation. It has never provided the means by
which such segregation could be made. The immense dispositions of public lands heretofore made have not been preceded
by any thorough explorations. If it had been intended, in
making these railroad grants, to carefully discriminate beyond
the external appearances presented at the time the grants were
made between mineral and non-mineral lands, suitable provision would have been framed for such purpose, and the vesting
of title would have been deferred until the results of the examination had been made known.
IV. There is one view conspicuously presented by the
government briefs not calculated to induce calm judicial
consideration. It is that great corporations have "gobbled"
up nearly the entire body of public lands, and that it is time
to call a halt.
A view which excludes the obligations of contract, and even
any obligation at all, is incapable of being dealt with by juuicial reasoning. The Northern Pacific Railroad has been built
upon the solemn promise of the government to pay a stipulated consideration. Any disposition to withhold that stipulated consideration will certainly not be indulged in this
tribunal. It would deserve the condemnation which Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall once bestowed upon a somewhat similar
attempt: "Such conduct would be disreputable in a private
individual, and a court of equity would interfere to prevent it."
MR.JusT cE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

This action is brought for the possession of certain parcels
or lots of mineral land claimed by the plaintiff below -the
defendant in error here -as embraced in the grant of the
United States of July 2, 1864. The facts constituting the
claim of the'plaintiff are set forth at length in the complaint,
and to their sufficiency the defendants demurred as not constituting a cause of action, or entitling the plaintiff to the
relief prayed. The lots are there conceded to be mineral
lands, and the grant of the government applies in terms only
to lands other than mineral.
To remove any doubt of the intention of the government
to confine its concession to lands of that character, the grant
is accompanied with a proviso declaring that all mineral
lands are exeluded from its operations. And as if to cut
off every possible suggestion by any ingenious and strained
construction, that mineral lands might be reached under the
legislation giving vast tracts of public lands to States and
private corporations, under the pretence of aiding public
improvements, a joint resolution was passed by Congress on
January 30 of the following year, declaring "that no act
passed at the first session of the Thfrty-eighth Congress
[that being of the year 1864] granting lands to States
or corporations to aid in the construction of roads, or for
other purposes, or to extend the time of grants heretofore
made, shall be so construed as to embrace mineral lands, which
in all cases shall be and are reserved exclusively to the United
States, unless otherwise specially provided in the act or acts
making the grant." 13 Stat. 567. This provision should be
borne in mind when the statement is made, as it is, that there
has been no reservation of mines or minerals to the government.
No part of the contemplated road or telegraph line of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company had at the passage of
this joint resolution been constructed or commenced, and on
the authority of the case of that Compaiy v. Traill County,
115 U. S.600, its provisions are to be deemed an amendment
of the original act, and as operative as if originally incorporated therein.
. The action being for the possession of hnds conceded to be

BARDEN

. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 313
Opinion of the Court.

mineral, under the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, it would
seem that the simple reading'of the granting clause and its
proviso and the joint resolution mentioned would be a sufficient answer to the complaint, and a sufficient reason to sustain the demurrer withQut further consideration. But the
plaintiff's counsel appear to find in the fact which they allege,
that the lands were not known to be mineral at the time the
,plaintiff, by the definite location of the line of its road, was.
able to identify the sections granted, a sufficient ground to
avoid the limitations of the grant and the prohibitions of the
proviso and joint resolution.
The grant was of 20 alternate sections of land, designated
by odd numbers, on each side of the road which the plaintiff
was authorized to construct- a tract of 2000 miles in length
and 40 miles in width constituting a territory of 80,000 square
miles. It is true the grant was a float, and the location of
the sections could not be made until the line of the proposed
road had become definitely fixed. The ascertainment of the
location of the sections in no respect affected the nature of
the lands or the conditions on which their grant was made.
If swamp lands, or timber lands, or mineral lands previously,
they continued so afterwards.
It is also true that the grant was one inprcsenti of lands to
be afterwards located. From the immense territory from
which the sections were to be taken, it could not be known
where they would fall until the line of the road was established; then the grant attached to them, subject to certain
specified exceptions; that is, the sections, or parts of sections,
which had been previously granted, sold, reserved, occupied by
homestead settlers, or preempted or otherwise disposed of,
were excepted, and the title of its other sections or parts of
sections attached as of the date of the grant so as to cut off
intervening claimants. In that sense the grant was a present
one. But it was still, as such grant, subject to the exception
of mineral lands made at its date or then excluded therefrom
by conditions annexed. Whatever the location of the sections,
and whatever the exceptions then arising, there remained that
original exception declared in the creation of the grant. The

OCTOBER TERMt, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

location of the sections and the exceptions from other causes
in no respect affected that one, or limited its operation. There
is no language in the act from which an inference to that effect
can be drawn, in the face of its declaration that all mineral
lands are thereby "excluded from its operations," and of the
joint resolution of 1865 that "no act of the Thirty-eighth
Congress, [that is, of the previous session of 1864,] granting
lands to States or corporations, to aid in the construction of
roads or for other purposes, shall be so construed as to embrace
mineral lands." The plaintiff, however, appears to labor under
the persuasion that only those mineral lands were excepted
from the grant which were known to be such on the identification of the granted sections by the definite location of the
proposed road and the ascertainment at that time of the
exceptions from them of parcels of land previously disposed
of; and that the want of such knowledge operated in some
way to eliminate -the reservation made by Congress of the
mineral lands. But how the absence of such knowledge on
the ascertainment of the sections granted and the parcels of
land embraced therein previously disposed of, had the effect
or could have the effect to eliminate the reservation of mineral lands from the act of Congress, we are unable to comprehend. Such a conclusion can only arise from an impression
that a grant of land cannot be made without carrying the
minerals therein; and yet the reverse is the experience of
every day. The granting of lands, either by the government
or individuals, with a reservation of certain quarries therein,
as of marble, or granite, or slate, or of certain mines, as of
copper, or lead, or iron found therein, is not an uncommon
proceeding, and the knowledge or want of knowledge at the
time by the grantee in such cases, of the property reserved in
no respect affects the transfer to him of the title to it. No
one will affirm that want of such knowledge on the identification of the lands granted, containing the reserved quarries
or mines, would vacate the reservation, and we are unable to
perceive any more reason from that cause for eliminating the
reservation of minierals in the present case from the grant of
the government than for eliminating for a like cause the res-

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 315
Opinion of the Court.

ervation of quarries or mines in the cases supposed. And it
will hardly be pretended that Congress has not the power to
grant portions of the public land with a reservation of any
severable products thereof, whether minerals or quarries contained therein, and whether known or unknown; yet such
must be the contention of the plaintiff or its conclusion will
fall to the ground. The cases cited in support of the claim
of the plaintiff only show that the identification of the sections granted and of the exceptions therefrom of parcels of
land previously disposed of, leaves the title of the remaining
sections or parts thereof, to attach as of the date of the gTant,
but has absolutely no other effect. Such is the purport, and
the sole purport, of the cases of St. PauZ and Pacific Railr'oad Company v. Nrthern Paific Company, 139 U. S. 1, 5,
and Deseret Salt Company v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241, 247, cited
by the plaintiff. In both of those cases the writer of this
opinion had the honor to write the opinions of this court: and
it was never asserted or pretended that they decided anything
whatever respecting the minerals, but only that the title to
the lands granted took effect, with certain designated exceptions, as of the date of the grant. They never decided anything else. And what was that title? It was of the lands
which at the time-of the grant were not reserved as minerals,
and of the lands which at the time of the location had not
been sold, reserved, or to which a preemption or homestead
right had not attached. If one were to sell land, reserving
therefrom the minerals of gold or silver found therein, and
tell the purchaser to take the surveyor and measure off-the
land, would it be urged or preteiided- that the moment the
surveyor ascertained the boundaries of the land sold the reservation of the minerals then undiscovered would be eliminated? Would any one uphold the reasoning, or the doctrine,
which would assert such a conclusion? And can any one
see the difference between the case now before us and the case
supposed? Not a word was said or suggested in the cases
cited about the elimination of the reservation for that cause;.
and not only in the cases cited by the plaintiff, but in a Tnultitude of other cases, almost without number, a like silence

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

was observed. In none of them was it ever pretended that
the ascertainment of the location of the lands granted operated
to withdraw from the grant the reservation of the minerals
then undisclosed. The grant did not exist without the exception of minerals therefrom, and Congress has declared, in
positive terms, that the act shall not be construed to embrace
them, and there is nothing in any of' the cases cited in the
plaintiff's contention which indicates in the slightest degree
that the original exception was subsequently qualified.
It seems to us as plain as language can make it that the
intention of Congress was to exclude from the grant actual
mineral lands, whether known or unknown, and not merely
such as were at the time known to be mineral. After the
plaintiff had complied with all the conditions of the grant,
performed every duty respecting it, and among other things
thlat of definitely fixing the line of the route, its grant was
still limited to odd sections which were not mineral at the
time of the grant, and also to those which were not reserved,
sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and were free from
preemption and other claims or rights at the time the line
of the road was definitely fixed, and was coupled with the
condition that all mineral lands were excluded from its operation, and that, in lieu thereof, a like quantity of unoccupied
and unappropriated, agricultural lands, in odd sections, -nearest to the line of the road, might be selected.
There is, in our judgment, a fundamental mistake made by
the plaintiff in the consideration of the grant. Mineral lands
were not conveyed, but by the grant itself and the subsequent
resolution of Congress cited were specifically reserved to the
United States and excepted from the operations of the grant.
Therefore, they were not to be located at all, and if in fact
located they could not pass under the grant. 'Mineral lands
being absolutely reserved from the inception of the grant,
Congress further provided that at the time of the location of
the road other lands should be excepted, viz., those previously
sold, reserved, or to which a homestead or pre'mption right
had attached.
It is difficult to perceive the principle upon which the term

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 317
Opinion of the Court.

is sought to be inserted in the act of Congress, either
to limit the extent of its grant or the extent of its mineral,
though its purpose is apparent. It is to add to the convenience of the grantee and enhance the value of its grant. But
to change the meaning of the act is not in the power of th4
plaintiff, and to insert by construction what is expressly excluded is in terms prohibited. Besides the impossibility,
according to recognized rules of construction, of incorporating
in a statute a new term- one inconsistent with its express
declarations - there are many reasons for holding that the
omission of the word "known," as defining the extent of the
mineral lands excluded, was purposely intended.
The grant to the railroad company was, as we have already
mentioned, two thousand miles in length and forty miles in
width, making an area of eighty thousand square miles, a
territory nearly equal in extent to that of Ohio and New
York combined. This territory was known to embrace in its
hills and mountains great quantities of minerals of various
kinds, and among others those of gold and silver. It was
sparsely inhabited and in many districts of large extent was
entirely unoccupied. The policy of Congress as expressed in
its numerous grants of public lands to aid in the construction
of railroads has always been to exclude the mineral lands
from them, and reserve them for special disposition, as seen
in the following acts among others: Acts of July 1, 1862,
c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, and of July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356,
making grants to the Union and Central Pacific Companies;
act of July 4, 1866, c. 165, 14 Stat. 83, making a grant to the
Iron Mountain Railroad Company; act of July 13, 1866,
c. 182, 14 Stat. 94, making a grant to the Placerville &c. Railroad; act of July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239, making a grant
to the California and Oregon Railroad, sections 2 and 10; act
of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, making a grant to the
Atlantic and Pacific Railr6ad and to the Southern Pacific
Railroad; act of March 2, 1867, c. 189, 14 Stat. 548, making
a grant to the Stockton and Copperopolis Railroad; act of
March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573, making a grant to the
Texas Pacific Railroad. In all of these cases, and in all grants
"known"

318-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the C6urt.

of public lands in aid of railroads, minerals (except iron and
coal) have uniformly been reserved, and in no instance has
such a grant been held to pass them. Patents issued after
an examination and determination of the fact by the government whether portions of the land embraced in such grants
did or did not contain other minerals have been held as conclusive in subsequent controversies, and of this we shall speak
more fully hereafter; but grants in aid of railroads (and we
speak of no other grants) before such deternination and issue
of a patent have never been held to pass other minerals than
iron or coal, and it is only with other minerals, and with lands
containing them, that we are concerned in this case.
When the act was passed making the grant to the plaintiff,
it would have been impossible to state with any accuracy what
parts of the tract contained minerals and what did not. That
fact could only be ascertained after extensive and careful explorations, and it is not reasonable to suppose that Congress
would have left that important fact dependent upon the simple designation by the plaintiff of the line of its road, and the
possible disclosure of minerals by the way, instead of leaving
it to future and special explorations for their discovery. To
suppose that Congress intended any such limitation would be
to impute to it a desire that its exclusion of minerals from the
grant should be defeated, which it is impossible to admit. It
is cbnceded that in the interpretation of statutes like the one
before us, reference may be had not only to the physical condition of the country and its surroundings, but that its political conditions and necessities may also be congidered. The
tract granted covered a belt believed to be rich in miner~als
of gold and silver, and tho United States weie at the time
engaged in a terrific, conflict for the preservation of the Union,
incurring an immense debt, exceeding two thousand millions,
and many of their citizens, -engaged in the struggle, looked
forward hopefully and confidently to this source for relief to
the burdened- treasury. And we cannot with reason suppose
that, under these circumstances, the United States intended
that the control of this source of wealth and relief should be
taken from them. It passes belief that they could have de-

BARDEN v. ]NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 319
Opinion of the Court.

liberately designed in this hour of sore distress and fearful
pressure upon their finances, to give away to a corporation Of
their own creation not only an imperial domain in land but
the boundless wealth that might lie buried in the mineral
regions covered by 80,000 square miles. They knew that the
mineral belt over which the proposed railroad was to pass was
almost entirely unexplored. They, therefore, retained from
their grant the mineral lands, whether known or unknown,
and left the discovery of the minerals to future explorations,
and their disposition to future legislation. We can never
admit that, at the time and under the circumstances upon
which the grant was made, Congress intended that its clear
words of exclusion of minerals should be interpreted to mean
the exact reverse-that when it declared that "no act of
Congress granting lands in aid of railroads" passed during
the session of 1864 (the session at which the grant under consideration was made) should "be construed to embrace minerals," it meant that such act might be so construed. Never
has it as yet fallen to Congress to deceive by its legislation
and juggle in this way.
To incorpoi'ate the term "known" into the act and add it to
the description of the mineral excepted would also contravene
a settled rule in the construction of grants like the one before
us, that nothing will pass to the grantee by .implication or
inference, unless essential to the use and enjoyment of the
thing granted, and that exceptions intended for the benefit of
the public are to be maintained and liberally construed. As
justly observed by counsel for the defendant in their very able
brief, "the reservation 'in the grant of mineral lands was
intended to 'keep them under government control for the
public good, in the development of the mineral resources of
the country, and the benefit and protection of the miner and
explorer, instead of compelling him to litigate or capitulate
with a stupendous corporation and ultimately succumb to such
terms, subject to such conditions, and amenable to such
servitudes as it might see proper to impose. The government
has exhibited its beneficence in reference to its mineral lands
as it has in the disposition of its agricultural lands, where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

claims and rights of the settlers are fully protected. The
privilege of exploring for mineral lands was in full force at
the time of the location of the definite line of the road, and
was a right reserved and excepted out of the grant at that
time."
Some weight is sought to be given by counsel of tne plaintiff to the allegation that the lands in controversy are included
in the section which was surveyed in 1868 and a plat thereof

filed by the surveyor in the local laud office in September of
that year, from which it is asserted that the character of the
land was ascertained and determined, and reported to be agricultural and not mineral. But the conclusive answer to such
alleged determination and report is that the matters to which
they relate were not left to the surveyor general. Neither he
nor any of his subordinates was authorized to determine finally
the character of any lands granted or make any binding report
thereon. Information of the character of all lands surveyed
is required of surveying officers, so far as knowledge respecting them is obtained in the course of their duties, but they
are not clothed with authority to especially examine as to
these matters outside of their other duties, or determine
them, nor does their report have any binding force. It is
simply an addition made to the general information obtained
from different sources on the subject. In Cole v. .Markley,
(2 Decisions Dept. of the Interior relating to Public Lands,
847-849,) Mr. Teller, when Secretary of the Interior, in a
communication to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, speaks at large of the notations of surveyors, and says:
"Public and official information was the object of these notations, with a view to preventing entry until the facts are finally
determined. They should be, and they are, only primafacie
evidence, and subject to be rebutted by satisfactory proof of
the real character of the land." The determination of the
character of the land granted by Congress, in any case,
whether agricultural or mineral, or swamp or timber land, is
placed in the officers of the Land Department, whose action is
subject to the revision of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and on appeal from him by the Secretary of the

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

321

Opinion of the Court.

Interior. Under their direction and supervision the actual
character of the land may be determined and fully established. The effect of a patent issued by them under the
authority of Congress, as to such matters, we shall presently
consider. .In the present case the mineral character of the
lands in controversy is conceded. They are alleged in the
complaint to be mineral lands containing gold and silver and
other precious metals.
Nor is there any force in the averments that in November,
1868, the plaintiff listed the section embracing the mineral
lands in c6ntroversy, with other sections, as portions of its
grant, and filed the lists in the local land office at Helena
and paid the receiver's fees for filing the same; and that the
register and receiver accepted, allowed, and approved the
list, and certified the same to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that no part of the fees has ever been
refunded. The act of Congress does not provide that selections of the lands by the plaintiff, as a part of its grant, shall
in any respect change its purport and effect and eliminate
any of its reservations; nor does it empower the officers of
the local land office to 'accept the list as conclusive with
respect to such grant in any particular. There was, therefore, no obligation on the part of any one to refund to the
plaintiff the fees paid on filing the list mentioned, when an
attempt is made to do away with its supposed effect.
There is, in our opinion, no merit in any of the positions
advanced by the plaintiff in support of its claim to the mineral lands in controversy. The language of the grant to the
plaintiff is free from ambiguity. The exclusion from its operation of all mineral lands is entirely clear, and if there were
any doubt respecting it, the established rule of construction
applicable to statutes making such grants would compel a
construction favorable to the grantor.
Some reference should be made here to the language used
in the cases of Deifeback v. Hawke, 115 U S. 392, and Davis
v. Wabiold, 139 U. S. 507, as it is contended that it is in conflict with the views expressed in the present case. If so, the
writer of this opinion, who was also the writer of the opinions•
V-oL. crIv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in both of the cases cited, must take the responsibility of any
conflict with the views now expressed. It is more important
that the court should be right upon later and more elaborate
consideration of the cases than consistent with previous
declarations. Those doctrines only will eventually stand
which bear the strictbst examination and the test of experience.
The case of Defebac v. Hawke arose in this wise: The
plaintiff asserted title to mineral lands under a patent of the
United States, founded upon an entry under the laws of Congress, for the sale of mineral lands. The defendant, not
having the legal title, claimed a better right to the premises
by virtue of a previous occupation of them by his grantor as
a lot on a portion of the public lands appropriated and used
as a town site - that is, settled upon for purposes of trade
and business, and not for agriculture, and laid out into streets,
lots, bloks, and alleys for that purpose. And it was held by
this court that no title from the United States to land known
at the time of sale to be valuable for its minerals of gold,
silver, cinnabar, or copper could be obtained under the preemption or homestead laws, or the town-site laws, or in any,
other way than as prescribed by the laws specially authorizing
the sale of such lands. These three cases, those under the
preemption and homestead laws and town-site act, were
classed together. It was found that under the preEmption
and homestead act lands containing known saline deposits and
mines could not be purchased. In the town-site act it was
provided that by virtue of its provisions no title could be
acquired to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper, or
to any valid mining claim or possession held under existing
laws. And under the mineral act of Congress it was provided
that in all cases lands valuable for minerals should be reserved
from sale except as otherwise expressly provided. The court
held that under those acts land could be purchased which was
not known to be mineral; and from this the inference was
drawn that only lands known at the time of the sale to be
valuable for minerals could be excluded, and if they were not
thus known to be valuable for minerals a sale might be had.

BARDEN v. NOKi'HERN PACIFIG RAILROAD.

323

Opinion of the Court.

This was not a case arising upon a grant like the one under
consideration at present; but, inasmuch as the law of Congress authorized lands valuable for minerals to be sold gener:
ally under the mineral act, and excluded from sale mineral
lands when claimed for homesteads or preCmiption or for town
sites, it was thought that these conflicting provisions of law
would be reconciled by simply excluding from the sale lands
known at the time to be mineral. But that case has no bearing upon the present one involving the construction of an act
of Congress declaring in express terms that no mineral lands
shall be conveyed by the grant made.
The case of Davis v. Weibbold was an action on the part of
a mineral claimant who had obtained a patent in January,
1880, of a parcel of land within the exterior limits of Butte
town site, subsequently to the patent for the town site.
When the entry of the town site was had and the patent
issued, and a sale was thereafter made to the defendant of
the lots held by him, it was not known -at least, it does not.
appear that it was known- that there were any valuable
mineral lands within the town site, and the question was
whether in the absence of this knowledge the defendant,
who claimed under the town-site patent, could be deprived
by the laws of the United States of the premises purchased
and occupied by him, because of a subsequent discovery of
minerals in them, and the issue of a patent to the discoverer
under whom the plaintiff claimed. The court said that the
declaration that no title could be acquired under the provisions relating to such town sites and the sale of lands therein
to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar, or copper, or to any
valid mining claim or possession held under existing laws,
would seem on first impression to constitute a reservation of
such mines in the land sold, and of mining claims on them,
to the United States; but such was held not to be the necessary meaning of the terms used; in strictness they imported
only that the provisions by which the title to the land in such
town sites was transferred should not be the means of passing
a title also to mines of gold, silver, cinnabar, or copper in the
land, or to valid mining claims or possessions thereon; but

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that they were to be read in connection with the clause
protecting existing rights to mineral veins; and with the
qualification uniformly accompanying exceptions in acts of
Congress of mineral lands from grant or sale. Thus read, the
court held that they merely prohibited the passage of title
under the provisions of the town-site laws to mines of gold,
silver, cinnabar, or copper, which were known to exist on the
issue of the town-site patent and to mining claims and mining
possessions, in respect to which such proceedings had been
taken under the law or the custom of miners, as to render
them valid, creating a property right in the holder, and not
to prohibit the acquisition for all time of mines which then
lay buried unknown in the depths of the earth. The patent
for the town site was therefore held to cover minerals subsequently discovered in the lands patented. The patent was in
law a declaration that minerals did not exist in the premises
when it was issued, and the subsequent acquisition of minerals in the town site was within the specific authorization of
the act of Congress that all valuable minerals should be open
for exploration and sale. There is a marked distinction between that case, under the town-site law, and the present case,
under a grant of Congress excluding mineral lands from its
operation, although it is conceded that some of the language
used is broader than the necessities of the case required. Yet
the effect given to the town-site patent will be found not inconsistent with the views hereafter expressed in the present
case.
Some effect is also sought to be given to the fact that Congress authorized the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to
place a mortgage upon its entire property. Admitting that
such is the fact, the conclusion claimed does not follow. Congress thereby only authorized a mortgage upon the property
granted to the company, which was the lands without minerals. The mortgage could not cover more than the property
granted. So also it is said that the States and Territories
through which the road passes would not be able to tax the
property of the company, unless they could tax the whole
property, minerals as well as lands. We do not see why not.

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

325

Opinion of the Court.

The authority to tax the property granted to the company
did not give authority to tax the minerals which were not
granted. The property could be appraised without including
any consideration of the minerals. The value of the property
excluding the minerals could be as well estimated as its value
including them. The property could be taxed for its value to
the extent of the title which is of the land.
The grant under consideration is one of a public nature.
It covers an immense domain, greater in extent than the area
of some of our largest States, and it must be strictly construed. It would seem from the frequency with which we
have announced this doctrine that it should be forever closed
against further question, but as the most extravagant pretensions are made in the plaintiff's construction of the present
grant, we will venture to refer to one or two of the important
judicial declarations on that subject.
The general rule, when grants relate to matters of public
interest, is thus forcibly expressed by Chief Justice Taney:
"The object and end of all government," said the Chief Justice, speaking for the court, "is to promote the happiness and
prosperity of the community by which it is established; and
it can never be assumed that the government intended to
diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was
created. . . . The continued existence of a government
would be of no great value, if by implications and presumptions it was disarmed of the powers necesary to accomplish
the ends of its creation; and the functions it was designed to
perform transferred to the hands of privileged corporations."
Charles River Bridge Co. v. Warren Bridge Co., 11 Pet. 420,

517.
In Leavenworth Railroad Company v. United States, 92 U. S.
733, this court said: "The rules which govern the interpretation of legislative grants . . . apply as well to grants of
lands to States to aid in building railroads as to grants of
special privileges to private corporations. In both cases the
legislature, prompted by the supposed wants of the public,
confers on others the means of securing an object the accomplishment of which it desires to promote, but declines to un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dertake.

.

.

If the terms are plain and unambiguous,

there can be no difficulty in interpreting them; but if they
admit of different meanings, one of extension and one of limitation, they must be accepted in a sense favorable to the
grantor."
In Winona dc. v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618, 625, speaking of
the construction of legislative grants, the court said: "They
are to receive such a construction as will carry out the intent
of Congress, however difficult it might be to give full effect
to. the language used if the grants were by instruments of
private conveyance. To ascertain that intent we must look
to the condition of the country when the acts were passed,
as well as to tle purpose declared on their face, and read all
parts of them together."
The earnest contention of the counsel of the plaintiff arises
principally, we think, from an unfounded apprehension that
our interpretation will lead to uncertainty in the titles of the
country. If the exception of the government is not limited to
known minerals, the title, it is said, may be defeated years
after the land has passed into the hands of the grantee, and
improvements of great extent and value have been made upon
its faith. It is conceded to be of the utmost importance to the
prosperity of the country that titles to lands and to minerals in
them shall be settled, and not be the subject of constant and
ever-recurring disputes and litigation, to the disturbance of individuals, and the annoyance of the public. We do not think
that any apprehension of disturbance in titles from the views
we assert need arise., The law places under the supervision
of the Interior Department and its subordinate officers, acting
under its direction, the control of all matters affecting the
disposition of public lands of the United States, and the adjustment of private claims to them under the legislation of
Congress. It can hear contestants and decide upon the
respective merits of their claims. It can investigate and
settle the contentions of all persons with respect to such
claims. It can hear evidence upon and determine the character of lands to which different parties assert a right; and
when. the controversy before it is fully considered and ended,

BARDEN v. NOTHERN PACIFIC IAILROAD.

327

Opinion of the Court.

it can issue to the rightful claimant the patent provided by
law, specifying that the lands are of the character for which
a patent is authorized. It can thus determine whether the
lands called for are swamp lands, timber lands, agricultural
lands, or mineral lands, and so designate them in the patent
which it issues. The act of Congress making the grant to
the plaintiff provides for the issue of a patent to the grantee
for the land claimed, and as the grant excludes mineral lands
in the direction for such patent to issue, the Land Office can
examine into the character of the lands, and designate it in
its conveyance.
It is the established doctrine, expressed in numerous decisions of this court, that wherever Congress has provided for
the disposition of any portion of the public lands, of a particular character, and authorizes the officers of the Land
Department to issue a patent for such'laud upon ascertainment of certain facts, that department has jurisdiction to
inquire into and determine as to the existence of such facts,
and in the absence of fraud, imposition, or mistake, its determination is conclusive against collateral attack.
In Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 640, 641, this court
thus spoke of the Land Department in the transfer of public
lands: "The patent of the United States is the conveyance
by which the nation passes its title to portions of the public
domain. For the transfer of that title the law has made
numerous provisions, designating the persons who may acquire
it and the terms of its acquisition. That the provisions may
be properly carried out the Land Department, as part of the
administrative and executive -branch of the government, has
been created to supervise ,ll the various proceedings taken
to obtain the title from their commencement to their close.
In the course of their duty the officers of that department
are constantly called upon to hear testimony as to matters
presented for their consideration and to pass upon its competency, credibility, and weight. In that respect they exercise a judicial function, and therefore it has been held in
various .instances by this court that their judgment as to
matters of fact properly determinable by them is conclusive,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

when brought to notice in a collateral proceeding. Their
judgment in such cases is like that of other special tribuials
upon matters within their exclusive jurisdiction, unassailable
except by a direct proceeding for its correction or annulment.
The execution and record of the patent are the final acts of
the officers of the government for the transfer of its title,
and as they can be lawfully performed only after certain
steps have been taken, that instrument, duly signed, countersigned, and sealed, not merely operates to pass the title, but
is in the nature of an official declaration by that branch of
the government to which the alienation of the public lands,
under the law, is entrusted, that all the requirements preliminary to its issue have been complied with. The presumptions thus attending it are not open to rebuttal in an action
of law."
In Steele v. Smeldting Co., 106 U. S. 447, 450, the language
of the court was that: "The Land Department, as we have
repeatedly said, was established to supervise various proceedings whereby a conveyance of the title from the United States
to portions of the public domain is obtained, and to see that
the requirements of different acts of Congress are fully complied with. Necessarily, therefore, it must consider and pass
upon the qualification of the applicant, the acts he has performed to secure the title, the nature of the land, and whether
it is of the class which is open to sale. Its judgment upon
these matters is that of a special tribunal, and is unassailable
except by direct proceedings for its annulment or limitation."
In Heata v. TFallace, 138 U. S. 573, 585, it was held that
"the question whether or not lands returned as 'subject to
periodical overflow' are 'swamp and overflowed lands' is a
question of fact properly determinable by the Land Department." And Mr. Justice Lamar added: "It is settled by an
unbroken line of decisions of this court in land jurisprudence
that the decisions of that department uponI matters of fact
within its jurisdiction are, in the absence of fraud or imposition, conclusive and binding on the courts of the country."
If the Land Department must decide what lands shall not be
patented because reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appro-

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

329

Opinion of the Court.
priated, or because not free from predmption or other claims or
rights at the time the line of the road is definitely fixed, it
must also decide whether lands are excepted because they are
mineral lands. It has always exercised this jurisdiction in
patenting lands which were alleged to be mineral, or in refusing to patent them because the evidence was insufficient to
show that they contained minerals in such quantities as
to justify the issue of the patent. If, as suggested by counsel, when the Secretary of the Interior has under consideration a list of lands to be patented to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, it is shown that part of said lands contain
minerals of gold and silver, discovered since the company's
location of its road opposite thereto, he would not perform his
duty, stated in EnzigAt v. Land A8sociation, 142 U. S. 161,
178, as the "supervising agent of the government to do justice to all claims and preserve the rights of the people of the
United States," by certifying the list until corrected in accordance with the discoveries made known to the department.
Tie would not otherwise discharge the trust reposed in him in
the administration of the law respecting the public domain.
There are undoubtedly many cases arising before the
Land Department in the disposition of the public lands where
it will be a matter of much difficulty on the part of its officers to ascertain with accuracy whether the lands to be disposed of are to be deemed mineral lands or agricultural
lands, and in such cases the rule adopted that they will be
considered mineral or agricultural as they are more valuable
in the one class or the other, may be sound. The officers will
be governed by the knowledge of the lands obtained at the
time as to their real character. The determination of the
fact by those officers that they are one or the other will be
considered as conclusive.
In the case of the Central Pacifi 7 zilroad Company v.
Valentine, 11 Land Dec. 238, 246, the late Secretary of the
Interior, Mr. Noble, speaks of the practice of the Land Department in issuing patents to railroad lands. His language is:
"The very fact, if it be true, that the office of the patent is to
define and identify the land granted, and to evidence the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
.Opinion of the Court.

title which vested by the act, necessarily implies that there
exists jurisdiction in some tribunal to ascertain and determine
what lands were subject to the grant and capable of passing
thereunder. Now, this jurisdiction is in the Land Department, and it continues, as we have seen, until the lands have
been either patented or certified to or for the use of the railroad company. By reason of this jurisdiction it has been the
practice of that department for many years past to refuse to
issue patents to railroad companies for lands found to be
mineral in character at any time before the date of patent.
Moreover, I am informed by the officers in charge of the
mineral division of the Land Department that.ever since the
year 1867 (the date when that division was organized) it has
been the uniform practice to allow and maintain mineral
locations within the geographical limits of railroad grants,
based upon discoveries made at any time before patent or
certification where patent is not required. This practice
having been uniformly followed and generally accepted for
so long a time there should be, in my judgment, the clearest
evidence of error as well as the strongest reasons of policy
and justice controlling before a departure from it should be
sanctioned. It has, in effect, become a rule of property."
It is true that the patent has been issued in many instances
without the investigation and consideration which the public
interest requires; but if that has been done without fraud,
though unadvisedly by officers of the government charged
with the duty of supervising and attending to the preparation
and issue of such patents, the consequence must be borne by
the government until by further legislation a stricter regard
to their duties in that respect can be enforced upon. them.
The fact remains that under the law the duty of determining
the character of the lands granted by Congress, and stating
it in instruments transferring the title of the government to
the grantees, reposes in officers of the Land Department.
Until such patent is issued, defining the character of the land
granted and showing that it is non-mineral, it will not comply
with the act of Congress in which the grant before us was
made to plaintiff. The grant, even when all the acts required

BARDEN v. NOWTHERN PACIFIC RAIILROAD.

331

Opinion of the Court.

of the grantees are performed, only passes a title to non-mineral lands; but a patent issued in proper form, upon a judgment rendered after a due examination of the subject by
officers of the Laud Department, charged with its preparation
and issue, that the lands were non-mineral, would, unless set
aside and annulled by direct proceedings, estop the government from contending to the contrary, and as we have already
said in the absence of fraud in the officers of the department,
would be conclusive in subsequent proceedings respecting the
title.
The delay of the government in issuing a patent to the
plaintiff, of which great complaint is made, does not affect
the power of the company, to assert in the meantime, by possessory action, (as held in Deseret Salt Company v. Tarpey,
142 U. S. 241,) its right to lands which are in fact non-miieral. But such delay, as well observed, cannot have the
effect of entitling it to recover, as is contended in this case,
lands which it admits to be mineral. The government cannot
be reasonably expected to issue its patent, and it is not authorized to do so, without excepting mineral lands, until it has had
an opportunity to haVe the country, or that part of it for
which a patent is sought, sufficiently explored to justify its
declaration in the patent, which would be taken as its determination, that no mineral lands exist therein.
On the other hand, an affirmance of the judgment in this
case would enlarge the grant of the government against its
oft-repeated exception of mineral lands, and give to the plaintiff the vast mineral-wealth of the States t]irough which the
grant passes. .It would render the plaintiff corporation imperial in its resources - one that would far outshine "1the wealth
of Ormus and of Ind." And, as counsel justly observes, the
same rule would apply to all our transcontinental railroads
and give to them nearly all our mineral lands, when Congress
has time and again declared that they should have no mineral
lands, and that no act of Congress should be construed to give
them any; and that they "in all cases shall be and are reserved exclusively to the United States unless otherwise spec,
ially provided in the act or acts making the grant."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

It is unnecessary to pursue this subject any further. We
will only observe that we do not notice the numerous assertions
made in the argument of the plaintiff, as to what has been
decided by this court and what is the settled rule in cases of
railroad grants by Congress embracing mineral lands, the correctness of which we do not admit. The official reports will
disclose wherein the errors lie sufficiently for the attainment
of accuracy of statement in matters of judicial decision.
The plaintiff in this case, not having a patent, and relying
solely upon its grant, which gives no title to the minerals
within any of its lands, shows by its complaint no cause of
action for the possession of the mineral lands claimed. The
demurrer of the defendants should have been sustained, and
judgment entered thereon in their favor.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court in this
case must be
Reversed andthe caueremanded to that court with directions
to sustain the demurrer of the defendants and enterju&ment thereon in theirfavor with costs.
MR. JUSTICE BEREwE, with whom concurred MR. JUsTIcE
GRAY and MR. JUSTICE SHRAs, dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case. The burden of the opinion seems to be that the magnitude of that which is supposed to pass by the grant, as construed by defendant in error, is so great that it cannot be
believed that Congress intended to make such a donation;
and, therefore, rules of decision, repeatedly affirmed and
hitherto the settled law in the construction of such grants,
are set aside and a new rule established, whether applicable
to this grant alone, or also hereafter to be considered as applicable to the whole body of law in respect to public lands I
know not, nor is it affirmed. I respectfully insist that the magnitude of the loss supposed to result to the government is a
mere chimera of the imagination - ignotum pro magnifico and that even if it be ever so great, it furnishes no ground for
a departure from settled rules and established law,

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 333
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

The grant of land to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company is enormous; no one disputes that; but before being
appalled by its magnitude it is fitting that a comparison be
made between it and others, accepted and construed without
fear of results. If it be said that its total area is vastly in
excess of that of any other Congressional grant, it must at
the same time be remembered that the length of the road, in
aid of whose construction it was made, is also greatly in excess of that of any other road theretofore or since thus aided.
The only fair method of comparison is that by mile. Tested
in that way it is the same as other grants. Texas Pacific
Railroad grant, Act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573.
And it is only twice as large as that to the Union Pacific
Railroad and the Central Pacific Railroad, and they in addition were aided by the bonds of the nation to the amount of
$16,000 a mile, with an increase (in the mountainous portions
of the road) to $32,000 per mile. I affirm that the value of
the grant, unquestioned hitherto, to the Union Pacific Railroad and the Central Pacific.Railroad Companies was greater
per mile than that to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
and that this defendant in error would at any time have been
glad to make an exchange therefor mile for mile.
It is true that the country through which this proposed
road was- to run was, in 1861, an unknown and uninhabited
region, but I deduce therefrom a conclusion the very opposite
of that drawn in the opinion of the court. The corporation,
the recipient of this grant, would never have moved in the construction of the road if it had not supposed that, upon the definite location of its line, it would receive, in accordance with the
rulings of this court, an absolute and unquestioned title to all
the lands within the limits of its grant, at that time not taken
by homestead or preemption right and not known to be mineral lands, and thus excepted from the operation of the grant;
neither would the mortgage placed upon the road and its land
grant, as authorized by the act of Congress, have ever successfully appealed to the confidence of the possessors of money
except upon like belief. The limits of the place lands were
fixed by the terms of the act, and also the limits of the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

demnity lands. If at the time of the definite location there
was no certainty as to what lands within the place limits
passed by the grant, there was also an equal uncertainty as
to what lands within the indemnity limits could be selected,
and an absolute impossibility of making any selection because
of ignorance as to the extent of the loss in the place limits;
and when it is affirmed that at the time of the definite location
there was no certainty as to whether any lands passed by this
grant either within the place or indemnity limits, the assertion is necessarily that the mortgagees were invited to loan
their money upon a security, of the existence of any part of
which there was no certainty, and could not be, any certainty,
until after Congress by a subsequent act had appropriated
money for an exploration, of which there is no hint in the
granting act. Such an assertion is equivalent to saying that
Congress invited parties to lend upon real estate security, the
title to no acre of which no act of mortgagor or mortgagee
could ever certainly secure. It may be that in the far days
to come (and thirty years have passed since the passage of
the act without any effort on the part of Congress in that
direction) it-shall suit Congress to appropriate money for an
exploration of the character of these lands, and it may then
be found that every quarter section, though not known to be
when the line was definitely located and the road fully constructed, is in fact possessed of minerals, and therefore excepted from the operation of the grant. I respectfully submit
that it ought not to be imputed to Congress that it invited a
loan on securities which might turn out to be but apples of
Sodom - beautiful .t6 the eye, but ashes to the taste. Much is said of the possible mineral wealth within the area
of this grant, and we are told that, when the government was
in the financial stress caused by the war, it is not to be
supposed that Congress would willingly throw away this
enormous mineral wealth; but surely that suggestion has
not even the semblance of force. There has been no reservation of mines or minerals to the government. On the contrary, the entire purpose in respect to mines has been and is
expressed in the two rules: First, ordinary lands are given to

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIO RAILROAD.

335

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

all willing to make homesteads of them, and sold to others
for $1.25 per acre, and when conveyed carried all mines and
minerals beneath the surface; second, as to the ungranted
and still public lands, they are open to exploration by individuals, and the discoverer of mines is entitled to purchase the
land, embracing the mines, on the payment of $5 per acre, if
tlhe mine is a lode or vein, and $2.50 an acre if it is a placer
mine.
Obviously no visions of an undiscovered "wealth of Ormius
or of Ind," out of which the debts of the war were to be paid,
floated before the eyes of Congress when this legislation was
pending and prompted the exception of mineral lands. The
only purpose was to secure to the individual explorer an
opportunity to search for the as yet undiscovered mines. But
that purpose was no more significant and no stronger than
that to secure to the individual emigrant the opportunity to
acquire a homestead, or to prefmpt a farm. And this right,
as always held, expired when the definite location of the road
was made. Under what theory can it be said that it was
more important and more within the thought of Congress to
give time to the individual to hunt through the country in
pursuit of mines than to the emigrant pioneer to locate a
home or purchase a farm ?
But it is said that Congress never meant that this vast
mineral wealth should pass to this corporation, and that the
individual must contract with that coriioration for the purchase
of any mine. And yet with a strange inconsistency, as it
seems to me, before the opinion is closed it is declared, in effect,
that Congress meant that when the President should issue a
patent, the mineral wealth, vast as it is supposed to be, should
then pass to the corporation. If Congress by its legislation
excluded mineral lands from the scope of this grant, then
surely no executive officer is authorized to convey mineral
lands, and even the patent of the President passes no title
thereto. The concession, that a patent conveys the mines as
incident to the conveyance of the land is a concession that the
language of the grant, excluding from the operation of the
grant mineral lands, is not to be taken absolutely; and leaves

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, J.

the only difference between the opinion of the court and my
own that of the time as to which the identification of the lands
as mineral lands is to be had.
Coming to the matter of identification, the rule uniformly
laid down heretofore - in the construction of all railroad
grants, including those with like exception of mineral lands has been that the identification takes place at the time of the
definite location. Out of the multitude of cases in which this
doctrine has been laid down I quote from one in which this
very grant to the Northern Pacific was under consideration.
In St. Paul 4 Paoific Railroadv. .orthern Paoific Railroad, 139 U. S.- 1, 5, it NVas said:
"As seen by the terms of the third section of the act, the
grant ii oile inp ceseni ; that is, it purports to pass a present
title to the lands designated by alternate sections, subject to
such excepio&fi# reservations as may arise from sale, grant,
pre~mpionI pr other disposition previous to the time the
definiteroute of the road is fixbd.
"This is the construction given to similar grants by this
court, where the question has often been considered; indeed,
it is so well settled as to be no longer open to discussion.
&Ahulenberg v. la/rHrman, 21 Wall. 44, 60; Leavenworth,
Lawrence, &c. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733;
-Missouri,Rasas, &c. Railway v. Kansas Paciflc Railway,
97 U. S. 491; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426.
"It is contended that they axe qualified, and restricted by
the provision of the fourth section, that whenever twenty-five
miles of the road are completed in a good, substantial, and
workmanlike manner, and the commissioners appointed to
examine the same have made a report to that effect to the
President, patents shall be issued ' confirming to said company
the right and title to said lands, situated opposite to, and
coterminous with, said completed section of said road.' This
provision, it is urged, is inconsistent with the theory that a
title to the lands had previously vested in the company. We
do not think so. There are many reasons why patents should
be issued upon the completion of each section of the road.
They would not only identify the lands as coterminous with

BARDEN- v.

ORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

337

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ6

the completed section, but they would be evidende that, as to
that portion of the road, the conditions of the grant had been
complied with, and that it was thus freed from any liability
to forfeiture for a disregard of them. They would also
obviate the necessity of any further evidence of the grantee's
title. As deeds of further assurance they would thus be of
great value in giving quiet and peace to the grantee's possession. There are many instances in the legislation of Congress
where patents are authorized to be issued to parties in further
assurance of their title, notwithstanding a previous legislative
grant to them or a legislative confirmation of a previously
existing claim. The previous grant or confirmation is in no
respect impaired thereby, or its construction affected. See on
this point Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521; WMight v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488, 497."
I refer also to the case of Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142
U. S. 241, 247. That was a case involving the construction of
the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, which
grant, as the one before us, excluded from its operation
mineral lands; no patent had issued for the particular tracts;
the plaintiff claimed by lease from the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and brought an action of ejectment against
the defendant in possession. The trial court charged the jury
that, although no patent had been issued, on the definite
location of the line of the road, the title to the lands within
the place limits passed to the company unless they had been
previously sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the
United States, or a preenption, homestead, swamp-land, or
other lawful claim had attached to them, or they were known
to be mineral lands or were returned as such. A judgment
rendered in favor of the plaintiff upon such an instruction was
sustained by this court, and it was distinctly held that a full
title had passed to the railroad company. There was no pretence in that case of any ruling as to the character of the land
by the Interior Department or any determination by the Secretary of the Interior that this was not mineral land. In
disposing of the case this court said:
"By the terms of the act making the grant the contention
VOL. cLiv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

of the defendant is not supported. Those terms import the
transfer of a present title, not one to be made in the future.
They are that ' there be and is hereby granted ' to the company
every alternate section of the lands. No partial or limited
interest is designated, but the lands themselves are granted, as
they are described by the sections mentioned. Whatever interest the United States possessed in the lands was covered by
those terms, unless they were qualified by subsequent provisions, a position to be presently considered.
"In a great number of cases grants containing similar terms
have been before this court for consideration. They have
always received the same construction, that unless the terms
are restricted by other clauses, they import a grant in prcesenti,
carrying at once the interest of the grantor in the lands described. Schulenbergv. Barriman, 21 Wall. 44; Leavenworth,
Lawrence & Galveston Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S.
733.
"In Wisconsin Central Railroad Co. v. Price County, 133
U. S. 496, 507, referring to the different acts of Congress
making grants to aid in the construction of railroads, we
stated that they were similar in their general provisions, and
had been before this'court for consideration at different times,
and of the title they passed we said: ' The title conferred was
a present one, so as to insure the donation for the construction
of the road proposed against any revocation by Congress, except for non-performance of the work within the period designated, accompanied, however, with such restrictions upon the
use and disposal of the lands as to prevent their diversion from
the pnrposes of the grant.'
"As the sections granted were to be within a certain distance on each side of the line of the contemplated railroad,
they could not be located until the line of the road was fixed.
The grant was, therefore, in the nature of a ' float; ' but, when
the route of the road was definitely fixed, the sections granted
became susceptible of identification, and the title then attached
as of the date of the grant, except as to such parcels as had
been in the meantime under its provisions appropriated to
other purposes.

BARDEN

. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 339

Dibsenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

"That doctrine is very clearly stated in the Leavenworth
case cited above, where the language of the grant was identical with that of the one under consideration, and the court
said: I There be and is hereby granted,' are words of absolute
donation and import a grant inprmsenti. This courf has held
that they can have no other meaning, and the land department, on this interpretation of them, has uniformly administered every previous similar grant. They vest a present title
in the State of Kansas, (the grantee named,) though a survey
of the lands and a location of the road are necessary to give
precision to it and attach it to any particular tract. The grant
then becomes certain, and, by relation, has the same effect
upon the selected parcels as if it had specifically described
them.
" The terms used in the granting clause of lhe act of Congress, and the interpretation thus given to them, exclude the
idea that they are to be treated as words of contract or promise rather than, as they naturally import, as words indicating
an immediate transfer of interest. The title transferred is a
legal title, as distinguished from an equitable or inchoate interest."
It is a misconstruction of the decision to say that the court
only held that an action could be maintained for the possession of lands not mineral. For it was neither alleged nor
proved that the lands were not mineral, but simply that at
the date of the definite location they were not known to be
mineral. The same allegation and proof could have been made
in this case if the action had been brought two years before
the discovery of the mineral and four years after the definite
location, and the court then, under the authority of the Tarpey
case, would have been compelled to sustain a judgment in
favor of the company, declaring it the owner of the land,
while now it enters the very opposite judgment that the
company is not the owner. So, in the Tarpey case, if the day
after the opinion of this court had been announced some
enterprising explorer had discovered a mine of value within
the limits of the tract in controversy in that case, following
this opinion the court would have been compelled to hold that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

the company had no title, never had had any title, although it
had affirmed a judgment declaring that it had the title. It is
impossible to uphold such a difference of ruling on anything
equivalent to a condition subsequent. For as held in Schuleberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, no one can take advantage of
the non-performance of such a condition but the grantor or
his heirs or successors, and the government has taken no action
in respect to the title to this tract since the discovery of the
mineral.
These decisions. could be supplemented by a score and more
in which the same doctrine has been affirmed and reaffirmed
until, as said i4 the quotation first above made, "it is.
so well
settled as to be no longer open to discussion." All these authorities are in effect wholly overthrown by this decision, for there
is no identification of the lands passing by the grant unless it
is known and can be known at the time what lands pass.
Take any particular mile of the road; on either side of the
line, as located, there are twenty alternate sections within the
place limits. By the rule vow laid down, the title to no one
of these twenty sections passes to the company, because it is
not known absolutely which axe mineral lands.. So far as
known, none may bo mineral, and yet, as in this case before
us, six years after that line of definite location an exploration
develops the fact of minerals, and then it is declared that the
title did not pass. When you simply say, as the court does in
this opinion, that out of those twenty sections there shall pass
the title to such lands as shall thereafter be. found or be determined by -the Secretary of the Interior to be non-mineral
lands, you say in effect that there is no identification of a
single tract. This court has hitherto said that when the line
of definite location was fixed the lands granted were identified. That means, if it means anything, that the particular tracts
which passed by the grant were disclosed. INow it is said
that they are not disclosed, and cannot be identified as passing
by the grant until it shall be affirmatively proved that they
do not contain mines, or the Secretary of the Interior has
determined that they are not mineral lands. "There is, therefore, at the time no identification of the particular lands which

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RALIOAD. 341
Dissenthig Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

pass, as has always heretofore been declared. It is true, as
suggested, that it is no uncommon thing to make a grant of
lands with a reservation of mines or minerals, and if such were
the reservation in this case there would be no question as to
the matter of identification; but there is in this case no
reservation of mines or minerals; no land passes with a
reservation of anything underneath the surface. There is
simply an exception of mineral lands from the operation of
the grant, and there has got to be something to separate and
distinguish one class of lands, to wit, mineral lands, from the
other, non-mineral lands, before there is any identification as
to any lands. So, unless there is that which, at the time of
the definite location, distinguishes lands non-mineral from
lands mineral, there is no identification of any particular tract
as passing under this grant.
In the case of Davi's Administrator v. Weibbold, 139 U. S.
507, 524, this court said:
"It would seem from this uniform construction of that
department of the government specially entrusted with supervision of proceedings required for the alienation of the public
lands, including those that embrace minerals, and also of the
courts of the mining States, Federal and State, whose attention has been called to the subject, that the exception of
mineral lands from grant in the acts of Congress should be
considered to apply only to such lands as were at the time of.
the grant known to be so valuable for their minerals as to
justify expenditure for their extraction."
And again on page 519:
"The exceptions of mineral lands from preemption and
settlement and from grants to States for universities and
schools, for the construction of public buildings, and in aid of
railroads and other works of internal improvements are not
held to exclude all lands in which minerals may be found, but
only those where the mineral is in sufficient quantity to add
to their richness and to justify expenditure for its extraction,
and known to be so at the date of the grant."
It is probably unnecessary, in view of this declaration as to
the uniform construction by the Land Department, to refer to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
)issentihg Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

any specific rulings therein, and yet the following illustrations
may not be amiss: By the act of March 3, 1853, (10 Stat. 244,)
it was provided (see. 6) "that all the public lands in the State
of California, whether surveyed or unsurveyed,

.

.

ex-

cepting also the lands claimed under any foreign grant or
title, and the mineral lands, shall be subject to the preemption
laws of fourth September, 1841, with all the exceptions, conditions, and limitations therein, except as is herein otherwise
provided." In a circular of instructions issued to the registers
and receivers in California, October 12, 1853, construing this
act, Commissioner Wilson defines the above exception of
C"mineral lands" as "lands on which are situated any known
salines or mines." (1 Lester's Land Laws, p. 698..)
In State v.: Poley & Thomas, (4 Copp's L. 0.,) this question,
as stated by Secretary Schurz, was presented, arising under
the Congressional grant of school lands to the State of
California:
"Did the title to lands in said sections vest in the State,
upon survey, if their mineral cha~racter was unknown at the
time, and the same were regarded by the officers of the government as ordinary public lands, not reserved or otherwise
appropriated, but subject to disposal under the general laws of
the United States?"
And this was his answer:
"In compliance with the doctrine established by the courts,
it must, I think, be held that the title vested in the State at
the date of the survey, when the land was not known to be
mineral, or was not treated as such by the government. If,
following the doctrines of the courts, the grant of school lands
takes effect at the date of survey, can the character of the
land, subsequently determined, change or affect said title? If
it can, for how long a period can such change be affected?
If for three years, why not for ten or fifty, or after the title
derived from the State has been transmitted through numerous grantees? For lands confessedly not mineral at the date
of survey, may, many years thereafter, be ascertained, through
the improvements in mining operations, to be valuable as
mineral lands. To maintain such a doctrine might result in

BARDEN v. N ORTHERLY PACIFIC RAILROAD. 343
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

placing in jeopardy the title held by grantees to all the school
lands in California, and could only be authorized by the most
positive and clearly expressed provisions of law. In my
opinion, there is nothing in the act which can thus be interpreted. I must, therefore, hold that the discovery of the
mineral character of the land in sections 16 and 36, subsequent to survey, does not defeat the title of the State to the
same as school lands."
Again, the Land Department can acquire no knowledge as
to whether these lands are mineral or not, except by exploration, and that requires the labor of explorers and the payment of their compensation therefor. That Congress never
contemplated that there should be any such exploration, as
a condition of passage of title, is evident from the fact that
thirty years have passed since the date of this grant; thirtytwo years since the date of the grant to the Union Pacific
and Central Pacific Railroad Companies, which also excluded
mineral lands, and never has an act been passed, or, even so
far as we are advised, even a bill offered in Congress, contemplating the appropriation of a single dollar for such an
exploration. Aside from an- exploration conducted by the
government, at its expense, the only way that knowledge
could be acquired would be through the personal efforts of
individual explorers. Was it contemplated by this act- that
the Secretary of the Interior should have authority to wait
so long as he saw fit for the results of these individual
explorations before -finding and determining that any particular tract was mineral or not ? Assuredly a suggestion of
such a purpose on the.part of Congress would border clbsely
on disrespect to the intelligence and integrity of that body.
But Congress knew that provision had already been made
for ascertaining the character of these lands. Revised. Statutes, section 2395, contains these provisions:
"Seventh. Every surveyor shall note in his field-book the
true situations of all mines, salt licks, salt springs, and mill
seats which come to his knowledge, all watercourses over
which the line he runs may pass, and also the quality of the
lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

"Eighth. These field-books shall be returned to the surveyor-gineral, who shall cause therefrom a description of the
whole lands surveyed to be made out and transmitted to the
officers who may superintend the sales. He shall also cause
a fair plat to be made of the townships and fractional parts
of townships contained in the lands, describing the subdivisions thereof, and the marks of the corners. This plat shall
be recorded in books to be kept for that purpose; and a copy
thereof shall be kept open at the surveyor-general's office for
public information, and other copies shall be sent to the places
of the sale, and to the General Land Office."
By the act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, 14 Stat. 251, the mineral
lands of the public domain were declared to be free and open
to exploration or occupation, and provision was made for the
ehtry and patenting of a vein or lode of quartz or other rock
in place, bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, or copper.
In a circular of instructions issued under this act, January
14, 1867, the Commissioner says of section 11:
"In order to enable the department properly to give effect
to this section of the law, you will cause your deputy surveyors to describe in their field-notes of surveys, in addition
to the data required to be noted in the printed M,anual of Surveying Instructions, on pages 17 and 18, the agricultural
lands, and represent the same on township plats by the designation of '1 agricultural lands." .(2 Lester's Land Laws, 317.)
It is true that such survey and report only give what are
the surface indications of the tracts, but any other examination and exploration for discovering minerals beneath the
surface, require, as any one can see, a large expenditure of
money, and it -may well be believed that.Congress, knowing
that the surveys which were already provided for, would
disclose the character of the lands so far as they could be
disclosed by the surface appearances, meant that the fieldbooks returned to the Land Department containing that
information should be that which should guide in tt1e identification of the tracts at the time of the definite location as
mineral or not mineral.
Again, the section by which the land grant was made to the

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

345

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

Northern Pacific Railroad Company, after defining the place
limits of the grant and providing for the definite location of
the line of the road, contained this clause (13 Stat. p. 368):
"And whenever, prior to said tinie, any of said sections or
parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or p'refmpted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu
thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of- the Interior,
in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not
more than ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate
sections."
But unless at the time of that definite location there was
an identification of the particular lands within the place limits
which passed, how could there be any selectioh in the indemnity limits? Take this particular tract in controversy before
us: If, after the definite location, the company had applied
to the Secretary for a selection of land within the indemnity
limits in lieu of this tract, would not the Secretary have been
compelled to refuse such selection, on the ground that, so far
as was known, this was not mineral land, and, therefore, p~ssed
by the grant? And .if now, after the lapse of six years, mineral is discovered and it is adjudged that the title does not
pass, is it not possible - nay, probable - that when selection
is sought of lands within the indemnity limits it will be found
that all have been taken by homestead 6r preemption; or,i
not, and a selection is made of any particular tract within
those limits, will not the land thus selected and supposed to
pass to the company come within the rule here announced
that if, before the patent shall issue, mines be discovered, it
must be adjudgdd non-mineral land, and, therefore, not passing by the selection? In other words, the title to no lands
within the place limits passes because it is unknown whether
they are mineral or not, and no selection can be made within
the indemnity limits because it is not known how much th
deficiency is.
Again, in section 4 of the same act, it is provided that after
the completion of twenty-five consecutive miles of road, commissioners shall be appointed by the President to examine as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

to whether the road has been completed in a substantial and
workmanlike manner, and if they make a favorable report,
"patents of lands, as aforesaid, shall be issued to said company, confirming to said company the right and title to said
lands, situated opposite to, and coterminous with, said completed section of said road; and, from time to time, whenever
twenty-five additional consecutive miles shall have been constructed, completed, and in readiness as aforesaid, and verified
by said commissioners to the President of the United States,
then patents shall be issued to said company, conveying the
additional sections of land as aforesaid, and so on as fast
as every twenty-five miles of said road is completed as
aforesaid."
If language chn make anything plain it is that when the
commissioners have reported favorably as to the construction
of any twenty-five consecutive miles of road, the right to a
.patent exists. It .was said in Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402,
418,: "The right to a patent once vested is treated by the
government, when dealing with the public lands, as equivalent
to a patent issued. When, in fact, the patent does issue, it
relates back to the inception of the right of the patentee,
so far as it may be necessary, to cut off intervening claimants."
When this case was argued before us at the last term it was
conceded by the Attorney General that if it was not known
that the lands were mineral at the time of that report, the
title then passed. Such a concession on the part of the government, if now recognized, would compel an affirmance of
this judgment; for, at the time the commissioners made report
as to the twenty-five consecutive miles adjacent to this tract,
no mineral had been discovered, and so far as known the land
was not mineral; but the court in this opinion repudiates such
concession, and holds that the matter of determination remains
open until the very issue of the patent.
Again, by a resolution of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378, the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was authorized to issue
its bonds secured by mortgage upon its entire property. Did
Congress mean to imply that at that time no specific tracts
passed by the mortgage, but only such as might thereafter be

BARI)EN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 347
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shira,

JJ.

determined by the Land Department to be non-miiieral?
That resolution contained also this provision:
"Provided, that all lands hereby granted to said company
which shall not be sold or disposed of or remain subject to
the mortgage by this act. authorized, at the expiration of five
years after the completion of the entire road, shall be subject
to settlement and preemption like other lands, at a price to
be paid to said company not exceeding two dollars and fifty
cents per acre."
How could the company sell any particular tract, unless at
the time the purchaser knew that the title of the company
was perfect? And if the company had failed to place its
mortgage, as it most certainly would have failed if the construction now contended for had been believed to be the true
construction of this grant, then by the terms of this provision
at the end of five years from the completion of the road any
tract would be open to settlement and preemption as are the
public lands of the government.
Again, it is abundantly well settled that lands the title to
which remain in the government are not subject to taxation.
Can it be that Congress cdntemplated that the Territories and
States which should be organized along the line of this transcontinental highway should not be able to tax any alternate.
sections within the place limits of this grant until such -time
as it should appropriate money for an exploration as to their
character? Take this particular tract for illustration: In '1872
the line of definite location was fixed; apparently it was
within the terms of the grant, but it is now adjudged that no
title passed to the Northern Pacific, but remained in the government. Was the land subject to taxation during the six
years prior to the discovery of the mines? Will it be said
that Congress intended that the Northern Pacific should pay
the taxes on all the lauds so situated, taking the chances
in the future of some of them proving to be non-mineral?
Would such injustice be imputed to Congress, even as against
a corporation? Suppose the Northern Pacific did not pay,
and some party purchased the land at a tax sale; has he lost
his money because the land now proves to be mineral lands,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

and, therefore, still the property of the government? Or, if
the State is under obligation to refund the money thus improperly collected in the way of taxes, what then results?
The State or county has regulated its tax levy and its expenditures upon the supposition that these lands were subject to
taxation. If the title has not passed from the government
they are not taxable, and a new burden must be cast upon
the property of individuals within the territorial limits to
make good the unexpected deficiency of public funds.
It is well known in the history of this and similar land
grants that -there was an earnest effort to relieve many of the
lands from the burdens of state taxation-an effort which
brought to this court the cases of the Kansas Paci e _.ailway
v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603, and Union Pacit%_
Railroad v.
2IcSlane, 22 Wall. 444. 'This litigation was carried on on
the part of the railroad companies under the superintendence
and direction -of Hon. John P. Usher, who was Secretary of
the interior at the time of the passage of these land grant
acts, than whom perhaps no one was more familiar with the
land laws of the United States; and during all that litigation
there was not even a suggestion that the absolute transfer of
the title at the time of the definite location was, as to any
particular tract, delayed by the question thereafter to be
determined as to whether the lands were mineral or not.
Tuining to legislation other than that respecting railroad
land grants, we find by section 2258 of the Revised Statutes
that preemptions are not allowed of "lands on which are
situated any known salines or mines." In section 2302, in
reference to homesteads, it is-enacted: "Nor shall any mineral
lands be liable to entry and settlement under its provisions."
SBction 23.92, in reference to town sites, reads : 1" No title shall
be acquired under the foregoing provisions of this chapter to
any mine of gold, silver,, cinnabar, or copper; or to any valid.
miijing claim or possession held under existing laws." In one
of these three clauses the word "known" is used, but not in
the others. Is thereby any difference intended as to what
.shall be excepted from the scope of the authority to acquire
lands
That in reference to, town sites, as heretofore decided

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

.

A

BLY. "349

Syllabus.

in Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S. 507, includes only known
mines.
I deem it unnecessary to pursue this discussion further..
Many other considerations of equal signifcanc might ba
adduced. It is enough to say in conclusion that the uniform
and settled rule of decision heretofore has been that identification of the particular tracts which pass under a grant was
complete at the time of the definite location of the line of the
road. Congress, with a knowledge of that frequent ruling,'
has never by any act directed a change. It is to be presumed
that the legislation of the various States has been cast upon
that as the law of the land. To now overthrow that and
establish a new rule not merely unsettles the question of title
to the lands within this vast area, but it may produce complications which we do not now perceive in the rights of individuals and counties, and even of the States along the line
of this road. If ever there was a case in which the rule stare
deci
should prevail, this is one.
I, therefore, dissent from the opinion and judgment in this
case, and am authorized to say that M-u. JUSTICE GAY and
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs concur in this dissent.

NORTHERN .PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.

HAXIBLY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 187.

Submitted December 21, 1893.-Decided May 26,1894.

A common day laborer in the employ of a railroad company, who, while
working for the company under the order and direction of a section
"boss" or foreman, on a culvert on the line of the company's road, receives an injury by and through the negligence of the conductor and of
the engineer in moving and operating a passenger train upon the company's road, is a fellow-servant with such engineer and such conductor,
in such a sense as exempts the railroad company from liability for the
injury so inflicted,

