CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF TME UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

TELEGRAPH

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 59. Argued November 1, 2,1893. -Decided

May 26,1894.

A stipulation between a telegraph company and the sender of a message,
that the company shall not be liable for mistakes in the transmission or
delivery of a message, beyond the sum received for sending it, unless
the sender orders it to be repeated by being telegraphed back to the
originating office for comparison, and pays half that sum in addition, is
reasonable and valid.
In an action by the sender of a cipher message against a telegraph company,
which is not informed, by the message or otherwise, of the nature,
importance or extent of the transaction to which it relates, or of the
position which the plaintiff would probably occupy if the message were
correctly transmitted, the measure of damages for mistakes in its transmission or delivery is the sum paid for sending it.

THIs was an action on the case, brought January 25, 1888,
by Frafik J. Primrose, a citizen of Pennsylvania, against the
Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation of New
York, to recover damages for a negligent mistake of the

defendant's agents in transmitting a telegraphic message from
VOL. CIUV-1

1

-OCTOBER TERA?

1893.

Statement of the" Case.

the plaintiff at Philadelphia to his agent at Waukeney in the
State of Kansas.
The defendant pleaded: 1st, not guilty; 2d, that the
message was an unrepeated message, and was also a cipher
and obscure message, and therefore by the contract between
the parties under which the message was sent the defendant
was not liable for the mistake. At the trial, the following
facts were proved and admitted:
On June 16, 1887, the plaintiff wrote and delivered to the
defendant at Philadelphia, for transmission to his agent,
William B. Toland, at Ellis in the State of Kansas, a message
upon one of the defendant's printed blanks, the words printed
below in italics being the words written therein by the plaintiff, to wit:
"THE WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
NORVIN GREEN, President.

"TItOS. T. ECKERT, General Manager.
'Eecelver's No.

Time Filed
13

Check

"Send the following message subject to the termal
on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to.
-

"To Wm. B.

f

June 16, 1887.

Toland, Ellis, Kfansas.

"Despot am exceedingly busy bay all kinds quo perhaps bracken half of it
mince moment promptly of purchases.
"FRANK, J. PIMB OSE.
C"WREAD THE NOTICE ANI) AGREE

NT ON BACK OF THS BLANK. -NJ

Upon the back of the message was the following printed
matter:
'ALL

MESSAGES TAKEN BY THIS COMPANY ARE SUBJECT
I TO THE FOLLOWING TERMS:
'"To guard against mistakes or delays, the sender of a message should
order it REPEATED; that is, telegraphed back to the originating office for
comparison. For this, one half the regular rate is charged in addition. It
is agreed between the sender of the following message and this Company,
that said Company shall not be liable for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery of any UNREPEATED message,
whether happening by negligence of its servants or otherwise, beyond the
amount received for sending the same; nor for mistakes or delays in the
transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery of any rEPE.ATED message,

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

3

Statement of the Case.
beyond fifty times the sum received for sending the same, unless specially
insured; nor in any case for delays arising from unavoidable Interruption
in the working of its lines, or for errors in cipher or obscure messages.
And this company is hereby made the agent of the sender, without liability,
to forward any message over the liues of any other company when necessary
to reach its .destination.
" Correctness in the transmission of a message to any point on the lines
of this company can be iNSURE by contract in writing, stating agreed
amount of risk, and payment of premium thereon, at the following rates,
in addition to the usual charge for repeated messages, viz., one per cent for
any distance not exceeding 1000 miles, and two per cent for any greater
distance. No employ6 of the company is authorized to vary the foregoing.
"No responsibility regarding messages attaches to this Company until
the same are presented and accepted at one of its transmitting offices; and
if a message is sent to such office by one of the Company's messengers, he
acts for that purpose as the agent of-the sender.
"Messages will be delivered .free witbia the established free delivery
limits of the terminal office. For delivery at a greater distance, a special
charge will be made to cover the cost of such delivery.
"The Company will not be liable for damages or statutory penalties in
any case where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after
the message is filed with the Company for transmission.
"THOS. T. ECKERT, Gen'l Manager. NORVIN GREEN, President."

On the evening of the same day, an agent of the defendant
delivered to Tolnd, at Waukeney, upon a blank of the defendant company, the message in this form, the written words
being printed below in italics:
"THE WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
"This

Company TRANSMITS and DELIVERS messages only on conditions limiting its

flability, which have been assented to by the sender of the following message.
"Errors can be guarded against only by repeating a message back to the sending station for
comparison, and the Company will not hold itself liable for errors or delays in transmission or
delivery of UNREPEATED MESSAGES, beyond the amount of tolls paid thereon, nor In any
case where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after sending the message.
"This is an UNREPEATED MESSAGE, and is delivered by request of the sender, under the
conditions named above.
"THOS. T. ECKERT, General Manager.
NORVIN GREEN, President.
NUM01BER

SENT BY

Bt.

S.

CHECK.

RECID BY
[

F..X.

22

3 extra words.
Collect

"RECEIVED at 5 K. ,p. m.
June 16, 1887.
"Dated PhiladelpMa,16.
Forwardedfrom Ellis.
"To W. B. Toland, Waukeney, Kansas.
"Destroy am ezceedingly busy bu] all kinds quo perhaps bracken half of it
mince moment promptly ofpurchase.
" .RANK J. PBI.fR OSE."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The difference between the message as sent and as delivered
is shown below, where so much of the message sent as was
omitted in that delivered is in brackets, and the words substituted in the message delivered are in italics.
"[Despot] Destroy am exceedingly busy [bay] buy all kinds
quo perhaps bracken half of it mince moment promptly of
purchase[s]."
By the private cipher code made and used by the plaintiff
and Toland, the meaning of these words was as follows:
"Yours of the [fifteenth] 8eventeenr],received; am exceedingly busy; [I have bought] buy all kinds, five hundred thousand pounds; perhaps we have sold half of it; wire when you
do anything; send samples immediately, promptly of [purchases] purohase."

The plaintiff testified that on June 16, 1887, he wrote the
message in his own office on one of a bunch or book of the
defendant's blanks which he kept at hand, and sent it to
the defendant's office at Philadelphia; that he had a running
account with the defendant's agent there, which he settled
monthly, amounting to $180 for that month; that he did not
then read, and did not remember that he had ever before read,
the printed matter on the back of the blanks; and that he
paid the usual rate of $1.15 for this message, and did not pay
for a repetition or insurance of it.
He also testified that he then was, and for many years had
been, engaged in the business of buying and selling wool all
over the country, and had employed Toland as his agent in
that business, and early in June, 1887, sent him out to Kansas
and Colorado with instructions to buy 50,000 pounds, and then
to await orders from him before buying more; that, before
June 12, Toland bought 50,000 pounds, and then stopped
buying; and that he had sent many telegraphic messages to
Toland during that month and previously, using the same
code.
The defendant's agent at Philadelphia, called as a witness
for the plaintiff, testified that he sent this message for the
plaintiff, and knew that he was a dealer in wool, and that
Toland was with him, but in what capacity he did not know;

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

5

Statement of the Case.

that he had frequently sent messages for him, and considered
him one of his best customers during the wool season; that
telegraphic messages by the present system were sent and
received by sound, and were. all dots and dashes; that "b"
was a dash and three dots, and "y" was two dots, a space and
then two dots; and that the difference between "a" and "u"
was one dot, "a" being a dot and a dash, and "u" two dots
and a dash, and the pause upon the last touch of the "u";
that an experienced telegraph operator, if the words were
properly rapped out and he was paying proper attention,
could not well mistake the one for the other, but might be
misled if he was not careful; and that it was very likely that
another dot could be put in if there was 'any -interruption in
the wire. He further testified that there was a great difference between the words "despot" and "destroy" in telegraphic symbols; and that the letter "s" was made by three
dots, so that, if an operator received the word "purchases"
over the wires, and wrote down "purchase," he omitted three
dots from the end of the word.
The plaintiff introduced depositions, taken in September,
1888, of one Stevens and one Smith, who were respectively
telegraph operators of the defendant at Brookville and at Ellis
in the State of Kansas, on June 16, 1887.
Stevens testified that Brookville was a relay station of the
company, at which messages from the East were repeated
westward; that on that day one Tindall, his fellow operator
in the Brookville office, handed him a copy in Tindall's handwriting of the message in question, (an impression copy of
which he identified and annexed to his deposition,) containing
the words, "despot '" and "bay,' and he immediately transmitted it word for word to Ellis; that the equipment of the
office at Brookville was in every respect good and sufficient,
and that lie had no recollection of the wires between it and
Ellis having been in other than good condition on that day,
Smith testified that on that day -he received the message at
Ellis from Brookville, and immediately wrote it down word
for word, just as received, (and identified and annexed to his
deposition an impression copy of what he then wrote "aown,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

containing the words "destroy" and "buy," and transmitted
it, exactly as he received it, to Waukeney, to which Toland
had directed any messages for him to be forwarded; and that
the office at Ellis was well and sufficiently equipped for its
work, but he could not recall what was the condition of the
wires between it and Brookville.
The plaintiff also introduced evidence tending to show that
June 16, 1887, was a bright and beautiful day at Ellis and
Waukeney; that Toland, upon receiving the message at
Waukeney, made purchases of about 300,000 pounds of wool;
and that the plaintiff, in settling with the sellers thereof, suffered a loss of upwards of $20,000.
The Circuit. Court, following White v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 5 M corary, 103, and Jones v. Western Union Tel. Co., 18
Fed: Rep. 717, ruled that there was no evidence of gross negligence on the part of the defendant, and that, as the message
had not been repeated, the plaintiff, by theterms printed upon
the back of the message, and referred to above his signature
on its face, could not recover more than the sum of $1.15,
which he had paid for sending it. The plaintiff not claiming
that sum, the court directed a verdict for the defendant, and
rendered judgment thereon. The plaintiff tendered a bill of
exceptions, and sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Joseph de F. Junkin, (with whom was Mrr. George
Jtkin on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. A telegraph company is a common carrier, and subject
to the law of common carriers. This point has never been
squarely before this court; but in -Delaware& Atlantic Tel.
Co. v. Postal Tel. Co., 3 U. S. App. 30, 105, it was said by
Butler, J.:
"It is no longer open to question that telephone and telegraph companies are subject to the rules governing common'
carriers and others engaged in like public employment.
"This has been so frequently decided that the point must
be regarded as settled.
"While it has iot been directly before the Supreme Court
of the United States, cases in which it has been so determined

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN -UNION TELEGRAPH.
-Argument

7

for Plaintiff in Error.

are cited approvingly by that court in Budd v. New York, 143
U. S. 517.
."This case adheres to and confirms the doctrine of Munn v.
Illinoi, 94 1. S.-113, which is the leading case on defining
-the law relating to common carriers."
See also Shearman and Redfield on Negligence, §§ 354, 355,
where the position for which we are contending is presented
in a manner that seems to us to be unanswerable.
II. Being a common carrier, a telegraph comnpany cannot
legally impose conditions upon one whose message it accepts
for transmission, relieving itself from responsibility for damages to the sender, resulting from its own. negligence.
As was said by the trial judge in this case, the cases in the
various state courts where the decisions turned upon this proposition, are very numerous and look both ways.
More or less well considered affirmative discussions of this
proposition will be. found in the following decisions of the
state courts: Rittenhouse v. Independent Telegraph, 1 Daly,
474, and 44 N. Y. 263; Turner v. Hawkeye Tel. Co., 41 Iowa,
458; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Xbek, 49 Indiana, 53; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Fenton, 52 Indiana, 1; Tyler v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 60 Illinois, 421, and 74 Illinois, 168; Ayer v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 79 Maine, 493; Bartlett v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 62 Maine, 209; True v. InternationalTel. Co.,
60 Maine, 9; Telegraph Co. v. Griswold, 37 Ohio St. 301;
Western Union Tel. .Co. v. Crall, 38 Kansas, 679; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Howell, 38 Kansas, 685; Dorgan v. Telegraph Co., 1 Am. Law Times, (N. S.,) 406; Y. Y &c. Tel. Co.
v. Dryburgh, 35 Penn. St..298; Hibbardv. Western Union Tel.
Co., 33 Wisconsin, 558; Candee v. Western Union Tel. Co., 34
Wisconsin, 471; La Grange v. Southwestern Tel. Co., 25 La.
Ann. 383. See also Wharton on Negligence, § 763; Shearman
and Redfield on Negligence, % 558, 559, 665.
In Ayer v. Wfestern Union Tel. Co., 79 Maine, 493, 496-498,
it is said: "The defendant claims its liability is limited to the
amount paid for the transmission of the message. It claims
this limitation on two grounds.
"1. The company relies upon a stipulation made by it with

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the plaintiff, as follows: 'All messages taken by this company
are subject to the following terms: To guard against mistakes
or delays, the sender of the message should order it 'repeated;
that is, telegraphed back to the originating office for comparison. For this, one-half the regular rate is charged in addition. It is agreed between the sender of the following
message and this company, that said company shall not be
liable for mistakes or delays in the transmission, or delivery,
or for non-delivery of any unrepeated message, whether happening by negligence of its servants or otherwise, beyond the
amount received for sending the same.' This is the usual
stipulation printed on telegraph blanks, and was known to the
plaintiff, and was printed at the top of the paper upon which
he wrote and signed his message. He did not ask to have the
message repeated.
"Is such a stipulation in the contract of transmission valid
as a matter of contract assented to by the parties, or is it void
as against public policy? We think it is void.
"Telegraph companies are quasi public servants. They
receive from the public valuable franchises. They owe the
public, care and diligence. Their business intimately concerns
the public. Many and various interests are practically dependent upon it. Nearly all interests may be affected by it.
Their negligence in it may often work irreparable mischief
to individuals and communities. It is essential for the puiblic
good, that their duty of using care and diligence be rigidly
enforced. They should no more be allowed to effectually
stipulate for exemption from this duty, than should a carrier of
passengers, or any other party engaged in a public business.
"This rule does not make telegraph companies insurers.
It does not make them answer for errors not resulting from
their negligence. It only requires the performance of their
plain duty. It is no hardship upon them. They engage in
the business voluntarily. They have the entire control of
their servants and instruments. They invite the public to
entrust messages to them for transmission. They may insist
on their compensation in advance. Why, then, should they
refuse to perform the common duty of care and diligence?

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

9

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Why should they make conditions for such performance?
Having taken the message and the pay, why should they not
do all things (including the repeating) necessary for correct
transmission? Why should they insist on special compensation for using any particular mode or instrumentality, as a.
guard against their own negligence? It seems clear to us
that, having undertaken the business, they ought, without
qualification, to do it carefully, or be responsible for their want
of care.
"It is true there are numerous cases in other States holding
otherwise, but we think the doctrine above stated is the true
one, in harmony with the previous decisions of this court.
True v. International Tel. Co., 60 Maine, 1; Bartlett v. Western Union Tel. Co., 62 Maine, 209."
'In Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hall, 124 U-. S. 444, 458,
Mr. Justice Matthews, in delivering the opinion of the court,
says: "Where the negligence of the telegraph company consists, not in delaying the transmission of the message, but in
transmitting a message erroneously so as to mislead the party
to whom it is addressed, and on the faith of which he acts in
the purchase or sale of property, the actual loss based upon
changes in market value are clearly within the value for estimating damages. Of this class examples are to be found in
the cases of Turner v. Ilawkeye Telegraph (o., 41 Iowa, 458,
and Rittenhouse v. Independent Line of Telegraph, 44 N. Y.
263."
In .Dorganv. The Telegraph Co., 1 Amer. Law Times, (N. S.,)
406, Mr. Justice Woods said: "The telegraph company is
engaged in a quasi public employment. Incalculable sums
depend upon the alacrity, care, and good faith which it brings
to the discharge of its duties. The whole business of the
commercial world is to a degree dependent upon it.
The
public has a right to exact at least ordinary diligence. A
common carrier is not allowed to protect himself by contract
from liability for the result of his own negligence.
"There seems to be no good reason why the same rule
should not be applied to a telegraph company."
The law as to the liability of common carriers has been so

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

thoroughly settled by this court that the plaintiff will content
himself with simply stating the proposition and the cases
supporting the same as follows:
'A common carrier cannot stipulate for exeinption from the
consequences of his own neglect or that of his servants.
Hartv. Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 338; -ew Jersey
Steam Navigation Co. v. .Merohants'Bank, 6 How. 344; York
.Manufacturing Co. v. llinois Central Railroad, 3 Wall.
107; Southern Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264; Railroad CorTany v. Pratt,22 Wall. 123; Bank of Kentucky v.
Adams Express, 93 U. S. 174; Grand Trunk Railway v.
Stevens, 95 U. S.655.

Apart from all legal views of the subject, every consideration of -natural justice revolts at the thought of 'binding
a man by a contract which he has not 'read or which has not
been called to his attention, specifically, and especially, as
in this case, when the contract to which he is alleged to
have been a party is upon the back of the paper which he
signed.
And it is respectfully submitted that the law of this land is,
or should be, with reference to these matters, that1. Where a telegraph company, vested by the State with
the power of eminent domain in consideration of its undertaking a great public franchise, accepts for pay from a citizen
a message for transmission, it thereby becomes responsible
for the accurate and exact transmission and delivery of that
which it received; and if the message which it delivers
differs from that which was accepted by it for transmission,
and damage results to the sender, the proof by the sender of
such error places upon the company the burden of justifying
its'negligefice.
2. That such company cannot shift its responsibility as
such common carrier by printing upon its blanks, furnished
to the senders of messages, conditions exempting it from liability for errors and mistakes in the transmission of the
messages, or for all liability in cipher or obscure messages if
it once accepts the messages and receives pay therlfor.
3. That such company certainly cannot limit
its liability

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNIOn TELEGRAPH..

11

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by such conditions, having once accepted a message for transmission, and received pay therefor, unless it shows affirmative
notice of the conditions brought home to the sender.
It is admitted by nearly all of the courts and cases passing
upon the subject, that for gross errors the company would undoubtedly be liable-; that when a gross error had been
committed, even, the restrictive conditions would afford no
protection, and the learned judge here impliedly goes that far.
But is there any reason for the drawing of such distinction?
What is a gross error in such cases?
The plaintiff in any case- against a telegraph company, is
entirely without the means of showing how, or why, or when
the mistake in a message occurred, excepting as he obtains
such information from the company or its employ~s.
All that he can possibly show is that a mistake has occurred,
somewhere and somehow occasioned by something which the
defendant had done or omitted to do.
The defendant is bound to provide the best possible apparatus and the most experienced operators for its business. It is
a fact of which the courts would now take judicial knowledge,
that a telegraph company can transmit with absolute accuracy
any written message in any language by sound, each letter
being indicated by dots and pauses (or dashes, as they are
called) in the working of the telegraph key.
The word as such is not sent over the wire as a whole, but
letter by letter. It is not written down by .the instrument,
but received by the operator by means of the sound 'and
written by him upon paper as he hears it.
These facts are in evidence-in this case as well.
There is therefore no reason for any error in the transmission of a message excepting through a mistake made by a
negligent operator, or through some outside cause over which
the company had no control. The eIarness or obscurity of a
message has nothing to do with its accurate transmission. It
'would thus seem clear that the accurate transmission of a
cipher message or word is a matter of no more difficulty than
an ordinary message, and there can be no valid reason given
in support of the arbitrary condition sought to be imposed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant in the matter of such messages, other than what
applies to ordinary words.
If a letter in a word is inaccurately transmitted, apart from
the question of outside influences; the error must have come
about either from a negligent sign by the sending operator, or
from a negligent hearing by the receiving operator. And the
defendant in error is challenged to assign other causes for the
same, if any it can find.
In the present case, it was affirmatively shown that the
message reached its last operator but one, with exactness clearly showing how easy such accuracy was.
Then it suffered these changes. The absence of outside,
disturbing agencies, was demonstrated by the plaintiff in so far
as he could be expected so to do when it was shown that the
-atmospheric conditions at Ellis were perfect.
If any other outside influences affected the wires or the
message, they are entirely within the knowledge of the defendants, and may furnish good matter of a defence to the
jury.
.'. Sila W. Pettittand MrM. Jolin H. Dillon for defendant
in error. Mr. George T Fearonsand Mr. R8uh Taggart were
on their brief.
MR. JUSTIE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was an action by the sender of a telegraphic message
against the telegraph company to recover damages for a mistake in the transmission of the message, which was in cipher,
intelligible only to the sender and to his own agent, to
whom it was addressed. The plaintiff paid the usual rate
for this -message, and did not pay for a repetition or insurance
of it.
The blank form of message, which the plaintiff filled up and
signed, and which was such as he had constantly used, had
upon its face, immediately above the place for writing the
message, the printed words, "Send the following message

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

13

Opinion of the Court.

subject to the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed
to;" and, just below the place for his signature, this line: "4Read the notice and agreement on back of this blank. .="
Upon the back of the blank were conspicuously printed the
words, "All messages taken by this company dre subject to
the following terms," which contained the following conditions
or restrictions of the liability of the company :
" [1st.] To guard against mistakes or delays, the sender of
a message should order it REPEATED; that is, telegraphed
back to the original office for comparison. For this, one
half the regular rate is charged in addition. It is agreed
between the sender of the following message and this company, that said company shall not be liable for mistakes or
delays in the transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery, of

any

TiREPEATED

message, whether happening by negligence

of its servants or otherwise, beyond the amount received for
sending the same;
"[2d.] nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or
delivery, or for non-delivery, of any REPEATED message, beyond
fifty times the sum received for sending the same, unless specially insured;
"[3d.] nor in any case for delays arising from unavoidable
interruption in the working of its lines, or for errors in cipher
or obscure messages."
After stating the rates at which correctness in the transmission of a message may be insured, it is provided that " no employ6 of the company is authorized to vary the foregoing."
"[4th.] The company will not be liable for damages or
statutory penalties in any case where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after the message is filed
with the company for transmission."
The conditions or restrictions, the reasonableness and validity
of which are directly involved in this case, are that part of the
first, by which the company is not to be liable for mistakes in
the transmission or delivery of any message, beyond the sum
received for sending it, unless the sender orders it to be
repeated by being telegraphed back to the originating office
for comparison, and pays half that sum in addition; and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the third, by which the company is not to be liable at
all for errors in cipher or obscure messages.
Telegraph companies resemble railroad companies and
other common carriers, in that they are instruments of commerce; and in that they exercise a public employment, and
are therefore bound to serve all customers alike, without dis.
crimination. They have, doubtless, a duty to the public, to
receive, to the extent of their capacity, all messages clearly
and intelligibly written, and to transmit them upon reasonable
terms. But they are not common carriers ; their duties are
different, and are performed in different ways; and they are
not subject to the same liabilities. Express Co. v. Caldwell,
21 Wall. 264, 269, 270 ; Tekgraph Co. v. Texas, 105- U. S. 460,
464.
The rule of the common law, by which common carriers
of goods are held liable for loss or.injury by any cause whatever, except the act of God, or of public enemies, does not
extend even to warehousemen or wharfingers, or to any other
class of bailees, except innkeepers, who, like carriers, have
peculiar opportunities for embezzling the goods or for collusion with thieves. The carrier has the actual and manual
possession of the goods; the identity of the goods which he
receives with -those which he delivers can hardly be mistaken;
their value can be easily estimated, and may be ascertained
by inquiry of the -consignor, and the carrier's compensation
fixed accordingly; and his liability in damages is measured
by the value of the goods.
But telegraph companies are not bailees, in any sense.
They are entrusted with nothing but an order or message,
which is not to be carried in the form or characters in which
it is received, but is to be translated and transmitted through
different symbols by means of electricity, .and is peculiarly
liable to mistakes. The message cannot be the subject'of
embezzlement; it is of no intrinsic value; its importance
cannot be estimated, except by the sender, and often cannot
be disclosed by him without danger of defeating his purpose;
it may be wholly valueless, if not forwarded immediately;
and. the measure of damages, for a failure to transmit or

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

15

Opinion of the Court.

deliver it, has no relation to any value of the message itself,
except as such value may be disclosed by the message, or be
agreed between the sender and the company.
As said by Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for this court, in
ExpreWs Co. v. Caldwell, above cited: "Like common carriers,
they cannot contract with their employers for exemption
from liability for the consequences of their own negligence.
But they may by such contracts, or by their rules and regulations brought to the knowledge of their employers, limit
the measure of their responsibility to a reasonable extent.
Whether their rules are reasonable or unreasonable must
be determined with reference to public policy, precisely as in
the case of a carrier."
By the settled law of this court, common carriers of goods
or passengers cannot, by any contract with their customers,
wholly exempt themselves from liability for damages caused
by the negligence of themselves or their servants. Railroad
Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Lver2 ool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 442, and cases cited.
But even a common carrier of goods may, by special contract with the owner, restrict the stim for which he may be
liable, even in case of a loss by the carrier's negligence; and
this upon the distinct ground, as stated by Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the whole court, that "where a contract of
the kind, signed by the shipper, is fairly made, agreeing on the
valuation of the property carried, with the rate of freight
based on the condition that the carrier assumes liability only
to the extent of the agreed valuation, even in case of loss or
damage by the negligence of the carrier, the contract will be
upheld.as a proper and lawful mode of securing a due proportion between the amount for which the carrier may be responsible and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself
against extravagant and fanciful valuations." Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad,112 U. S. 331, 343.
By the regulation now in question, the telegraph company
has not undertaken to wholly exempt itself from liability for
negligence; but only to require the sender of the message to
have it repeated, and to pay half as much again as the usual

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

price, in order to hold the company liable for mistakes or delays
in transmitting or delivering, or for not delivering a message,
whether happening by negligence of its servants, or otherwise.
In Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hall, 124 U. S. 444, 453, the
-effect of such a regulation was presented by the -certificate
of the Circuit Court, but was not passed upon by this court.,
because it was of opinion that upon the facts of the case the
damages claimed were too uncertain and remote.
But the reasonableness and validity of such regulations
,have been upheld in AcAndrew v. Electric Tel. Co., 17 C. B.
3, and in Baxter v. Dominion Tel. Co., 37 Upper Canada Q. B.
470, as well as by the great preponderance of authority in
this country. Only a few of the principal cases need be cited.
In the earliest American case, decided by the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, the reasons for upholding the validity
of a regulation very like that now in question were thus
stated: "The public are admonished by the notice, that in
order to guard against mistakes in the transmission of messages, every message of importance ought to be repeated.
A person desiring to send a message is thus apprised that
there may be a mistake in its transmission, to guard against
which it is necessary that it should be repeated, He is also
notified that if a mistake occur the company will not be responsible for it unless the message be repeated. There is
nothing unreasonable in this condition. It gives the party
sending the message the option to send it in such a manner
as to hold the company responsible, or to send it for a less
price at his own risk. If the message be unimportant, he
may be willing to risk it without paying the additional
charge. Bat if it be important and he wishes to have it sent
correctly, he ought to be willing to pay the cost of repeating
the message. This regulation, considering the accidents to
which the business is liable, is qbviously just. and reasonable.
It does not exempt the company from responsibility, but only
fixes the price of that responsibility, and allows the person
who sends the message either to transmit it at his own risk
at ,he usual price, or by paying in addition thereto half the
usual price to have it repeated, and thus render the company

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

17

Opinion of the Court.

liable for any mistake that may occur."
Union Tel. Co., 1 Met. (Ky.) 164, 168.

Camp v. Wete

In Western Union Tel. Co. v. Carew, 15 Mich. 525, 635, 536,
the Supreme Court of Michigan held that a similar regulation wTas a valid part of the contract between the company
and the sender, whether he read it or not. "The regulation,"
said Chief Justice Christiancy, "of most, if not all telegraph
companies operating extensive lines, allowing messages to be
sent by single transmission for a lower rate of charge, and
requiring a larger compensation when repeated, must be
considered as highly reasonable, giving to their customers
the option of either mode, according to the importance of the
message, or any other circumstance which may affect the
question." "The printed blank, befbre the message was written upon it, was a general proposition to all persons of the
terms and conditions upon which messages would be sent.
By writing the message under it, signing and delivering it
for transmission, the plaintiff below accepted the proposition,
and it became a contract upon those terms and conditions."
In Birney v. New York & Washington Tel. Co., 18 Maryland, 341, 358, the Court of Appeals of Maryland, while recognizing the validity of similar regulations, held that they did
not apply to a case in which no effort was made by the telegraph company or its agents to put the message on its transit.
In United Statem Tel. Co. v. Gildersleve, 29 Maryland, 232,
246, 248, the same court, speaking by Mr. Justice Alvey,
(since Chief Justice of Maryland, and of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia,) said: "The appellant had a clear
right to protect itself against extraordinary risk and liability
by such rules and regulations as might be required for the
purpose." "The appellant could not, by rules and regulations
of its own making, protect itself against liability for the consequences of its own wilful misconduct, or gross negligence,
or any conduct inconsistent with good faith; nor has it attempted by its rules and regulations to afford itself such
exemption. It was bound to use due diligence, but not to use
extraordinary care and precaution. The appellee, by requiring
the message to be repeated, could have assured himself of its
VOL. CLiV-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dispatch and accurate transmission to the other end of the
line, if the wires were in working condition; or, by special
contract for insurance, could have secured himself against all
consequences of non-delivery. He did not think proper, however, to adopt such precaution, but chose rather to take the
risk of the less exppnsive terms of sending his message. And
having refused to pay the extra charge for repetition or insurance, we think he had no right to rely upon the declaration
of the appellant's agent that the message had gone through,
in order to fix the.liability on the company."
In Pa8&more. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 9 Phila. 90, and
78 Penn. St. 238, at the trial in the district court of Philadelphia, there was evidence that Passmore, of whom one Edwards
had offered to purchase a tract of land in West Virginia, wrote
and delivered to the company at Parkersburg,-upon a blank
containing similar conditions, a message to Edwards at Phila,delphia, in these words: "I hold the Tibbs tract for you; all
will be right," but which,. as delivered by the company in
Philadelphia, was altered by substituting the word 'sold'
for 'hold ;' and that Edwards thereupon broke off the contract for the purchase of the land, and Passmore had to sell it
at a great loss. The verdict being for the plaintiff, the court
reserved the question whether the defendant was liable, inasmuch as the plaintiff had not insured the message, nor directed
it to be repeated; and afterwards entered judgment for the
defendant, notwithstanding the verdict, in accordance with an
opinion of Judge Hare, the most important parts of which
were as follows:
"A railway, telegraph, or other company, charged with a
duty which concerns the public interest, cannot screen themselves from liability for negligence; but they may prescribe
rules calculated to insure safety; and diminish the loss in the
event of accident, and declare that, if these are not observed,
the injured party shall be considered as in default, and precluded by the doctrine of contributory negligence. The rule
must, however, be such as that reason, which is said to be the
life of the law, can approve; or, at the least, such as it need
not condemn. By no device can a body corporate avoid lia-

.PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION -TELEGRAPH.

19

Opinion of the Court.

bility for fraud, for wilful wrong, or for the gross negligence
which, if it does not intend to occasion injury, is reckless of
consequences, and transcends the bounds of right with full
knowledge that mischief may ensue. •Nor, as I am-inclined
to think, will any stipulation against liability be valid, which
has the pecuniary interest of the corporation as its sole object,
and takes a safeguard from the public without giving anything
in return. But a rule - which, in marking olit a path plain and
easily accessible, as that in which the company guarantees
that every one shall be secure, declares that if any man prefers
to walk outside of it, they will accompany him, will do their
best to secure and protect him, but will not be insurers, will
not consent to be responsible for accidents arising from fortuitous and unexpected causes, or even from a want of care and
watchfulness on the part of their agents -may be a reasonable rule, and, as such, fipheld by the courts."
"The function of the telegraph differs from that of the
post-office in this, that while the latter is not concerined with
the contents of the missive, and merely agrees to forward it
to its address, the former undertakes the much more difficult
task of transcribing a message written according to one
method of notation, in characters which are entirely different,
with all the liability to error necessarily incident to such a
process. N
Nor is this all. .The telegraph operator is separated
by a distance of many miles from the paper on which he
writes, so that his eye cannot discern and correct the mistakes committed by his hand. It was also contended during
the argument, that the electric fluid which is used as the
medium of communication is liable to perturbations arising
from thunder storms and other natural causes. 'Itis, therefore, obvious that entire accuracy cannot always be obtained
by the greatest care; and that the only method of -avoiding
error is to compare the copy with the original, or, in other
words, that the operator to whom the message is sent should
telegraph it back to the station whence it came."
"Obviously he who sends a communication is best qualified
to judge whether it should be returned for correction. If he
asks the company to repeat the message, and they fail to corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ply, they will clearly be answerable for any injury that may
result from the omission. If he does not make such a
request, he may well be taken to have acquiesced in the
conditions which they prescribe, and at all events cannot
object to the want of a precaution he has virtually waived.
It is not a just ground of complaint that the power to choose
is coupled with an obligation to pay an additional sum to
cover the cost of repetition." 9 Phila. 92-94; 78 Penn. St.
242-244.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, for the reasons given by Judge Hare and above
stated. 78 Penn. St. 246; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Stevenson, 128 Penn. St. 442, 455.
In Breese v. United States Tel. Co., 48 N. Y. 132, the plaintiffs' agent wrote, at his own' office in Palmyra, on one of
the company's blanks, substantially like that now before
us, and delivered to the company at Palmyra, a message addressed to brokers in New York, and in these
words,. "Buy. us seven ($700) hundred dollars in gold." In
the statement of facts upon which the case was submitted, it
was agreed that he had never read the printed part of the
blank, and that "the message thus delivered was transmitted
from the office at Palmyra, as written; but, by some error of
the defendant's operators working between Palmyra and
New York," it was received in New York and delivered in
this form, "Buy us seven thousand dollars in gold," and the
brokers accordingly bought that amount for the plaintiffs,
who sold it at a loss. It was held that there was no evidence
of negligence on the part of the company, and that, the message not having been repeated, the company was not liable.
In Kiley v. Western Union Tsl.. Co., 109 N. Y. 231, 235237, a similar decision was made, the court saying: "That a
telograph company has the right to exact such a stipulation
from its customers is the settled law in this and most of the
other States of the Union and in England. The authorities
hold that telegraph companies are not under the obligations
of common carriers; that they do not insure the absolute and
accurate transmission of messages delivered to them; that

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

21

Opinion of the Court.

they have the right to make reasonable reguiations for the
transaction of their business, and to protect themselves
against liabilities which they would otherwise incur through
the carelessness 6f their numerous agents, and the mistakes
and defaults incident to the transaction of their peculiar business. The stipulation printed in the blank used in this case
has frequently been under consideration in the courts, and
has always in this State, and generally elsewhere, been upheld as reasonable." "The evidence brings this case within
the terms of the stipulation. It is not the case of a message
delivered to the operator, and not sent by him from his office.
This message was sent, and it may be inferred from the evidence that it went so far as 'Buffalo, at least; and all that
appears further is that it never reached its destination. Why
it did not reach there. remains unexplained. It was not
shown that the failure was due to the wilful misconduct of
the defendant, or to its gross negligence. If the plaintiff
had requested to have the message repeated back to him,
the failure would have been detected and the loss averted.
The case is, therefore, brought within the letter and purpose
of the stipulation."
In the Supreme Judicial Court of -Massachusetts, the reasonableness and validity of such regulations have been repeatedly
affirmed. Ellis v. American Tel. Co., 13 Allen, 226; Rejath
v. We8tern Union Tel. Co., 112 Mass. 71; Grinnell v. We8tern
Unio* Tel. Co., 113 Mass. 299; Clement v. Tfes tem Union
Tel. Co., 137 Mass. 463.
There are cases, indeed, in which such regulations have
been considered to be wholly void. It will be sufficient to
refer to those specially relied on by the learned counsel for
the plaintiff, many of which, however, upon examination,
appear to have been influenced by considerations which have
no application to the case at bar.
Some of them were actions brought not by the sender, but
by the receiver of the message, who had no notice of the
printed conditions until after he received it, and could not,
therefore, have agreed to them in advance. Such were New
York & Washington Tel. Co. v. -Dryburg, 35 Penn. St. 298;

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion- of the Court.

Ramrrs v. Western Union Tel. Co., 9 Phila. 88; and De la
Grange v. Southwestern Tel. Co., 25 La. Ann. 383.
Others were cases of night messages, in which the whole
provision as to repeating was omitted, and a sweeping and
comprehensive provision substituted, by which, in effect, all
liability beyond the price paid was avoided. True v. International Tel. Co., 60 Maine, 9, 18; Bartlett v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 62 Maine, 209, 215; Candee v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 34 Wisconsin, 471, 476; Hibbard v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 33 Wisconsin, 558, 564. In Bartlett's case, the court
said: "Most, if not all, the cases upon this subject refer to
rules requiring the repeating of messages to insure accuracy,
,and seem to be justified in their conclusion on the ground that
owing to the liability to error, from causes beyond the skill
and care of the operator, it is but a matter of common care
afid prudence to have the messages repeated; the neglect of
which in messages of importance, after being warned of the
danger, is a want of care on the part of the sender, and, as
the person sending the message is presumed to be the best
judge of its importance, he must on his own responsibility
make his election whether to have it repeated." 62 Maine,
216, 217.
The passage cited from.the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in Delaware& Atlantic Teleynone Co. v. Postal Telegraph Co., 3 U. S. App. 30, 105, in which the same judge who
had decided the present case in the Circuit Court said, "It is
no longer open to question that telephone and telegraph companies are subject to the rules governing common carriers and
others engaged in like public employment," had regard, as is
evident from the context, and from the reference to Budd v.
lew York, 14a U S.517, to those rules only which require
persons or corporations exercising a public employment to
serve all alike, without discrimination, and which make them
subject to legislative regulation.
In Rittenhouse v. Independent Telegraph, 1 Daly, 474, and
44 N. Y. 263, and in Turner v. Hawkeye Tel. Co., 41 Iowa,
458, it does not appear that tbt company had undertaken to
restrict its liability by express stipulation.

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

23

Opinion of the Court.

The Indiana decisions cited appear to have been controlled
by a statute of the State, enacting that telegraph companies
should "be liable for special damages occasioned by failure
or negligence of their operators or servants, in receivjng,
copying, transmitting, or delivoring despatches."
Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Meek, 49 Indiana, 53; WIestern Union Tel.
Co. v. Fenton, 52 Indiana, 1.
The only cases, cited by the plaintiff, in which, independently of statute, a stipulation that the sender of a message,
if he would hold the company liable in damages beyond the
sum paid, must have it repeated and pay half that sum in
addition, has been held against public policy and void, appear
to be Tyler v. Western Union Tel. Co., 60 Illinois, 421, and 14
Illinois, 168; Ayer v. Western Union Tel. Co., 79 Maine, 493;
Teegraph Co. v. Griswold, 37 Ohio St. 301; Tfestern Union
Tel. Co. v. Crdll, 38 Kansas, 679; lTFestern Union Tel. Co. v.
Howell, 38 Kansas, 685; and a charge to the. jury by Mr.
Justice Woods, when Circuit Judge, as reported in Dorgan v.
TelegrapA Co., 1 Amer. Law Times, (N. S.) 406, and not
included in his own reports.
The fullest statement of reasons, perhaps, on that side of
the question, is to be found in Tyler v. Western Union Tel.
Co., above cited.
In that case, the plaintiffs had written and delivered to the
company on one of its blanks, containing the usual stipulation
as to repeating, this message, addressed to a broker, "Sell one
hundred (100) Western Union; answer price." In the message, as delivered by the company to the broker, the message
was changed by substituting "one thousand (.1000)." It was
assumed that "Western* Uiion" meant shares in the Western
Union Telegraph Company. The Supreme Court of Illinois
held that the stipulation was "unjust, unconscionable, without
consideration, and utterly void.2' 60 Illinbis, 439.
The'propositions upon which that decision was based may
be sufficiently stated, in the very words of the court, as
-follows: "Whether the paper presented by the company, on
which a message is written and signed by the sender is a
contract or not, depends on circumstances," and "whether he

.OCTOBER

TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

had knowledge of its terms and consented to its restrictions is
for the jury to determine as a question of fact upon evidence

allunde." "Admitting the paper signed by the plaintiffs was
a contract, it did not, and could not, exonerate the company
from the use of ordinary care and diligence, both as to their
instruments and the care and skill of their operators." "The
plaintiffs having proved the inaccuracy of the message, the
defendants, to exonerate themselves, should have shown how
the mistake occurred;" and, "in the absence of any proof on
their pa4, the jury should be told the presumption was a
want of ordinary care on the part of the company." The
printed conditions could not "protect this company from
losses and damage occasioned by causes wholly within their
own control," but " must be confined to mistakes due to the
infirmities of telegraphy, and which are unavoidable." 60
Illinois, 431-433.
The effect of that construction would be either to hold telegraph companies to be subject to the liability of common carriers, which the court admitted in an earlier part of its opinion
that they were not ; or else to allow to the stipulation no effect
whatever, for, if they were not common carriers, they would
not, even if there were no express stipulation, be liable for
unavoidable mistakes, due to causes over which they had no
control.
But, the final, and apparently the principal, ground for that
decision was restated by the court, when the case came before
it a second time, as follows: "On the question whether the
regulation requiring messages to be repeated, printed on the
blank Qf the company on which a message is written, is
a contract, we held, it was not a.contract binding in law,
for the reason the law imposed upon the companies duties to
be performed to the public, and for the performance of which
they were entitled to a compensation fixed by themselves, and
which the sender had no choice but to pay, no matter how exorbitant it might be. Among these duties, we held, was that
of transmitting messages correctly; that the tariff paid was
the consideration for the performance of this duty in each particular case, and when the charges were paid the duty of the

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

25

Opinion of the Court.

company began, and there was, therefore, no consideration for
the supposed contract requiring the sender to repeat the message at an additional cost to him of fifty per cent of the
original charges." 74 Illinois, 170, 171.
The fallacy in that reasoning appears to us to be in the
assumption that the company, under its admitted power to fix
a reasonable rate of compensation, establishes the usual rate
as the compensation for the duty of transmitting any message
whatever. Whereas, what the company has done is to fix
that rate for those messages only which are transmitted at the
risk of the sender; and to require payment of the higher rate
of half as much again if the company is to be liable for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery or in the nondelivery of a message.
Indeed, that learned court frankly admitted that its decision
was against the general current of authority, saying: "It must,
however, be conceded that there is great harmony in the
decisions that these companies can protect themselves from
loss, by contract, and that such a regulation as the one under
which appellees defended, is a reasonable regulation and
amounts to a contract." And again: "We are not satisfied
with the grounds on which a majority of the decisions of
respectable courts are placed." 60 Illinois, 430, 431, 435.
In the case at bar, the message, as appeared by the plaintiff's own testimony, was written by him at his office in Philadelphia, upon one of a bunch of the defendant's blanks, which
he kept there for the purpose. Although he testified that he
did not remember to have read the printed matter on the back
he did not venture to say that he had not read it; still less,
that he had not read the bri6 and clear notices thereof upon
the face of the message, both above the place for writing the
message, and below his signature. There can be no doubt,
therefore, that the terms on the back of the message, so far
as they were not incorfsistent with law, formed part of the
contract between him and the company under which the message was transmitted.
The message was addressed by the plaintiff to his own
agent in Kansas, was written in a cipher understood by them

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

only, and was in these words: "Despot am exceedingly busy
bay all kinds quo perhaps bracken half of it mince moment
promptly, of purchases." As delivered by the company to
the plaintiff's agent in Kansas, it had the words "destroy"
instead of "despot," "buy" instead of "bay," and "purchase"
instead of "purchases."
The message having been sent and received on June 16, the
mistake, in the first word, of "despot" for "destroy," by
which, for- a word signifying, to those understanding the
cipher, that the sender of the message had received" from the
person to whom it was addressed his message of June 16,
there was substituted a word signifying that his message of
June 17 had been received, (which was evidently impossible,)
could have had no other effect than to put him on his guard
as to the accuracy of the message delivered to him.
The mistake of substituting, for the last word "purchase"
in the singular, the word "purchases " in the plural, would
seem to have been equally unimportant, and is not suggested
to have done any harm.
The remaining mistake, which is relied on as the cause of
the injury for which the plaintiff seeks to recover damages
in this action, consisted in the change of a single letter, by
substituting "u" for "a," so as to put "buy" in the place of
"bay." By the cipher code, "buy" had its common meaning,
though the message contained nothing to suggest to any one,
except the sender or his agent, what the latter was to buy;
and the word "bay," according to that code, had (what no
one without its assistance could have conjectured) the meaning of "I have bought."
The impression copies of the papers kept at the defendant's
offices at Brookville and Ellis, in the State of Kansas, (which
were annexed to the depositions of operators at those offices,
and given in evidence by the plaintiff at the trial,) prove that
the message was duly transmitted over the greater part of its
route, and as far as Brookville; for they put it beyond doubt
that the message, as received and written down by one of the
operators at Brookville, was in its original form; and that,
as written down by the operator at Ellis, it was in its altered

PRIMROSE v. WESTERLY UNION TELEGRAPH.-

27

Opinion of the Court.

form. While the testimony of the deponents is conflicting,
there is nothing in it to create a suspicion that either of them
did not intend to tell the truth. Nor is there anything in the
case, tending to show that there was any defect in the defendant's instruments or equipment, or that any of- its operators
were incompetent persons.
If the change of words in the message was owing to mistake
or inattention'of any of the defendant's servants, it would
seem that it must have consisted either in a want of plainness of the handwriting of Tindall, the operator who took it
down at Brookville, or in a mistake of his fellow operator,
Stevens, in reading that writing, or in transmitting it to Ellis;
or else in a mistake of the operator at Ellis, in taking down
the message at that place. If the message had been repeated,
the mistake, from whatever cause. it arose,. must have been
detected by means of the differing versions made and kept
at the offices at Ellis and Brookville.
As has been seen; the, only mistake of any consequence in
the transmission of the message consisted in the change of
the word "bay" into " buy," or rather of the letter "1a" into
"u." In ordinary handwriting, the likeness between these
two letters, and the likelihood of mistaking the one for the
other, especially when neither the word nor the context has
any meaning to the reader, are familiar -to all; and in- telegraphic symbols; according to the testimony of the only witness upon the subject, the difference between these two letters
is a single dot.
The conclusion is irresistible, that if there was negligence
on the part of any of the defendant's servants, a jury would
not have been warranted in finding that it was more than
ordinary negligence; and that, upon principle and authority,
the mistake was one for which the plaintiff, not having had
the message repeated'according to the terms printed upon the
back thereof, and forming part of his contract with the company, could not recover more than the sum which he had paid
for sending the single message.
Any other conclusion would restrict the right of telegraph
companies to regulate the amount of their liability within

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

narrower limits than were allowed to common carriers in
.Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, already cited, in which five
horses were delivered by the plaintiff to a railroad company
for transportation under a bill of lading, signed by him and
by its agent, which stated that the horses were to be transported upon the terms and conditions thereof, "admitted and
accepted by" the plaintiff "as just and reasonable," and that
freight was to be paid at a rate specified, on condition that'
the carrier assumed a liability not exceeding two hundred
dollars on each horse; and the Circuit Court, and this court,
on writ of error, held that the contract between the parties
could not be controlled by evidence that one of the horses
was killed by the negligence of the railroad company, and
was a race horse, worth fifteen thousand dollars. 2 McCrary,
333 ; 112 U. S. 331.
It is also to be remembered that, by the third condition
or restriction in the printed terms forming part of the contract between these parties, it is stipulated that the company
shall not be "liable in any case" "for errors in cipher or
obscure messages;" and that it is further stipulated that
"no employ6 of the company is authorized to vary the foregoing," which evidently includes this, as well as other restrictions.
It is difficult to see anything unreasonable, or against public policy, in a stipulation that if the handwriting of a message, delivered to the company for transmission, is obscure,
so as to be read with difficulty, or is in ,bipher, so that the
reader has not the usual assistance of the context in ascertaining particular words, the company will not be responsible
for its miscarriage, and that none of its agents shall, by attempting to transmit such a message, make the company
responsible.
As the message was taken down by the telegraph operator at
Brookville in the same words in which it was delivered by
the plaintiff to the company at Philadelphia, it is evident that
no obscurity in the message, as originally written by the
plaintiff, had anything to do with its failure to reach its ultiufate destination in the same form.

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

29

Opinion of the Court.

But it certainly was a cipher message; and to hold that
the acceptance by the defendant's operator at Philadelphia
made the company liable for errors in its transmission would
not only disregard the express stipulation that no employ6
of the company could vay the conditions of the contract, but
would wholly nullify the condition as to cipher messages, for
the fact that any message is written in cipher must be apparent to every reader.
Beyond this, under any contract to transmit a message by
telegraph, as under any other contract, the damages fbr a
breach must be limited to those which may be fairly considered as arising according to the usual course of things from
the breach of the very contract in question, or which both
parties must reasonably have understood and contemplated,
when making the contract, as likely to result from its breach.
This was directly adjudged in Western Union Tel. Co. v.

Hall, 124 U. S. 444.
In Hfadley v. Baxendale, 9 Exch. 345, decided in 1854, ever
since considered a leading case on both sides of the Atlantic,
and approved and followed by this court in iWestern Union
Tel. Co. v. Hall, above cited, and in Howard v. Stillwell Co.,
139 U. S. 199, 206, 207, Baron Alderson laid down, as the
principles by which the jury ought to be guided in estimating
the damages arising out of any breach of contract, the following: "Where two parties have made a contract which one of
them has broken, the damages which the other party ought
to receive in respect of such breach of contract should be
such as may fairly and reasonably be considered either arising
naturally, i.e. according to the usual course of things, from
such breach of contract itself, or such as may reasonably be
supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties,
at the time they made the contract, as tl:e probable, result of
the breach of it. Now, if the special circumstances under
which the contract was actually made were communicated
by the plaintiffs to the defendants, and thus known to both
parties, the damages resulting from the breach of such a contract, which they would reasonably contemplate, would be
the amount of injury which would ordinarily follow from a.

OCTOBER "TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

breach of contract under these special circumstances so known
and communicated. But, on the other hand, if these special
circumstances weie wholly unknown to the party breaking
the contract, he, at the most, could only be supposed to have
had in his contemplation the amount which would arise generally, and in the great multitude of cases not affected by any
special circumstances, from such a breach of contract." 9
Exch. 354, 355.
In Sanders v. Stuart, which was an action by commission
merchants against a person whose business it was to collect
and transmit telegraph messages, for neglect to transmit a
message in words by themselves wholly unintelligible, but
which could be understood by the plaintiffs' correspondent
in New York as giving a large order for goods, whereby the
plaintiffs lost profits, which they wbuld otherwise have made
by the transaction, to the amount of £150, Lord Chief Justice
Coleridge, speaking for himself and Lords Justices Brett and
Lindley, said: "Upon the facts of this case we think that the
rule in Hadley v. Bamendale applies, and that the damages
recoverable are nominal only. It is not necessary to decide,
and we do not give any opinion how the case might be, if
the message, instead of being in language utterly unintelligible, had been conveyed in plain and intelligible words. It
was conveyed in terms which, as far as the defendant was
concerned, were simple nonsense. For this reason, the second
portion of Baron Alderson's rule clearly applies. No such
damages as above mentioned could be 'reasonably supposed
to have been in the contemplation of both parties, at the
time they made the contract, as the probable result of the
breach of it;' for the simple reason that the defendant, at
least, did not know what his contract was about, nor what,
nor whether any, damage would follow from the breach of
it. And for the same reason, viz., the total ignorance of the
defendant as to the subject-matter of. the contract, (an igno-,
rance known to, and, indeed, intentionally procured by the
plaintiffs,) the first portion of the rule applies also; for there
are no damages more than nominal which can 'fairly and
reasonably be considered as arising naturally, i.e. according

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

31

Opinion of the Court.

to the usual course of things, from the breach' of such a contract as this." 1 0. P. D. 326, 328; 45 Law Journal, (N. S.,)
0. P. 682, 684.
In United States Tel. Co. v. Gildersieve, already referred to,
which was an action by the sender against a telegraph company for not delivering this message received by it in Baltimore, addressed to brokers in New York, "Sell fifty (50)
gold," Mr. Justice Alvey, speaking for the Court of Appeals
of Maryland, and applying the rule of Hadley v. Baxendale,
above cited, said :" While it was proved that the dispatch in
question would be understood among brokers to mean fifty
thousand dollars of gold, it was not shown, nor was it put to
the jury to find, that the appellant's agents so understood
it, or whether they understood it at all. 'Sell fifty gold'
may have been understood in its literal import, if it can be
properly said to have any, or was as likely to be taken to
mean fifty dollars, as fifty thousand dollars, by those not
initiated. And if the measure of responsibility at all depends
upon a knowledge of the special circumstances of the case,
it would certainly follow that the nature of this dispatch
should have been communicated to the agent at the time it
was offered to be sent, in order that the appellant might have
observed the precautions necessary to guard itself against
the risk. But without reference to the fact as to whether
the appellant had knowledge of the true meaning and character of the dispatch, and was thus enabled to contemplate
the consequences of a breach of the contract, the jury were
instructed that the appellee was entitled to recover .to the
full extent of his loss by the decline in gold. In thus instructing the jury, we think the court committed error, and
that its ruling should be reversed." 29 Maryland, 232, 251.
In Baldwin v. United Statee Tel. Co., which was an action
by the senders against the telegraph company, for not delivering this message, "Telegraph me at Rochester what that well
is doing," Mr. Justice Allen, speaking for the court of Appeals
of New York, said: "The message did not import that a sale
of any property, or any business transaction, hinged upon the
prompt delivery of it, or upon any answer that might be

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

received. For all the purposes for which the plaintiffs desired
the information, the message might as well have been in a
cipher, or in an unknown tongue. It indicated nothing to
put the defendant upon the alert, or from which it could be
inferred that any special or peculiar loss would ensue from a
non-delivery of it. Whenever special or extraordinaxy damages, such as would not naturally or ordinarily follow a breach,
have been awarded for the non-performance of contracts,
whether for the sale or carriage of goods, or for the delivery
of messages by telegraph, it has been for the reason that the
contracts have been made with reference to peculiar circumstances known to both, and the particular loss has been in the
contemplation of both, at the time of making the contract,
as a contingency that might follow the non-performance."
"The dispatch not indicating any purpose, other than that of
obtaining such information as an owner of property might
desire to have at all times and without reference to a sale, or
even a stranger might ask for purposes entirely -foreign to the
property itself, it is very evident that, whatever may have
been the special purpose of the plaintiffs, the defendant had
no knowledge or means of knowledge of it, and could not
have contemplated either a loss of a sale, or a sale at an under
value, or any other disposition of or dealing with the well or
-any other property, as the probable or possible result of a
breach of its contract. The loss which would, naturally and
necessarily, result from the failure to deliver the message,
would be the money paid for its transmission, and no other
damages can be claimed upon the evidence as resulting from
the alleged breach of duty by the defendant." 45 N. Y. 744,
749, 750, 752. See also Hart v. Direct Cable Co., 86 N. Y.
633.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in Tyler v. Western Union
Tel. Co., above cited, took notice of the fact that in that case
"the dispatch disclosed the nature of the business as fully as
the case demanded." 60 Illinois, 434. And in the recent
case of Postal Tel. Co. v. -Lathrop,the same court said: "It is
clear enough that, applying the rule in Hadley v. Baxendale,
aupra, a recovery cannot be had for a failure to correctly

PRIMROSE v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH.

33

Opinion of the Court.

transmit a mere cipher dispatch unexplained, for the reason
that to one unacquainted with the meaning of the ciphers it
is wholly unintelligible and nonsensical. An operator would,,
therefore, be justifiable in saying that it can contain no information of value as pertaining to a business transaction;
and a failure to send it, or a mistake in its transmission, can
reasonably result in no pecuniary loss." 131 Illinois, 575,
585.
The same rule of damages has been applied, upon failure of
a telegraph company to transmit or deliver a cipher message,
in one of the Wisconsin cases cited by the plaintiff, and
in many cases in other courts. Candee v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 34 Wisconsin, 471, 479-481; Beauyri v. Pacifc &
.Atlantic Tel. Co., 21 Minnesota, 155; Mack~ay v. Vestern
Union Tel. Co., 16 Nevada, 222; -Daniel v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 61 Texas, 452; Cannon v. Westem Union Tel. Co.,
100 No.- Car. 300; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Wilson, 32
Florida, 527; Behm v. Western Union Tel. Co., 8 Bissell, 131;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Martin,9 Bradwell, 587; Abeles v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 37 Missouri App. 554; .Kinghorne v.
ufontreaZ Tel. Co., 18 Upper Canada Q. B. 60, 69.
In the present case, the message was, and was evidently
intended to be, wholly unintelligible to the telegraph company
or its agents. They were not informed, by the message or
otherwise, of the nature, importance or extent of the transaction to which it related, or of the position which the plaintiff
would probably-occupy if the message were correctly transmitted. Mere knowledge .that the plaintiff was a wool merchant, and that Toland was in his employ, had no tendency to
show what the message was about. According to any understanding which the telegraph company and its agents had, or
which the plaintiff could possibly have supposed that they
had, of the contract between these parties, the damages which,
the plaintiff seeks to recover in this action, for losses upon
wool purchased by Toland, were not such as could reasonably be considered, either as arising, according to the usual
course of things, from the supposed breach of the contract
itself, or as having been in the contemplation of both parties,
vor. ciY--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

when they made the contract, as a probable result of a breach
of it.
In any view of the case, therefore, it was rightly ruled by
the Circuit Court that the plaintiff could recover in this action
no more than the sum which he had paid for sending the
message.
Jud nt qftrmd.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

and MR.

JUSTICE

HARLAN

dissented.
MR. JUSTICE WHrrI,
not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

SCOTT v. MoNEAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 890.

Submitted October 23, 189.-Decided May 14, 1894.

A court of probate, in the exercise of its jurisdiction over the probate of
wills and the administration of estates of deceased persons, has no jurisdiction to appoint an administrator of the estate of a living person; and
its orders, made after public notice, appointing an administrator of the
estate of a person who is in fact alive, although he has been absent and
not heard from for seven years, and licensing the administrator to sell
his land for payment of his debts, are void, and the purchaser at the
sale takes no title, as against him.
A: judgment of the highest court of a State, by which the purchaser, at an
administrator's sale under order of a probate court, of land of V living
person, who had no notice of its proceedings, is held to be entitled to
the land as against him, deprives him of his property without due process
of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, and is reviewable by this court on writ of error.

THIs was an action of ejectment brought January 14, 1892,
in the Superior Court of Thurston County in the State
of Washington, by Moses H. Scott against John McNeal and
Augustine McNeal to recover possession of a tract of land in
that county.

