OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

cumulative and that the taxpayer may at his election seek his
remedy by injunction in the first instance. But it was for the
Supreme Court of Montana to determine whether the statute
was exclusive and whether plaintiff ca:me within its terms or
not, and its action in that regard raises no Federal question
for our consideration. It is argued that the opinion in effect
decides that, under the statute, the State of Montana has a
right to assess and levy taxes upon the lands of the United
States, and that if no application is made to the board of
equalization, the sale of such public lands cannot be restrained.
The plaintiff, however, in no respect represented the United
States, and an injunction cannot be granted to private individuals to avert the sale for taxes of the property of others,
whether exempt from taxation or not.
The writ of error must be
_D~si88ed.

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
ER OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1062. Submitted March 5, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

An indictment for murder which charges that the offence was committed on
board of an American vessel on the high seas, within the jurisdiction of
the court and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States, sufficiently avers the locality of the offence.
An Indictment which charges that A, B, and C, acting jointly, killed and
murdered D, is sufficient to authorize the conviction of one, though the
others may be acquitted.
A charge in an indictment that the accused did then and there, piratically,
wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought, strike and beat the
said D, then and there giving to said D several grievous, damaging, and
mortal wounds, and did then and there, to wit, at the time and place last
above mentioned, him, the said D, cast and throw from and out of the said
vessel into the sea, and plunge, sink, and drown him, the said D, In the
sea aforesaid, sufficiently charges that the throwing into the sea was
done wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought.
An indictment being found after the trial jury had been properly discharged,

ST. CLAIR v. UNITE D STATES.
Statement of the Case.
the court may order a venire to issue for persons to serve as jurors, and
may further direct the marshal to summon talesmen.
Rule 63 of the court below is not inconsistent with any settled principle
of criminal law, and does not interfere with the selection of impartial
juries.
Circumstances attending a particular transaction under investigation by
a jury, if so interwoven with each other and with the principal facts
that they cannot well be separated without depriving the jury of proof
that is essential in order to reach a just conclusion, are admissible in
evidence.
On the trial under an indictment charging that A, B, and C, acting jointly,
killed and murdered D, without charging that they were co-conspirators,
evidence of the acts of B and C are admissible against A, if part of the
res gestm.
A party may showthat the testimony of one of his witnesses has taken
him by surprise, and that it is contrary to the examination of him preparatory to the trial, or to what the party had reason to believe that the
witness would testify; or that the witness had been recently brought
under the influence of the other party and had deceived the'party calling him.
The certificate of the vessers registry and proof that she carried the flag
of the United States were properly admitted on the trial of this case,
and established a prima facie case of proper registry under the laws of
the United States, and of the nationality of the vessel and its owners.
When no exception is taken on the trial of a person accused of crime to
the action of the court below on a particular matter, that action is not
subject to review here, although the statutes and 'practice of the State in
which the trial takes place 'provide otherwise.
In criminal proceedings all parts of the record must be interpreted
together, so as to give effect to every part, if possible, and a deficiency
in one part may be supplied by what appears elsewhere in the record.

IT February, 1893, the grand jury, empanelled in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, returned into that court an indictment charging that
Thomas St. Clair, Herman Sparf, and Hans Hansen, mariners,
late of that district, on the 13th day of January, 1893, with
force and arms, on the high seas, and within the jurisdiction
of the court, and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State of the United States, in and on board of an
American vessel, the bark Hesper, belonging to a citizen or
citizens of the United States, whose name or names are or
were to the grand jurors unknown, did, with a certain instru-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ment or weapon, (the character and name of which were to
the grand jury unknown,) then and there held in the hands of
one of the defendants, (but of which particular one was to the
grand jurors unknown,) ".'hen and there piratically, wilfully,
feloniously, and with malice aforethought strike and beat the
said Maurice Fitzgerald, then and there giving to the said
Maurice Fitzgerald several grievous, dangerous, and mortal
wounds, and did then and there, to wit, at the time and place
last above mentioned, him the said Maurice Fitzgerald cast
and throw from and out of the said vessel into the sea, and
plunge, sink, and drown him the said Maurice Fitzgerald in
the sea aforesaid; of which said mortal wounds, casting,
throwing, plunging, sinking, and drowning the said Maurice
Fitzgerald in and upon the high seas aforesaid, out of the jurisdiction of -any particular State of the United States of America,
then and there instantly died.
"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid,
do say, that by reason of the casting and throwing the said
Maurice Fitzgerald in the sea as aforesaid, they cannot
describe the said mortal wounds or the character and nature
-of said

weapon or instrument.

And so the grand jurors afore-

said, upon their oath aforesaid, do say that the said Thomas
St. Clair, Herman Sparf, and Hans Hansen, him the said
Maurice Fitzgerald at the time and place as aforesaid, upon
the high seas as aforesaid, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the United States of America, in and upon the
said American Vessel, within the jurisdiction of the United
States of America and of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the said United States of America and of this court,
in the manner and form aforesaid, piratically, wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought, did kill and murder,
against the peace and dignity of the United States of America,
and contrary to the form of the statute of the said United
States of America, in such case made and provided."
It was also averred that the Northern District of California
was the district into which St. Clair, Sparf, and Hansen were
first brought after committing said offence.
The indictment was based upon section 5339 of the Revised

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Statutes, providing among other things that "every person
who commits murder

.

.

.

upon the high seas or in any arm

of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States,
and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State; or who,
upon any such waters, maliciously strikes, stabs, wounds,
poisons, or shoots at any other person, of which striking,
stabbing, wounding, poisoning, or shooting such other person
dies, either on land or at sea, within or without the United
States, shall suffer death."
On motion of the district attorney the indictment was remitted for trial to the Circuit Court, where the defendant&
were arraigned and severally pleaded not guilty. Rev. Stat.

§ 1039.
Subsequently the pleas of not guilty were withdrawn and
the defendants jointly demurred to the indictment upon these
grounds: 1. That it did not state facts constituting a public
offence. 2. That it was uncertain in not showing upon what
portion of the high seas the alleged'offence was committed
or which one of the defendants committed the alleged assault,
-or whether one or more of the defendants committed any of
the acts alleged against them.
The demurrer was overruled, and the defendants being
again arraigned pleaded not guilty.
A motion for a separate trial of the defendants was made
and granted, and the trial of St. Clair was had separately.
At the beginning of the trial the accused challenged the
panel of the trial jurors and the challenge was denied.
The facts in reference to the challenging of jurors are as
follows :
On the 1st day of February, 1893, a day of the term of the
Circuit Court, commencing November 28; 1892, an order was
made and entered directing a venire to issue summoning fifty
persons to serve as trial jurors, returnable February 14, 1893.
Pursuant to that order a venire containing fifty names drawn
from the regular jury box of the court was issued for those
persons to act as petit or trial jurors. At the time of the
drawing there were at least -three hundred names in the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

box, but of those a part were names remaining after previous
drawings at former terms of the court, and the others were
names placed therein by the proper officers just previous to
the drawing of said venire -to make the whole number of
names up to and including the full number of three hundred.
The persons whose names were contained in that venire were
duly summoned and appeared on the 14th day of February,
1893, with the exception of three, who had in the meantime
been excused by the court. Thereafter, on the 2d day of
March, 1893, a day of the term commencing on the 1st Monday of February, 1893, the following order was made and
caused to be entered: "There being no further business to
be brought before them it is ordered that the trial jury
of said Circuit Court, for the present February term thereof,
be discharged and paid for their attendance." On the 6th
day of May, 1893, the indictment against St. Clair, Sparf, and
Hansen was, as already stated, remitted to the Circuit Court
from the District Court.
On the 29th day of May, 1893, a day of the February term,
after the discharge of the regular jury for the term, the court
entered an order directing a venire to issue for fifty persons
to serve as trial jurors, and returnable on Wednesday, June 7,
1893. Pursuant to that order a venire containing the names
of fifty persons drawn from the regular jury box of the court
was issued for those persons to serve as trial jurors in the Circuit Court, and to appear on the 7th day of June, 1893. At
the time of the drawing last mentioned there were at least
three hundred names in the jury box, but of those a part
were names remaining after the last drawing, and the others
.were names placed therein by the proper officers just previous to the drawing of the last-mentioned venire to bring
the whole number in the jury box up to three hundred. The
persons whose names were contained in the last-mentioned
venire (such as were summoned and not excused) appeared
and attended the court in obedience to its summons. Thereafter on June 14, 1893, a day in the February term, the circuit
judge presiding, the case against St. CJair was called for trial.
The defendant challenged and objected to the general

ST. CLAIR v. UNITE1) STATES.
Statement of the Case.

venire and panel of jurors on the ground that the regular
venire of jurors for the term had been discharged, and that
the court had exhausted its powers to summon a jury to act
during the term after the order for a jury of February 1,1893,
and the order discharging the jury of the 2d of March, 1893;
and on the further ground that the statutes had not been
complied with in summoning jurors, and that at the time of
the drawing of the names of jurors the jury.box had not been
refilled with three hundred new names, but a portion of the
names therein were names remaining after previous drawings.
The court overruled the objection and denied the challenge,
to which rulings of the court the defendant objected.
Thereupon twelve persons who had been drawn and summoned as aforesaid were regularly called into the jury box,
but before being sworn to answer questions touching their
qualifications, the attorneys for the defendant objected to and
challenged the panel thus called on the ground urged against
the general venire. The court overruled the objection and
denied the challenge, to which the defendant excepted.
The jurors were then sworn to answer questions touching
their qualifications to serve as jurors. After the first juror
had been examined as to his qualifications and passed by the
United States and the defendant for cause, the court announced that the juror must be sworn to try the case, unless
challenged by the United States or the defendant, and that
this rule would be enforced as to each subsequent juror. The
defendant claimed the right to examine all of the jurors as to
their qualifications before exercising the peremptory challenge,
and excepted to the ruling announced by the court.
The defendant challenged each separate juror after he
entered the box on the ground that the jury had not been
properly drawn as hereinbefore stated, which challenge was
denied by the court, and the several rulings of the court were
excepted to by him.
The names of jurors summoned having become exhausted,
after only eight had been examined, accepted, and sworn, the
court ordered 25 talesmen to be summoned for June 15, 1893,
to serve as trial jurors in the cause. On that day the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ants objected to the last-mentioned venire, and to the talesmen, on the grounds offered to the original general venire or
panel. This objection and challenge were overruled by the
court, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant. also objected and challenged the talesmen
on the ground that there was no jury regularly summoned to
be filled by talesmen, and that the talesmen had not been
summoned in conformity to law. This objection was overruled, and he excepted.
The defendant also objected to each separate talesman after
he entered the box and was sworn, upon the grounds last
mentioined, and the -objection was overruled,, to which he
excepted.
After a jury of twelve-h-d been empanelled and sworn to
try the case, tVhe same objection was repeated to the entire
panel sworn to try the case, and the objection having been
oveiruled, an exception was taken.
The material-facts disclosed by the evidence are so fully
and accurately stated in the brief on behalf of the government that we adopt the statement of the Assistant Attorney
General, as follows:
"The Hesper was making the voyage from Australia to
Honolulu. It left Newcastle on the 22d of December, 1892,
with a crew consisting of fourteen persons. The ship's crew
was divided into two watches, one called the starboard watch,
which is the captain's watch; the other called the port watch,
which is the mate's watch. The watches consisted of four
hours at a time, except the afternoon watch, fron 4 to 8
o'clock, which is divided into two watches of two hours each.
The watches relieve each other every four hours. The man
at the wheel strikes a bell for the watch to come on deck at
12, 4, and 8 o'clock. A watch is always called before 8 bells,
which means 12 o'clock, 8 o'clock, and 4 o'clock. Every half
hour is one bell. The seamen call each other and the officers
call the, officers. When one watch is performing duty the
other watch is supposed to be sleeping during the day or
night. On the 13th day of January, 1893, the starboard
watcl consisted of Maurice Fitzgerald, the second mate;

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Thomas St. Clair, Herman Sparf, Hans Hansen, and Edwin
Larsen. The port watch consisted of John Lucas, first mate;
Thomas Green, Jens Olsen, Henry Westerlind, and Pandy
Secaria.
"1On the night of the 13th of January, 1893, John Lucas,
the first mate, was called out at about five minutes to 12
o'clock, by Herman Sparf. He dressed, and as he was going
on deck eight bells struck for 12 o'clock. He walked rapidly
to, the man at the wheel and asked where the second mate was.
He called for him and received no answer. He went to the
captain's cabin and reported that he could not find the second mate. The captain came on deck and inquired of the
starboard watch, which had been on duty from 8 to 12
o'clock, if they knew where the second mate was who had
charge of their watch; to his inquiry he received no reply.
The carpenter was called on deck, and the search for the
second mate was continued. The starboard watch, which
had gone off duty at 12 o'clock, had gone below and was
called again to the deck by the mate, and was not permitted
to go to their bunks to sleep, but was required to remain on
deck and go aft. The deck of the vessel was loaded with
coal about ten or twelve feet high. The top of it was floored
over with some hard wood and on top of that a deck was laid
of two-inch planking.
" About- twenty minutes past 12 o'clQock the captain discovered blood on the deck; about seven or eight feet from
the mainmast one spot of blood was about two and a half
feet long. The next morning there was found on the edge of
the gangway a narrow strip of scalp with a small piece of
hair stuck together by blood attached to it. The hair was
black, tliged with gray, and was recognized by the captain as
the hair of the second mate who was missing. There -was
alsG found a broom covered with blood alongside the ladder;
and. beneath the bunk of St. Clair, the plaintiff in error, there
-was found a hatchet, which was greasy; and on the deck,
near to where the blood was seen, there was found a wooden
bludgeon. After the captain discovered the blood he called
the starboard watch into the cabin. He saw' blood on one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the cheeks of Herman Sparf. The men all said they could
not account for the blood on the deck; that they had heard
nothing during their watch from 8 to 12. Herman Sparf
said that he had seen the second mate go up the fore rigging,
but had not seen him come down. The captain sent them to
their bunks to go to sleep.
"Edward Larsen, a member of the starboard watch,
relieved St. Clair at the wheel at 10 o'clock; the second
mate was then close by the wheel when relieved by Larsen.
St. Clair went forward on the deck. At that time the mate
was aft. St. Clair returned and told the mate that something was carried away, and he went forward and the mate
followed him. It was very dark at the time and that was the
last Larsen saw of the second mate. Shortly after St. Clair
and the second mate went forward Larsen heard a dog bark
and a man ' holler.' At half-past 10 Captain Sodergren and
his wife, who were together in the cabin, heard the dog bark
and two sounds like a human voice in distress. The barking
of the dog and the sound of the voice were heard also by
John Langlais, the ship's carpenter, and M. P. Luck, the
steward, but they only fix it between 8 and 12 o'clock.
Herman Sparf, who was of the starboard watch and whose
place was on deck, came to the forecastle, where the port
watch were sleeping, and called Jens Olsen at a quarter to
11 o'clock to give them a hand to throw the captain 9verboard. And about the same time he wofe up Thomas Green
and said something to him which Green could not understand.
Green went on deck in his underclothing; as he was going
on the starboard side he saw Hansen with a broom in his
hand, and when he went on the deck-load he found St. Clair,
Hansen, and Herman Sparf standing there. He said to
St. Clair: 'What's the matter, what's the news? ' St. Clair
said: ' We want you to give us a hand to throw the old man
overboard,' referring to the captain. So I says: 'How are
you going to get him on' deck.' and he says: ' One of us will
let go the peak halyards and one of us will go. around to the
wheel, and when he comes on deck then will be the time to
do away with him.' So I says: ' Where's the second mate?'

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

He says: ' He has gone overboard; can't you see the blood
on the deck.' So St. Clair says: ' What do you say? ' and
I says: ' Wait until I go and. put a pair of pants on.'
"Jens Olsen did not go on deck when called by Sparf at
a quarter to 11, and did not see St. Clair until he went on
deck at 12 o'clock, when he saw him walking on the deckload on the starboard side, aft of the mainmast.
"The hatchet, which was found under the bunk of St. Clair,
was identified by Hong, the cook, as the one which St. Clair
had borrowed from him at half-past 6 o'clock the evening
before, to cut wood with.
"At half-past 10 o'clock, on the night of the homicide,
St. Clair had on a blue serge coat, buttoned up, at the time
he came back to the wheel and told the mate that something
had been carried away,.and he and the mate went forward
together. When Captain Sodergren saw St. Clair on the
deck, helping the mate to light the lamp, about a quarter
after 12 o'clock, 'he had only a shirt on -- a gray shirt; the
captain saw no blood on it, and. he went into the forecastle
to discover whether there was blood on the men's clothing.
Pandy Secaria had left St. Clair at the wheel about 9 o'clock
that night; he saw him next after 12 o'clock, when the first
mate was inquiring: Where is the second mate? He saw
him again a few minutes later, after the starboard watch had
gone below, coming out of the forecastle; he had changed
his clothes; he had got a shirt on and no pants; he jumped
inside the forecastle; he had a bundle of clothes in his hand
and he chucked them overboard.
"Thomas Green saw St. Clair about 12 o'clock that night,
or a little after, have some clothes and throw some clothes
overboard. He had some clothes rolled up in a bundle and
threw them overboard in front of Green; St. Clair's hands had
blood on them at that time.
"After the mate had disappeared that night, and after St.
Clair, Sparf, and Hansen were placed in irons, Sparf said to
Edward larsen, in Swedish, not to say anything about it.
And the same night the plaintiff in error, St. Clair, had said to
Thomas Green, in the forecastle, ' Say nothing about it, Tom."'

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In the progress of the trial there were numerous exceptions
by the accused in respect to the admission of evidence.
The defendant asked but one instruction, which was in these
words: "Manslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human
being without malice, express or implied, and without any
mixture of deliberation whatever. The jury are instructed
that under the indictment in this case the defendant, St. Clair,
may be found guilty of manslaughter, and if, after a full and
careful consideration of all the evidence before you, you believe beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty
of manslaughter you may so find your verdict." This instruction was refused, but no exception was taken at the time
to this action of the court. The court charged the jury upon
the law of the case, saying among other things: "Manslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human being without
malice, either express or implied. I do not consider it necessary, gentlemen, to explain it further, for if a felonious homicide has been committed of which you are to be the judges
from the proof, there is nothing in this case to reduce it below
the grade of murder." No exception was taken to the charge
of the court or to any part of it.
The jury returned the following verdict: "We, the jury,
find Thomas St. Clair, the prisoner at the bar, guilty." 'Upon
that verdict the defendant, after motions for new trial and
arrest of judgment had been overruled, was sentenced to suffe.
death.
-Mr.J.F. Smith and Mr. F. J. Kierce for plaintiff in error.
M'. Asistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.
Mm. JUSTiCE
iARLA,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

I. The objection, upon demurrer, that the indictment did
not sufficiently show on what part of the high seas the offence
charged was committed, is met by the averment that the
offence was committed on board of an American vessel, on the

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

high seas, within the jurisdiction of the court and within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, and
not within the jurisdiction of any particular State of the
Union. Nothing more was required to show the locality of
the offence.

In United Statem v. Gibert, 2 Sumner, 19, 86,

which was an indictment for robbery on the high seas-a
capital offence and piracy under the act of 1790, 1 Stat. 113,
c. 9 - the point was made that the indictment was defective
in not stating the particular place on the high seas at which
the robbery was committed. Mr. Justice Story overruled the
objection, observing that "the averment in the indictment
that the offence was committed on the high seas within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, and
out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, is sufficient
certainty for all the purposes of the indictment and trial, without any other particular designation or averment of the locality of the offence. . . . The doctrine of venue in indictments
at the common law is inapplicable to cases of this sort.
The reason of the common law for laying the venue so particularly in offences on land does not in any manner apply to
offences on the high seas; for no jury ever did or eould come
from the visne or visinige on the high seas to try the cause;
ana no summons could issue for such a purpose."
Equally without merit is the objection that the indictment
does not show which one or more of the defendants committed
the alleged assault. The indictment charged that the defendants St. Clair, Sparf, and Hansen, acting jointly, killed and
murdered Fitzgerald. The offence was one Which in its
nature might be committed by one or more of the defendants. Proof of the guilt of either one would have authorized
his conviction and the acquittal of the others. Archbold's
Or. Pr. & Pl. 176; 2 State Trials, 526; Young v. .M Kay, 8
T. R. 98, 105.
The only question that could arise as to the sufficiency of
the indictment is suggested by the words, "and did then and
there, to wit, at the time and place last above mentioned, him,
the said Maurice Fitzgerald, cast and throw from and out
of the said vessel into the sea, and plunge, sink, and drown
VOL. CLIV-10

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

him, the said Maurice.Fitzgerald, in the sea aforesaid." These
words, it is said, do not necessarily impoit that the casting
and throwing the deceased into the sea was done wilfully,
feloniously, and with malice aforethought. But they
cannot properly be separated from those which show the
nature and effect of the assault. The words immediately
preceding show that the accused did "then and there
piratically, wilfully, feloniously, and with malice aforethought, strike and beat the said Maurice Fitzgerald, then
and there giving to the said Maurice Fitzgerald several
grievous, dangerous, and mortal wounds." The latter
words and those first above quoted are connected by the conjunctive "and," and should be construed together; and, so
construed, it is clear that the words "piratically, wilfully,
feloniously, and with malice aforethought" refer not only
to the striking and beating of the deceased, whereby mortal
wounds were inflicted upon him, but to the casting and throwing of him into the sea, whereby he was drowned. Any
other rule of construction would compel the pleader to indulge
in too much repetition. Heydon's Case, 3 Rep. 7.
II. The objections made to the jury were also properly
overruled. It was clearly competent for the Circuit Court
to make the order of March 2, 1893, discharging the trial
jury for that term, there being no further business to be
brought before the court.. The indictment having been found
after the regular trial jury had been discharged, the order
of May 29, 1893, directing a venire returnable June 7, 1893,
for fifty persons to serve as jurors was entirely proper. The
names of the persons thus summoned to appear and who
appeared were drawn from the regular jury box, in which
at the time were at least three hundred names. But the list
of the whole body of jurors was exhausted when only eight
jurors had been accepted. Thereupon the marshal was
directed to summon,"and. did summon, twenty-five talesmen.
All this was in conformity to law. By section 804 of Revised
Statutes of the United States, it is provided that "when,
from challenges or otherwise, there is not a petit jury to
determine any civil or criminal cause, the marshal or his

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of *the Court.

deputy shall, by order of the court in which such defect of
jurors happens, return jurymen from the bystanders sufficient
to complete the panel." And this section was neither expressly, nor by implication, repealed by the act of June 30,
1879, c. 52, § 2, 21 Stat. 43; nor did that act "touch the
power of the court whenever, at the time of forming a jury
to try a particular case, the panel of jurors previously summoned according to law is found for any reason to have been
exhausted, call in talesmen from the bystanders to supply
the deficiency." Lovejoy v. United States, 128 U. S. 171,
173.
III. By Rule 63 of the court below, it is provided that "in
all criminal trials the designation, empanelling, and challenging of jurors shall conform to the laws of this State existing at
the time, except as otherwise provided by acts of Congress
or the rules of this court; but a juror shall be challenged,
or accepted and sworn, in the case as soon as his examination
is completed, and before the examination of another juror."
This rule was enforced at the trial of this case. After the
first juror was examined as to his qualifications, the court
announced that he must be sworn to try the case, unless
challenged by one party or the other - the accused claiming
the right to examine all the jurors as to their qualifications
before being required to exercise his privilege of peremptory
challenge as to any of them.
This general subject was carefully considered in Lewis v.
United States, 146 U. S.379, and in Pointerv. United States,
151 U. S.396, 407, 410, 411. Referring to section 800 of the
Revised Statutes, and the act of June 30, 1879, c. 52, 21 Stat.
43, 44, we said in the latter case: "There is nothing in these
provisions sustaining the objection made to the mode in
which the trial jury was formed. In respect to the qualifications and exemptions of jurors to serve in the courts of the
United States, the state laws are controlling. But Congress
has not made the laws and usages relating to the designation
and empanelling of jurors in the respective state courts ap'
plicable to the courts of the United States, except as the
latter shall by general standing rule or by special order in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a particular case adopt the state practice in that regard.
United States v. hackford, 18 How. 588; United States v.
.Richkzrdson, 28 Fed. Rep. 61, 69." "In the absence of such
rule or order," it was further said, "the mode of designating
and empanelling jurors for the trial of cases in the courts of
the United States is within the control of those courts, subject only to the restrictions Congress has prescribed, and also,
to such limitations as are recognized by the settled principles
of criminal law to be essential in securing impartial juries
.
In some jurisdictions the
for the trial of offences. .
mode pursued in the challenging of jurors is for the accused
and the government to make their peremptory challenges as
each juror, previously ascertained to be qualified and not subject to be challenged for cause, is presented for challenge
or acceptance. But it is not essential that this mode should
Referring to certain observations of Chief
be adopted."
Justice Tindal in Regina v. Fr'ost,9 Car. & P. 129, 137, it was
further said: "At most in connection with the report bf the
das., they tend to show that the practice in England, as in
some of the States, was to have the question of peremptory
challenge as to eacli juror, sworn on his voir dire, and found
to be free from legal objection, determined as to him before
another juror is examined as to his qualifications. But there
is no suggestion by any of the judges in Frost's case that that
mode was the only mode that could be pursued without
embarrassing the accused in the exercise of his right of challenge. The authority of the Circuit Courts of the United
States to deal with the subject of empanelling juries in criminal cases was recognized in Zewis v. United Statee, subject to
the condition that such rules must be adapted to secure all
the rights of the accused. 146 U. S. 378."
Adhering to what was said in Pointer's case, that any system for the empanelling of a jury that prevents or embarrasses
the full, unrestricted exercise by the accused of his right of
peremptory challenge, must be condemned, we hold that the
rule adopted by the court below'is not inconsistent with any
settled principle of criminal law, nor does it interfere with
the selection of impartial juries.

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.

149

Opinion of the Court.

IV. Exceptions were taken, at different stages of the trial,
to the admission, against the objection of the accused, of evi-.
dence as to the acts, appearance, and declarations of Sparf
and Hansen. These objections seem to rest upon the general
ground that the indictment did not charge St. Clair, Sparf,
and Hansen as co-conspirators. The evidence was not, for
that reason, to be rejected. St. Clair, Sparf, and Hansen were
charged jointly with having killed and murdered Fitzgerald.
The acts, appearances, and declarations of either, if part of
the res gest.t, were admissible for the purpose of presenting'
to the jury an accurate view of the situation as it was at the
time the alleged murder was committed. Circumstances attending a particular transaction under investigation by a jury,
if so interwoven with each other and with the principal fact
that they cannot well be separated without depriving the
jury of proof that is essential in order to reach a just conclusion, are admissible in evidence. "These surrounding circumstances constituting part of the res gestm," Greenleaf says,
may always be shown to the jury along with the principal
fact, and their admissibility is determined by the judge
according to the degree of their relation to that fact, and
in the exercise of his sound discretion; it being extremely
difficult, if not impossible, to bring this class of cases within
the limits of a more particular description." 1 Greenleaf,
12th ed. § 108. See also 1 Bishop's Cr. Pro. §§ 1083 to 1086.
"The res gestce," Wharton said, "may be, therefore, defined
as those circumstances which are the undesigned incidents
of a particular litigated act, and which are admissible when
illustrative of such act. These incidents may be separated
from the act by a lapse of time more or less appreciable.
They may consist of speeches of any one concerned, whether
participant or bystander; they may comprise things left undone as well as things done. Their sole distinguishing feature
is that they should be the necessary incidents of the litigated
act; necessary in thig sense, that they are part of the immnediate preparations fqr or emanations of such act, and are not
produced by the calculating policy of the actors. In other
words, they must stand in immediate casual relation to the

OCTOBER TERM, 189.3.
Opinion of the Court.

act - a relation not broken by the interposition of voluntary
individual wariness seeking to manufacture evidence for itself.
Incidents that are thus immediately and unconsciously associated with an act, whether such incidents are doings or
declarations, become in this way evidence of the character
of the act." 1 Wharton Ev. § 259, 2d ed. 1879.
Y: An exception was taken to the mode in which the district attorney was permitted to examine one of the witnesses
introduced by the government. The attorney announced that
the answers of the witness had taken him by surprise, and
asked that he be permitted to put leading questions to him.
This was allowed, and we cannot say that the court in so
ruling committed error. In such matters much must be left
to the sound discretion of the trial judge who sees the witness,
and can, therefore, determine in the interest of truth and justice whether the circumstances justify leading questions to
be propounded to a witness by the party producing him.
In Bastin v. Carew, Ryan & Mood. 127, Lord Chief Justice
Abbott well said that "in each particular case there must be
some discretion in the presiding judge as to the mode in which
the examination shall be conducted in order best to answer
the purposes of justice." The rule is correctly indicated by
Greenleaf, when he says: "But the weight of authority seems
in favor of admitting the party to show that the evidence has
taken him by surprise, and is contrary to the examination of
the witness preparatory to the trial, or to what the party had
reason to believe he would testify, or that the witness has
recently been brought under the influence of the other party
and has deceived the party calling him. For, it is said, that
this course is necessary for his protection against the contrivance of an artful witness, and that the danger of its being
regarded by the jury as substantive evidence is no greater in
such cases than it is where the contradictory allegations are
proved by the adverse party." 1 Greenl. Ev. 12th ed. § 444;
Taylor on Ev. 6th ed. §1262 A; Regina v. Chapman, 8 Car. &
P. 558, 559; Reginav. Ball, 8 Car. & P. 745; Clarkev. Saffery,
Ryan & Mood. 126.
VI. At the trial below the government, after identifying

ST. CLAIR v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by the proper officer the original register of the Hesper,
which disclosed the names of its owners, but not their nationality, introduced the same in evidence, and also proved that
the vessel carried the American flag. There was no direct
proof as to the citizenship or nationality of the owners, and
the accused objected to this evidence as immaterial and incompetent. The objection was overruled and an exception
taken. The court held the certificate of registration, and the
proof as to the flag carried by the vessel, to be competent
evidence in the case.
The statutes of the United States provide that vessels built
in the United States, and belonging wholly to citizens thereof,
may be registered; that no vessel shall be entitled to be
registered, or, if registered, to the benefits of registry, if
owned in whole or in part by any citizen of the United States
who usually resides in a foreign country, during the'continu:ance of such residence, unless he be a consul of' the united
States, or an agent for and partner in some house of trade, or
copartnership consisting of citizens of the United 'States
actually carrying on trade within the United States; and that
no vessel shall be entitled to be registered as a vessel of the
United States, or, if registered, to the benefits of registry, if
owned in whole or in part by any person naturalized in the
United States, and residing for more than one year in the
country from which he originated, or for more than two years
in any foreign country, unless such person be a consul or other
public agent of the United States. Rev. Stat. §§ 4132, 4133,
4134.
We are of opinion that the court below did not err in holding that the certificate of the vessel's registry, and its carrying the American flag, was admissible in evidence, and that
such evidence made, at least, a primra facid case of proper
registry under the laws of the United States and of the nationality of the vessel and its owners. "The purpose of a
register," this court has said, "is 'o declare the nationality of
a vessel engaged in trade with foreign nations, and to enable
her to assert that nationality wherever found." The .Mohaw ,
3 Wall. 566, 571. The object of the 'above evidence was, no

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

doubt, to meet any question that might arise as to the jurisdiction of a court of the United States to punish the particular
offence charged. If the proof was unnecessary for that purpose, it could not have prejudiced the accused. If necessary,
it was primafaciesufficient to establish the nationality of the
vessel. A vessel, registered as a vessel of the United States,
is, in many respects, considered as a portion of its territory,
and "persons on board are protected and governed by the
laws of the country to which the vessel belongs." 1 Kent
Com. 26.
'VII.One of the assignme tS of error questions the competency of the statement of the captain of the vessel - admitted
in evidence against the objections of the accused - that during
the voyage, and particularly on and for several days before
and after the night Fitzgerald was missing, he saw no vessels.
This evidence wag clearly competent. It bore upon the inquiry whether Fitzgerald was actually drowned or was alive.
If vessels were shown to have been in sight, at or near the
time of the alleged murder, the jury might have been left in
doubt as to whether he was rescued after being thrown into
the sea. Direct and positive evidence as to the corpus delicti
was not required. Wills on Cir. Ev. 179. When the strict
rule, here claimed, was insisted upon in United States v. WilWcams, 1 Cliff. 5, 20, the court expressed its approval of what
was said by Mr. Justice Story in 2 Sumner, 19, 27- where
counsel contended that there should be no conviction for
murder, unless the body was actually found -namely, that
"in cases of murder upon the high seas the body is rarely, if,
ever, found, and a more complete encouragement and protection for the worst offences of this kind could not be invented than a rule of this strictness." It would amount to a
universal condonation of all murders committed on the high
seas." The rule is illustrated by Hindmarsh's Case, 2 Leach's
Crown Cases, 3d ed. 648, which was an indictment for murder
upon the high seas. The counsel for the prisoner in that case
contended that he should be acquitted on tL e evidence, because
it was not proved that the captain, the person alleged to have
been murdered, was dead, and "as there were many ships

ST. CLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and vessels near the place where the transaction was alleged to
have taken place, the probability was that he was taken up
by some of them and was then alive." It was left to the
jury to say whether, upon the evidence, the deceased was not
killed before his body was cast into the sea.
VIII. It is assigned for error that the court refused to
give the instruction asked by the accused upon the subject
of manslaughter, and said to the jury that if a felonious homicide had been committed, of which they were to be the
judges from the proof, there was nothing in the case to
reduce it below murder.
As there was no exception taken to the action of the court
in these particulars, the error alleged is not subject to review,
[Tucker v. United States, .151 U. S. 164, 170, unless, as the
accused conte.nds, we are to be controlled, in such matters, by
section 1176 of the Penal Code of California. That section
provides: "When written charges have been presented, given,
or refused, or when charges have been taken down by the
reporter, the questions presented in such charges need not be
excepted to or embodied in a bill of exceptions, but the written charges or the report, with the endorsements showing the
action of the court, form part of the record, and any error in
the decision of the court thereon may be taken advantage of
on appeal in like manner, as if presented in a bill of exceptions." They also, by the same code, form part of the judgment roll. § 1207.
These provisions of the Penal Code of California do Aot
control the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in that State. What is necessary to be done
in a Circuit Court, even in civil cases, in order that its action
upon any particular question or matter may be reviewed or
revised, in this court, depends upon the acts of Congress and
the rules of practice which this court recognizes as essential in,
the administration of justice. Such is the result of our decisions.
Rev. Stat. § 914; Act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, 17 Stat. 197;
Nv'dd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426; Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad v. Rorst, 93 U. S. 291; Chateaugay Iron Co., Petitioner, 128 U. S. 544, 553; Southern Pacfci Co.- v. Denton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion, of the Court.

146. U. S. _202, 208; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147
U. S. 337, 338; Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S. 436, 442. See
also Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 303.
IX. 'By the Revised Statutzs of the United States, it is provided that "in all criminal cases the defendant may be found
guilty of any offence the commission of which is necessarily
included in'that with which he is charged in the indictment,
or may, be found guilty of an attempt to commit the offence
so charged,; Provided, that such attempt be itself a separate
offence." § 1035. It 'is, therefore, contended that, as the
verdict was, generally "guilty," and did not, in terms, indicate of what particular offence the accused was found guilty,
the judgment should have been arrested.
.This contention cannot be sustained. We said in Pointer's
case that, while the record of a criminal case must state what
will affimatively show the offence, the steps without which
the sentence cannot be good, and the sentence itself, all parts
of the record must be interpreted together, giving effect to
every part if possible, and supplying a deficiency in one
part by what appears elsewhere in the record. 151 U. S.
396, 419. The indictment contained but one charge, that of
murder. The accused was arraigned and pleaded not guilty
of that charge. And while the jury had the physical power
to find him guilty of some lesser crime necessarily included in
the one charged, or of an attempt to commit the offence so
charged, if such attempt was a separate 'offence, the law
will support the verdict with every fair intendment, and,
therefore, will by construction supply the words "as charged
in the indictment." The verdict of "guilty" in this case'will
be interpreted as referring to the single offence specified in
the indictment. 1 Bishop's Cr.-Pro. § 1005 a, and authorities
there cited; Wharton's Cr. P1. & Pr. § 747; Bond v. Peole,
39 Illinois, 26. And this principle has been incorporated into
the statute law of some of the States; as in California, whose
Penal Code declares that a general verdict upon a plea of not
guilty, of "guilty," or "not guilty," shall import a conviction
or acquittal of the offence charged in the indictment. § 1151.
What has been said disposes of the objection to the form of

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. McFADDEN. 155
Statement of the Case.

the sentence, which, of course, had reference only to the
offence of which the accused was found guilty.
There are other 'assignments of error, but no one of them
requires notice.
Upon a careful examination of the record, we do not find
that any error was committed to the prejudice of the accused.

The judgment is afflrmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MoFADDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 318.

Argued and submitted March 22, 1894. -Decided May 26, 1894.

If a railroad company, for its own convenience and the convenience of its
customers, is in the habit of issuing bills of lading for cotton delivered
to a compress company, to be compressed before actual delivery to the
railroad companyr with no intention on the part of the shipper or of the
carrier that the liability of the carrier shall attach before delivery on its
cars, and the cotton is destroyed by fire while in the hands of the compress company, the railroad company is not liable for the value of the
cotton, so destroyed, to an assignee of the bill of lading without notice of
the agreement and course of dealing between the shipper and the carrier.

THE defendants in error (plaintiffs below) sued in the Circuit Court of Hunt County, Texas, to recover the*value of
two hundred bales of cotton, alleged to have been shipped
from Greenville, Texas, to Liverpool, England, the shipments
having been -evidenced by two bills of lading, each for one
hundred bales of cotton.
On application of the defendant below, the case was
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas. After filing the record in that
court, the pleadings were amended. The amended answer
set up the following, among other special defences, on behalf
of the company:
"First. That while it is true that it had issued certain bills

