OCTOBER TERmi, 1893.
Syllabus.

cerning the disposition of the land, but her testimony is quite
unsatisfactory and her memory evidently defective.
By the terms of the will square 179, after being charged
with the maintenance and support of the widow and her four
children during her life, and after her death until the youngest should become of age, was to be sold and the proceeds to
be divided between the children of the first wife, with a proviso that, if the lands so sold should exceed the value of the
homestead lands, the children of the second wife should receive enough to make the shares of all equal.
The ultimate objects of the will were, ftrst to provide for
the maintenance and expenses of the wife and younger children until they became of age; and, second, that the property
should then be equally divided between them. This equality
would certainly be defeated, if the defendant hannah were
permitted to share equally in the proceeds of square 179, and
in addition to receive the whole of the proceeds of square 199.
It seems to us altogether improbable that the children of the first
wife would have entered into this arrangement, without an
understanding that they were also to share in the proceeds of
the homestead.
The decree of the court below is, therefore, reversed, and the
case remandedfor further p'oceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
MR. JusTIoE BREwER and

MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented from

this opinion.

MORAN v. STURGES.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE

No. 892. Argued March 13, 14, 1894. -Decided

STATE

OF NEW YORK.

May 26,1894.

On the 31st day of July, 1891, proceedings were commenced in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York for the voluntary dissolution of a Steam
Tow Boat Company, a corporation organized under the laws of that State,

MORAN v. STURGES.
Statement of the Case.
and an order was made on that day restraining creditors from bringing
action and requiring all to show cause, on the 16th day of November, 1891,
before a referee, why the prayer of the petitioner should not be granted.
An order was made at the same time for the appointment of a receiver,
which required him to give bonds before entering on the duties of his
office.
On the 1st of August, 1891, in the forenoon of that day,
these orders were entered and the papers filed in the office of the clerk
of the court. On the afternoon of the same day, which was Saturday,
and on Monday, August 3, libels in admiralty were filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York to enforce maritime liens against six of the vessels of said Tow Boat Company's fleet. On the 1st of August the marshals for the district seized
and took into custody three of the six, and on the 3d of August did likewise with the other three. On the 4th of August the receiver filed his
official bond, duly approved, and entered upon the discharge of his
duties. On the same day he went to take possession of the six vessels
and found them in the custody of the marshal. Thereupon, on his
motion, process issued against the several libellauts, to bring them
before the Supreme Court of the State, where, after hearing, they were
enjoined from taking any further proceedings on their libels. This
judgment of the Supreme Court being affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
and the judgment of the latter court being remitted to the Supreme Court
and entered there as its judgment, the libellants sued out a writ of error
to this court. Held, That the state court had no jurisdiction in jersonarn
over the libellants as holders of maritime liens when. the libels were filed;
that the question of jurisdiction was, as the case stood, one for the District Court to decide in the first instance; that the District Court had
jurisdiction; and that the judgment under review was in effect an unlawful interference with proceedings in that court.
Though courts, for the purpose of protecting their jurisdiction over persons and subject-matter may enjoin parties who are amenable to their
process, and subject to their jurisdictiqi from interference with them in
respect of property in their possession or identical controversies therein
pending, by subsequent proceedings as to the same parties and subjectmatter in other courts of concurrent jurisdiction; and though, where
property is in the actual possession of one court of competent jurisdiction, such possession cannot be disturbed by process out of another court;
yet, upon the facts disclosed in this record, the District Court was not
required to stay its hand until the termination of the proceedings in the
state court, that court being without jurisdiction as to maritime liens,
and being incapable of displacing them.

TEm Schuyler Steam Tow-Boat Company was a corporation
organized under the laws of New York. On July 31,1891,
the trdstees of the company filed a petition in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York at Albany County, at chainYOL, CLIV-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

bers, for the voluntary dissolution of the company under

§

2419 and 2423 of the Code of Civil Procedure of that State,

and in their petition prayed for the appointment of a tem-

porary receiver under § 2423 as amended, whose powers,
and duties were specified in § 1788. (Code Civ. Proc. N. Y.
1892, pp. 643, 835, 836.) The petition stated that the stock,
effects, and other property of the corporation were not sufficient to pay the just amounts for which it was -liable, nor to
afford reasonable security to those who might deal with it, for
the reasons that the corporation was indebted to the Holland
*Trust Company of, New York in a large sum of money on a
demand loan, payment whereof had been demanded, and that
there were no available assets to meet the same; that the
corporation had already defaulted upon certain claims set
forth in the schedule attached, which were secured by notes
which had been presented for payment and payment refused
for want of such assets; that "other claims set forth in the
schedule are either due or rapidly becoming due; and that
there is serious danger of the company's vessels, constituting
the sole property of the said company, being libelled in the
admiralty courts of the United States for such claims as constitute maritime liens, including the claims for services and
supplies rendered to said vessels. That in the event of said
vessels being libelled and sold under a decree in admiralty,
there would belittle hope of realizing the value of said vessels
on such sale, and the security of creditors and stockholders
would be seriously imperilled ;" that the assets must be realized by sale, and would be insufficient to pay all the claims in
full, etc. Thereupon the presiding judge, the attorney general of-New York appearing and consenting. thereto, signed
an order to show cause before a referee therein named, on
November 16, 1891, why the company should not be dissolved, and by the same order appointed Frank D. Sturges
temporary receiver of the property, "with all the powers and
subject to all the duties that are defined as belonging to
temporary receivers appointed in an action in §.1788 of the
code." It was further ordered "that all creditors of said
corporation, be and they are hereby restrained and enjoined

MORAN v. STURGES.

"2259

Statement of the Case.

from bringing any actions against the said corporation for
the recovery of a sure. of money, and from taking any further
proceedings in any action. already commenced against the
said corporation for such purpose."' A copy of the order was
directed to be published at least once in each of the three
weeks immediately preceding November 16, 1891, and that
a copy be served upon each of the several persons specified
"in the schedule attached to the petition as a creditor or stockholder of the corporation. It was further ordered that before
entering upon the duties of such receivership the said receiver
should execute and acknowledge in due form of law a bond
in the penal -sum of $50,000, payable to the State of New
York, with sureties. This order was entered and the petiti6n
and accompanying papers* filed in the office of the clerk of
the court for Albany County in the forenoon of August 1,
1891. On the afternoon of August 1, 1891, which was Saturday, and- on Monday, August 3, 1891, plaintiffs in error,
Michael Moran and other cobwners of certain tugs, filed libels
in admiralty in the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York against certain steamboats,
which were the property of the Schuyler Company. Process
was issued under said libels to the United States marshal for
that district, and on August 1 he seized and took into his
possession the steamboats Niagara, Belle, and Syracuse, and
affixed his notice of seizure thereto. On August 3 he seized
and took into his custody the steamboats Vanderbilt, Jacob
Leonard, and America, and affixed his notice of seizure
thereto. On August 4, 1891, the receiver went on board the
steamboats mentioned and ascertained that the marshal was
in possession thereof by his keepers, atnd he also found affixed
to the boats the marshal's notice of seizure. The receiver
applied to the state court, August 26, and was duly authorized by order that day in that court entered to contest said
libels or to take such other proceedings therein as might be
advisable, and to use the funds in his hands for the purpose
of giving such security as he might be able, as required in
contesting the libels. In September, 1891, the receiver made
a motion in the United States District Court for an order

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

directing the marshal to withdraw from the custody of the
steamboats held under the admiralty process. The motion
was denied on the ground that the question should be raised
by answer to the libels, and leave was given to answer accordingly. The receiver availed himself of this permission and
appeared in one action against each vessel and filed his answer
contesting the jurisdiction of the admiralty court. He thereafter made an application to this court for a writ of prohibition to the District Court, which was denied November 13, 1891.
On November 10 the receiver verified a petition addressed
to the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in which he
asked that plaintiffs in error herein might be enjoined from
prosecuting the libels which they had filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York. Affidavits were attached to the petition, and on these
papers and the preceding record one of the justices of the
Supreme Court of the State entered an order November 11,
1891, that plaintiffs in error show cause at a special term of
the court, November 14, 1891, why they should not be enjoined from taking any further proceedings on their libels in
the United States courts, and in the meantime plaintiffs in
error were enjoined and restrained from taking any further
action under their libels, and from attempting any proceeding
looking to the condemnation or sale of the steamboats or any
of them. Affidavits in opposition were presented by plaintiffs in error on the hearing of the order to show cause. Certain allegations were made in the petition and the moving
affidavit of a knowledge by Moran at the time he filed the
first libel that a receiver of the company had been appointed.
These were denied, and Moran set forth under oath all his
information and sources of information on the subject of the
proceedings contemplated to dissolve the company, with the
dates. The petition set forth that if libellants were permitted
to prosecute their libels and obtain decrees thereunder, and
the steamboats were condemned and sold to satisfy the same,
it would result in the vessels being sold for less than their
value, and that the interest of the corporation and the general creditors thereof would be greatly sacrificed; that the

MORAN v. STURGES.
Statement of the Case.

vessels would bring a much larger price if sold as a fleet;
that all creditors who were entitled to a preference by having
liens as well as all unsecured creditors could be fully protected in this proceeding; that petitioner was advised that a
larger portion of the claims for which libels had been filed did
not constitute liens against the vessels, nor were libellants entitled to any preference for such portion of their claims. The
petition further stated that under the order of August 26 the
receiver had not sufficient funds to give security to contest all
of the libels, and was wholly unable to give the .security necessary to release the vessels from the marshal's custody, and for
which reason, unless the libellants were restrained from prosecuting the libels, the receiver would be unable to prevent the
condemnation and sale of the steamboats. The petition also
set forth the receiver's application to the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York for an
order directing the marshal of the district to surrender the
custody of the steamboats; the denial thereof on the ground
that the question of jurisdiction ought not to be decided upon
motion; the leave to the receiver to answer the libels and
contest the jurisdiction by answer; his appearance and answer in one action brought against each steamboat for the
purpose of testing the jurisdiction of that court, he not being
able, as he alleged, to furnish the security necessary in order
to answer all the libels, which were some forty in number.
It was also averred that a motion had been made in the District Court by Moran for the sale of the steamboats, and that
the proceeds be deposited in court to await the result of the
action; that the motion was opposed by the receiver and
withdrawn as to the libels in which he had answered; that
the motion had since been urged in the actions in which the
receiver had not appeared and answered, and that the District Court had intimated that the motion would be granted
November 13. Petitioner denied the jurisdiction of the District Court over the steamboats, or any of them, at the time
the libels were filed, and asserted that they were at that time
in the custody of the state court, and not liable or subject to
the attachment made by the marshal. On December 7, 1891,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the special term of the Supreme Court granted the prayer of
the receiver and entered an order for an injunction, enjoining
plaintiffs in error from taking any further proceedings upon
their libels in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York against the steamboat company or against the steamboats of that company, except the
Niagara, and from taking any action whatsoever under said
libels and in proceedings looking to the condemnation and
sale of the steamboats, or any of them, except the Niagara.
Plaintiffs in error appealed from that order to the general
term, by which it was affirmed, and they then carried the case
to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, which
affirmed the order of the general term, 136 N. Y. 169, and
directed that its judgment be made the judgment of the
Supreme Court, which was done December 6, 1892, whereupon
this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. Robert -D. Benedict, (with whom were Mr. James Emer,on Cwarenter and Ar. Joseyh F. Mosher on the brief,) for
plaintiffs in error.
MAtr. de 1. Berier, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf
of the Lehigh Valley Coal Company, and of the United States
marshal for the district.
.Mr. James W. Eaton for defendant in error.
By the order of July thirty-first, appointing a receiver, the
New York state court acquired jurisdiction of the property of
the corporation, and that jurisdiction is exclusive as against all
other courts of co6rdinate jurisdiction.
This proposition is. fully established by the decision of the
Court of Appeals in this case; but, prior to that decision, the
point was decided in favor of our contention, so far as the conflicting jurisdiction of courts of the same State was concerned,
by the ChristianJensen Case, 128 N. Y. 550, which is directly
in point. The proceeding was similar to the proceeding heretofore taken in the case at bar, and the case is conclusive upon

MORAN v. STURGES.

263'

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the proposition that the jurisdiction of the court appointing
the receiver attaches from the moment of filing the order,
and the process of other courts, levied intermediate the filing of
the order appointing the receiver and the filing of his bond, is
void. There are, indeed, a large number of cases holding that
while it may be necessary for the receiver to file security in
order to give him power to administer the assets of the corporation, the act of filing security is not at all essential to the
jurisdiction of the court, and process levied intermediate the
appointment of the receiver and his giving a bond. is'void.
See -Maynardv. Bond, 67 Missouri, 315 ; Rutter v. Talli8, 5
Sandf. (N. Y. Super. Ct.) 610; Steele v. Sturges, 5 Abb. Prac.
442; Atlas Bank v. -NahantBank, 23 Pick. 480; Wiwall v.
SamPson, 14 How. 52.
And this rule has been repeatedly applied to cases where
such an exercise of jurisdiction on the part of the state court
has been held to give it exclusiie cognizance and control to
the exclusion of a Federal courf of cobrdinate jurisdiction
attempting to interfere with the subject-matter in dispute; and
that, too, by the Federal courts themselves. See Union Trust
Co. v. Rockffrd &c. Railroad, 6 Bissell, 197; Wiswall v.
Sampson, 14 How. 52; Holladay Case, 29 Fed. Rep. 226;
Bruce v. Railroad Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 342; Walker v. lint, 7
Fed. Rep. 435; Kennedy v. Railroad Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 97; The.
Red Wing, 14 Fed. Rep. 869.
In Judd v. Bankers' & Merchants' Tel. Co., 31 Fed. Rep. 182,
an action in which the complainant, a creditor of an insolvent
corporation, sought to have the Federal court take possession
and distribute the a~sets of the corporation already in the
hands of a receiver under the state court, it was said by Judge
Wallace : "The case is one for the application of the rule that
the court which first takes cognizance of the controversy is
entitled .to retain jurisdiction to the end of the litigation, and
to take possession and control of the subject-matter of the
investigation to the exclusion of all interference by other courts
of co6rdinate jurisdiction. Citing Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How.
583; Williams v. Benedict, 8 Hlow. 107; Jlagan'v.Lucas, 10
Pet. 40(i; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Ileidritterv. Bliza-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1893.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

beth Co., 112 U. S. 294:; Schuehle v. Reiman, 86 N. Y. "270;
Union' Trust Co. v. Rockford Railroad,6 Bissell, 197; sedgwick v. ._enck, 6 Blatchford, 156; Young v. .Montgomery &c.
Railroad,2 Woods, 606. And see also the very recent case of
Porterv. Sabin,-149 U. S. 473.
The case of Heidritter v. Elizabeth Co. is instructive in this
connection. There property was seized by a United States
officer for an infringement of Federal law. While thus in
custody of the United States District Court it was seized
under the state court to enforce a mechanic's lien. Both
proceedings were in rem. The United States Supreme Court
held that the Federal court had taken possession of the property and that the possession was necessarily exclusive. "The
res was thereby drawn into the exclusive jurisdiction and
dominion of the United States, and, for the purposes of that
suit, it was at the same time withdrawn from the jurisdiction
of the courts of New Jersey. Any proceeding against it
involving the control and disposition of it in the latter, while
in that condition, was as if it were a proceeding against property in another State. It was vain, nugatory and void, and,
as against the proceedings and judgment of the District Court
of the United States and those claiming under them, was
without effect."
This doctrine was also asserted in the strongest terms by
Judge Wallace in the recent case of Ce -ral National Bank
v. Hazard, 49 Fed. Rep. 293. See also, Attleborough Bank
v. -Northwestern Co., 28 Fed. Rep. 113.
In .Morrisonv. Menhaden Co. 37 Hun, 522, in which certain
vessels had been seized by a marshal upon libels filed to enforce maritime demands, Daniels, J., says, that the custody
of the property of the defendant prevented its seizure under
the execution of the applicant. It was wholly within the
jurisdiction and authority of the United States District Court
and was not the subject of seizure and levy under his execution.
The principle is generally acknowledged that property in
possession of an officer of a state court, under legal process
is in the possession of that court, and, therefore, within its

MORAI

v. STURGES.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

exclusive jurisdiction; and the Federal courts, by replevin or
any other process, cannot disturb such possession. Senior v.
Pierce,31 Fed. Rep. 625, cases cited; REressel v. The E.L. Cams,
45 Fed. Rep. 367, cases cited; Teft v. Sternberg, 40 Fed. Rep. 2.
It may be argued that these cases do not apply to the case
at bar, because here the property was not taken into manual possession under process of the court. But that, under
the authorities, is not necessary. The rule is stated in Gluck
on Receivers, section 31, as follows: "The rule stated that
the court which first takes cognizance of the controversy is
entitled to retain jurisdiction to the end of the litigation, and
incidentally to take the possession of or control the re8
to the exclusion of all interference from other courts
of co6rdinate jurisdiction, applies to state and Federal courts
as well as to the several courts of a State. The proper application of this rule does not require that the court which first
takes jurisdiction of the case shall also first take, by its
officers, possession of the thing in controversy if tangible and
susceptible of seizure; for such a rule would only lead to
unseemly haste on the part of officers to get the manual possession of the property. To avoid such a result, the broad
rule is laid down that the court first invoked will not be interfered with by another court while the jurisdiction is retained."
Indeed, it will be found, upon examination, that all the
cases which hold priority of manual possession as the test of
jurisdiction between Federal and state courts are cases relating to the levy of a marshal on the one hand and the levy
of a sheriff on the other, and do not apply to the case of a
receiver. In those cases the liens are coirdinate and equal,
and the tribunal first acquiring actual possession, through its
officers, gains complete control of the 'es. That is the only
way that the court can gain control under its execution. The
sheriff or marshal is not the hand of the court, as is the
receiver, but only its officer to execute its mandate by seizing
the property in behalf of an individual suitor. But, by the
appointment of a receiver, the court in the exercise of its
equity powers assumes the custody of the property to be dis-

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

posed of for the benefit of all concerned, and such an act is
the assertion of its highest prerogative and does not require
any actual seizure to make it effectual. That this distinction
is clearly recognized is shown by a great number of cases
which hold that even where the sheriff or marshal has made
an actual seizure the subsequent appointment of a receiver,
by the court, prevents any sale under the levy, because the
order appointing the receiver vests the custody of the property
immediately in the court; without the necessity of manual
possession. Union Trust Co. v. Rockford &e. Railroad Co.,
6 Bissell, 197; .Matter of Berry, 26 Barb. 55. The last mentioned case is particularly instructive in this connection.
There a levy of property made by the sheriff before the
appointment of the receiver, but after the making of an order
directing his appointment, was held void. The court will
take into account fractions of a day in determining priority
of jurisdiction. MAatter of Berry, 8ura; People v. Central
Bank, 53 Barb. 412, 417.
If the rule were otherwise than has been above stated, the
receiver of a corporation, the property of which was scattered
over a large area, would be practically powerless and the
object of his appointment absolutely frustrated. The learned
counsel for plaintiffs in error, in his contention for the
doctrine that manual possession is essential to establish jurisdiction, relies wholly on the cases relating to the conflicting
claims of sheriffs and marshals which, as above pointed out,
bears no analogy to the case of a receiver and a marshal. It
is undoubtedly true that an execution in the hands of'a sheriff
binds personal property of a judgment debtor from the time
that it is lodged in the sheriff's hands, but this doctrine is
only true so far as subsequent pfirchasers are concerned, and
has no application to the case where process is issued out of
two coirdinate courts, and the reasoning of the learned
counsel as to the analogy between such process and the order
appointing a receiver is therefore fallacious.
Apply this principle, above stated, to the case of courts
of cordinate, but conflicting jurisdiction, and it follows that
the court appointing the receiver has priority over the court

MORAN v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequently levying, through its officer, upon the property
which, by the act of appointing the receiver, is in the custody
of the first court. The question of what title, if any, is taken
by the receiver to the property is immaterial. The real question is that of the custody of the court through its receiver
and during the continuance of the receivership. The *above
rule applies to most of the cases where manual possession has
been held to be important. Hagan v. Lewis, 10 Pet. 400;
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; Freeman v. Howe, 24: How.
450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Covell v. Heyman, 111
U. S. 176; Heidritter v. -Elizabeth &c. Co., 112 U. S. 294:;
Puliam v. Osborne, 17 Row. 471; Adler v. Both, 5 Fed.
Rep. 895; Senior v. Pierce, 31 Fed. Rep. 625; The Sailor
Prince,1 Ben. 237; The Caroline, 1 Lowell, 173-; Loving v.
3far8h, 2 Cliff. 311.
The only conclusioin warranted'by the authorities is that
the New York Supreme Court by the appointment of its
receiver, gained complete and exclusive jurisdiction of the
property- and that the Federal court had no right to interfere:
MR. CHmEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This court declined to issue the writ of prohibition to the
District. Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of New York from proceeding upon these libels because the
alleged want of jurisdiction in the District Court over the
vessels was in course of litigation in that court on due process.
In re .Fawsett, Petitioner,142 U. S.479, 484. The state court
upon the receiver's application granted in effect the prohibition which we denied, and restrained libellants from prosecuting their libels. The question is whether it was within
the power of the state court to do this ?
The general rule is that state courts cannot enjoin proceedings in the courts of the United States, and this was held at
a very early day, in reference to a judgment of the Circuit
Court; 7AI'.im v. Voorhies, 7 Cranch, 279, 281 ; while on the
other hand, it was determined that the Circuit Court would

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

not enjoin proceedings in a state court, and any attempt of
that kind was forbidden by act 'of Congress. -Diggsv. Woe1
cott, 4 Cranch, 179; Act of March 2, 1793, c. 22, § 5, 1 Stat.
333, 335. In Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166, 195, this
court, speaking through Mr. Justice Clifford, said: "State
courts are exempt from all interference by the Federal tribunals,
but they are destitute of all power to restrain either the
process or proceedings in the national courts. Circuit Courts
and state courts act separably and independently of each
other, and in their respective spheres of action, the process
issued by the one is as far beyond the reach of the other, as if
the line of division between them 'was traced by landmarks
and monuments visible to the eye.'

.

.

Viewed in any

light, therefore, it is obvious that the injunction of a state
court is inoperative to control, or in any manner to affect the
process or proceedings of a Circuit Court, not on account of
any paramount jurisdiction in the latter courts, but because,
in their sphere of action, Circuit Courts are wholly independent of state tribunals." And in United States v. JKeokuc,
6 Wall. 514, 517, the same learned justice, again speaking for
the court, observed: "Orders for an injunction issued by

state courts are as inoperative upon the process of the Circuit
Court of that district as they would be if directed to the
process of a Circuit Court in any other district of the United
States, because the state and Federal courts, in their sphere
of action, are independent of any such control."
Mr. Justice Story was of opinion that to the doctrine which
permits the courts of one State in proper cases to enjoin
persons within their jurisdiction from instituting legal proceedings in other States, or from further proceeding in actions
already begun, there exists the exception that the state
courts cannot enjoin parties from proceeding in the courts
of the United States, nor the latter enjoin them from proceeding in the former courts, an exception based upon peculiar
grounds of municipal and constitutional law. Story Eq.
§ 900; Story Const. § 1757.
By the Judiciary Act of March 2, 1793, c. 22, § 5, 1 Stat.
334, the granting of injunction to stay proceedings in any

MORAN v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

court of a State was prohibited in express terms, and it was
held in Peck v. dennew8, 7 How. 612, 624, that even the District Court sitting in bankruptcy could not issue an injunction to stay a creditor of the bankrupit from proceeding in a
state court, Yr. Justice Grier saying: "It is a doctrine of
law too long established to require a citation of authorities
that, where a court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide
every question which occurs in the cause, and whether its
decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment, till reversed,
is regarded as binding in every other court; and that, where
the jurisdiction of a court, and the right of a plaintiff to
prosecute his suit in it, have once attached, that right cannot
be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another court.
These rules have their foundation, not merely in comity,
but on necessity. For if one may enjoin, the other may
retort by injunction, and thus the parties be without remedy;
being liable to a process for contempt in one, if they dare to
proceed in the other. Neither can one take property from
the custody of the other by replevin or any other process,
for this would produce a conflict extremely embarrassing to
the administration of justice. In the case of Kennedy v. The
Earl of Cassili8, 2 Swanston, 313, Lord Eldon at one time
granted an injunction to restrain a party from proceeding in
a suit pending in the Court of Sessions of Scotland, which, on
more mature reflection, he dissolved; because it was admitted,
if the Court of Chancery could in that way restrain proceedings in an independent foreign tribunal, the Court of Sessions
might equally enjoin the parties from proceeding in chancery,
and thus they would be unable to proceed in either court.
The fact, therefore, that an injunction issues only to the
parties before the court, and not to the court, is no evasion of
the difficulties that are the necessary result of an attempt to
exercise that power over a party who is a litigant in another
and independent forum."
The provision of the act of 1793 was carried forward into
section 720 of the Revised Statutes, with the addition of the
words "except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy," and

Q170

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

under that exception restraint by injunction was held authorized in Chapman v. Brewer, 114 U. S. 158.
In French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250, a cause had been properly
reinoved from a state court to the Circuit Court of the United
States, under the removdl adts, and the Circuit Court had
vacated a decree previously rendered in the state court and
dismissed the cause for want of equity, and it was held that
the Circuit 'Court, having jurisdiction in _peronam over the
parties, and having control over the cause, would not permit
its jurisdiction to be trenched upon by any other tribunal, and
might properly enjoin a party to the cause from proceeding
beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the court in contravention of its decree. So, in .Dietzsch v. .uideko per, 103 U. S.
494, a plaintiff in a replevin suit brought in a state court had
properly removed it to the Federal court and obtained a judgment there in his favor, but the state court proceeded to try
the cause and render judgment against the plaintiff, notwithstanding the removal, and an action was then brought in the
state court upon the replevin bond. It was held that the
court of the United States might enjoin the prosecution of
such action; the relief being merely ancillary to the jurisdiction already acquired and necessary to give effect to its own
judgment.
And resort to injunction in proceedings in admiralty for the
limitation of the liability of ship owners under an act of Congress, passed since the act of 1793, and expressly provided that
after the institution of such proceedings "all claims and proceedings against the owner shall cease; Act of March 3, 1851,
c. 43, § 4; 9 Stat. 635; Rev. Stat. § 4285; was sustained in
Providence & _N ew Yorko Steamshij Co. v. Hill Manufacturing Co., 109 U. S. 578, 599, 600.
. These were all cases in which the issue of an injunction to
a state court had been expressly or impliedly authorized by
Congress as necessary to the effectual exercise by a court of
the United States of its lawful jurisdiction over particular
persons or things.
In Gaylord v. Fort Tfayne &c. Railroad,6 Bissell, 286, 291,
292, a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States

MORAN v. STURGE9.
Opinion of the Court.

for the District of Indiana, to obtain, among other things, the
appointment of a receiver of the property of an insolvent corporation, and to administer it for the benefit of the creditors.
After a demurrer to the bill had been sustained and an amendment made, a receiver was appointed. While proceedings
were pending in the Federal court a suit was commenced in
the state court of Indiana in which a receiver was also appointed, who took possession of the property. Subsequently
the property was surrendered by the persons in possession
under the receiver of the state court to the receiver of the
Federal court upon his application, and he retained possession
of the property, the court refusing to rescind the order appointing him. In disposing of the case, the Circuit Court,
Drummond, J., said: "We think that there is no other safe
rule to adopt, in our mixed system of state and Federal jurisprudence, than to hold that the court which first obtains
jurisdiction of the controversy, and thereby of the 7e&, is
entitled to retain it until the litigation is settled.

.

.

.

Of

course, in all that has been said, it is assumed, what was the
fact in this case, that the bill was not only filed first in this
court, but that the process was issued and duly served upon
the parties, and that they were in court subject to its jurisdiction before any proceeding was instituted in the state court."
In Home _Tmurance .Co. v. Howell, 24 N. J.Eq. J(9 C. E.
Green) 238, 241, the complainant filed its bill for relief against
two policies of insurance, which it alleged the defendant had
fraudulently obtained from it upon his property in Illinois,
and prayed that the policies might be delivered up and
cancelled or declared invalid, and that the defendant might
be perpetually enjoined from bringing any suit at law or in
equity upon them or making use of them in any way for the
purpose of establishing any claim for damages against the
complainant. Defendant appeared and filed an answer, .to
which a replication being filed, proofs were taken. After the
suit was commenced, defendant brought an action at law on
the policies against the company in a state court of Illinois,
which suit was on its petition removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of that State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The company thereupon filed its petition in the court of New
*Jersey for an injunction to restrain him from prosecuting his
suit in Illinois, and an injunction having been issued, a motion
was- made to dissolve it. In denying the motion, the Chancellor said: "This court having the power to hear and
determine the subject-matter in controversy, and having first
obtained possession of the controversy, is fully at liberty to
retain it until it shall have disposed of it. The general rule
is, that as between courts of concurrent and co6rdinate jurisdiction, (and the Circuit Court of the United States and the
state courts are such in certain controversies - such as that
involved in this suit, for example - between citizens of different States,) the court that first obtains possession of the
controversy must be allowed to dispose of it, without interference from the cordinate court.

.

.

.

Where a party

is within the jurisdiction of this court, so that on a bill
properly filed here, this court has jurisdiction of his person,
although the subject-matter of the suit may be situated elsewhere, it may by the ordinary process of injunction and
attachment for contempt, compel him to desist from commencing a suit at law, either in this State or any foreign
jurisdiction, and, of tourse, from prosecuting one commenced
after the bringing of the suit in this court."
In Brooks v. Delapaine, 1 Md. Chan. 351, 354, the high
court of chancery of Maryland dismissed a bill in equity,
because at the time it was filed a suit involving the same controversy was pending in the county court having concurrent
jurisdiction. And see the observations of Mr. Justice Field,
in Sharon v. Terry, -36 Fed. Rep. 337, 355.
We decided in Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107, that a
creditor, who is a citizen and resident of the same State as his
debtor, against whom insolvent proceedings have been instituted in such State, is bound by the assignment of the debtor's
property in such proceedings, and if he attempts to seize or
attach the personal property of the debtor situated in another
State, and embraced in the assignment, he may be restrained
by injunction by the courts of the State in which he and
the debtor reside. But we also held in Reynolds v. Adden,

MORAN v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

136 U. S. 348, that a creditor who was not a citizen or
resident of the same State with his debtor might proceed in
another State against property there, unaffected by insolvency
proceedings in the State of the debtor's residence, if in accordance with the law of such other State.* The debtor in that
case was a citizen" and resident of Massachusetts, where the
insolvency proceedings were had. The creditor was a citizen
of New Hampshire, and he attached property of the debtor
in Louisiana, where the rule was that the transfer of the
estate of an insolvent debtor by judicial operation is not
binding upon the citizens and inhabitants of Louisiana or any
other State except the State in which the insolvent proceedings have taken place, at least until the assignee has reduced
the property to possession or done what is equivalent thereto.
In .Worthington v. Lee, 61 Maryland, 530, in a suit for specific performance of a covenant for the renewal of a lease and
for an injunction to restrain an action of ejectment for the
recovery of the premises, the Court of Appeals of Maryland
held, Alvey, C. J., delivering the opinion of the court, that so
far as the parties were within the jurisdiction of the court or
bound by the decree, they might be restrained from taking
any action at law in the courts of Maryland for the recovery
of the property, but as to those parties residing in other States,
they. could not be restrained by injunction from the state
court from suing in the Circuit Court of the United States, by
which their right so to sue must be determined.
It will be perceived that the principle invoked in such cases
as Gaylord v. Railroad Company and Insurance Company v.
Howell, supra, is, that courts for the purpose of protecting
their jurisdiction over persons and subject-matter may enjoin
parties who are amenable to their process and subject to their
jurisdiction from interference with them in respect of property
in their possessipn or identical controversies therein pending,
by subsequent proceedings as to the same parties and subjectmatter in other courts of concurrent jurisdiction.
The proceeding in which upon petition the injunction under
consideration was granted, was a proceeding in insolvency in
the state court to dissolve and wind up the Schuyler ComVOL. CLIV-18

OCTOBER TERi, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

pany on its own application, under the statutes of New York
in that behalf, and if it be conceded that that court could pro-

tect its exercise of jurisdiction over that subject-matter by
enjoining creditors from prosecuting suits against the company
on petition of the receiver in that suit and without the bringing of a new suit for that purpose, it does not follow that it
had power to grant the injunction in question.
If the state court could not restrain proceedings in the District Court of the United States; if the jurisdiction of the
state court over the libellants had not attached; or if the
District Court obtained jurisdiction over the vessels in priority
to the state court, then this judgment must be reversed.
It is a rule of gerreral application that where property is in
the actual possession of one court of competent jurisdiction,
such possession cannot be disturbed by process out of another
court. This doctrine has been repeatedly affirmed by this
court. Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Taylor v. Carryl,20 How.
583; Peck v. fenness, 7 How. 612, 625; Freeman v. Rowe,
24 H=ow. 450; Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485, 498; -K'iippendorfv. Hyde, 110 U. S.276; Covell v. Teyman, 111 U. S.176;
Borer v. Chcpman, 119 U. S. 587, 600. These cases were
cited in. Byers v. XbAuley, 149 U. S. 608, 614; and the language of Mr. Justice Matthews in Covell v. lleyman was
quoted, to this effect: "The point of the decision in Freeman.
v. Howe, sitpra, is that, when property is taken and held
.under process, mesne or final, of a court of the United States,
it is in the custody of the law, and within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court from which ihe process has issued, for the
purposes of the writ; that the possession of the officer cannot
be disturbed by process from any state court, because to disturb that possession would be to -invade the jurisdiction of
the court by whose command it is held, and to violate the law
which that jurisdiction is appointed to administer; that any
person, not a party to the suit or judgment, whose property
has been wrongfully, but under color of process, taken and
withheld, may prosecute, by ancillary proceedings, in the court
whence the process issued, his remedy for restitution of the
prol)erty or its proceeds while remaining in the control of

MORAN v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

that court; but that all other remedies to which he may be
entitled, against officers or parties, not involving the withdrawal of the property or its proceeds from the custody of the
officer and the jurisdiction of the, court, he may pursue in any
tribunal, state or Federal, having jurisdiction .over the parties
and the subject-matter. And vice versa, the same principle
protects the possession of property while thus held, by process
issuing from state courts, against any disturbance under process of the courts of the United States; excepting, of course,
those cases wherein the latter exercise jurisdiction for the
purpose of enforcing the supremacy of the Constitution and
laws of the United States." Porterv. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473.
In Buce v. Colbath, 3 Wail. 334, 341, 345, the same rule
was referred to as settled, and Mr. Justice Miller said: "A
departure from this rule would lead to the utmost confusion,
and to endless strife between courts of concurrent jurisdiction
deriving their powers from the same source; but how much*
more disastrous would be the consequences of such a course, in
the conflict of jurisdiction between courts whose powers are
derived from entirely different sources, while their jurisdiction
is concurrent as to the parties and the subject-matter of the
suit. This principle, however, has its limitations; or rather its
just definition is to be attended to. It is only while the property is in possession of the court, either actually or constructively, that the court is bound, or professes to protect that
possession from the process of other courts. Whenever the
litigation is ended, or the possession of the officer or court is
discharged, other courts are 'at liberty to deal with it according to the rights of the parties before them, whether those
rights require them to take possession of the property or not.The effect to be given in such cases to the adjudication of the
court first possessed of the property, depends upon principles
familiar to the law; but no contest arises about the mere
possession, and no conflict but such as may be decided without
unseemly and discreditable collisions." It was further said:
" It is not true that a court, having obtained jurisdiction of
a subject-matter of a suit, and of parties before it, thereby excludes all other courts from the right to adjudicate upon other

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

matters having a very close connection with those before the
first court, and, in some instances, requiring the decision of the
same questions exactly. In examining into the exiclusive character of the jurisdiction of such cases, we must have regard to
the nature of the remedies, the character of the relief sought,
and the identity of the parties in the different suits." Hence
it was held that an action of trespass might be sustained in the
state court against the marshal for levying on property not
belonging to the defendant in his writ, although his possession
could not have been interfered with.
The reason was that his possession was the possession of the
court, and, pending the litigation, no other court of merely
concurrent jurisdiction could be permitted to disturb that
possession, while the action of trespass constituted no such
interference.
In this and like cases the question has arisen in respect of
courts of concurrent jurisdiction as to parties and subjectmatter.
But the question in the case at bar arises in respect of the
state court and a District Court of the United States, whose
cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is, under the Constitution and by the ninth section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, (reproduced in Rev. Stat. § 711,)
exclusive. The Lexington, [_Ntew Jersey Nay. Co. v. -Merohants'
-Bank,] 6 How. 344, 390 ; The .Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411 ; The
Fine, 4 Wall. 555; The Lottawanna,21 Wall. 558, 580; Johnson v. Chicago c. E-evator Co., 119 U. S.388, 397 ; The -.
Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1, 12. As said by Mr. Justice Miller:
"It must be taken as the settled law of this court, that wherever the District Courts of the United States have original
ccgnizauce of admiralty causes, by virtue of the act of 1789,
that cognizance is exclusive, and no other court, state or
national, can exercise it, with the exception always of such
concurrent remedy as is given by the common law." 4 Wall.
568. The act saves to suitors in all. cases "the right of a common law remedy, where the common law is competent to give
it;" that is, not a remedy in the common law courts, but a
common law remedy. Suitors are .not compelled to seek such

MORAN v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

remedy, if it exist, nor can they, if entitled, be deprived of
their right to proceed in a court of admiralty, and the state
courts have no authority to hear and determine a suit in rem
to enforce a maritime lien. The Belfat, 7 Wall. 624, 644;
The Josevhine, 39 N. Y. 19, 27.

A statutory proceeding to wind up a corporation is not a
common law remedy, and a maritime lien cannot be enforced
by any proceeding at-common law. These libellants were
entitled to have their causes- tried iR. the court of admiralty,
according to the rules and practice of admiralty, and that
right could not be taken away from them, nor would the
decree or judgment of the stat, court be pleadable in bar to
their libels. If, then, the receiver had first taken actual possession of these vessels and sold them, such sale would not
have cut off maritime liens and the right to have them enforced, and while it may be true that the state courts, exercising equitable jurisdiction, might undertake, in the distribution of property, to save the rights of holders of maritime
liens, yet it is certain that those courts would have no power
by a sale under statute to destroy their liens unless they had
voluntarily submitted therlselves to that jurisdiction.
In Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 601, it was held that
where a vessel had been seized under process of foreign attachment issuing from a state court in Pennsylvania, and a
motion was pending in that court.for an order of sale, process
issued under a libel filed in the Distribt Court of the Unitdd
States for mariners' wages and supplies, could not divest the
authoritieg of the State of their-authority over the vessel; and
of the two sales made, one by the sheriff and one by the marshal,, the sale by the sheriff must be considered as conveying
the legal title to the property, and the sale by the marshal
as inoperative. And this because while the property levied
upon was in the actual possession of one jurisdiction, it should
not be taken by an officer acting under another. Mr. Chief
Justice Taney and three of his associates dissented upon the
ground that the question was not one "between the relative
powers of a State and the United States, acting through their
judicial tribunals, but merely upon the relative powers and
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

-

duties of a court of admiralty and a court of common law in
the case of an admitted maritime lien." The Chief Justice
stated that the following propositions were undisputed: "-The
lien of seamen for their wages is prior and paramount to all
other claims on the vessel, and must- be first paid. By the
Constitution and laws of the United States, the only court
that has jurisdiction over this lien, or is authorized to enforce
it, is the court of admiralty, and it is the duty of that court
to do so. The seamen, as a matter of right, are entitled to
the process of the c6urt to enforce payment promptly, in
order that they may not be left penniless, and without the
means of support on shore. And the right to this remedy is
as well and firmly established as the right to the paramount
lien. No court of- common law can enforce or displace this
lien. It has no jurisdiction over it, nor any right to obstruct
or interfere with the lien, or the remedy which is given to the
seaman. A general creditor of the ship owner has no lien on
the vessel., When she is attached (as in this case) by process
from a-court of common law, nothing is taken, or can be
taken, but the interest of the owner remaining after the
maritime liens are satisfied. The seizure does not reach
them. The thing taken is not the whole interest in the ship.
And the only interest which this process can seize is a secondary, and subordinate interest, subject to the superior and
paramount claims for seaman's wages; and what will be the
ampunt of those claims, or whether anything would remain to
be attached, the court of common law cannot know until they
are heard and decided upon in the court of admiralty." Mr.
Justice Campbell, who delivered the opinion of the majority,
observed, at its-close, that the view taken of the case rendered
it unnecessary "to consider any question relative to the tespective liens of the attaching creditors, and of the seamen for
wages, or as to the effect of the sale of the property as
chargeable or as perishable upon them;" and he cited the
case of The -OliverJordan, 2 Curtis, 414, in which Mr. Justice
Curtis held that property in the custody of the law of a State,
under an attachment, cannot be arrested by a warrant from a
District Court, sittiig in the admiralty, in a proceeding to

]SORA-N v. STURGES,
Opinion of the Court,

enforce the lien ot 4 material-man, but declined to then order
the libel to be dismissed as "the state process may be so
terminated as to render it practicable to proceed in the
admiralty against the vessel."
As already pointed out, it was held in Buck v. Colbati,
8upra, that whenever the litigation in the court where the
property is first seized has ended, or the possession of such
court or its officers is discharged, then other courts are at
liberty to deal with it according to the rights of the parties
before them,- whether those rights require them to take
possession of the property or not. This view is illustrated by
many decisions in the District Courts, and was applied by Mr.
Justice Blatchford, then district judge, in The Sailor Pince,
1 Ben. 234.
That was a case of a libel by seamen to recover wages
against a ship and freight money, wherein the marshal made
return to the process that he had not attached the vessel, but
had attached the freight money in the hands of the parties
who held it. Prior to the service of .process, suit had been
brought in the state court against the owners of the vessel, in
which warrants of attachment had been issued, under which
the sheriff had seized and was holding her when the marshal
came to seize her. He had also served copies of the warrants
on the parties who held the freight money, with notice that
he attached it. But Judge Blatchford held that- the seamen
had a paramount lien for their wages upon the freight money,
and that such lien was to be administeked by the court of
admiralty by the service of its process; that-as against a lien
of that character, the principle established in Taylor v. Carryl
ought not to be extended;' that. the application of the principle of that case to an attachment issuing from a state court'
against a vessel only worked delay in the enforcemeint of a
sailor's lien for wages upon her, hut that.the application of it
to an attachmenat against freight money would work the
entire destruction of the lien; that the possession of the
freight money by the sheriff, constructive or otherwise, was
not such as the possession of the vessel in Taylor v. Carryl,
or such as prevented the marshal from levying his process

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

upon it, so as to give the District Court jurisdiction of it in
rem. The learned judge considered the cases of Taylor v.
Carryl,Freeman v. Howe, and Back v. Colbath; and regarded
the principle proceeded on in Taylor v. Carryl, at best, as a
rule of comity; a relinquishment by a court of admiralty of
its clear jurisdiction, "iin favor of a state court, which cannot
enforce or displace such lien, and has no jurisdiction over it,
giving to the state court the right, for the time being, to
obstruct and interfere with the lien and with the remedy of
the seamen. That principle or rule of comity is, according to
Taylor v. Carryl, to be sustained in regard to a vessel which
has been seized by and is in the lawful custody of the sheriff
under process from the state court, so long as it is in such
custody, the Federal court being at liberty, when the litigation in the state court is ended, or when the possession
of the sheriff is discharged, to take possession of the vessel
and enforce against it admiralty liens. . . . Now, this
rule of comity, thus regarded and limited and administered,
may, perhaps, in ordinafy cases, work no other mischief than
to cause unnecessary and harsh delay in the enforcement of
their rights by a class of men whose paramount and superior
claims are recognized in the codes of law of all commercial
countries. The state court can seize and sell only the interest
of the owner in the vessel over and beyond the amount of the
liens of the seamen, and can convey no absolute right of
property in the whole vessel to a purchaser. Legally, the
lien remains, to be enforced the moment the hand of the state
officer iswithdrawn from the vessel. And the vessel, in
theory at-least, remains in specie, so as to be subject to process
foF the enforcement of such lien." But that learned judge
declined to -extend that principle so far as to permit the state
court to appropriate the money to the payment of inferior
claims of creditors who had attached it by the process of the
state court, as if this were done, "the lien of 'the seamen on
such .money for their wages is gone, extinguished, put out
of existence, in the face of an admiralty court, by the act of
a court of common law. The court of admiralty is to abnegate functions -which. are conferred upon it by the Constitu-

IORANL

v. STURGES.

Opinion of the Court.

tion and laws, and to refuse to enforce a -clearly admitted
paramount admiralty lien, which no other court can enforce
or directly destroy or supersede, because a state officer has,
under process from a state court, attached a sum 6f money
which is the subject of such lien, and is to permit the state
court to apply that money to the payment of an inferior
claim not. founded on a lien, and thus indirectly destroy the
lien practically and to all intents and purposes."
A similar question arose in The Caroline, 1 Lowell, 173,
and it was held that it was not a good defence to a petition
that freight might be brought into the admiralty court to
answer the exigency of suits for mariners' wages and- materials, and that the consignee, before the libels were filed, was
summoned as trustee or garnishee of the ship owner in a
court of common law; that the courts of common law of
Massachusetts had no power to adjust maritime liens upon
a fund attached under the foreign attachment law of that
State, and the consequence of giving priority to such an attachment might be the destruction of the liens; that a court
of common law would be bound to guard against this consequence by discharging the supposed trustee, or by waiting till
the liens were adjusted; and that the District Court might
proceed to adjust the liens and might order the freight to be
brought in for that purpose; and Lowell, J., said: "The decision in Taylor v. Carryl, as explained in -Freeman.v. Howe,
and in Buck v. Colbath, does not operate to defeat the paramount maritime liens, but only to delay their enforcement,
because the sheriff can sell only the right of the ship owner,
subject to those liens; the practical effect of which I find
to be that the sheriff usually waives his possession when libels
are filed for maritime liens, because his title becomes of, little
or no market value. So that we have come back pretty
much to the practice which prevailed before the leading case
was decided." The views of Judge Blatchford in respect
of the attachment of credits, and thereby the destruction of
maritime liens, were fully concurred in. And see Clifton v.
Foter,103 Mass. 233; -ddyv. O'Ihara,132 Mass. 56.
In The E. L. Cain, 15 Fed. Rep. 361, 370, the sheriff had

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

attached a tug and turned it over to a receiver appointed by
the state court. After that the marshal, under process upon
libels filed 'for seamen's wages and supplies, seized the vessel,
but the District Court held that the tug, "having been taken
possession of by process of the state court, and by that court
placed in the custody of the receiver, it could not be held
by any process out of this court until discharged by order
of the state court." And Simonton, J., said: "So, for the
present, this court can proceed no further. But the liens set
up in this court are maritime liens, which cannot be adjudicated or passed upon in the state court. Over these liens the
jurisdiction of this court is exclusive. They will be protected
in this court." The cause was continued until the state court
had ordered a sale or in any other mode released its custody
of the tug. To the same effect, Brown, J., in The James Boy,
59In
Fed. IRep. '784.
The _Ekexenai 53 Fed. iRep. 359, § 2186 of the Code
of
Virginia, providing that the sale of a vessel forfeited by proceedings in a state court for violating- the oyster laws of the
State "shall vest in the purchaser a clear and absolute title,"
was held by Hughes, J., inoperative to divest maritime liens
of innocent parties attaching before the arrest of the vessel,
and that the vessel might be subsequently seized in the hands
of the purchaser and subjected to such liens by proceedings
in the admiralty courts.
A maritime lien is not divested by a forfeiture for a breach
of municipal law; St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409; nor by
a sale to a bonaftde purchaser without notice. The Chusan,
2 Story, 455; The Bold Buccleugk, 3 W. Rob. 220; S.C. 7
IMoore P. C. 267. It is jus in r'e; and "it has been settled
so long, that we know not its beginning, that a suit in the
admiralty to enforce and execute a lien, is not an action
against any particular person to compel him to do 'or forbeax
anything; but a claim against all mankind; a suit in rem,
asserting the qlaim of the libellant to the thing, ap 'against
all the world." The Young .Aeohani, 2 Curtis, 404, 412.
See also The Book 18land Bridge, 6 Wall. 213; The J. -E.
Bumbegl, 148 U. S.1.

MORAff v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

We think it entirely clear that, as a state court is without
jurisdiction to enforce maritime liens, so it is incapable of
displacing them, and, therefore, though under the rule laid
down in Taylor v. Carryl, the possession by the state court
of property subject to such liens will not be disturbed, yet
that court can only deal with the property subject thereto;
and when its jurisdiction has determined the admiralty courts
may proceed.
But upon the facts disclosed in this record, was.the District
Court required to stay its hand until the termination of the
proceedings in the state court? It is admitted that the receiver never took actual possession of the vessels, and that
he did not qualify until after the marshal had taken such,
possession under the libels; but -it is said that, as his appointment was made on July 31, before the libels were filed, when
his bond was executed, approved, and filed in the office of
the clerk of the court for Albany County, his title to the
property related back to the time of his appointment, and
that he had constructive possession as of that date, which constructive possession overreached the possession of the marshal.
Certain sections of the New York statutes (Rev. Stats. Part
3, c. 8, § 66, 67; Code Civ. Proc. 1891, App. 1167) provide'
that a receiver "before entering on the duties of his appointment shall give such security to the people of the State; and
in such penalty as the court shall direct;" and "such receiver
shall be vested with all the estate, real and personal, of such
corporation from the time of his having filed the security
hereinbefore required."
The contention is not only that the title to these vessels
vested in the receiver as of July 31, and that, in such a case
as this, constructive is the equivalent of actual possession, but
that although the receiver did not qualify until after the
seizure by the marshal, he thereupon became constructively
possessed of the vessels as of July 31, and the jurisdiction of
the District Court was thereby ousted. But if jurisdiction
had attached, it would not be defeated even by the withdrawal
of the property for the purposes of the state court, .and, moreover, the doctrine of relation has no application. As between

OCTOBERV-TERX, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

two courts of concurrent and cordinate jurisdiction, having
like jurisdiction over the subject-matter in controversy, the
court which first obtains jurisdiction is entitled to retain it
without interference, and cannot be deprived of its right to do
so -because it may not have first obtained physical possession
of the property in dispute. But where the jurisdiction is not
concurrent and the subject-matter in litigation in the one is
not within the cognizance of the other, while actual or even
constructive possbssion may, for the time being, and in order
to avoid unseemly collision, prevent the one from disturbing
such possession, yet where there is neither actual nor constructive possession there is no obstacle to proceeding, and action
thus taken cannot be invalidated by relation. That doctrine is resorted to only for the advancement of justice, and,
under these state statutes, is adopted to defeat fraudulent, unwarranted and unjust dispositions of the debtor's property, and
to accomplish just and equitable ends. Rerring v. N. Y,
Lake Erie &c. Pailroad,105 N. Y. 340, 377.
At the time these libels were filed and the marshal seized
the property, it had not been developed whether or when
the receiver would or might give the security required and
enter upon the discharge of his duties, and he had neither
actual nor constructive possession.
The jurisdiction of the state court over the subject-matter
of the winding up of the corporation and the distribution of
its assets did not embrace the disposition of the claims of the
libellants upon these vessels, nor were they as holders of maritime liens represented by the attorney general when he assented to the order of July 31, as mere creditors of that
Schuyler Company were. The adjudication by that order
may have so operated on the title in respect of the parties to
that suit as to place the property constructively in the custody of the law as of that date, but not as to all persons and
-for all purposes. Under the circumstances we are unable to
accept the conclusion that simply by the institution of the winding up proceeding, property, subject to liens over which that,
court could not exercise jurisdiction in invitum, was placed in
such a situation in respect of liability to being ultimately

MORANT v. STURGES.
Opinion of the Court.

brought within the custody of the court that the District Court
could not obtain jurisdiction for the purpose of ascertaining and
enforcing those liens in respect of which its jurisdiction was
exclusive. It appears to us that the District Court violated
no rule of comity nor any other rule in entertaining the
libels.
The title and the right of possession as between the receiver'
and the creditors of the Schuyler Company may have vested
as of July 31, but this could not operate to divest a jurisdiction, not concurrent, to the exercise of which no actual impediment existed at the .ime it was invoked. As has been seen,
maritime liens are incumbrances placed on vessels by operation
of law, and neither the death nor the insolvency of the owner
can divest or extinguish them or transfer jurisdiction over
them to courts for the settlement of the estates of decedents
or insolvents, although for the purposes merely of such settlement these are the appropriate tribunals. In the orderly
administration of justice the representatives of such estates
should apply to the court which alone has cognizance to
ascertain and enforce these exceptional interests in the thing
itself, which accompany it wherever it goes and into whosesoever hands it comes, and which cannot be displaced by the
action of other courts in invitum.
The receiver accordingly properly applied to the state court
for leave to contest the libels or to take such other proceedings therein as might be advisable, and was duly authorized
so to do. Thereupon he made a motion in the District Court
for an order directing the marshal to withdraw from the custody of the steamboats held under the admiralty process,
which motion was denied bn the ground that the question
should be raised by answer to the libels. The receiver then
appeared in one action against each vessel and filed his
answer contesting the jurisdiction of the admiralty court.
If the decision of that court had been adverse, he could have
tested its correctness on appeal, but he seems to have been
unwilling to abide the result, and to have entertained the
view that while the proceedings in the District Court, to
which he had become a party, were pending, he could go into

S286

OCTOBER TERM, 189 .
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, White, JJ.

the state court and ask it to determine the question of jurisdiction by anticipation and by injunction prevent its decision
by the tribunal to which it had authorized him to resort.
Not only so, but he made. an application to this court to prohibit the District Court from exercising jurisdiction. This
was denied because the question involved was in due course
of decision below, and the receiver thereafter obtained the
injunction under c-nsideration. Apart from the legal effect
df this submission to the jurisdiction of the District Court, we
cannot say that we are favorably imprdssed with this course
of proceeding, and the less so since in the original application
t4 the state court on July 31 it was averred that there was
serious danger of the vessels "being libelled in the admiralty
courts of the United States for such claims as constituted maritime liens, including the claims for services and supplies rendered to said vessels."
We are of opinion that the state court had no jurisdiction
in personam, over the libellants as holders of maritime liens
when the libels were filed; that the question of jurisdiction
was, as the case stood, one for the District Court to decide in
the first instance; that the District Court had jurisdiction;
and that the judgment under review was in effect an unlawful
interference with proceedings in that court.
The judgment is reversed and the cause -remandedfor furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BnwEER, with whom concurred Mn. JusrTxc
W=rr, dissenting.

While I agree with nearly all that is said in the opinion;
I am unable to concur in the conclusions finally reached and
the judgment ordered. I agree that" it is a rule of general
application that where property is in the actual possession
of one court of competent jurisdiction such possession cannot
be disturbed by process out of another court;" and I may
say that I agree further that when a court has possession
of property it may restrain the bringing of any suit in any
other court to disturb that possession, and that an order for

MORAN v. STURGES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, White, JJ.

such restraint operates upon all persons within its jurisdiction,
and can be enforced, if need be, by proceedings as for a contempt; but I disagree with my brethren as to the matter of
possession. In the opinion of the court the possession of the
officer is deemed the important matter. I submit that that
is significant only as it bears upon the question of possession.
by the court. No one would pretend that the act of a marshal or a sheriff in taking possession of property would have
any significance unless it were in the execution of some order
of the court. If the proceeding is of itself such as to put the
property into the possession of the court, that is enough, and
there is no need of inquiry as to whether the officer of the
court has in fact placed his hand upon it. Now, the statutory proceeding instituted- by this insolvent corporation -a
creature of the State of New York-involved a surrender
of its property to the possession of the court. Such is the
construction placed by its highest court upon the statutes
of New York; and that construction, it seems to me, is binding upon this court. It is only in harmony with views that
have been expressed by judges of the Federal courts. The
bankrupt act of Congress authorized voluntary proceedings in
bankruptcy, as do the statutes of New York authorize voluntary proceedings on the part of its corporations in insolvency.
In In 'e Vogel, 7 Blatch. 18, 20, a question was presented as
to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court as against that
of a state court,, whose officers in obedience to a writ of
replevin had taken manual possession of the property before
any officer of the former court had touched it, and the court
held that from the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy the jurisdiction of that court over the property attached.
I quote the language of District Judge Blatchford, whose
opinion was sustained by Mr. Justice Nelson:
"It is manifest, from these provisions, that when a voluntary petitioner in bankruptcy files his petition in due form,
he becomes, eo instanti,a bankrupt, so far as any interference
with the property named in his inventory is concerned, and
that such property is thereby brought into the bankruptcy
court, and placed in its custody and under its protection, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

fully as if actually brought into the visible presence of the
court. Being in the custody of the bankruptcy court, .no
other court, and no person acting under any process from any
other court, can, without the permission of the bankruptcy
coiirt, interfere with it; and, to so interfere, is a contempt
of the bankruptcy court."
Believing that the rule thus stated is the one to be applied
in this case, I hold that, when the petition in insolvency was
fileq, the corporation, the owner and possessor of the property,
surrendered it to the state court, and by no subsequent proceedings in any other court could that possession be disturbed.
I cannot agree that the respective jurisdiction of state and
Federal courts is to be determined by a scramble between
sheriff and marshal for possession.
For these reasons, while I concur in most of the reasoning
of the opinion, I am constrained to dissent from the judgment.
I am authorized to say that MR.
in the foregoing views.

JUSTICE WHITE concurs

BARDEN v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 612. Argued April 11, 1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

By the grant of public land made to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, all mineral lands other
than iron or coal are excluded from its operation, whether known or
unknown; and all such mineral lands, not otherwise specially provided
in the act making the grant, are reserved exclusively to the United States,
the company having the right to select unoccupied and unappropriated
agricultural lands in odd sections, nearest to the line of the road, in lieu
thereof.
Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, and Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S. 607,
explained and distinguished.

THIS was an action for the possession of certain parcels of
land containing veins or lodes of rock in place bearing gold,

