PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

421

Statement of the Case.

PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BACKUS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

To. 899. Argued March 2T, 28,1894. -Decided May 26,1894.
The act of the legislature of Indiana of March 6, 1891, concerning taxation,
is not obnoxious to the constitutional objections made to it, since the
Supreme Court of that State has decided:
(1) That the constitution of that State authorizes such a method of
assessing railroad property, which decision Is binding on this
court; and
(2) That the act gives the'railroad companies the right to be heard
before final determination of the question, which construction is
conclusive on this court; and, further, since
(3) A tax law which grants to the taxpayer a right to be heard on the
assessment of his property before final judgment provides a due
process of law for determining the valuation, although it makes
no provision for a rehearing.
When a railroad runs into or through two or more States, its value, for
taxation purposes, in each is fairly estimated by taking that part of the
value of the entire road which is measured by the proportion of the
length of the particular part in that State to that of the whole road.
The judgment of a state board empowered to fix a valuation for taxation,
cannot be set aside by the testimony of witnesses that the valuation was
other than that fixed by the board, where there is no evidence of fraud
or of gross error in the system on which the valuations were made.

ON March 6, 1891, the legislature of the State of Indiana
passed an act entitled "An act concerning taxation, repealing all laws in conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency,"
Laws 1891, c. 99, pp. 199 to 291, which, expressly repealing

"all laws and parts of laws within the purview of this act,"
provided in itself 'a complete and comprehensive system of

taxation. By it all property of individuals and ordinary corporations was subject to valuation and assessment by county
officers, while the assessment of railroad property was comInitted to a state board of tax commissioners, composed of

the governor, secretary of State, auditor of State, and two,
appointees of the governor.

To this board, in addition to

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the assessment of railroad property, was given the duty of
equalizing the assessment of real estate throughout the State,
as well as of entertaining appeals from the decisions of the
several county boards. This method of assessing railroad
property by a state board, as distinguished from the assessment of ordinary property through county officers, was not
by this act for the first time introduced into the legislation
of Indiana, though by it some changes were made in the organization of the state board, and in the details of procedure.
By section 129 the board was required to " convene in the
office of the auditor of State, on the first Monday of August
each year, fot the purpose of assessing railroad property and
equalizing the assessment of real estate, as provided in this
act," and "is hereby given all the powers given to county
boards of review." By section 132 authority was given to
adjourn from time to time, with a proviso that "the duration
of their sessions shall not exceed forty days." Section 3 is in
these words:
"SEc. 3. All property within the jurisdiction of this State,
not expressly exempted, shall be subject to taxation."
In section 4 it is provided: "Shares in corporations, all the
property of which is taxable to the corporation itself, shall
not be assessed to the shareholder."
By section 8 personal property was to be listed for taxation
as of the first day of April in each year.
The property of railroad corporations was divided into two
classes - railroad track and rolling stock -and by sections '78
and 80 defined as follows:
"SEo. 78. Such right of way, including the superstructures,
main, side or second track and turnouts, turn-table, telegraph
poles, wires, instruments and other appliances, and the stations
and improvements of the railroad company on such right of
way, (excepting machinery, stationary engines, and other fixtures, which shall be considered personal property,) shall be
held to be real estate for the purpose of taxation, and denominated ' railroad track.'
"SEc. 80. The movable property belonging to a railroad

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

423

Statement of the Case.

company shall be held to be personal property, and denominated, for the purpose of taxation, ' rolling stock.'"
Between the first of April and the first of June of each
year the railroad companies were required to make certain
reports to the county auditors. Section 85 is as follows:
"SEc. 85. At the same time that the lists or schedules as
hereinbefore required to be returned to the county auditor the
person, company, or corporation running, operating, or constructing any railroad in this State shall, under the oath of
such person, or the secretary or superintendent of such company or corporation, return to the auditor of State sworn
statements or schedules, as follows:
"First. Of the property denominated ' railroad track,' giving
the length of the main and side or. second tracks and turnouts, and showing the proportions in each county and township, and the total in the State.
"Second. The rolling st6ck, whether owned or hired, giving
the length of the main track in each county, and the entire
length of the road in this State.
"T ird. Showing the number of ties in track per mile, the
weight of iron or steel per yard used in the main and side
tracks, what joints or chairs are used ifitrack, the ballasting
of road, whether gravelled, stone, or dirt, the number and
quality of buildings or other structures on ' railroad tracks,'
the length of time iron or steel in track has been used, and
the length of time the road has been built.
"Fourth. A statement or schedule showing:
"1st. The amount of capital stock authorized and the number of shares into which such capital stock is divided.
"2d. The amount of capital stock paid up.
"3d. The market value, or, if no market value, then the
actual value of the shares of stock.
"4th. The total amounts of all indebtedness except for current expenses for operating the road.
"5th. The total listed valuation of all its tangible property
in this State. Such schedule shall be made in conformity to
such instructions and forms as may be prescribed by the.
auditor of State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893
Counsel for Parties.

Section 137 provides:
"SE C. 137. Said board shall also assess the railroad property, denominated in this act as ' railroad track' and ' rolling
stock,' at its true cash value, and said board is hereby given
the power and authority, by committee or otherwise, to examine persons or papers."
Between April 1, 1890, and April 1, 1891, the plaintiff in
error, plaintiff below, was created by the consolidation of
several corporations theretofore existing. Its entire length
of main track was 1145.87 miles, of which 647.42 miles were
in Indiana, 27.99 in Illinois, 403.33 in Ohio, 19.48 in West
Virginia, and 47.65 in Pennsylvania. The Indiana portion of
the property belonging to this corporation, including both
railroad track and rolling stock, was assessed in 1890 at
$8;538,053. The assessment of the like property under the
act of 1891 amounted to $22,666,470. Thereafter and on
April 19, 1892, the company commenced this suit in the
Superior Court of Marion County, to restrain the collection
of taxes based upon the assessment of 1891, on the double
ground that the act of 1891 was unconstitutional, and that
if constitutional it had been so administered as to create an
illegal assessment of the company's property. A tender was
made of the amount which would be due according to the
valuation placed upon the property in 1890, and, as we understand, this amount has been, under an arrangement between
the parties, paid into the different county treasuries. Issue
having been joined, the case was beard and a decree rendered
finding the equity of the case with the defendants, and denying the application for an injunction. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State this ruling was sustained. To
reverse the final decree of that court the plaintiff sued out
this writ of error.

.MP. John Xl. Butler (with whom were 2.A. S. 0. Picken8,
.Mr. Apheus H. Snow, and MAtr. John .X. Butler, Jr., on the
brief,) for plaintiff in error.
frp. Alonzo Greene Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Indiana, and 111>. TfillMaNn A. H-etc/hani for defendant in error.

PITTSBURGH &a. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

425

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J ohn W. Kern and .A&. Albert J. Beveridge were with
them on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the State removes
from this case all questions of conflict between the act and
the constitution of. the State, and the only matter remaining
for our consideration is whether there is in the act as administered any trespass upon rights which the Federal Constitution secures to the plaintiff. Notwithstanding the elaborate
attack made both in brief and argument upon this act, it seems
to us that its constitutionality has been practically settled by
decisions of this court, especially those in State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 575, and Eentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115
U. S. 321. In both of those cases legislation providing for
the assessment of railroad property by a state board, while all
other property in the State was assessed by county officials,
was held to be obnoxious to no provision in the Federal Constitution. Counsel deny the applicability of those two cases,
on account of differences between the constitutions of Illinois
and Kentucky and that of Indiana, the constitution of Illinois
expressly authorizing the legislature to classify property for
taxation, and only requiring uniformity as to the class of
property upon which the particular law operates, and that of
Kentucky containing no provision requiring taxes to be levied
by a uniform method upon all descriptions of property. A
sufficient answer to this is that the decision. of the Supreme
Court of Indiana in this case is ?onolusive upon us that the
constitution of that State authorizes just the method of assessment adopted in this case.
It is contended specifically that the act fails of due process
of law respecting the assessment, in that it does not require
notice by the state board at any time before the assessments
are made final, and several authorities are cited in support of.
the proposition that it is essential to the validity of any proceeding by which the property of the individual is taken that
notice must be given at some time and in some form, before

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the final adjudication. But the difficulty with this argument
is that it has no foundation in fact. The statute names the
time and place for the meeting of the assessing board, and
that is sufficient in tax proceedings; personal notice is unnecessary. In State RailroadTax cases, page 610, are these words,
which are also quoted with approval in theJentwcky Railroad
Tax cases:
"This board has its time of sitting fixed by law. Its sessions are not secret. No obstruction exists to the appearance
of any one before it to assert a right, or redress a wrong; and,
in the business of assessin.g taxes, this is all that can be reasonably asked."
Again, it is said that the act does not require the state
board to grant to the railroad companies any hearing or
opportunity to be heard for the correction of errors at any
time after the assessments have been agreed upon by the
board, and before they are made final and absolute, or before
the final adjournment of the board, and also that it gives to
the board arbitrary power to deny to plaintiffs any hearing at
any time; but the fact and the law are both against this contention. The plaintiff dia appear before the board, and was
heard, by its counsel and through its officers, and the construction placed by the Supreme Court of the State on the act
a construction which is conclusive upon this court - is that
the railroad companies are given the right to be present and
to be heard.
It is urged that the valuation as fixed was not announced
until shortly before the adjournment of the board, knd that
no notice was given of such valuation in time to take any
steps for the correction of errors therein. If by this we are
to understand counsel as claiming that there must be notice
and a hearing after the determination by the assessing, board
as well as before, we are unable to concur with that view. A
hearing before judgment, with full opportunity to present all the
evidence and the arguments which the party deems important,
is all that can be adjudged vital. Rehearings, new trials, are
not essential to due process of law, either in judicial or administrative proceedings. One hearing, if ample, before judgment,

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

427

Opinion of the Court.

satisfies the demand of the Constitution in this respect. It
not unfrequently happens in this, as in all other courts, that
decisions are announced and judgments entered on the last
day of the term, and too late for the presentation or consideration of any petitions for rehearing or motions for a new trial.
Will any one seriously contend that a judgment thus entered
is entered in defiance of the requirements of due process of
law, and that a party, having been fully heard once upon the
merits of his case, is deprived of the constitutional protection
because he is not heard a second time?
Equally fallacious is the contention that, because to the
ordinary taxpayer there is allowed not merely one hearing
before the county officials, but also a right of 'appeal with a
second hearing before the state board, while only the one
hearing before the latter board is given to railroad companies
in respect to their property, therefore the latter are denied
the equal protection of the laws. If a single hearing is not
due process, doubling it will not make it so; and the power
of a State to make classifications in judicial or administrative
proceedings carries with it the right to make such a classification as will give to parties belonging to one class two hearings before their rights are finally determined, and to parties
belonging to a different class only a single hearing. Prior to
the passage of the Court of Appeals act by Congress, in 1891,
a litigant in the Circuit Court, if the amount in dispute was
less than $5000, was given but a single trial and in that court,
while if the amount in dispute was over that sum the defeated
party had a right to a second hearing and in this court. Did
it ever enter into the thought of any one that such classification carried with it any denial of due process of law?
Again the act is challenged as permitting and requiring the
assessment and valuation of property outside the State. This
contention is based largely on the provision in section 80 that
the "rolling stock shall be listed and taxed in the several
counties . . . in the proportion that the main track used or
operated in such county . . . bears to the length of the main
track used or operated by such person, company, or corporation," and the requirement in the schedule to be returned to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the auditor of State of a statement of the amount of capital
stock and indebtedness. We do not think that the matters
referred to justify any such imputation. It is not to be assumed that a State contemplates the taxation of any'property
outside its territorial limits, or that its statutes are intended
to operate otherwise than upon persons and property within
the State. It is not necessary that every section of a tax act
should in terms declare the scope of its territorial operation.
Before any statute will be held to intend to reach outside
property the language expressing such intention must be clear.
Section 79, which refers to the matter of "railroad track," in
terms provides that "the value of 'railroad tack' shall be
listed and taxed in the several counties, townships, cities, or
towns in the proportion that the length of the main track in
such county, township, city, or town bears to the whole length
of the road in this State, except the value of the side or second
track, and all the turnouts, and all station-houses, depots,
machine shops, or other buildings belonging to the road,
which shall be taxed in the county, township, city, or town in
which the same are Ibcated." And while section 80, treating
of rolling stock, does not repeat this express limitation, yet it
is manifestly implied, not merely from its following immediately after section '9, and from the general scope of the act,
but also from the schedule required to be returned to the
auditor of State, the first and second clausea of which are as
follows:
"i rst. Of the property denominated 'railroad track,'
giving the length of the main and side or second tracks and
turnouts, and showing the .proportions in each county and
township, and the total in the State.
"Second. The rolling stock, whether owned or hired, giving the length of the main track in each county, and the
entire length of the road in this State."
It is obvious that the intent of this act was simply to reach
the property of the railroad within the State, and these provisions in respect to apportionment relate simply to apportionment between the different counties, townships, towns, cities,
etc., within the State. No intent to the contrary can be deduced

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

429

Opinion of the Court.

from the provision requiring the corporation to file a statement
of its total stock and indebtedness, for that is one item of testimony fairly to be considered in determining the value of that
portion of the property within the State. The stock and the
indebtedness represent the property. As said by Mr. Justice
Miller in State Railroad Tax cases, (page 605):
"When you have ascertained the current cash value of the
whole funded debt, and the current cash value of the entire
number of shares, you have, by the action of those who above.
all others can best estimate it, ascertained the true value of
the road, all its property, its capital stock, and its franchises;
for these are all represented by the value of its bonded debt
and of the shares of its capital stock."
In Franklin County v. Nfashville, Chattanooga &c. Railway, 12 Lea, 521, 539, the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in a
well-considered opinion, which was quoted with approval by
this court in Columbus Southern Railway v. Wright, 151
U. S. 470, 479, thus referred to the means of ascertaining the
value of a railroad track:
."The value of the roadway at any given time is not the
original cost, nor, a fortiori, its ultimate cost after years of
expenditure in repairs and improvements.
On the other
hand, its value cannot be determined by ascertaining the
value of the land included in the roadway assessed at the
market price of adjacent lands, and adding the value of
the cross-ties, rails, and spikes. The value of land depends
largely upon the use to which it can be put, and the character
of the improvements upon it. The assessable value, for
taxation, of a railroad track can only be determined by looking at the elements on which the financial condition of the
company depends, its traffic, as evidenced by the rolling stock
and gross earnings in connection with its capital stock. No
local estimate of the fraction in one county of a railroad
track running through several counties can be based upon
sufficient data to make it at all reliable, unless, indeed, the
local assessors are furnished with the means of estimating the
whole road."
Counsel sought in argument to narrow the meaning of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the words "railroad track" and "rolling stock" as though
the two did not include the entire railroad property; but evidently the Supreme Court of the State construed, -and as we
think properly, the two terms as embracing all which goes to
make up what is strictly railroad property. By section three
of the act, it is provided that all property in the State shall
be subject to taxation unless expressly exempted. By section
four, that when the property of a corporation is taxed to the
corporation the shares held by individuals shall nbt be subject
to taxation. There is in terms no exemption of any railroad
property, or any part thereof ; and there is no provision of the
tax law reaching that which is strictly railroad property, except as embraced within the two terms, "railroad track" and
"rolling stock." Obviously it was assumed by that court,
though the matter is not discussed in the .opinion, that by
these two descriptive terms the legislature, carrying out the
declared purpose of subjecting all property within the State
to taxation, not expressly exempted, meant to include all the
property owned or used by -the railroad companies in the
operation of their roads, and which may fairly be called
Crailroad
property." And when the statute provides that
such property shall be assessed at its "true cash value," it
means to require that it shall be assessed at the value which
it has, as used, and by reason of its use.
When a road runs through two States it is, as seen, helpful
in determining the value of that part within one State to know
the value of the road as a whole. It is not stated in this statute that when the value of a road running in two 'States is
ascertained the value of that within the State of Indiana shall
be determined absolutely by dividing the gross value upon a
mileage basis, but only that the total amount of stock and
indebtedness shall be presented for consideration by the state
board. INevertheless, it is ordinarily true that when a railroad consists of a single continuous line, the value of one part
is fairly estimated by taking that part of the value of the
entire road which is measured by the proportion of the length
of the particular part to that of the whole road. This mode
of division has been recognized by this court several times

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

431

Opinion of the Court.

as eminently fair. Thus, in State RailroadTax cases, on page
608, it was said:
"It may well be doubted whether any better mode of determining the value of that portion of the track within any one
county has been devised than to ascertain the value of the
whole road, and apportion the value within the county by
its relative length to the whole."
And again, on page 611:
"This court has expressly held in two cases, where the road
of a corporation ran through different States, that a tax upon
the income or franchise*of the road was properly apportioned
by taking the whole income or value of the franchise, and the
length of the road within each State, as the-basis of taxaion.
The Delaware .RailroadTax Case, 18 Wall. 206; Erie Railway v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall. 492."
The mileage basis of apportionment was also sustained in
ffestern Union Telegraph Co. v. .Massachusetts, 125 U. S.530;
Pulman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18;
Maine v. G'and Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217; Charlotte,
Columbia &c. Railroad v. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; Columbus
Southern Railway v. Wright, 151 U. S.470. It is true, there
may be exceptional cases, and the testimony offered on the
trial of this case in the Circuit Court tends to show that this
plaintiff's road is one of such exceptional cases, as for instance,
where the terminal facilities in some large city are of enormous value, and so give to a mile or two in such city a value
out of all proportion to any similar distance elsewhere along
the line of the road, or where in certain localities the company
is engaged in a particular kind of business requiring for sole
use in such localities an extra amount of rolling stock. If
testimony to this effect was presented by the company to the
state board, it must be assumed, in the absence of -anything
to the contrary, that such board, in making the assessment of
track and rolling stock within the State, took into account the
peculiar and large value of such facilities and such extra rolling stock: But whether in any particular case such matters
are taken into consideration by the assessing board does not
make against the validity of the law, because it does not re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

quire that the valuation of the property within the State shall
be absolutely determined upon a mileage basis.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that this act is not obnoxious

to any of the constitutional objections made to it. There
remains the further question whether, in the actual administration thereof in this case, there has been any illegal assessment of the property of *theplaintiff. It is charged that the
valuation was increased from $8,538,053 in 1890 to $22,666,470
in 1891, and it is not to be denied that such a great increasesuggests that which is unfortunately too common.-an effort
to cast an unreasonable proportion of the public burdens upon
corporate property. It is stated by counsel for plaintiff in
their brief that the increase from 1890 to 1891 in the valuation of all other than railroad property in the several counties
through which its road extends was only 43 per cent, while,
as appears, that of the property of the plaintiff was more than
150 per cent. Still, it must be borne in mind that a mere
increase in the assessment does not prove that the last assessment is wrong. Something more is necessary before it can
be adjudged that the assessment is illegal and excessive, and
the question which is to be now considered is whether the testimony shows that 'the assessment made by the state board
can be adjudged illegal.
The bill of exceptions discloses. these proceedings on the
hearing: The plaintiff offered the record of the action of the
state board for the year 1890, showing an assessment, as heretofore stated, so much less than that of 1891, which record was
rejected as irrelevant and immaterial. Thereupon the plaintiff offered the record of the proceedings of the board in 1891,
which was admitted. This recited the appearance of the
plaintiff by its officers, and that they were heard as to the
proper valuation. It also contained a table by counties of the
assessment as made by the board, closing with this certificate:
"Making liberal allowances for all proper deductions, the
state board of tax commissioners has fixed the values of the
respective railroads and parts of roads within the State of
Indiana for taxation on the first day of April, 1891, as hereinbefore set forth.

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO.. v. BACKUS.

433

Opinion of the Court.

"In arriving at the basis for the estimate of said values the
board has considered the cost of the construction and equipment of said roads, the market value of the stocks and bonds,
and the gross and net earnings of each of said roads, and all
other matters appertaining thereto that would assist the board
in arriving at a true cash value of the same."
The return made by the plaintiff to the auditor of State for
the year 1891, in accordance with the requirements of the
statute, was also given in evidence, which return was upon a
blank furnished by the auditor, and shows an aggregate valuation of about $8,000,000. This return was sworn to by the
general manager and secretary of the company. The second
vice-president and general counsel of the plaintiff was.called
as a witness, and, after testifying to his familiarity with the
property, and its value, was asked the value in 1890, but, on
objection, this testimony was ruled out. He was permitted,
however, to give testimony as to the value in 1891, and his
answer fixed that value in the aggregate at $8,538,053, the
same value that was placed upon the property by the state
board in 1890. He was asked to state the average cash value
per mile of the company's property in Indiana, and in the
other States into which the company's road extended, treating
the portion in each State as constituting a unit, separate and
distinct from those of the portions in the other States, but an
objection to this was sustained, and the testimony offered
ruled out. He then testified as to the terminal facilities in the
cities of Chicago and Pittsburgh belonging to the plaintiff,
and their great value, and the absence of terminal facilities of
any particular value in any of the cities in Indiana. He was
then asked if the plaintiff owned*any rolling-stock which was
used exclusively in any one of the five States in which it did
business, but this question was ruled out. In response to further questions he testified that the plaintiff had no rolling
stock used exclusively within the State of Indiana for special
purposes. " Certain questions were also asked as to the notice
or knowledge which the plaintiff had of the determination
made by the state board in 1891 as to the valuation, but we
have heretofore held that it is immaterial whether it had any
voL. cLIV-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

notice thereof after the decision and prior to the adjournment
of the board. The assistant engineer of the plaintiff was also
called as a witness, and producing a written statement which
he had presented to the state board prior to its determination,
which statement goes at length into the mileage in the different
States, the gross earnings, per cent of earnings, and the value
of the track, testified that the facts in such written statement
were true. Another witness, the assistant comptroller of the
plaintiff, was asked what per cent of the gross receipts of its
Indiana business was derived from commerce, beginning and
ending wholly within the tate and what from interstate
business; but, on objection, this testimony was ruled out. The
secretary of State, who was a member of the state board, was
also called, and testified that the members of the board did
not make an official examination or inspection of the railroad
track and rolling stock of the plaintiff, being personally
acquainted therewith; that they did not summon before them,
or examine under oath, any person or persons acquainted with
the true cash value of the property. The plaintiff also offered
the return made by the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad Company to the auditor of State for the year 1891,
prepared upon the same form as that upon which the plaintiff's
return was made, but it was ruled out as irrelevant and immaterial, as well as the action taken by the state board in respect
to the valuation of the property of such road. This was, in
substance, all the testimony offered by the plaintiff.
The defendant simply called the secretary of State, who
testified that in assessing the plaintiff's property no assessment
was made, except upon the railroad track and rolling stock of
plaintiff within the State, and no assessment was made of any
property of value outside the State:
Upon this testimony the decision of the court was that
there was nothing to impeach the assessment made by the
state board, and in this conclusion we concur. The true cash
value of the plaintiff's property in the State of Indiana in the
year 1891 was a question of fact, the determination of whi6h
for the purposes of taxation was given to this special tribunal,
the state board. Whenever a question of fact is thus submitted

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO v. BACKUS.

435

Opinion of the Court.

to the determination of a special tribunal, its decision creates
something more than a mere presumption of fact, and if such
determination comes into inquiry before the courts it cannot
be overthrown by evidence going only to show that the fact
was otherwise than as so found and determined. Here the
question determined by the state board was the value of
certain property. That determination cannot be overthrown
by the testimony of two or three witnesses that the valuation
was other than that fixed by the board. It is true such
testimony may be competent, and was received in this case
because, taken in conjunction with other testimony, it might
establish fraudulent conduct on the part of the board sufficient
to vitiate its determination. I't is not, however, contended by
counsel that there was any actual fraud -on the part of that
board; that the individual members thereof deliberately
violated the obligations of their oaths of office, and intentionally placed upon the property of the plaintiff a valuation
which they knew to be grossly in excess of that which it in.
fact bore, and did so with the purpose of making the plaintiff
bear a larger share of the burden of the support of the state
government than it rightfully should. The contention is
rather that the board made a grievous mistake in placing so
high a value, and that it took into consideration property
outside of the State, and gave to the property within a value
partly deduced from that without: the State. The testimony,
however, does not sustain this contention.
The certificate of the state board does not show that it
reached its determination of the value of the property in Indiana by first ascertaining the total value of the company's
property, and then dividing it on the mileage basis. It simply
shows that it considered the matters which by the statute
were required to be presented to it by the railroad company,
as well as all other matters which in its judgment bore upon
the question of value, and from such consideration reached.
the result announced, to wit, the value of that part of the
company's road in the State of Indiana. Evidence that there
were peculiar matters which gave to portions of the road
outside of Indiana an enormous value as compared with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

general line of the road does not prove that the board did not
-take those peculiar matters into consideration. On the contrary, the reasonable presumption, is that if its attention was
,called by the company to those facts it did take them into
consideration in connection with the information derived
trom the total amount of stock and indebtedness of the
company. Indeed, its certificate is affirmatively that it took
into consideration "all other matters appertaining thereto
that would assist the board in arriving at a true cash value"
of the parts of the road within the State of Indiana. That
the aggregate value of the entire property of the company
was evidence properly receivable and bearing upon the question of value of that part in Indiana is a proposition which,
as we have heretofore said, is clearly established both on reason and authority. There is no evidence that the board had
before it or considered any matter in reaching its determination which was not properly receivable and properly to be
considered. A comparison of the assessment placed by the
board upon the property of this plaintiff with that placed by
it upon other roads,. or portions of roads, within the State is
immaterial unless coupled with an offer to show an identity
in value, so that tie case narrows itself down to this: Is
-testimony that the value placed by the board was excessive,
together with testimony that portions of the road outside of
the State were of largely greater value than any similar
length of road within the State, unaccompanied with evidence
that the board reached the valuation by simply dividing the
total value of the company's property on a mileage basis, or
that it failed to tak6 into consideration the fact of such
excessive value of portions outside the State, sufficient to
impeach its determination? This question must be answered
in the negative. No determination of a special board, charged
under the law with the duty of placing a value upon property,
can be successfully impeached by such meagre testimony.
These are all the questions presented in this record, and
notwithstanding the shadow cast upon the action of the board
by this large increase in valuation, we are forced to the conclusion not only that the act is not open to the objections

PITTSBURGH &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

437

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

made to its constitutionality, but also that there is no sufficient testimony to impeach the conclusion and determination
of the state board. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of Indiana is, therefore,

4Affl7rmed.
MR. JusTiE, HiRLAN, with

whom concurred Mr..

JUSTICE

BRowN, dissenting.
The statute of Indiana of March 6, 1891, as construed by
the Supreme Court of that State, authorized the State Board
of Tax Commissioners, in assessing the "railroad track" and
"rolling stock" of the company in the State, to ascertain the
market value of its property and interests of every kind,
Within and Without the State, including capital stock, bonds,
earnings, franchise, equipment, etc.; and, that being done, to
take as the value of the company's track and rolling stock
in Indiana for taxation such proportion of that aggregate
amount as the number of miles of its road in that State bore
to the aggregate miles of its road or roads within and with-.
out the State. And by this rule of valuation the State Board
of Tax Commissioners seems to have been governed. In the
official report by the board of its proceedings for 1891, showing the basis on which the values of the railroads and parts
of roads within the State had been fixed, it is said that, "in
a~riving at the basis for the estimate of said values the board
has considered the cost of the construction and equipment of
said roads, the market value of the stocks and bonds, and the
gross and net earnings of each of said roads, and all other
matters appertaining thereto that would assist the board in
arriving at a true cash value of the same." The forms of
printed returns supplied to railroad companies show that
they were required to report such values and earnings in
respect of all their property of every kind, wherever situated.
Under the mode of assessment pursued, property was taxed in
Indiana that had no situs there, which was used in interstate
commerce outside of Indiana, and could not properly be included in the company's railroad track and rolling stock in
that State. I am of opinion that the statute as construed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

enforced by the State imposed illegal burdens upon interstate
commerce under the guise of a valuation for purposes of
taxation of property within the State. The board had no
authority to impart to the value of railroad track and rolling
stock, within the State, any part of the value of the company's various interests and property without the State.
There was some contention at the bar as to whether the
state board, in fact, proceeded according to the rule of valuation to which I have referred. If I am in error in saying
that it appears, affirmatively, from the record, that the board
applied that rule, there can be no doubt that the state court
cbnstrued the statute as authorizing the adoption of such a
rule. It is equally clear that evidence to prove that the
board acted upon that rule was offered and excluded, and*
that a proper exception was taken. Such action upon the
part of the court was itself sufficient to raise the question
whether the statute, as interpreted by the state court, and as
administered by the state ajthorities, was not obnoxious to
the objection that it permitted illegal burdens to be imposed,
under the guise of local taxation, upon interstate commerce,
and the taxation of property not within the jurisdiction of
Indiana.
Without referring to other grounds discussed at the bar, I
dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case upon the
grounds above stated.
I am authorized by MR. JusTICE BRowN to say that he also
dissents.
-MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not hear the argument in this
ca e, or take any part in its decision.

INDIANAPOLIS AND VINCENNES RAILROAD COMPANY v. BACKUS,

No. 900. Error to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
Argued March 27, 28, 1894. Decided May 26, 1894.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

CLEVELAND &c. RAILWAY 00. v. BACKUS.

439

Syllabus.
Case No. 900, brought by the Indianapolis and Vincennes Railroad Company to impeach the assessment made by the same board,
in the same year, of its property, is so nearly like this. in its
material features that no separate statement of the special facts is
necessary, and in that case, too, the judgment of the Supreme

Court of the State of Indiana will be
Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissented from
the opinion and judgment upon the ground stated in their dissenting opinion in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Railway
Company v. Backus, No. 899, ante, 421, 437.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not hear the argument in this case
or take any part in its decision.
Mr. John M. Butler for plaintiff in error.
31r. Albert Greene Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Indiana, and Mr. William A. Ketcham for defendant in error.

CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BACKUS.

ST.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 908. Argued March 27, 28, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

If an assessing board, seeking to assess for purposes of taxation a part of
a railroad within a State, the other part of which is in an adjoining State,
ascertains the value of the whole line as a single property and then determines the value of that within the State, upon the mileage basis, that
is not a valuation of property outside of the State; and the assessing
board, in order to keep within the limits of state jurisdiction, need not
treat the part of the road within the State as an independent line, disconnected from the part without, and place upon that property only the
value which can be given to it if operated separately from the balance of
the road.
Where an assessing board is charged with the duty of valuing a certain
number of miles of railroad within a State forming part of a line of road

