OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

COVINGTON AND CINCINNATI BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1025. Argued April 25, 1894. -Decided May 26, 1894.
This company was incorporated under an act of the legislature of Kentucky, approved February 17, 1846, with authority to construct a bridge
across the Ohio at Cincinnati. The third section of the act required its
confirmation by the State of Ohio, before the corporation should open
its books for subscription; and the eighth section declared that "the
president and directors shall have the rights to fix the rates of toll for
passing over said bridge, and to collect the same from all and every
person or persons passing thereob, with their goods, carriages, or
animals of every description or kind; provided, however, that the said
company shall lay before the legislature of this State a correct statement of the costs of said bridge, and an annual statement of the tolls
received for passing the same, and also the cost of keeping the said
bridge in repair, and of the other expenses of the company; and the
said president and directors shall, from time to time, reduce the rates
of toll, so that the net profits of the said bridge shall not exceed fifteen
per cent per annum, after the proper deductions are made for repairs
and charges of other descriptions." By an act of the legislature of
Ohio, enacted March 9, 1849, this company was made a body corporate
and politic of that State, "with the same franchises, rights, and privileges, and subject to the same duties and liabilities," as were specified
in its original incorporation. Some -subsequent legislation took place
not affecting the matter in issue here. The bridge was completed in 1867
at a cost much in excess of what had been contemplated, and. has never
earned 15 per cent on its cost. On the 31st of March, 1890, the legislature of Kentucky enacted that it should be unlawful to charge, collect,
demand, or receive for passage over the bridge spanning the Ohio River,
constructed under such act of incorporation, any toll, fare, or compensation greater than, or in excess of, certain rates prescribed by the act,
which were much less than the directors had fixed upon under the eighth
section of the act of incorporation, and made it obligatory upon the company to maintain an office and sell tickets in Kentucky at those rates.
The company refusing to comply with the requirements of this act, an
indictment was found against it. This was demurred to, and such
proceedings were had thereafter that thb defendant was adjudged guilty
and fined $10W, and the judgment was sustained as constitutional by
the Court of Appeals of the State. The case being brought here by

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

205

Statement of the Case.
writ of error, it is by the whole court Held, that the Kentucky act of
March 3, 1890, in its effect upon the Bridge Company, violated the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
The judges concurring in the opinion of the court, (BRoWN, HA1LA(,"
BREWER,SHmAs and JACKsON, JJ.,) after reviewing in detail the course
of the decisions, announce the following as their grounds for concurring
in this result and in the judgment:
(1) That the traffic across the river was interstate commerce;
(2) That the bridge was an instiument of such commerce;
(3) That the statute was an attempted regulation of such commerce,
which the State had no constitutional power to make;
(4) That Congress alone possesses the requisite power to enact a uniform
scale of charges in such a case, the authority of the State being
limited to fixing tolls on such channels of commerce as are exclusively within its territory.
The minority of the court (consisting of FULLER, C. J., and FIELD, GRAY,
and WmrTE, JJ.) gave the reasons for their concurrence in the result
and the judgment as follows:
(1) The several States have the power to establish and regulate ferries
and bridges, and the rates of toll thereon, whether within one
State, or between two adjoining States, subject to the paramount
authority of Congress over interstate commerce.
(2) By the concurrent acts of the legislature of Kentucky in 1846, and of
the legislature of Ohio in 1849, this bridge company was made a
corporation of each State, and authorized to fix rates of toll.
(3) Congress, by the act of February 17, 1865, c. 39, declared this bridge
"to be, when completed in accordance with the laws of the States
of Ohio and Kentucky, a lawful structure;" but made no provision as to tolls; and thereby manifested the intention of Congress that the rates of toll should be as established by the two
States.
(4) The original acts of incorporation constituted a contract between
the corporation and both States, which could not be altered by
the one State without the consent of the other.

THIS was an indictment found by the grand jury of Kenton
County, Kentucky, against the defendant Bridge Company
for demanding and collecting illegal tolls, refusing to sell
tickets at the rates required by law, and for failing to keep
an office for the sale of tickets at its bridge in said county.
The Covington and Cincinnati Bridge Company was incorporated under an act of the legislature of Kentucky,
approved February 17, 1846, the third section of which
required the confirmation of the act by the State of Ohio,
before the corporation should open its books for subscription;

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and the eighth section of which declared that "the president
and directors shall have the right to fix the rates of toll for
passing over said Bridge, and to collect the same from all
and every person or persons passing thereon, with their
goods, carriages, or animals of every description or kind;
provided, however, that the said Company shall lay before
the Legislature of this State a correct statement of the cost
of said Bridge, and an annual statement of the -tolls received
for passing the same, and also the cost of keeping the. said
Bridge in repair, and of the other expenses of the Company;
and the said President and Directors shall, from time to time,
reduce the rates of toll, so that the net profits of the said
Bridge shall not exceed fifteen per cent per annum, after the
proper deductions are made for repairs and charges of other
descriptions."
By an act of the legislature of Ohio, enacted March 9, 1849,
this company was made a body corporate and politic of that
State, "with the same franchises, rights, and privileges, and
subject to the same duties and liabilities," as were specified
in its original incorporation; and with a further proviso that
"nothing herein contained shall be construed to take away
the jurisdiction of this State to the centre of the said Bridge,
nor in anywise to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky this side of the said centre."
On March 20, 1850, this act of confirmation was amended
by the legislature of Ohio by granting the company "power
to enter upon any lands in the city of Cincinnati, from lowwater mark in the Ohio River northwardly, not exceeding
one hundred feet in width, to Front Street, and appropriate
the same" for passageways and abutments, etc.
The original act of incorporation was amended by the legislature of Kentucky by the following amongst other subsequent acts:
1. By act of February 23, 1856, authority was given to
increase the capital stock from $300,000 to $700,000, with
power in the city of Covington to subscribe for and purchase
$100,000.
2. By act of February 6, 1858, the company was authorized

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

207

Statement of the Case.

to issue preferred stock under certain restrictions, such stockholders to receive dividends of 6 per cent.
3. By act of February 5, 1861, the capital stock was increased to $1,000,000, one-half of such amount, in preferred
stock, and to pledge the revenues of the company for the
payment of dividends upon such preferred stock to the ex1
tent of 15 per cent per annum.
4. By act of January 21, 1865, the capital stock was
increased to $1,250,000, the additional $250,000 being preferred stock, the holders of which should enjoy all the benefits, privileges, and immunities to which the holders of the
existing stock were entitled.
By the sixth section of this act the legislature reserved the
right to change, alter, or amend the original charter, "but
not so as to abridge or injure legal or equitable rights acquired
thereunder."
5. By act of February 25, 1865, the above sixth section was
repealed.
6. By act of Congress of February 16, 1865, the bridge
was declared to be a lawful structure and post road for
the conveyance of the mails of the United States. 13 Stat.
431.
The bridge was completed and opened for travel January
1, 1867.
On March 31, 1890, the legislature of Kentucky passed
another act amendatory of the act of incorporation, and out
of which this prosecution arose, providing that it should be
unlawful for any person or corpofation to charge, collect,
demand, or receive for passage over the bridge spanning the
Ohio River, constructed under such act of incorpioration, any
toll, fare, or compensation greater than, or in excess of, certain rates prescribed by the act, which were much less than
the directors had fixed upon under the eighth section of the
act of incorporation. The second section provided that the
company should sell passage tickets over their bridge at these
rates, entitling the holder to passage either way over -aid.
bridge; and by the third section, the company was requi.'ed
to keep an office within the county of Kenton constantly open

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

for the sale of such tickets ; and keep conspicuously posted a
schedule of the tolls fixed in pursuance of the act.
The company failing to conform to this last-mentioned act,
this indictment was filed May 9, 1890. Defendant demurred
thereto, and the case was submitted upon this demurrer and
a statement of facts, showing the cost of the bridge structure
and offices to have been $1,855,462.36 ; the per cent of net
earnings on cost for first 23 years, 4.82; the per cent of net
earnings on cost for the year 1889, 6.14; the estimated per
cent of net earnings on cost for 1890, 4,, under the charges
fixed by the directors; the estimated percentage of net earnings on cost for the year 1890, under the act of which complaint was made, 1.
The court sustained the demurrer and
dismissed the indictments upon the ground that the act of
1890 impaired the obligation of the contract contained in the
eighth section of the original act. The Commonwealth appealed to the Court of Appeals, by which the judgment of the
court below was reversed, and the case remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for further proceedings.
The case was thereupon remanded to the lower court and
submitted without a jury. The court adjudged the defendant
guilty, and imposed a fine of $1000, from which judgment
the defendant again appealed to the Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the judgment of the court below, and certified, at
the request of the appellant, the followring questions as arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States:
1. Whether the act of 1890 Was within the constitutional
inhibition of laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
2. Whether such acts were in violation of the exclusive
power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
3. Whether said act was in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, prohibiting the taking of private property without due process of law.
* Defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error from this court.
-Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error. Mr. William
-M.Rarmsey, -Mr. James W. Bryan, -Mr. John F. Fisk, and
Mr. Charles . Fisk were with him on his brief.

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

209

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William J. Hendrick, Attorney General of the State
of Kentucky, and
.r.William Goebel for defendant in
error.
M . JuSTIo BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case involves the power of a State to regulate tolls
upon a bridge connecting it with another State, without the
assent of Congress, and without the concurrence of such other
State in the proposed tariff.
The right of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to prescribe
a schedule of charges in this instance is contested, not only
upon the ground that such regulation is an interference with
interstate commerce, but upon the further ground that it
impairs the obligation of the contract contained in the original
charter of the company.
The power of Congress over commerce between the States
and the corresponding -power of individual States over such
commerce have been the subject of such frequent adjudication
in this court, and the relative powers of Congress and the
States with respect thereto are so well defined, that each
case, as it arises, must be determined upon principles already
settled, as falling on one side or the other of the line of
demarcation between the powers belonging exclusively to
Congress, and those in which the action of the State may
be concurrent. The adjudications of this court with respect
to the power of the States over the general 'subject of commerce are divisible into three classes. First, those in.which
the power of the State is exclusive; second, those in which
the States may act in the absence of legislation by Congress;
third, those in which the action of Congress is exclusive and
the States cannot interfere at all.
The dirst class, including all those wherein the .States have
plenary power, and Congress has no right to interfere, concern the strictly internal commerce of the State, and while
the regulations of the State may affect interstate commerceindirectly, their bearing upon it is so remote that it cannot
VOL. CLIV-14

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

be termed in any just sense an interference. Under this
power, the States may authorize the construction of highways, turnpikes, railways, and canals between points in the
same State, and regulate the tolls for the use of the same,
Railroad v. Haryland,21 Wall. 456; and may authorize the
building of bridges over non-navigable streams, and otherwise regulate the navigation of the strictly internal witers
of the State - such as do not, by themselves or by connection
with other waters, form a continuous highway over which
commerce is or may be carried on with other States or foreign countries. Veazie v. Moor, 14 How. 568 ; The -Montello,
11 Wall. 411; S. C. 20 Wall. 430. This is true notwithstanding the fact that the goods or passengers carried or travelling over such highway between points in the same State
may ultimately be destined for other States, and, to a slight
extent, the state regulations may be said to interfere with
interstate commerce. The States may also exact a bonus, or
even a portion of the earnings of such corporation, as a condition to the granting of its charter. Society for Savings v.
Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institution v. -Massachusetts,6
Wall. 611; 11amilton Company v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632;
Railroad Cornpany v. -Maryland,21 Wall. 456; Ashley v.
Ryan. 153 U. S. 436.
Congress has no power to interfere with police regulations
relating exclusively to the internal trade of the States, United
States v. .Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41 ; Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S.
501, nor can it by exacting a tax for carrying on a certain
business thereby authorize such business to be carried on
within the limits of a State. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462,
470, 471. The remarks of the Chief Justice in this case contain the substance of the whole doctrine: " Over this," (the
internal) "commerce and trade, Congress has no power of
regulation nor any direct control. This power belongs exclusively to the States. No interference by Congress with the
business of citizens transacted within a State is warranted by
the Constitution, except such as is strictly incidental to the
exercise of powers clearly, granted to the legislature. The
power to authorize a business within a State is plainly repug-

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

211

Opinion of the Court.

nant to the exclusive power of the State over the same subject."
It was at one time thought that the admiralty jurisdiction
of the United States did not extend to contracts of affreightment between ports' of the United States, though the voyage
were performed upon navigable waters of the United States.
Allen v. Newberry, 21 How." 244. But later adjudications
have ignored this distinction as applied to those- waters. The
Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 641 ; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 587;
Zord v. Steamship Co., 102 U. S. 541.
Under this power the States may also prescribe the form of
all commercial contracts, as well as the terms and conditions
upon which the internal trade of the State may be carried on.
Te Trade Xfark Cases, 100 U. S. 82.
Within the second class of cases -those
of what may be
termed concurrent jurisdiction - are embraced laws for the
regulation of pilots: Cooley v. PhiladelphiaBoard of War.dens, 12 How. 299; Steamship Company v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450;
.Ex arte 3.Niel, 13 Wall. 236 ; Wilson v. lc2Wamee, 102 U. S.
572; quarantine and inspection laws and the policing of harbors: Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203; City of -New 7ork'
v. .Miln) 11 Pet. 102; Turner v. faryland,107 U. S. 38; .Morgan Steamship Co. v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455; the improvement of navigable channels: County of Mobile v. imball,
102 U. S. 691 ; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678 ; Hfuse
v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543; the regulation of wharfs, piers, and
docks: Cannon v. -Yew Orleans, 20 Wall. 577; Packet Company v. .Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Packet Company v. St. Louis,
100 U. S. 423; Packet Company v. Catlettsburg,105 U. S. 559;
Tranportation Comnpany v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691;
OuachitaPacket Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S. 444; the construction
of dams and bridges across the navigable waters of a State:
Willson v. Blackbird Creek -Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245 ; Cardwell
v. American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205; Pound v. Turck, 95
U. S. 459; and the establishment of ferries: Conway v. Taylor's
Executors, 1 Black, 603.
Of this class of cases it was said by'Mr. Justice Curtis in
Cooley v. Board of Warden_, 12 How. 299, 318: " If it were

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

admitted that the existence of this power in Congress, like the
power of taxation, is compatible with the existence of a
similar power in the States, then it would be in conformity
with the contemporary exposition of the Constitution, (Federalist, No. 32, and with the judicial construction, given from
time to time by this court, after the most deliberate consideration, to hold that the mere grant of such a power to Congress
did not imply a prohibition on the States to exercise the same
power; that it is not the mere existence of such a power, but
its exercise by Congress, which may be incompatible with the
exercise of the same power by the States, and that the States
may legislate in the absence of Congressional regulations."
See also Sturges v. 0Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 193. But
even in the matter of building a bridge, if Congress chooses to
act, its action necessarily supersedes the action of the State.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How.
421. As matter of fact, the building of bridges over waters
dividing two States is now usually done by Congressional
sanction. Under this power the States may also tax the instruments of interstate commerce as it taxes other similar
prQperty, provided such tax be not laid upon the commerce
itself.
But wherever such laws, instead of being of a local nature
and not affecting interstate commerce but incidentally, are
national in their character, the non-action of Congress indicates
its will that such commerce shall be free and untrammelled,
and the case falls within the third class- of those laws
wherein the jurisdiction of Congress is exclusive. Brown v.
Rouston, 114 U. S. 622; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Railway,
125 U. S.465. -Subject to the exceptions above specified, as
belonging to the first and second -classes, the States have no
right to impose restrictions, either by way of taxation, discrimination, or regulation, upon commerce between the States.
That, while the States have the right to tax the instruments
of such commerce as other property of like description is
taxed, under the laws of the several States, they have no right
to tax such commerce itself, is too well settled even to justify
the citation of authorities. The proposition was first laid down

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

13

Opinion of the Court.

in Orandall v. Nfevada, 6 Wall. 35, and has been steadily
adhered to since. That such power of regulation as they
possess is limited to matters of a strictly local nature, and
does not extend to fixing tariffs upon passengers or merchandise carried from one State to another, is also settled by more
recent decisions, although it must be admitted that cases upon
this point have not always been consistent.
The question of the power of the States to lay down a
scale of charges, as distinguished from their power to impose
taxes, was first squarely presented to the court in- Munn v.
Jllinahq,94 U. S. 113, in which a power was conceded to the
State to prescribe regulations and fix-the charges of elevators
used for the reception, storage, and delivery of grain, notwithstanding such elevators were used for the storage of grain
destined for other States. The decision was put upon the
ground that elevators were property "affected with a public
interest," and that from time immemorial in England, and
in this country from its first colonization, it had been customary to regulate ferries, common carriers, hackmen, bakers,
millers, wharfingers, innkeepers, etc., and in so doing to fix
a maximum of charge to be made for services rendered,
accommodations furnished, and articles sold. That the decision does not necessarily imply a power in the States to
prescribe similar regulations with regard to railroads and
other corporations directly engaged in interstate commerce
is evident from the remarks of the Chief Justice, p. 135, in
delivering the opinion of the court: "The warehouses of
these plaintiffs in error are situated and their business carried
on exclusively within the limits of the State of Illinois. They
are used as instruments by those engaged in state,.as well as
those engaged in interstate commerce, but they are no more
necessarily a part of commerce itself tban.the dray or the cart
by which, but for them, grain would be transferred from one
railroad station to another. Incidentally they may become
connected with interstate commerce, but not necessarily so.
Their regulation is a thing of domestic concern, and certainly,
until Congress acts in reference to their interstate relations,
the State may exercise all the powers of government over

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

them, even though in so doing it may operate upon commerce
outside its immediate jurisdiction." The principle of this case
has been recently affirmed in Budd v. New York, 143 IT.S.

517, and reaffirmed in B'ass v. North Dakota, 153 U. S. 391,
though not without strong opposition from a minority of
the court.
In the next case, viz., that of the Micago, Bur ington &c.
Railroad v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155, 163, a bill was filed by the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, an
Illinois corporation, to restrain the prosecution of suits against
it under "An act to establish reasonable maximum rates of
charges for the transportation of freight and passengers on
the different railroads of this State." The complainant was
also the lessee of the Burlington and issouri Raih'oad in
Iowa, the two roads being connected by a bridge which
crossed the MIississippi River at Burlington, thus making
a continuous railroad from Chicago to Platsmouth on the
M[issouri River, in Iowa. The case was held to be covered
by
vAnr v. 1llinois, the road, like the warehouse in that
case, being situated within the limits of a single State. "Its
business," said the Chief Justice, "is carried on there, and
its regulation is a matter of domestic concern. It is employed
in state as well as interstate commerce, and, -until Congress
acts, the State must be permitted to adopt such rules and
regulations as may e necessary for the promotion of the
general welfare of the people within its own jurisdiction, even
though in so doing, those without may be indirectly affected."
In short, the case was treated as one of internal commerce
only.

In the next case, viz., Pek v. Chicago & NYorthwestern
Railway, 94 U. S.164, it was held that, under the constitution of 'Wisconsin providing that all acts creating corporations within the State "may be altered or r~pealed by the
legislature at any time after their passage," the legislature
had a right to prescribe a maximum of charges to be made
by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company for
transporting persons or property within the State, or taken
up outside the State and brought within it, or taken up inside

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

215

Opinion of the Court.

and carried without. The vital question is not discussed'at
any length, but it was held that, until Congress acted with
reference to the relations of this company-to interstate commerce, it was within the power of the State of Wisconsin to
regulate its affairs so far as they were of a domestic concern.
These three cases were cited with approval in Ruggles v. ilinoi8, 108 U. S. 526, in which the power of a State to limit
the amount of charges by a railroad company for fares and
freight was recognized.
A similar principle, though under quite a different state of
facts, was involved in Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, which
concerned an act of the legislature of Louisiana, requiring
those engaged in the transportation of passengers among the
States to give all persons travelling within that State, upon
vessels employed in such business, equal rights and privileges
in parts of the vessel, without distinction on account of race
or color. The act was held to be a regulation of interstate
commerce, and, therefore, unconstitutional and void. In the
Railroad Commissiom Cases, 116 U. S. 307, it was held that
the right of a State to limit the charges of a railroad company for the transportation of persons or property within its
jurisdiction could not be granted away by its legislature unless by words of positive grant or words equivalent in law;
and that a statute which granted to a railroad company the
right from time to time to fix and regulate the tolls and
charges by them to be received for transportation did not
deprive the State of its power to act upon the reasonableness
of the tolls and charges so fixed and regulated. It was held
that the State might, "beyond all question, by the settled
rule of decision in this court, regulate freights and fares for
business done exclusively within the State, and it would seem
to be a matter of domestic concern' to prevent the company
from discriminating against persons and places in Mississippi."
"Nothing can be done by the government of Mississippi
which will operate as a burden on the interstate business of
the company or impair the usefulness of its facilities for interstate traffic.
. .
The commission is in express terms
prohibited by the act of March 15, 1881, from interfering

216

S'OCTOBER, TERM,, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

with the charges of the company for the transportation of
persons or property through Mississippi from one State to
another. The statute makes no mention of property taken
up without the State and delivered within, nor of such as
may be taken within and carried without." The court studiously avoided committing itself upon the question of the
power of the commission over interstate commerce.
The prior cases were all reviewed, and the subject exhaustively considered in the Thabash &o.Railway v. Illinois, 118
U. S..557, in which there came under review a statute of
Illinois enacting that if ny railroad company should, '0ithin
that State, charge or receive for transporting passengers or
freight of the same class the same or a greater sum for any
distance than it does for a longer distance, it should be liable
to a penalty for unjust discrimination. The defendant in that
.ase made such discrimination in regard to goods transported
over the same road or roads, from Peoria, Illinois, and from
Gilman, in Illinois, to New York; charging more for the
same class of goods carried from Gilman than from Peoria,
the former being eighty-six miles nearer the city of New York
than the latter, this difference being in the length of line in
the State of Illinois. The court held that such transportation
*was commerce among the States, even as to that part of the
voyage which lay within the State of Illinois, and that the
regulation -of such commerce was confided to Congress exclusively, under- its power to regulate commerce between the
States, and that the statute in question, being intended to
regulate the transmission of persons or property from one
State to another, was not within that class of legislation
which the States may enact in the absence of legislation by.
Congress. In delivering the opinion of the court Mr. Justice
Miller cited the prior cases, and said that it must be admitted
that, in a general way, the court treated the cases then before
it as belonging to that class of regulations of commerce,
which, like pilotage, bridging navigable rivers, and many
others, could be acted upon by the States in the absence of
any legislation by Congress upon the same subject. He further observed' that "the great question to be decided, and

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

.217

Opinion of the Court.

which was decided, and which was argued in all those cases,
was the right of the State in which the railroad company did
business to regulate or limit the amount of any of these traffic
charges. The importance of that question overshadowed all
others; and the case of .ffunn v. 1llinois was selected by
the court as the most appropriate one in which to give its '
opinion on that subject, because that case presented the question of a private citizen, or unincorporated partnership, enfree
.
.
gaged in the warehouse business in Chicago,
from the question of continuous transportation through the
several States, .
.
and the question t~ow far a charge
made for a continuous transportation over several States,
which included a State whose laws were in question, may be
divided into separate charges for each State, in enforcing .the
power of the States to regulate the fares of its railroads, was
evidently not fully considered." The substance of the opinion
was that, if the prior cases were to be considered as laying
down the principle that the States might regulate the charges
for interstate traffic; they must be condidered as overruled.
See also Bowman v. Chicago &c. Railway, 125 U. S.465. In
none of the subsequent cases has any disposition been shown
to limit or qualify the doctrine laid down in the Wabash case,
and to that doctrine we still adhere.
The real question involved here is whether this case can be
distinguished from the Mabash case. That involved the right
of a single State to fix the charge for transportation from the
interior of such State to places in other States. This case
involves the right of one State to fix charges for the transportatibn of persons and property over a bridge connecting it
with another State, without the assent of Congress or such
other State, and thus involving the further inquiries, first,
whether such, traffic across tbe river is interstate commerce;
and, second, whether a bridge can be considered an instrument
of such commerce.
Thefirst question must be answered in the affirmative upon
the authority of Gloucester Feri-y Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196, in which the State of Pennsylvania attempted to
tax the capital stock of a corporation whose entire business

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

consisted in ferrying passengers and freight over the river
Delaware between Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania, and Gloucester, in New Jersey. This traffic was held to be interstate
commerce, and, inasmuch as it appeared that the ferry boats
were registered in New Jersey and were taxable there, it was
held that there-was no property held by the company which
could be the subject of taxation in Pennsylvania, except the
lease of a wharf in that State. "Congress alone," said the
court, (page 204,)," therefore, can deal with such transportation; its non-action is a declaration that it shall remain free
from burdens imposed by state legislation. Otherwise, there
would be no protection against conflicting regulations of different States, each legislating in favor of its own citizens and
products and against those of other States." If, as was intimated. in that case, interstate commerce means simply conimerce betwe6n the States, it must apply to all commerce which
crosses the state line, regardless of the distance from which it
comes or to which it is bound, beforeor after crossing such
state line - in other words, if it be, commerce to send goods
from Cincinnati, in Ohio, to Lexingtbn, in. Kentucky, iv is
equally such to send goods or to travel in person from Cincinnati to Covington; and while, the reasons which influenced
this court to hold in the Wabash oase-that Illinois could not fix
rates between Peoria.and New York may not impress the
mind-so strongly when Applied- to fixing the'rates of toll upon
a bridge or ferry, the principle is identically the same, and, at
least in the absence of mutual or reciprocal legislation between
the two States, it, is impossible for either to fix a tariff of
charges.
With reference to the second question, an attempt is made
to distinguish a bridge from a ferry boat, and to argue that
while the latter is an instrument of interstate commerce, the
former is not. Both are, however, vehicles of such commerce,
and the fact that one is movable and the other is a fixture
makes no difference in the application of the rule. Commerce.
was defined in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189, to be "intereourse," and the thousands of people who daily pass and
repass over this bridge may be as truly said to be engaged in

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO.

. KIENTUCKY.

219

Opinion of the Court.

commerce as if they were shipping cargoes of merchandise
from New York to Liverpool. While the bridge company is
not itself a common carrier, it affords a highway for such
carriage, and a toll upon such bridge is as much a tax upon
commerce as a toll upon a turnpike is, a tax upon the traffic
of such turnpike, or the charges upon a ferry a tax upon the
commerce across a river. A tax laid upon those who do the
business of common carriers upon a certain bridge is as much
a tax upon the commerce of that bridge as if the owner of
the bridge were himself a common carrier.
Let us examine some of the cases which are supposed to
countenance the doctrine that ferries and bridges connecting
two States are not instruments of commerce between such
States in such sense as to exempt them from state control.
In Conway v. Taylor's Executors, 1 Black, 603, a ferry franchise on the Ohio was held to be grantable under the laws of
Kentucky to a citizen of that State who was a riparian owner
on the Kentucky side. It was said not to be necessary to the
validity of the grant that the grantee should have the right
of landing on the other side or beyond the jurisdiction of the
State. The opinion, however, did not pass upon the question
of the right of one State to regulate the charge for ferriage,
nor does it follow that because a State may authorize a ferry
or oridge from its own territory to that of another State, it
may regulate the charges upon such bridge or ferry: A State
may undoubtedly create corporation§ for the purpose of building and running steamships to foreign ports, but it would
hardly be claimed that an attempt to fix a scale of charges
for the transportation of persons or property to and from such
foreign ports would not be a regulation of commerce and beyond the constitutional power of the State, It is true the
States have assumed the right in a number of instances, since
the adoption of the Constitution, to fix the rates or tolls upon
interstate ferries and bridges, and perhaps in some instances
have been recognized as having the authority to do so by the
courts of the several States. But we are not aware of any
case in this court where such right has been recognized. Of,
recent years it has been the custom to obtain the consent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress for the construction of bridges over navigable waters,
and by the seventh section of the act of September 19, 1890,
c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 45-, it is made unlawful to begin the construction of any bridge over navigable waters, until the location and plan of such bridge have been approved, by the
Secretary of War, who has also been in frequent instances
authorized to regulate the tolls upon such bridges, where they
connected two States. So, too, in Wiggins Ferry Company
v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S.365, it was held that a State had
the power to impose a license fee, either diredtly or through
one of its municipal corporations, upon ferry-keepers living in
the State, for boats which they owned and used in conveying
from a landing in the State passengers and goods across a navigable river to another State. It was said that "the levying
of a tax upon vessels or other water-craft, or the exaction of a
license fee by the State within which the property subject to
the exaction has its situs, is not a regulation of commerce
within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States."
Obviously the case does "not touch the question here involved.
Upon the other hand, however, it was held in Moran v. New
Orleans, 112 U. S. 69, that a municipal ordinance of New
Orleans imposing i license tax upon persons owning and running tow boats to and from the Gulf of Mexico was void as a
regulation of commerce.
It is clear that the State of Kentucky, by the statute in
question, attempts to reach out and secure for itself a right
to prescribe a rate of toll applicable not only to persons crossing from Kentucky to Ohio, but from Ohio to Kentucky, a
right which practically nullifies the corresponding right of
Ohio to fix tolls from her own State. It is obvious that the
bridge could not have been built without the consent of Ohio,
since the north end of the bridge and its abutments rest upon
Ohio soil;. and without authority from that State to exercise
the right of eminent domain, no land could have been acquired
for that purpose. It follows that, if the State of Kentucky
has the right to regulate the travel upon such bridge and fix the
tolls, the State of Ohio has the same right, and so long as
their action is harmonious there may be no room for friction

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CO. v. KENTUCKY.

221

Opinion of the Court.

between the States; but it would scarcely be consonant with
good sense to say that separate regulations and separate tariffs
may be adopted by each State, (if the subject be one for state
regulation,) and made applicable to that portion of the bridge
within its own territory. So far as the matter of construction
is concerned, each State may proceed separately by authorizing the company to condemn land within its own, territory,
but in the operation of the bridge their action must be joint or
great confusion is likely to result. It may be for the interest
of Kentucky to add to its own population by encouraging
residents of Cincinnati to purchase homes in Covington, and
to do this by fixing the tolls at such a rate as to induce citizens of Ohio to reside within her borders. It might be equally
for the interest of Ohio to prescribe a higher rate of toll to
induce her citizens to remain and fix their homes within their
own State, and as persons living in one State and doing
business in another would necessarily have to cross the bridge
at least twice a day, the rates of toll might become a serious question to them. Congress, and Congress alone, possesses
the requisite power to harmonize such differences, and to enact
a uniform scale of charges which will be operative in both
directions. The authority of the State, so frequently recognized by this court, to fix tolls for the use of wharves, piers,
elevators, and improved channels of navigation, has always
been limited to such as were exclusively within the territory
of a single State, thus affecting interstate commerce but incidentally, and cannot be extended to structures connecting
two States without involvhig a liability of controversies of a
serious nature. For instance, suppose the agent of the Bridge
Company in Cincinnati should refuse to recognize tickets sold
upon the Kentucky side, enabling the person holding the
ti6ket to pass from Ohio to Kentucky, it would be a mere
brutum fulmen to attempt to punish such agent under the
laws of Kentucky. Or, suppose the State of Ohio should
authorize such agent to refuse a passage to persons coming
from Kentucky who had not paid the toll required by the
Ohio statute; or that Kentucky should enact that all persons
crossing from Kentucky to Ohio should be entitled to a free

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion, of the Court.

passage, and thus attempt to throw the whole burden upon
persons crossing in the opposite direction. It might be an
advantage to one State to make the charge for foot passengers very low and the charge for merchandise very high; and
for the other side to adopt a converse system. One scale of
charges might be advantageous to Kentucky in this instance, where the larger city is upon -the north side of
the river, while a wholly different system might be to her
advantage at Louisville, where the larger city is upon the
south side.
We do not wish to be understood as saying that, in the
absence of Congressional legislation or mutual legislation of
the two States, the company has the right to fix tolls at its
own discretion. There is always an implied understanding
with reference to these structures that the charges shall be
reasonable, and the question of reasonableness must be settled
as other questions .of a judicial nature are settled, by the evidence in the particular case. As was said in Gloucester Ferry
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.196, 217, "freedom from such
impositions does not of course imply exemption from reasonable charges, as compensation for the carriage of persons, in
the way of tolls or fares, or from the ordinary taxation to
which other property is subjected, any more than like freedom of transportation on land implies such exemption. Reasonable charges for the use of property, either on water
or land, are not an interference with the freedom of. transportation between the States secured under the commercial
power of Congress." Nor are we to be understood as passing upon the questi6n whether, in the absence of legislation
by Congress, the States may by reciprocal action fix upon
a tariff which shall be operative upon both sides of the river.
We do hold, however, that the statute of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in question in this case is an attempted
regulation of commerce which it is not within the power of
the State to make. As was said by Mr. Justice Miller in the
Wahash case: "It is impossible to see any distinction in its
effects upon cOmmerce of either class between a statute which
regulates the charges for transportation and a statute which

COVINGTON &c. BRIDGE CQ. v. KENTUCKY.

223

Concurring Opinion.

levies a tax for the benefit of the State upon the same transportation."
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Jentucky is
therefore ,reversed,and the case 'remandedto that courtfo
further proceedings in confornmity with this opinion.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

and MIR.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD,

AIR. JUSTICE

WmiTE concurred in the judgment of
reversal, for the following reasons:
The several States have the power to establish and regulate
ferries and bridges, and the rates of toll thereon, whether
within one State, or between two adjoining States, subject
to the paramount authority of Congress over interstate
commerce.
By the concurrent acts of the legislature of Kentucky in
1846, and of the legislature of Ohio in 1849, this bridge company was made a corporation of each State, and authorized to
fix rates of toll.
Congress, by the act of February 17, 1865, c. 39, declared
this bridge "to be, when completed in accordance with the
laws of the States of Ohio and Kentucky, a lawful structure;"
but made no provision as to tolls; and thereby manifested
the intention of Congress that the rates of toll should be as
established by the two States. 13 Stat. 431.
The original acts of incorporation constituted a contract
between the corporation and both States, which could not be
altered by the one State without the consent of the other.
GRAY,

JUSTICE

