MISSOURI RAILWAY CO. v. MACKEY.
Syllabus.

the right to,prescribe on what terms the receiver should do
his railroad business between Pekin and Peoria and in the
latter city, stated that if the receiver would not accept the
terms he could not be permitted to have the use of the property of the Peoria and Pekin Union Company." The judge,
while he recognized the right of the petitioner, as owner of
the property, to exclude the defendant from its use, if the. defendant would not accept the petitioner's terms, in no way intimated that upon the facts of the case the defendant could be
held to have accepted those terms.
There is no evidence tending to show that the sum paid by
the defendant is not all that its use of the property was fairly
worth. The rent which each of the four companies, who
owned all the stock of the petitioner company, agreed by express contract to pay that company, affords no test of what
is a reasonable rent as between the petitioner and a stranger,
like this defendant, who had no interest in its stock and was
no party to that contract. As observed in the opinion of the
Circuit Court, "The Peoria and Pekin Union Company was
really owned by the other companies which made the agreement with it, and consequently they were substantially owners
of the property of the Peoria and Pekin Company. It was
substantially a contract, therefore, made by one party with
itself, which it was insisted should be the test of payment by
the receiver."
Decree acfljmed.

M1ISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MACKEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME couR OF THE STATE OF KANsAs.
Nto. 218. Argued April 12, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

The statute of Kansas of 1874, c.93, ยง 1, p. 143, Comp. Laws Kansas, 1881,
p. 784, which provides that "1Everyrailroad company organized or doing
business in this State shall be liable for all damages done to any employ6
of such company in consequence of any negligence of its agents, or by
any mismanagement of its engineers, or other employ~s, to any person

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
sustaining such damage," does not deprive a railroad company of its
property without due process of law; and does not deny to it the equal
protection of the laws; and is not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in either of these respects.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
In 1882, the defendant below, the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company, a corporation created under the laws of Kansas,
operated lines of railway in the latter State. It also had control of two track-yards adjacent to the city of Atchison, designated respectively as the upper and lower yard, and it used
two switch-engines in moving cars from one yard to the other.
On the 11th of February of that year the plaintiff was in the
service of the company as a fireman on one of these engines
employed in transferring cars from one point to another in
the upper yard, when it was run into by the 'other engine,
owing to the negligence of the engineer of the latter. By the
collision the right foot and leg of the plaintiff were so crushed
as to necessitate amputation. For the damages thus sustained
the present action was brought in a district court of the State.
On the trial the defendant requested the court to instruct the
jury, that if they found from the evidence that the plaintiff
was injured through the carelessness of a fellow-servant he
could not recover; which instruction was refused, and the
defendant excepted. The court charged the jury as follows:
"At the common law a master or employe could not be
held liable for an injury sustained by one servant by reason of
the mere negligence of a fellow-servant engaged in the same
common employment, the negligence of the fellow-servant
not being deemed in such case the negligence of the master,
and such was the law of this State up to 1874; but at that
time this rule of the common law was abrogated,-so far as it
related to railroad companies and their employes in this State,
by a statute which reads as follows:
"' Every railroad company organized or doing business in
this State shall be liable for all damages done to any employ6
of such company in consequence of any negligence of its
agents, or by any mismanagement of its engineers or other
employes to any person sustaining such damage.'

MISSOURI RAILWAY CO. o. MACKEY.
Opinion of the Court.

"This enactment so far modifies and changes the common
law that a servant or employ6 of a railroad company may
maintain an action against such railroad company for an
injury received while in the line of his employment through
the negligence of a fellow-servant or employs engaged with
him in the same common work of the master or employer,
unless such injured servant or employs has himself been guilty
of negligence or want of ordinary care which has directly
contributed to produce the injury complained of."
To this charge the defendant excepted. The jury found a
verdict for the plaintiff for $12,000, upon which judgment
was entered. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
the judgment was affirmed; and to review the latter judgment the case is brought here.
. . John -F. Dilon, with whom was Atr. Winslow S.
Pie-ce, Tr., on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
.Afr. T/frn P. Fenlon, for defendant in error.
C. Tomlinson was with him on the brief.

fr'. John

MR. JUSTiCE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
At the trial, and in the Supreme Court of the State, it was
contended by the defendant, and the contention is renewed
here, that the law of Kansas of 1874 is in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it deprives the company of its property without due process of law, and denies to it the equal protection
of the laws.
In support of the first position the company calls the attention of the court to the rule of law exempting from liability
an employer for injuries to employ~s caused by the negligence
or incompetency of a fellow-servant, which prevailed in Kansas and in several other States previous to the act of 1874,
unless he had employed such negligent or incompetent servant
without reasonable inquiry as to his qualifications, or had
retained him after knowledge of his negligence or incompe-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

tency. The rule of law is conceded where the person injured,
and the one by whose negligence or incompetency the injury
is caused, are fellow-servants in the same common employment, and acting under the same immediate direction. .Chicago and Xfilwaukee Railway v. Ross, 112 U. S. 37, 389.
Assuming that this rule would apply to the case presented
but for the law of Kansas of 1874, the contention of the
company, as we understand it, is that that law imposes upon
railroad companies a liability not previously existing, in the
enforcement of which their property may be taken; and thus
authorizes, in such cases, the taking of property without due
process of law, in violation of the 14th Amendment. The
plain answer to this contention is, that the liability imposed
by the law of 18'74 arises only for injuries subsequently committed; it has no application to past injuries, and it cannot be
successfully contended that the State may not prescribe the
liabilities under which corporations created by its laws shall
conduct their business in the future, where no limitation is
placed upon its power in this respect by their charters.* Legislation to this effect is found in the statute books of every
State. The hardship or injustice of the law of Kansas of
1874, if there be any, must be relieved by legislative enactment. The only question for our examination, as the law of
1874 is presented to us in this case, is whether it is in conflict
with clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The supposed
hardship and injustice consist in imputing liability to the company, where no personal wrong or negligence is chargeable
to it or to its directors. But the same hardship and injustice,
if there be any, exist when the company, without any wrong
or negligence on its part, is charged for injuries to passengers.
Whatever care and precaution may be taken in conducting
its business or in selecting its servants, if injury happen to the
passengers from the negligence or incompetency of the servants, responsibility therefor at once attaches to it. The
utmost care on its part will not relieve it from liability, if the
passenger injured be himself free from contributory negligence. The law of 1874 extends this doctrine and fixes a
like liability upon railroad companies, where injuries are sub-

MISSOURI RAILWAY CO. v. MACKEY.
Opinion of the Court.

sequently suffered by employ~s, though it may be by the
negligence or incompetency of a fellow-servant in the same
general employment and acting under the same immediate
direction. That its passage was within the competency of
the legislature we have no doubt.
The objection that the law of 1874 deprives the railroad
companies of the equal protection of the laws is even less
tenable than the one considered. It seems to rest upon the
theory that legislation which is special in its character is
necessarily within the constitutional inhibition; but nothing
can be farther from the fact. The greater part of all legislation is special, either in the objects sought to be attained by it,
or in the extent of its application. Laws for the improvement
of municipalities, the opening and widening of particular
streets, the introduction of water and gas, and other arrangements for the safety and convenience of their inhabitants,
and laws for the irrigation and drainage of particular lands,
for the construction of levees and the bridging of navigablerivers, are instances of this kind. Such legislation does not
infringe upon the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requiring equal protection of the laws, because it is special in its
character; if in conflict at all with that clause, it must be
on other grounds. And when legislation applies to particular
bodies or associations, imposing upon them additional liabilities, it is not open to the objection that it denies to them the
equal protection of the laws, if all persons brought under its
influence are treated alike under the same conditions. A law
giving to mechanics a lien on buildings constructed or repaired
by them, for the amount of their work, and a law requiring
railroad corporations to erect and maintain fences along their
roads, separating them from land of adjoining proprietors so as
to keep cattle off their tracks, are instances of this kind. Such
legislation is not obnoxious to the last clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, if all persons subject to it are treated alike
under similar circumstances and conditions in respect both of
the privileges conferred and the liabilities imposed. It is conceded that corporations are persons within the meaning of the
amendment. Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific PailVOL. cxxvJ-14

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

road Conpany, 118 U. S. 394; Pembina Consolidated Silver
.Xining and iiling Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 IT. S. 187. But
the hazardous character of the business of operating a railway
would seem to call for special legislation with respect to railroad corporations, having for its object the protection of their
employes as well as the safety of the public. The business of
other corporations is not subject to similar dangers to their
employes, and no objections, therefore, can be made to the
legislation on the ground of its making an unjust discrimination. It meets a particular necessity, and all railroad corporations axe, without distinction, made subject to the same
liabilities. As said by the court below, it is simply a question
of legislative discretion whether the same liabilities shall be
applied to carriers by canal and stage coaches and to persons
and corporations using steam in manufactories. See 2Lissouri
Pacific Railway Co. v. Hfumes, 115 U. S. 512, 523; Barbier
v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon fing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
-703.
Judgment affirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. HERRICK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MIINESOTA.
Wo. 202. Argued April 2, 3,1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

This case is affirmed on the authority of Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v.
Mackey, ante, 205.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C.K. Davis for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. -Edward THill for defendant in error.
Mm.

JusTICEF FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant is a corporation created under the laws of
:Minnesota, and in December, 1881, it operated a railroad ex-

