IN

RE BURDETT.
Syllabus.

before he had made this arrangement, and to enforce it would
prejudice them. That motion was heard in this court long
enough to have settled a common case. The court said to
these parties, if each of you will enter into bonds to pay all
costs from this time forward to be adjudged against you, or
the appellee, you shall be permitted to intervene and be heard.
They were heard and they made all the defence that was
made against Craig's claim. In October last, this court decided the case in favor of Craig, and against Leitensdorfer's
representatives. The costs were taxed by the clerk, and these
parties have neglected to pay them. We are of opinion that
they must pay them, and we are of opinion that this court has
power, and it is its duty, to enforce the payment without
remitting the payees in these bonds to another suit in some
other court. We, therefore, make an order that an attachment issue against Mrs. King and her sureties, and Mr. Allen
and his sureties, to compel payment of the amount of the taxed
costs, unless they do pay it before the last day of this term.
This is a new question, and a more elaborate opinion may
be submitted before the end of the term, but this order is
made now because the parties ought to have an opportunity
to pay, and we make the order now that they pay the costs,
and that a writ of attachment issue if they do not pay before
the end of this term.
It is proper to observe that if the money is not paid the
writ of attachment will be returnable to the next term of the
court.

IN RE BURhDETT.
OEIGI A-L.
Submitted April 9, 1888.-

Decided April 16, 1888.

When the amount in controversy in a case decided in the Circuit Court is
too small to come here by writ of error, this court is without power by
writ of mandamus to compel the judge of the Circuit Court to reverse
his own judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus, and for a rule to show cause why it should not
issue. The petition set forth that the petitioner on the 20th
March, 1887, in ignorance of the act of March 3d, 1887, increasing the limit of jurisdiction of Circuit Courts to $2000,
commenced an action in replevin to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan for the
recovery of goods and property of the value of $653.38; that
the defendants appeared and pleaded the general issue; that
the cause was placed upon the trial docket and was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction; "that afterwards, and on or about
the 9th day of January, A.D. 1888, the said defendants caused
to be brought on to be heard before said court a motion for
an order for a return of the property seized under the writ of
replevin in said cause, and that the said court thereupon,
against the objection of the said plaintiffs, that said court had
already dismissed said cause for want of jurisdiction, and consequently had no authority to make and enter such an order,
made and entered in said court and cause, an order requiring
the said plaintiffs to return to the said defendants the property seized under the writ of replevin in said cause, and the
defendants having thereupon waived a return of said property,
said court thereupon ordered that the damages for the value
of said property, irrespective of the plaintiffs' right, title, interest or ownership therein, be assessed by a jury of said court;
that afterwards, and on or about the 17th day of January,
A.D. 1888, the said plaintiffs moved the said court to set aside
and vacate the order entered in said cause on said 9th day of
January," "and that the said court thereupon entered an
order denying.said motion."
The prayer of the petition which the petitioner asked leave
to file was, "that the people's writ of mandamus may be
issued out of said court, directed to the judges of the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Michigan, directing and requiring them to set aside and vacate the
said order of January 9th, 1888, ordering a return of said
property, and an assessment of the value thereof in case of
default, and that the people's writ of prohibition may be

SEAGRIST v. CRABTREE.
Argument for the Motion.

issued out of said court, directed to the said Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, restraining and prohibiting the said court from further proceeding in
said cause."
.Mr. Lezvi T. Griffln for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER: A petition on the part of H. S. Burdett and others, asking for a mandamus against the Judge of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan, has been presented to us. The case arises out of
an action of replevin in which the Circuit Court decided that
it had no jurisdiction. A proceeding was then had to get
damages for the taking of the goods in replevin, which the
court entertained and rendered judgment for the damages.
The amount in controversy is too small to come to this court
by writ of error, and we are asked by the writ of mandamus
to direct the judge of that court to set aside the judgment
which he rendered. Whether there was error in that matter
or not, we do not think that we have any power by writ of
mandamus to compel the judge of that court to reverse his
own judgment.

SEAGRIST v. CRABTREE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MIEXICO.
No. 386. Submitted April 9, 1888.-

Decided April 16, 188.

It is not sufficient cause for dismissing a writ of error that the citation was
served and made returnable less than thirty days after the writ was
granted.

MOTION TO DISMISS "because the citation was not served in

time."
-Mr. J. G. Zaehry for the motion: The citation in this case
was made returnable on the second Monday in October, 1885.

