FARMERS' LOAN &c.

CO. v. NEWMVAN.

Syllabus.

that this exemption of interstate and foreign commerce from
state regulation does not prevent the State from taxing the
property of those engaged in such commerce located within
the State as the property of other citizens is taxed, nor. from
regulating matters of local concern which may incidentally
affect commerce, such as wharfage, pilotage, and the like.
We have recently had before us the question of taxing the
property of a telegraph company, in the case of Vestern Union
Telegraph Co. v. Xassachusetts, 125 Uf. S. 530.

The result of the conclusion which we have reached is, that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama must be
Reversed, and the cause remandedwith instructionsto reverse
the judgment of the fobile Cirouit Court; and it is so
ordered.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v.

NEWV[AN.
APPEAL FROM THE

RCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MSSO'URI.
No. 253.

Argued April 25, 26,188S. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

The receiver in a suit for the foreclosure of a railroad mortgage, being
directed by the court to settle and adjust outstanding claims prior to the
mortgage debt, and to purchase in outstanding adverse liens or titles,
agreed with the holder of a debt, which constituted a paramount lien on
a portion of the railroad, for the purchase of his lien and the payment
of his debt out of any money coming into the receiver's hands from the
part of the railroad covered by the lien, or from the sale of the receiver's
certificates, or from the earnings of that portion of the road, or from
the sale of it under the decree of the court; and this agreement was carried out on the part of the vendor. When it was made, a decree for a
sale had already been made in the foreclosure suit; and afterwards the
road was sold as an entirety, with nothing to show the price paid for
the portion covered by the lien, and payment was made in mortgage
bonds without any money passing. The vendor of the prior lien then
intervened in the suit, asking the court to enforce his agreement with
the receiver. Subsequently the court confirmed the sale, reserving to
itself the power to make further orders respecting claims, rights, or
interests in or liens on the property. At a subsequent term of court the

OCTOBER TERM, " 1887.
Statement of the Case.
court found that there was justly due the intervenor the sum claimed,
and ordered the sale set aside unless the claim should be paid within
ninety days. Held, that the intervenor was entitled to the protection of
the court, but that the proper remedy was not the annulling of the sale,
and tonfirmation, and master's deed, if the court had the power to do it,
but an order for a resale of the entire property in satisfaction of the
claim of the intervenor.

Tim case as stated by the court was as follows:
This is an appeal from a final order setting aside a sale,

made under a decree of foreclosure, of certain mortgaged railroad property, as well as the confirmation thereof, and requiring the receiver, appointed in the foreclosure proceedings,
to regain possession of the property, unless the purchaser, before the expiration of a named period, paid a claim of the
present appellee, for $17,750, with interest thereon at the rate
of six per cent per annum from November 30, 1880.
The origin of that claim, and the circumstances under which
it was asserted in this suit, are as follows:
The Lexington, Lake and Gulf :Railroad Company was a
Missouri corporation, with power to construct and operate a
road from Lexington to the southern boundary line of that
State. Having constructed the road-bed from Lexington to
Butler, in Bates County, and procured ties sufficient for its
line as far south as Pleasant Hill, and having also done some
dredging, and being indebted to contractors for such work and
materials - its liability therefor being evidenced by two notes,
one held by .lunroe & Co. for $10,682.'4, and the other by
Lawrence Dean for $2000, each dated October 12, 1871, and
bearing interest at ten per cent per annum from date - the
company, January 16, 1872, conveyed its road, together with
all its rights, privileges, and franchises, including its depotgrounds and other property, acquired and to be acquired, to
Moses Chapman, in trust to secure the payment of said notes,
and with authority in the trustee, upon default in paying the
notes, principal and interest, on or before March 1, 1872, to
sell the mortgaged property, at public auction, upon thirty
days' notice of sale, for cash, and convey the same to the purchaser.

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. NEWMAN.
Statement of the Case.

On the 7th of February, 1872, the company leased its road
and property (with the right to mortgage the same) to the
Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company - for and
in behalf of its Linneus Branch -a corporation created.under
the laws of Missouri and Iowa, and whose road in Missouri
was to extend from the Iowa line to Unionville, with a branch
by way of Linueus to Lexington, thence to Kansas City and
southwestern Missouri. The lease provided, among other
things, that the property leased and said Linneus Branch
should be represented by one common stock, and, to all intents and purposes, constitute one line of road, and one common property, to be known as the Linneus Branch of the
Burlington and Southwestern Railway. The lessor company
in the lease covenanted, among other things, that the leased
premises were free from all liens, incumbrances, and debts,
"Cexcept about the sum of $15,000 due contractors thereon."
On the 1st of April, 1872, the Burlington and Southwestern
Railway Company placed a deed of trust upon its entire Linneus Branch and appurtenances, including the leased premises,
extending from the main line of the mortgagor company at
or near Unionville, by the way of Linneus and Lexington to
Kansas City, and by the line of the leased premises from Lexington to Butler, to secure its bonds amounting to $1,600,000.
Upon default in meeting the.principal and interest of those
bonds, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, trustee in the
last-named deed, instituted in the court below a suit for foreclosure and sale. A final decree of foreclosure and sale was
passed May 19, 1876, but, for some reason, it was not immediately executed.
On the 20th of February, 1877, Chapman, trustee in the
deed of January 16, 1872, sold the mortgaged premises at
public auction, after the required notice, to satisfy the debts
secured by that deed, afid Henry L. Newman, holding the
note given to Munroe & Co., as trustee for the benefit of himself and one Waddell, became the purchaser. Chapman conveyed to Newman, as trustee, the deed being acknowledged
August 22, 1877, and filed for record August 5, 1878.
On the 24th of December, 1879, Elijah Smith, receiver in

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

the foreclosure suit, and also a holder of a large amount of
bonds secured by the $1,600,000 mortgage, filed his petition
in the foreclosure suit, -alleging that Newman and others
claimed to own that part of the mortgaged premises consisting of the graded road-bed between Lexington and Butler,
and asking that they be enjoined from attempting to interfere
with said premises or any part thereof. An injunction was
granted, and negotiations then pending between Newman and
others for the sale of what he had purchased were thereby
broken off.
On the 10th of January, 1880, the receiver, Smith, represented, by petition filed in the foreclosure suit, that a portion
of the property in his custody is a line of railroad, partly constructed, "extending from Lexington, in La Fayette County,
Missouri, to the town of Butler, in the county of Bates, being
a portion of the property acquired by contract with the Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company;" that it was
graded and bridged, nearly that entire distance -82 miles;
that the work was done some years ago, and was depreciating
in value; that said portion of road, if completed, would be of
great value to the parties in interest, and it was important to
complete it "at once, and before the sale and confirmation
under the decree in this case can be had;" that "said railroad
and bridges are rapidly, going to decay, and the field is threatened to be occupied by a rival line, which would destroy the
value of said property," and that said road should at once be
ironed and equipped for traffic, in order to protect, preserve,
and save said property to the parties in interest. He asked
authority to borrow $300,000, upon receiver's certificates, and
that the indebtedness so created "be a lien upon said portion
of said road before described only," and "prior to all other
liens thereon, but said indebtedness to constitute no claim
against any other property in the keceiver's hands lior any
other fund except that pertaining thereto, to wit, said part of
said railroad lying south of Lexington, and such additions
thereto and property as may be made or acquired by said
fund so borrowed." By a subsequent petition he informed
the court that it would require $500,000 to do this work, and

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. NEWMAN.
Statement of the Case.

stated other reasons why he should be permitted to build and
equip the line south of Lexington for traffic. He also represented that $600,000 had been expended upon that part.
The application was granted after notice to the bondholders
under the $1,600,000 mortgage, and with their consent. The
order authorizing the receiver to borrow $500,000 in certificates or debentures was made on March 3, 1880, and contained
these provisions:
"And it is further ordered,. adjudged and decreed that such
certificates or debentures shall be and they are hereby adjudged to be a lien for the princil5al and interest thereof prior
to all other liens or claims whatsoever upon that portion of
said defendant's railroad before mentioned, with all of the
property and appurtenances thereto belonging, to wit :
but upon no other property or funds in the possession of said
receiver.
"And the said receiver is further authorized and directed to
settle and adjust, by payment or otherwise, any outstanding
claims against the Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company which may seem to be prior in right to the claims of the
Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company under the
contract before mentioned, and to purchase in any outstanding
or adverse lien or title to any portion or all of said property
upon such terms as he may deem for the interest of the parties
concerned, any right or title so acquired to be conveyed to
him as receiver for the benefit of the parties in interest
herein."
It is proper here to state that the certificates authorized by
this order were not issued. But a few days after the order
was made, namely, on March 12, 1880, Smith, "as receiver of
the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company, acting
under authority of the Circuit Court of the United States,"
entered into a written agreement with Newman, representing
himself and Waddell, in which it was stipulated, among other
things: 1. I'hat Newman should by quitclaim deed, properly
acknowledged and executed within twenty days, and placed
in the hands of J. W. Noble in escrow, convey all the right,
title, and interest then held by or vested in him "in and to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case,

railroad and property, appurtenances and franchises of what
was formerly known as the Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company, extending southwardly from the Missouri
River, at Lexington, Missouri, by the way of Pleasant Hill,
to a point south of Butler;" such conveyance to include all
the rights and interest acquired by Newman and Waddell
under the trust deed to Chapman, of January 16, 1872, and
the sale made under it on the 20th of February, 1877. 2. That
said receiver be substituted to all claims of every kind held by
Newman and Waddell against the Lexington, Lake and Gulf
Railroad Company. This agreement contained the following
provisions:
"And in consideration of the premises, said party of the
first part, as receiver, agrees to pay said Newman, out of the
moneys coming into his hands from that part of said railroad
hereinbefore mentioned, or from the sale of receiver's certificates lately authorized by said court to be issued by said receiver, or from any earnings from that portion of said road,
or arising from the sale thereof under the decree of said court,
and within nine months from the eighteenth day of December,
1879, the sum of seventeen thousand seven hundred and fifty
dollars, it being recognized and admitted in this settlement
that the claim of said Newman to the above amount is a first
and prior lien upon said portion of said railroad, paramount to
the mortgage to said Farmers' Loan and Trust Company; but
this agreement is not to bind the receiver in referenco to *any
other property or money coming into his hands, except from
or pertaining to that part of the property aforesaid acquired
from the Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company.
"And it is further mutually agreed by and between the parties hereto that time is of the essence of this contract, and
that in case said second party shall fail to comply on his part
with the stipulations hereof said first party may have the right
to have the same enforced specifically by the court in which said
cause is pending or, at his option, declare this agreement absolutely null and void; and if said first party shall fail within said
nine months from December 18th, 1879, to pay said $17,750.00

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. NEWMAN.
Statement of the Case.

said second party may apply to said court for the enforcement
thereof, or, at his option, he may abrogate or abandon the
same absolutely, and his rights in that event shall be the same
as if this contract had not been made.
"1And it is distinctly understood that this agreement is made
by said receiver under an order of said court, and refers to no
other than said property before mentioned, and is to be paid
out of no funds except such as arise from said portion of said
road, and is to constitute no personal or individual claim against
said Elijah Smith.
"It is further understood and agreed that when said quitclaim deed shall be delivered in escrow to said Noble that the
note mentioned and described in the said trust deed to XMoses
Chapman, under which said Newman's claim arises, shall be
delivered to said Noble also in escrow, and said trust deed
shall also be delivered to him if in possession of parties, if not,
as soon as practicable; and on the compliance of the receiver
with his part of this agreement said note and said trust deed
shall be delivered to him, with the said quitclaim deed, as
muniments of his title and as vouchers, said note to be cancelled upon payment of said $17,750.00."
So far as the record discloses, all the stipulations in this
agreement, relating to Newman and Waddell, were complied
with by them. The required quitclaim deed was executed,
and the same, together with said notes and trust deed, were
placed in the hands of Noble, in escrow, and are now held by
him in that wy.
On the 30th of November, 1880, the Linneus Branch road,
including said property, franchises, rights, and premises of the
Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company was sold, n
gross, by a special master in the foreclosure suit, Elijah Smith,
as trustee for the bondholders, becoming the purchaser at the
price of one million dollars, paid entirely in mortgage bonds
held hy those wh m he represented.
The present suit was commenced by petition of intervention filed in the foreclosure suit, Maxch 7, 1881, by Newman,
as trustee for himself and Waddell. After referring to the
efforts of Smith to have his purchase confirmed, be prays that

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

said contract and agreement be enforced, and that before any
order is made, confirming and approving the sale, the receiver
be required to pay out of the proceeds of sale the sum of
$117,750, with interest at the rate of six per cent per annum,
since September 18, 1880, and for such other and further relief
as may be just and proper. To this petition of intervention
the complainants in the foreclosure suit filed an answer, and
subsequently, July 5, 1881, obtained an order confirming the
sales, approving the deed to Smith as trustee, which the master had previously submitted with his report of sale, and
directing that the property be placed in his possession.
This order, however, contained the following provision:
"But the said deed of conveyance and the delivery of said
property to said grantee shall not be taken to affect any claim,
right, interest in or lien upon or to said property sold and conveyed by said master's deed now pending in this court, or in
any state court by leave of this court, but that said claim,
right, interest, or lien are hereby reserved, subject to further
order and decrees of this court, and the power to make further
orders, decrees, and directions in reference to said property in
this cause is hereby expressly reserved by the court."
On the 9th of December, 1881, an amended answer was
filed by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and Smith, as
receiver. The cause having been heard, a final decree was
rendered whereby it was ordered and adjudged that "there is
justly due the intervenor named the sum of seventeen thousand
seven hundred and fifty dollars, with interest thereon from the
30th day of November, A.D. 1880, at the rate of six per centum
per annum until paid, and that said claim to the amount aforesaid was authorized by this court to be incurred by its receiver
in this cause and was by him so incurred, and was to have
been.provided for and. paid out of the proceeds of sale of that
railroad and property described in the mortgage made to complainants by the defendant, The Burlington and Southwestern
Railway Company, and which was sold on the 30th day of
November, 1880, by order of this court, and the sale whereof
was conditionally confirmed on July 5, 1881; that said claim
not having been paid or provided for, said sale of said railroad

FARMERS' LOAN &c.

CO. v. NEWMAN.

Opinion of the Court.

and property sold as aforesaid, as well as the confirmation
thereof, is hereby set aside and for naught held, and said receiver of this court in this cause is hereby ordered to take exclusive possession of said railroad and property, with any
additions or appurtenances thereto absolutely necessary to
regain his original possession of all said property in all things
the same and with all the powers in him as said receiver heretofore vested, at and upon the expiration of ninety (90) days
from the date of this decree, unless within said last named
period of ninety days the claim of said intervenor in the sum
hereinbefore determined be paid with interest and the costs of
this proceeding to said H. L. Newman, trustee as aforesaid, by
said Elijah Smith, as trustee for bondholders, purchaser at said
sale, and if said claim be paid as aforesaid, then said sale
shall stand and said order of confirmation be final as to said
demand."
From that decree the present appeal is prosecuted.
MTifr. P. Ienry Smyth for appellants.
.A. Tilton Davis and A[Mr. John TF. _Yoble for appellee.
Xr.John 0.Orrick was with them on the brief.
:M. JusIcE ELAniAi,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
From this history of the proceedings in the court below it
satisfactorily appears :
1. That Newman, as trustee, had a lien upon the road south
of Lexington-the same leased by the Lexington, Lake and
Gulf Railway Company to the Burlington and Southwestern
Railway Company for the benefit of the Linneus Branch of
the latter corporation -prior and paramount to that created
by the mortgage for $1,600,000.
2. That after the court passed the decree of foreclosure of
May 19, 1876, the parties deemed it important to their interests that the road south of Lexington be completed for traffic
before any sale took place under that decree, and to that end
the receiver, with their knowledge and consent, obtained leave
VOL. cxxv --42

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to borrow money upon certificates, which should be a lien,
prior to all others, upon that portion of the Burlington and
Southwestern Railway acquired for its Linneus Branch under
the contract of lease with the Lexington, Lake and Gulf Railroad Company of February, 1872, but upon no other property
or funds in the possession of the receiver.
3. That by the same order, the receiver was directed to
settle and adjust, by payment or otherwise, any outstanding
claims against the lessor company which might seem to be
prior in right to the claims of the lessee company under said
contract of lease, and to purchase in any outstanding or
adverse lien or title to any portion or all of the property, upon
such terms as he deemed best for the interests of the parties
concerned, "any rights or title so acquired to be conveyed to
him as receiverfor the benefit of theparties in interest herein;"

the parties here referred to being the holders of bonds under
the mortgage for $1,600,000 and the trustees in that mortgage.
4. That, under the authority of this order, the receiver
made, with Newman as trustee, the agreement of March 12,
1880, whereby the latter agreed to convey to the former, as
receiver, all his right, title and interest in the leased premises,
including any rights acquired under Chapman's sale in virtue
of the trust deed of January 16, 1872, and whereby, also, the
receiver agreed to pay to Newman the sum of $17,750 within
nine months from December 18, 1879, such payment to be
made "out of any money coming into his hands from that
part of said railroad hereinbefore mentioned or from the sale
of receiver's certificates [then] lately authorized by said court
to be issued by said receiver, or from earnings from that portion of said road, or arisingfrom the sale thereof under the

decree of said court;" such agreement "not to bind the

receiver in reference to any other property or money coming
into his hands except from or pertaining to that part of the
property aforesaid acquired from the Lexington, Lake and
Gulf Railroad Company."
It is not disputed that the order authorizing the receiver to
acquire by purchase for the benefit of the parties interested in

FARMERS'

LOAN &c. CO. v. NEWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

the foreclosure suit, any adverse lien upon the property decreed to be sold, was one that the court had power to make;
nor is it claimed that the agreement made with Newman was
beyond the authority conferred upon the receiver by its order.
And it is clear that the agreement gave Newman the right to
be paid out of any proceeds arising from the sale of that part
of the Linneus Branch covered by the deed of trust to Chapman and by the quitclaim to the receiver. But, manifestly,
this agreement, fairly interpreted, imposed upon the receiver
and the parties interested in the foreclosure suit the duty of
obtaining from the court (as might readily have been done)
such modification of the decree of sale, passed in 1876, as
would enable the court and the parties to know how much
was realized from a sale of that part of the road upon which
Newman's prior lien rested. That result could have been
reached only by selling that part separately, or by selling the
mortgage property subject to that lien. Instead of having
the sale made in one or the other of the forms suggested,
Smith,. as agent for the mortgage trustees and bondholders having induced Newman to surrender his claim and title
-bid in the property, "san entirety, including the leased
premises upon which Newman had a paramount lien, for one
million of dollars, payable in nwrtgage bond-s. It is now said
that there are no proceeds or moneys arising from the leased
premises which can be awarded to Newman under his agreement with the receiver. In conformity with that agreement
he deposited with Mr. Noble, not only his quitclaim deed to
the receiver, but the Chapman trust deed and the note secured
by it; and yet, according to the contention of the appellants,
his only remedy is a separate, independent suit, asserting his
prior lien upon the part of the road covered by the Chapman
deed of trust. This result has come from the failure of Smith,
as agent for the mortgage trustees and bondholders, to carry
out in good faith the agreement which he, as receiver, made
with Newman, under the authority of the court, for the benefit of the same parties.
We are of opinion that the sale of the mortgaged property,
as an entirety, without having obtained such modification of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the decree of 1876 as would meet the requirements of the agreement with Newman, should, under the circumstances, be
deemed an election upon the part of the appellants, and those
whom they represent, not to have the mortgaged property sold
in parts, or subject to Newman's prior lien, and, consequently,
Jiot to restrict his lien to that portion of the road embraced b"
the Chapman deed; and, therefore, he was entitled to be first
paid out of the aggregate proceeds of the sale of the entire line
covered by the $1,600,000 mortgage. His right thus to be
paid is not to be defeated by the fact that the mortgage bondholders exercised the privilege given by the decree of sale to
make payment, not in cash, but in mortgage bonds. If they
do not discharge, in money, Newman's prior lien within a reasonable time fixed for that purpose, the property, covered by
that mortgage, including the leased premises, should be again
sold as an entirety, or so much thereof sold as may be necessary, to raise the amount, principal and interest, due him,
together with his costs in the court below, from the time he
filed the petition of intervention.
It may be that the same result practically would be accomplished for Newman by executing the decree from which the
present appeal is prosecuted. But we are of opinion that the
court below erred in setting aside -even if it had the power
to do so -the confirmation of the sale by the special master,
and the order approving the deed made to the purchaser. The
sale was confirmed, the deed to the purchaser approved, and
the latter authorized to take possession, by the order of July
5th, 1881. The reservations in that order did not authorize the
court to set aside the confirmation of the sale and cancel the
deed to the purchaser. The confirmation of the sale and the
approval of the deed were, rather, subject to the power reserved, to protect and enforce, by subsequent orders, any claim
or lien then pending either in that court, or, by its leave, in a
state court. So far as Newman is concerned, such protection
can be given, and should be given only, by an order directing
the entire property, covered by the $1,600,000 mortgage, to be
sold, in satisfaction of his claim or lien, without annulling the
former sale or the confirmation thereof, and without withdraw-

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. McCONKEY.
Statement of the Case.

ing or cancelling the deed made by the master to the
purchaser.
To the extent indicated the decree is reversed and the cause
is rerlandedfor further proceedings consistent with this
gipnion.

TRAVELLERS' INSURANCE COMPAN'Y v.
iMcCON-KEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 273.

Argued M~ay 2,1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

In an action upon a policy of insurance by which the insurer agreed to pay
the sum insured to the beneficiary within ninety days after sufficient proof
that the insured within the continuance of the policy had sustained bodily injuries, effected through external, violent and accidental means, and
that such injuries alone occasioned death within ninety days from their happening, but that no claim should be made when the death or injury was
the result of suicide (felonious or otherwise, sane or insane) the burden
of proof is on the plaintiff, (subject to the limitation that it is not to
be presumed as matter of law that the deceased took his own life or was
murdered,) to show that the death was caused by external violence, and
by accidental means; and no valid claim can be made under the policy if
the insured, either intentionally, or when insane, inflicted upon himself
the injuries which caused his death, or if his death was caused by intentional injuries inflicted upon him by some other person.

THE cpise, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This is a suit upon what is commonly called an accident
policy of insurance. There was a verdict and judgment
against the insurance company for the sum of $5600 and costs.
The case is here upon alleged errors of law committed at the
trial to the prejudice of the defendant.
The policy, by its terms, insures the life of George P. MvfcConkey, in the sum of five thousand dollars, for the term of
twelve months, commencing at noon on the Ith of November,
1882; "the said sum insured to be paid to his wife, Sadie P.

