OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

stances, be set up as a judicial determination of the validity
of the bonds. (Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606; .Afanhattam
Life Ins. Co. v. Broughton, 109 U. S. 121, 125.) This was
not the case of a submission to the court of a question for
its decision on the merits, but it was a consent in advance to a
particular decision, by a person wbo bad no right to bind the
town by such a consent, because it gave life to invalid bonds;
and the authorities of the town had no more power to do so
than they had to issue the bonds originally.
There is nothing inconsistent with this view in Nashville
&c. Railway Co. v. United.States,(113 U. S. 261,) where it was
held, that a decree in equity, by consent of parties, and upon
a compromise between them, was a bar to a subsequent suit
upon a claim therein set forth as among the matters compromised and settled, although not in fact litigated in the suit in
which the decree was rendered. In that case both parties
had full power to make the compromise involved.
'e judgment of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THL
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 207. Argued April 5, 1888.- -Decided

April 23, 1888.

In this case, certain negotiable bonds issued by the town of Dyersburg,

Tennessee, were held to have been issued without lawful authority.
Certain provisions of the statutes of Tennessee considered and held not to
confer power on the town of Dyersburg to issue the bonds in question.
The grant to a municipal corporation of the power to subscribe for stock
in a railroad company does not carry with it the implied authority to
issue negotiable bonds therefor; and such is the view of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee.
In a suit at law against the town to recover on the bonds, no question
growing out of the liability of the town for the subscription to the stock
can be inquired into.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

NORTON

v. DYERSBURG.

Statement of the Case.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the 'Western District of Tennessee, by.
Extein Norton, a citizen of New York, against the mayor and
aldermen of the town of Dyersburg, a municipal corporation
created by the State of Tennessee, to recover sundry sums of
money, as due for the principal of 36 bonds, for $500 each,
and 58 bonds for $250 each, and 62 bonds for $100 each, all
due May 10, 1883, and on sundry coupons cut from such
bonds, due at various times between the date of the bonds and
their maturity.
The bonds and coupons were in the following form:

"Bond No.

$250.
"The mayor and aldermen of the town of Dyersburg, in
the State of Tennessee, a corporation duly chartered by act
of the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, by the
qualified voters of said town, under the provisions of an act
of Legislature empowering them so to do, by this bond
promise to pay to the bearer hereof, ten years after the date
hereof, the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, with interest
at seven per centum per annum from this date, payable semiannually, at the city hall in Dyersburg, on presentation of the
coupons hereto attached, to aid in the construction of the
Paducah and Memphis Railroad; upon the express condition,
however, that the said railroad shall be constructed to the
town of Dyersburg, Tennessee, and have a depot of said railroad located within half a mile of the court-house in said
town.
"In testimony whereof the mayor -and aldermen of the
town of Dyersburg, Tennessee, have caused this bond and the
coupons attached to be signed by the mayor of said town, and
countersigned by the recorder, on this 10th day of Mlay, 1873.
-.

"[Seal, Mayor and Aldermen, Dyersburg, Tenn.]

"C. P. CLARK, Alwayo.
"Countersigned:
"1W.C. DOYLE, Recorder."
voL. cxxV-1

. 162

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"$8.75.

$8.75.

"The mayor and aldermen of Dyersburg, Tennessee, will
pay the bearer on the - day of -,
18-, eight dollars and
seventy-five cents, being the semi-annual interest due on
Paducah and Memphis Railroad bond No.-.
"C. P. CLARK, .ayor.
"W. C. DOYLE, lRiec rder."
The defendant pleaded nil debet and non est factugn.
The
cause was tried by the court, on the written waiver of a jury,
and it found the issues of law and fact with the defendant,
and rendered a judgment for it, to review which the plaintiff
has brought a writ of error. There was an agreed statement
of facts, which is embodied in a bill of exceptions, and there
is a finding of facts and of conclusions of law, also contained
therein. From this, the following facts appear:
The plaintiff bought the bonds and coupons before maturity,
for full value, and without any knowledge or notice of any
defect, infirmity, equity, or condition against the liability of
the town therefor, unless, as matter of law, the face of the
bonds charges him with notice. The bonds and coupons were
signed, sealed and delivered by the properly authorized municipal officers of the defendant, but the want of authority so
to do is controverted, the defendant insisting that no proper
legislative or other authority existed for making the subscription and issuing the bonds that were made and issued, the plea
of non est factum, only going to that extent. The Mississippi
River Railroad Company to which, it is claimed, the subscription was originally authorized to be made by the defendant, was afterwards consolidated with and became a part of
the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company. That company
mortgaged its properties and franchises, the mortgage was
foreclosed, and the purchaser at the sale reorganized, under
the statute of Tennessee, as the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company, by which the road was built and
finally completed on January 1, 1882, and is now operated as
a railroad its entire length. The bed and track are now, and
were at the date of the bringing of the suit, fully built and

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Statement of the Case

,equipped and operated through the county of Dyer; in which
county the town of Dyersburg is situated, and the last-named
company had built a depot building within half a mile of the
court-house in the town of Dyersburg before this action was
brought.

The proceedings of the board of mayor and aldermen of the
town, relative to the subscription in controversy, are contained
in a paper, Exhibit "B" to the stipulation, which is set forth
in the margin.'
S, M

ripms, Tmxx., July 13, '72.

"At a meeting of the board of directors of the Paducah and Memphis
Railroad Company held this day- present, L. S. Trimble, vice-president;
Jno. Overton, Jr., W. F. Norton, D. A. Henqing, and A. T. Lacy; L. S.
Trimble, vice-president, in the chair.
"The minutes of the meeting of May 1st were read and approved.
"Jno. Overton, Jr., offered a resolution as follows:
"Whereas C. P. Clark, mayor of the town of Dyersburg, in the county
of Dyer, in the State of Tennessee, by his subscription in writing, has subscribed in behalf of the town of Dyersburg the sum of fifty thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company,
which said subscription is in the words and figures following, to wit:
",ALLYon's

OFFICE, DYERSBURG, July 8th, 1872.

I beg leave to submit herewith a copy of the proceedings
"Dr~n Si:
of the board of mayor and aldermen of the town of Dyersburg, authorizing
me to subscribe .$50,000.00 (fifty thousand dollars) to the capital stock of
the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company on certain terms and conditions
minutely set forth in said proceedings, payable in bonds of the town of
Dyersburg, bearing seven per cent interest, payable semi-annually. In pursuance of the authority thus conferred upon me, I herewith tender and
propose to subscribe said sum to the capital stock of your company on the
terms proposed, and will promptly issue the bonds of said town, if accepted, as soon as the terms and stipulations allow it.
"I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, etc.,
"C. P. Ci..u, Mayor of Dyersburg.
"To the president of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company.
"Now, therefore, be it resolved, That this board does hereby, in behalf
of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, accept said subscription,
made by said town of Dyersburg, through said C. P. Clark, upon the terms
therein expressed.
"Resolved 2d, That the record of the proceedings of the board of
mayor and aldermen of said town of Dyersburg, accompanying said sub-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

The question of the subscription referred to in the foregoing
proceedings was left, under proper notices, to the decision of
scription, be entered upon the minutes of this meeting, and the same is
accordingly done, as follows:
STATE OF TENNESSEE, Town of Dyersburg:
"Be it remembered, that, at a meeting of the board of mayor and aldermen of the town of Dyersburg, held at the court-house (within said town),
on the 5th day of June-present, his honor, Mayor Clark, and every one of
the aldermen of said town: In the year 1872, the following ordinance was
adopted by unanimous vote of said board, to wit: The president of the
Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, by attorney, has presented a
memorial to the board of mayor and aldermen, praying the board to order
an election to be held to allow the qualified voters of the corporation of
Dyersburg to determine by ballot whether they are willing to authorize the
mayor and aldermen to make a subscription of $50,000 to the capital stock
of said company, to be paid in the bonds of said corporation, said bonds to
be due and payable in ten years from the date thereof, the interest thereon
to be paid semi-annually at the rate of seven per cent per annum, for the
purpose of assisting in preparing the road-bed of said railroad company
through the county of Dyer; and said memorial was accompanied by a
statement of the cost of the work through Dyer County.
"And whereas, heretofore, to wit, on the 9th day of August, 1871, upon
application of the president of the Mississippi River Railway Company to
the board, under and by virtue of which there was submitted to the qualified
voters of said corporation, on the 12th day of September, 1871, the question as to their willingness to vote a subscription of .$50,000 to the capital
stock of said Mississippi River Railway Company; and whereas, in accordance with said ordinance, said election was held on said 12th day of September, 1871, and resulted in favor of said subscription by a legal majority;
and whereas said subscription so made was held to be illegal on account of
its exceeding the amount allowed by the existing laws to be voted, and was
never accepted by said railway company;
"And whereas afterwards, to wit, on the 14th day of December, 1871,
by the legislature of the State of Tennessee (see chapter 122, sec. 1, acts of
1871), said action of the corporation of Dyersburg was ratified and said
town authorized to revote a like amount of subscription;
"And whereas, under and by virtue of provisions of their respective
charters, and under and by virtue of the laws of the States of Tennessee
and Kentucky, the Paducah and Gulf Railroad Company and said Mississippi
River Railway Company have been consolidated into one company, under
the name and style of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company:
"Therefore, on motion, the following ordinance was unanimously
adopted, to wit:
"SEOrioN 1. Be it ordained by the board of mayor and aldermen of the
town of Dyersburg, State of Tennessee, that there shall be submitted to

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Statement of the Case.

the qualified voters of the town of Dyersburg, and the subscription was carried by a vote largely in excess of the requithe qualified voters of the town of Dyersburg the proposition to subscribe
tlfty (50) thousand dollars, in the bonds of said town, to the capital stock
of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, on the following terms
and conditions, viz.: When the said railroad company has laid the track of
said road to the northern and southern line of Dyer County and commenced
work on said railway within the limits of Dyef County, then the mayor
shall issue to said railway company coupon bonds of the town of Dyersburg, to the amount of said subscription, which is fifty thousand dollars;
the whole of said bonds shall be known as the ' Dyersburg, Paducah and
Memphis Railroad bonds,' and shall be due and payable in ten years from
date of issuance, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum,
payable semi-annually; the bonds shall be issued in sums of $100, $250,
and 9500, with the necessary interest coupons attached.
" SECTION, 2. To pay the interest accruing upon said bonds and, if
deemed advisable, tocreate a sinking fund for their redemption, it shall be
the duty of the board of mayor and aldermen of said town, at their first
regular meeting after the first day of December of each year, to levy a specific tax upon such subjects of taxation as they may deem best, to meet the
interest coupons falling due within the year succeeding said levy; and, if
the board of mayor and aldermen, for any cause, fail at the said meeting so
to levy said tax, then the same may by said board be levied at any subsequent regular or called meeting, and the coupons of said bonds shall be
receivable in the payment of said railroad tax.
" SECTION 3. This subscription shall not become binding until ratified
by a majority of three-fourths of the votes of the legally qualified voters
of said town voting in an election held to test their sense on the question.
The mayor shall make publication in both the Dyer County Progress and
Neale's State Gazette, by proclamation, of an election to be held for that
purpose, with thirty days' notice, and shall also make publication of this
ordinance in connection with said election notice. Those who favor said
subscription at said election shall place on their ballot ' For subscription,'
and those who oppose shall place on their ballots the words ' No subscription.'
" SECTiON 4. The above subscription is made on the condition that the
Paducah and Memphis Railway is to be located and built to Dyersburg, and
a depot of said road to be located within one-half mile of the court-house,
without which condition accepted by said railroad company this subscription to be void, and no bonds shall be issued (and this condition shall be
written or printed, if deemed necessary by the mayor, on the face of said
bonds).
" SEcTioN 5. The acceptance by the officers of said railroad company
of any portion of the bonds herein authorized to be issued shall bind said
company to the terms and conditions of said subscription, as set forth in
all the sections of this ordinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

site constitutional majority. At the date of the subscription
the town was without railroad facilities, and the object of the
"I certify that the foregoing is a full, true, and perfect copy of the
proceedings of the mayor and aldermen in the matter of the subscription
to the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, as the same appears on
the minutes of the board on the 5th day of June, 1872, now in my custody.
F. G. SAMPSON, Recorder.
"Dyersburg, July 8th, 1872.
"SATURDAY, July 6th, 1872.
4
"The
board of mayor and aldermen met at the court-house this evening
at candle-light.
"Present: Mayor Clark, Aldermen De Berry, McAllister, Miller, Painer,
and Sampson.
"The mayor reported to the board of aldermen that the people of the
town of Dyersburg, by a vote of 126 votes ' for subscription' to 2 votes for
"no subscription,' have authorized the mayor and aldermen to subscribe
$50,000 to the capital stock of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, on the terms and conditions of the ordinance of June 5th, 1872.
"In pursuance of the ordinance passed by this board on the 5th day of
June, 1872, which has been duly ratified by the legal majority of the qualified voters of the town of Dyersburg at the election to-day, on motion, it
is ordered, by unanimous consent, that the mayor be authorized to subscribe
.$50,000 at once to the capital stock of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad
Company, on the terms and conditions of said ordinance.
"A true copy from the minutes.
F. G. SAirsoN, Recorder.
"Attest:

"Which said resolution, having been duly seconded, was, upon motion,
adopted. It was ordered that the power of attorney from C. P. Clark,
mayor of Dyersburg, to Isaac F. Child, of Dyersburg, Tennessee, be spread
upon the records of the company. Said power of attorney is in words and
Aigures as follows, to wit:
"Whereas I am fully authorized and empowered, by the action of the
board of mayor and aldermen of the town of Dyersburg, Dyer County,
Tennessee, as well as by the vote of the peopl of the town ratifying that
action, to subscribe fifty thousand dollars in the bonds of the town of
Dyersburg, (payable in ten years from date of issuance and bearing seven
per cent interest, payable semi-annually from date of issuance,) to the
capital stock of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company; and whereas
it is not convenient for me to go to Memphis now and attend to said business in person; I have, therefore, nominated, and do hereby appoint and
constitute, Isaac F. Child, of Dyersburg, Tennessee, my true and lawful
agent, proxy, and attorney-in-fact to do and perform whatever acts and
things it may be proper and necessary for me to do to effect and perfect
said subscription, on the terms contained in my proclamation dated June

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Statement of the Case.

subscription was to aid the building of the proposed line near
the town. The railroad has been built, but no part of the
Sth, 1872, hereby ratifying and confirming whatever my said attorney shall
lawfully do in the premises, as if I did the same myself.
"July 8th, 1872
C. P. CLARK, Mayor of Dyersburg, Tennessee.
"STATE

OF TEEES5SEE, Dyer County:
"Personally appeared before me, W. M. Watkins, clerk of the count
court of said county, C. P. Clark, mayor of the town of Dyersburg, Tennessee, who acknowledged the execution of the within instrument for the
purposes therein contained. I further certify that I am personally acquainted
-with the said C. P. Clark.
"Witness my hand and seal of the Dyer County court, affixed at Dyersburg, July 10th, 1872.
W. M. WATi-S, Clerk-,
"[sEAL.]
By ZACK. WA.'TrNs, D. C.
"On motion of D. M. Henning, a resolution in words and figures as
follows was adopted:
"Resolved, That the president of this company be authorized and instructed to call upon the town of Dyersburg for the bonds subscribed to
the capital stock of the Paducah and MAemphis Railroad Company, amounting to 950,000, as soon as the conditions of said subscription upon the part
-of the county are complied with.
"Jno. Overton, Jr., offered the following resolution, viz.:
"Whereas an obligation in the words and figures following has been
-executed and delivered to this company, to wit:
"We, the undersigned, citizens of the county of Dyer and State of
'Tennessee, for and in consideration that the president and directors of the
Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company have and do agree to build and
locate their said road to and by the town of Dyersburg, Dyer County,
Tennessee, and to locate and build a depot thereon within one-half mile of
the court-house in said town, hereby guarantee a subscription to the capital
stock of said company of one hundred thousand dollars in the following
manner, that is to say:
"We guarantee that there will be voted by the citizens of the corporation of Dyersburg the sum of fifty thousand dollars, as a subscription to
the capital stock of said company, and that said subscription will be paid
in ten-year coupon bonds of said corporation, bearing interest at the rate
of 7 per centum per annum, payable semi-annually, and that said bonds will
be issued in accordance with the terms of a proclamation made by the
mayor of said town, dated June 5th, 1872, and published in the ' Dyer County
Progress' and ' Neal's State Gazette,' newspapers published in the town of
Dyersburg, and that said bonds will be prepared as soon as practicable after
being voted, and will be delivered to said company in accordance with the
terms of said proclamation,

.OCTOBER TERI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

subscription has been paid except the first instalment of interest, which was paid.
The bill of exceptions states as follows: "The court found
as facts, 1st, that an. ordinance was regularly and legally
adopted June 5thi, 1872, by the board of mayor and aldermen
of the town of Dyersburg, ordering an election to be held by
the qualified voters of said town, to determine whether the
said town should subscribe for $50,000 of the capital stock of
the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, to be paid for
by said town by issuing to said railroad company its negotiable bonds to that amount, bearing interest at 7 per cent, and
payable at -10 years from date; that, on July 6th, 1872, said
proposition was voted on by the qualified voters of said town,
"We further agree that there will be subscribed to the capital stock of
said Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company the sum of fifty thousand
dollars of private individual subscription, by good and solvent subscribers,
upon condition that said road is built and has a depot located within onehalf mile of the court-house at Dyersburg, and payable as follows: Twentyfive per cent of the amounts of said private subscription, payable when the
said road is constructed to the northern or southern line of said county,
and work thereon is commenced in Dyer County, the balance subject to
calls of ten per cent every thirty days.
"This latter amount of fifty thousand dollars we guarantee will be
subscribed and delivered to said company on or before the 10th day of
July, 1872.
"Witness our hands this June 20th, 1872.
"T. E. Richardson, Tom. W. Neal, Jno. S. Kiffington, H. L. Fowlky,.,
F. G. Sampson, C. I. Coker, W. M. Watkins, W. E. De Berry, P. E. Wilson,
'B. C. Burgis, W. C. Doyle, Wat. Sampson, S. R. Latta, I. F. Child, A. M.
Stevens, C. P. Clark, W. P. Sugg, E. G. Sugg, J. E. Roberts, E. S. Thurmond,
R. R. Watson, Jno. L. Webb, Alf. Stevens, Jno. Sawyer.
" Therefore, resolved, That this company accepts the said obligation and
its stipulations, as the consideration for building and locating the road to
and by the town of Dyersburg, and for building a depot thereon within
half a mile of the court-house in Dyersburg; and, in reliance of said obligation, the board agrees to so build and locate the road and so to locate
the depot.
"2. That the $52,525 of private subscriptions this day tendered and
received in pursuance of that portion of the above obligation which provides for the same, is accepted upon the guaranty of its solvency by the
above-named obligees.
"Which said resolution, having been seconded, was, upon motion,
adopted."

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Statement of the Case.

after 30 days' notice of such election had been duly published
in the newspapers of said town, when said proposition was.
carried by a vote of 126 for the subscription to two against it;
that, at a meeting of the board of mayor and aldermen of saidc
town, held on July 6th, 1872, the returns of said election were
duly and properly canvassed by said board, which, by ordinance then duly passed, declared the subscription on the terms.
of the ordinance of June 5th, 1872, was properly and legally
carried, in said election, by the vote as before stated, and instructed the mayor to subscribe said sum of $50,000 to the
stock of the said railroad company, upon the terms and conditions of said ordinance; that, acting pursuant to that authority, the mayor of said town, on May 10th, 1873, subscribed for
and in the name of said town said sum to the capital stock of
said company, received a certificate of stock therefor, issued and
delivered the coupon bonds of said town for said amount to
said railroad company, including those here in this suit; that,
when said coupon .bonds were so executed, issued, and delivered by said mayor to said railroad company, the said company
had laid the track of said road to the northern and southern
line of Dyer County, and commenced work on said railway
within the limits of sai, county of Dyer; that plaintiff bought
the bonds and coupons sued on herein in due course of trade,
for full value, before maturity, and without any knowledge
or notice of any defect, infirmity, equity, or condition against
the liability of said town, except so far as appears on the
face of said bonds; that, before the bringing of this suit, the
said railroad had been constructed and was being operated its
entire length from Paducah, Kentucky, to Memphis, Tennessee, and was constructed to said town of Dyersburg, Tennessee,
and had a depot located within half a mile of the court-house
in said town, the same having been done by the Chesapeake,
Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company on or about the
-

day of -

, as set forth in the agreed statement of facts

filed herein. The court ruled that no legislative authority
whatever existed for the issuance by said defendant of the
bonds and coupons sued on in this case. To which finding
and ruling plaintiff then and there duly excepted. The plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tiff requested the court to rule that, under the facts found,
the defendant was authorized to execute, issue, and deliver to
said railroad company the said bonds, which request was refused by the court, to which plaintiff then and there duly
excepted. The court thereupon rendered judgment in favor
-of defendant, supporting its judgment by reading the same
,opinion filed in the case of Green v. Town of -Dyersburg, 2
Flippin, 477, and directing, by consent of counsel, that the
said opinion be filed as its opinion in this case and sent up
with the transcript of the record, as required by the rules of
the Supreme Court."
.. D. H. _Poston (with whom was Mr. 1V the brief) for plaintiff in error.

Poston on

I. It will be noticed that the declaration does not aver that
these bonds were issued under any particular act, nor do the
bonds recite any particular act as authority for their issuance;
the declaration sues for the bonds "executed and issued by
said corporation on the 10th day of May, 1873, upon and in
pursuance of lawful authority conferred for that purpose on
said corporation."
And the bond simply. recites that it is issued "under the
provision of an act of the legislature empowering them to
-do so."

Therefore we can look to all the legislation on the subject,
and if there be any, authorizing the same, the bonds must be
supported.
It will be observed that paragraph 29, Art. II, of the constitution of 1870 is identical with that of 1834, being verbatim
.down to the point of lending corporate aid, the only diffekence
being that the constitution of 1870 has an addenda, not in the
constitution of 1834, which itself restricts and limits the power
-of municipal corporations in lending aid and credit, and provides that it can only be done upon the votes of three-fourths
-of the qualified voters cast at the election, to determine the
question, while the constitution of 1834 authorizes it to be
,done as the legislature may from time to time direct.

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

However, under both constitutions, it has been held that
a subscription in aid of railroads was a corporate purpose, and
counties and towns had the right to lend aid and credit, and
levy taxes to pay the same. lVickwl v. NVashville, 9 Humphreys, 250, 252; L-ouisville & .Z7ashvilleRailroadv. Davidson
County, 1 Sneed, 637; S. C. 62 Am. Dec. 424; City of Memphis
v. Gayoso Gas Co., 9 Heiskell, 518; finston v. Tenn. &
Pacific Railroad,1 Baxter, 60.
We insist that there was express legislative authority for
the issuance of these bonds, and that they were executed in
strict conformity therewith.
[Mr. Poston then examined the statutes of Tennessee, and
continued :] We further insist that, upon questions of commercial securities, Federal courts are not bound by state decisions.
Oates v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 239, 246; Pinve Grove v.
Talcott, 19 Wall. 666, 677.
II. Our second proposition presents the simple question,
whether the defendant, having the power to make the subscription and lend the credit, had the implied power and authority to execute and deliver bonds negotiable in form, independent of any express authority conferred.
All the authorities agree that where a municipal corporation has the implied power to borrow money or lend credit, it
has the implied power to execute all proper bonds, notes or
other negotiable securities to accomplish these purposes. Seyhert v. Pittsburg,1 Wall. 272; Commonwealth v. Pittsburg,
41 Penn. St. 278; Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566, 572;
Hull v. .Marshall County, 12 Iowa, 142; Gause v. City of
alar7ville, 5 Dillon, 165; Commonwealth v. Pittsburg, 34
Penn. St. 496; Griffin v. .Tnman, 57 Georgia, 370; Black v.
Cohen, 52 Georgia, 621; KYetchum v. Bufalo, 14 N. Y. 356.
This implied power is thoroughly indoctrinated into the
laws and decisions of the State of Tennessee, as will be seen
by reference to the cases.
On this point, see Union Bank v. Jacobs, 6 Humphreys,
515; iii*hol v. Alayor of Nashville, 9 Humphreys, 264;
.Adars v. XIemphis & -Little Rock Railroad Co., 2 Ooldwell,
645; .Aoss v. Halpeth Academy, 7 Heiskell, 283.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

III. In any event this court should hold the defendant as.
upon non-negotiable bonds or notes, treating the issuance of
negotiable bonds as an excess of authority only, and not invalidating the loan with interest as agreed upon. Nashville
v. Ray/, 19 Wall. 468.
Xr. T. B. Turley for defendants in error.
till was with him on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD,

.fr.

8 aval

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that there was express
legislative authority for the issue of these bonds. The first
statute relied on is the act of the legislature of Tennessee,
approved January 23, 1871, chapter 50 of the acts of 1870-71,
entitled "An Act to Enforce Article 2, Section 29, of the
Constitution, to Authorize the several Counties and Incorporated Towns in this State to Impose Taxes for County and
Corporation Purposes." This statute has been fully considered by us in the, case of Yeley v. Town of .Milan, just
decided, and shown to have conferred no such authority.
The act approved December 16, 1871, chapter 122 of the
Acts of 1871, entitled "An Act to legalize and authorize subscription by incorporated Cities and Towns for the benefit of
IRailroad Companies created by law," applies only to cases
where an incorporated town or city had subscribed to the
capital stock of a railroad company prior to the passage of
that act. The subscription in the present case was not made
until May 10, 1873, the election having been held on July 6,
1872; and the entire act relates only to the validity and the
legality of the subscription to stock, and in no manner touches
the question of the issue of bonds.
It is also contended that express authority to issue the
bonds in question was granted by section 20 of an act passed
February 26, -1869, chapter 59 of the acts of 1868-69, which
section is as follows: "Src. 20. Be itfurther enate, That it
shall be lawful for the town of Dyersburg to make a cor-

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Opinion of the Court.

porate subscription to the capital stock of the Mississippi
River Railroad Company, not to exceed fifty thousand dollars
in amount, payable in not exceeding four years by annual
assessments levied by the Board of Trustees of said town,
and collected as other moneys are, and bonds of the town
may be issued in anticipation of such collections, collected for
town purposes: Provided, however, That before the Board of
Trustees or Aldermen of said town shall make any such subscription, the question shall have been first submitted to the
qualified voters of said town, and shall have received a.majority of the votes cast therefor after twenty days' notice of the
time and place of holding said election, and of the amount
proposed to be subscribed."
Reliance is also placed upon section 18 of an act passed
February 8, 1870, chapter 55 of the acts of 1869-70, which
section is as follows: "SEc. 18. Be itf urt]ier enacted, That
stock which has been subscribed, or may hereafter be subscribed, by any county, city, or incorporation, to said railroad
companies may be payable in six annual payments; and it
shall be lawful for county courts and the corporate authorities
of any city or town making such subscription to issue sho'rt
bonds bearing interest at the rate of six per cent per annum,
to said railroad companies, in anticipation of the collection of
annual levies, if thereby the construction of the roads can be
facilitated."
As to the act of 1869, the subscription to the stock, not to
exceed $50,000, was made payable, by section 20, in not
exceeding four years, by annual assessments of taxes. The
express limitation was to the four years, but authority was
given to issue the bonds of the town in anticipation of the
collections of taxes. Of course, under this provision the
bonds were to be paid by the four annual collections of the
taxes levied by the four annual assessments. That was the
fund provided for their payment. No authority was given
for the issue of bonds other than such as were to be paid,
one-fourth in one year, one-fourth in two years, one-fourth in
three years, and one-fourth in four years; and no authority
was given for the issue of any bond payable in ten years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

As to section 18 of the act of 1870, it gave no power to
the town of Dyersburg beyond that conferred by the act of
1869, to subscribe for stock or to issue bonds. The only possible effect it could have as to that town was to modify section
20 of the act of 1869, so as to make the subscription to stock
payable in six annual payments, instead of four annual payments, and to authorize the issue of bonds in anticipation of
the collection of the annual tax levies, the bonds to be payable in not exceeding six annual instalments, instead of four;
but each set of .bonds to be still payable by an annual tax
levy, and to fall due annually for six years, at the time of the
maturity of the levy for each year.
That these statutory provisions did not authorize the issue
of bonds payable in ten years is entirely clear. Pulas7i v.
Gilmore, decided by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and
published in 21 Fed. Rep. 870; .Mian v. Railroad Co., 11
Lea, 329.
The cases of Louisville & -1-ashville Railroad v. County
Court of -Davidson,1 Sneed, 683, and The State v. Anderson
County, 8 Baxter, 249, do not sustain the position of the
plaintiff in error. While, in each of those cases, the statute
provided that not more than one-third of the amount of the
subscription should be collected in any one year, it did not
prohibit its distribution into more numerous instalments, each
of less amount. Here, the acts in question prohibited any
extension of time beyond four or six years, and the vote of
the town distinctly varied the terms fixed by the statute.
It is also contended by the plaintiff in error that the grant
of power to subscribe for the stock carried with it the implied
authority to issue negotiable bonds therefor. None of the
cases cited by the plaintiff in error, decided outside of the
State of Tennessee, establish such doctrine. The cases cited
in Tennessee, Union Bank v. Jacobs, 6 Humphreys, 515;
AEichol v. Mayor of Hashville, 9 Humphreys, 252; Adams v.
Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Co., 2 Coldwell, 645;

-Moss v.

aleth Academy, 7 Heiskell, 283; The State v. An-

derson County, 8 Baxter, 249; and TVillians v. Railroad Co.,
9 Baxter, 488, do not maintain the doctrine contended for.

NORTON v. DYERSBURG.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case in 6 Humphreys, it was held that a railroad company, a private corporation, could contract a debt for a corporate purpose, and give a negotiable promissory note therefor. In the case in 9 Humphreys, there was express legislative authority to subscribe for stock and issue bonds, and the
point decided was that a subscription by a municipality to railroad stock was a county or corporation purpose, within the
provision of the constitution empowering the legislature to
authorize counties and towns to impose taxes for county and
corporation purposes. The case in 2 Coldwell was considered
by this court in IYa8hville v. Ray, 19 Wall. 468, 4-79, and it
was there said that the doctrines propounded in the opinion
in 2 Coldwell, with reference to the implied powers of municipal corporations, were not necessary to the decision of that
case. In the case in 7 Heiskell, the question was as to the
power of a private corporation to borrow money. In the case
in 8 Baxter there was express authority to issue the bonds,
and the question of implied power did not arise, as was said
by this court in Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 "U.S. 400,
411. In the case in 9 Baxter, the question now under consideration does not appear to have been raised or discussed, the
only question involved being whether the original subscription
to the stock of the railroad company was valid.
On the contrary, the decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in the cases of Pulaski v. Gilmore and Mtilan v. Railroad Co., above cited, was distinctly, that express legislative
authority to issue bonds like those involved in the present suit
was necessary. In harmony with this view is the fact of the
numerous instan6es in which the legislature of Tennessee,
after granting authority to municipalities to subscribe for stock
in railroad companies, has also expressly granted the power to
issue bonds therefor.
The views of this court on the subject of the implied power
to issue municipal bonds were fully expressed in the cases of
Wells v. Suipervisors, 102 U. S. 625, and Claiborne County
v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400. In the first of those cases it was
held, that the mere authority given to a municipality to subscribe for stock in a railroad company did not carry with it

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

the implied power to issue bonds therefor, especially where, as
in the present case, special provisions were made for paying
the subscription by taxation.
Our views as to the proper construction of the general laws
of Tennessee, Code of Tennessee, §§ 1142 to 1161, have been
fully expressed in the case -of Jfelley v. Town of Milan, just
decided.
It is further contended for the plaintiff in error, that -this
court should, in any event, hold the town liable as upon nonnegotiable bonds or notes, treating the issue of the negotiable
bonds as an excess of authority only, and not invalidating the
loan, with interest, as agreed upon. It is a sufficient answer
to this proposition to say that this suit is brought solely for a
recovery upon the bonds and coupons, and no question growing out of the liability of the town for the subscription to the
stock can be inquired into in this suit.
T•
T judgmnz of the Circuit Court 16 a/vned.

FORITCROOK v. ROOT.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 225.

Argued April 13, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888

Letters-patent No. 243,674, granted to James Forncrook, June 28, 1881, for
an "improvement in sectional honey-frames," on an application filed
lay 13, 1879, are invalid, for want of novelty.
The claim of the patent, namely, "As a new article of manufacture, a blank
for honey-frames formed of a single piece of wood, having transverse
angular grooves c, longitudinal groove d, and recesses b, all arranged in
the manner shown and described," is not infringed by a blank whichdoes not contain the longitudinal groove, or any substitute or equivalent
for it.

IN EQUITY to restrain alleged infringements of letters-patent.
Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.

