BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 224. Submitted April13, 1886.-Decided May 14,1888.

A proposition to pave streets in a municipality, made in writing by a con-

tractor to the head of a board consisting of several members which by
law was charged with the care and paving of the streets, although considered and agreed to by the head of the board, and although by his directions the secretary of the board wrote under it that it was "accepted
by order of the board" and affixed his signature as secretary thereto, is
not a "contract in writing signed by the parties making the same," if
the action of the secretary was made without official acceptance of the
proposition by the board, and without authority from them to write it.
On the facts in this case the court holds: (1) that the alleged contract
with the board of public works was not a valid contract; (2) that ii
was never ratified by the board; (3) that it was never ratified by Congress; (4) that the portion of the plaintiffis claim which was for work
performed was rejected by the board of audit, and that the Court of
Claims was therefore without jurisdiction to entertain it.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
ilr.

C. C. Cole and ilr. _Fillmore Beall for appellant.

Mr. Attorney General and -Mr.Assistant Attorney General
Howard for appellee.
lh. JusnC

LTN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of the appellant, Talmadge E. Brown,
who sued in that court to recover a judgment against the Dis-

trict of Columbia, appellee, for $200,000, in satisfaction of his
claim for damages for breach of an alleged contract, and for
work and labor performed and materials furnished in the pav
ing of certain streets in the cities of Washington and Georgetown.

The petition was filed November 16, 1880, and contains
four counts, the first of which is in substance as follows: That

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.
from 1869 to 1874, inclusive, petitioner, William W. Ballard,
and Edward L. Marsh, all of whom were citizens of the United
States, were in partnership under the name of the Ballard
Pavement Company, their business consisting in grading, paving, etc., streets, sidewalks, etc.; that on or about December
10, 1872, said company made and completed a contract with
the District of Columbia, whereby said company became
'bound to pave with wood pavement such streets, or parts of
streets, in the cities of Washington and Georgetown, in the
said District of Columbia, as the board-of public works of said
District should designate from time to time, to the amount of
75,000 square yards, said work to be assigned and completed
during 1873, and at the price of $3.50 per square yard, and
also to do such grading, hauling, filling, and setting of curbing
on the streets paved by said company, and at the board prices,
as the said board of public works should order or direct; that
by the terms of said contract the said work was to be paid for
as the same progressed; that at the time the said board of
public works of the said District of Columbia made and entered into said contract with said pavement company the said
board had full power and aifthority to make the same in the
manner and form the same was made; and that said contract
was in the words and figures following, to wit:
"The BallardPavement Conm~any, Washington, 1. C.:
"Your proposition of this date, as follows:
"' The Ballard Pavement Company hereby make proposals
for the following work, with accompanying conditions:
"1'1We will put down preserved wood pavement as follows:
The Ballard block, the Perry block, or the wedge-shaped
block, such as laid by Filbert & Taylor, in this city, as the
contractors may elect, either to stand five inches high, for
three dollars and fifty cents per square yard, and we hereby
ask for seventy-five thousand square yards, contractors to
have during the year 1873 within which to complete this
work, the board not to stop the work without a gross violation of the contract on the part of the contractors, the streets
to be designated by the board at such times as the company

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be ready to commence work, said work to be paid for as
the same progresses.
"1We also hereby apply for a separate and a further contract for so much of the grading, hauling, and filling as is not
embraced in the contract for paving, and for setting the curbing on the streets, to be paved by us at board prices, subject
to the conditions of the paving contract.'
"Is this day accepted.
"By order of the Board:
ORALE S S. JOEMsON,
" Ass't Secre"w ."
Thepetition then alleges that in pursuance of said contract,
and in part execution and performance thereof, said board of
public works designated nine different pieces of work to be
done by the company; all of which was done by it, to an aggregate amount of about 35,000 square yards, and that said
company was prepared and ready to do all the rest of the
75,000 square yards specified in said contract, but that said
board of public works failed and refused to designate any
more work tb be done by the company, whereby said company
was damaged in the sum of $100,000; that said contract of
December 10, 1872, was in effect ratified and confirmed, and
the right of action thereon recognized and approved, by virtue
of several acts and resolutions of Congress, among which are
the act of June 20, 1874, resolution of December 21, 1874, act
of March 3, 1875, joint resolution of March 14, 1876, act of
June 11,1878, and the act of June 16, 1880; and that the
claims herein made were never rejected by the board of audit.
The petition then alleges that on the 20th day of June, 1874,
said W. W. Ballard and E. L. Marsh, for a full and valuable
consideration, sold and assigned in writing all and singular
their respective rights, interests, and claims in and to the
cause of action herein set forth, whereby the plaintiff, Talmadge E. Brown, became the sole owner of said claim and
cause of action, and is now the owner thereof, and has made
no assignment or transfer of the same or any part thereof to
any one, but still owns and holds the whole thereof in his own
right.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The matters set up in the second, third, and fourth counts
of the petition (which are, as claimant states, "only different
forms of statement for the same claim") have relation to the
work done by the pavement company under the alleged contract
of December 10, 1872, amounting in value to $129,569.85, for
which they received certificates of the auditor of the board
that they afterward sold in the market for about 50 cents on
the dollar, realizing therefrom only $69,'184.92. The second
count relates to the work actually done, and avers that only
one-half thereof has been paid for. The third count sets up
the doing of the work, and the issuance of auditor's certificates
therefor, under such circumstances as are claimed constituted
the company an agent for the District to dispose of the certificates at their value, which was 50 cents on the dollar. And
the fourth count sets up the doing of the work, the issuance
and, delivery to the pavement company of auditor's certificates, which are claimed to have been chattels, and a commodity only, and which were worth 50 per cent of their face
value. It is to recover from the District of Columbia the
other half of the value of these auditor's certificates that the
claimant brings this action on these three counts.
To this petition the District of Columbia interposed a general denial, and also a special plea to the first count thereof,
which set up a former adjudication of the matters involved in
said first count in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Replication was filed, issue was joined, and the case having been heard before the Court of Claims, that court, upon
the evidence, found in favor of the District of Columbia and
rendered judgment dismissing -the claimant's petition. The
separate findings of fact of the court below are seventeen in
number, and are too lengthy to be incorporated in this opinion.
The material facts will be referred to as we proceed.
The decision of the Court of Claims was based upon three
grounds: (1) That the contract sued on was not a contract
made with the board of public works of the District of Columbia,
and was not one in writing as contemplated in § 3'T of the act
of February 21, 1871, 16 Stat. 419, 427; (2) that the claim set
up in the first count of the petition was res.adjudicata,it hay-

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

ing been once adjudicated by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. adversely to the Ballard Pavement Company, of which the plaintiff below is the successor; and (3)
that, under the act of June 16, 1880, § 8, 21 Stat. 284, 286,
the Court of Claims was prohibited from taking jurisdiction of
the claim set up in said first count, because that claim had been
once rejected by the board of audit of the District of Columbia.
The decision of the court was clearly right, and the principles on which the learned judge based his conclusion lare clear
and undeniable.
The appellant contends that the alleged contract sued upon
meets the requirements of § 3,7 of the act of February 21,1871,
which provides that "all contracts made by the said board of
public works shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the
parties making the same, and a copy thereof shall be filed in
the office of the secretary of the District;" and that the contract sued upon being a formal proposition in *writing,and an
acceptance thereof in writing signed by the secretary of the
board, whose authority to sign the same is not denied, and
whose genuine signature thereto is admitted, was a valid con'tract binding upon the parties.
Numerous authorities are cited to show that the written
acceptance by one party of a written proposal made to him
by another party creates a contract of the same force and
effect, as if formal articles of agreement had been written out
and signed by said parties. The legal principle asserted is
sound, but the fallacy of the argument lies in the assumption
that the proposition of the pavement company was in fact
submitted to the board, and that the latter did in fact authorize the letter to be written by secretary Johnson accepting the
said proposition. Are these assumptions borne out by the
evidence adduced at the trial? UJpon this point we quote
from the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th findings of facts:
"In the early part of that month, (December, 1872,) the said
William W. Ballard and the claimant were in the city of
Washington, and they had verbal negotiations with Alexander
IR.Shepherd, then and afterwards a member and vice-president
of the board of public works of the District of Columbia,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which negotiations led them to write and send to that board
a paper, a copy of which is given in the letter signed. 'Charles
S. Johnson, Ass't Secretary.' [This letter is quoted in the early
part of this decision.] The said Charles S. Johnson was a
clerk in the employment of the board of public works and
was styled ' assistant secretary.'
"The journal of said board does not show that said proposition was ever before the board, nor does any acceptance
thereof by the board appear otherwise than by the statement
of said letter; nor does it appear that said Johnson was
authorized by said board to write said letter, unless it should
be inferred from his being a clerk of the board and styled
assistant secretary; nor does it appear that the board or any
member of it, except Alexander R. Shepherd, either saw or
knew of said letter before or on the said 10th of December,
1872; nor can the original proposition, as drawn up by the
claimant and said Ballard, be anywhere found among the
papers or files of the board or of the District of Columbia,
though searched for there; nor can any copy of said Johnson's letter be found in the books or files of the board or of
the said District, though searched for there, and though it
was the practice of the board to keep press copies of the letters that went out of its office.
"In all the transactions hereinafter set forth, connected with
the matter of paving streets by the said company, it does not
appear that any member of the company was before the said
board, at any meeting thereof, in relation to that work. Their
intercourse in regard to it was almost wholly"with said Alexander 1R. Shepherd. It took place sometimes at his store and
sometimes at the office of the board. When it took place at
his store it does not appear that any other member of the
board was present; when'it took place at the office of the
board, if other members of the board were present, and any
member of the company spoke to them about the matter of
that work, they would refer him to said Shepherd. When the
company desired work to be designated for theni to do they
called on said Shepherd, supposing that whenever he said anything about the work in the District he represented the board

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

585

Opinion of the Court.

of public works-was the mouthpiece of the board. The
said company, after receiving said Johnson's letter, proceeded
to make preparations for laying down wooden pavement on
streets in the District of Columbia, and made a contract for
three million feet of lumber, estimated by them to be sufficient
to make 75,000 square yards of pavement. In the spring of
the year 1873 the company notified the board, through said
Shepherd, that they were ready to proceed with the work of
paving streets, and requested that such work should be designated for them to do; but none was designated until the latter
part of June or beginning of July, when some parts of streets
were designated and the company entered on the work of paving them. After doing so, and before they were allowed to
receive any certificates of measurement showing work to have
been done, they were required to enter into a written contract
embracing the work and to give bond for its performance.
They at first declined to sign such a contract, claiming that
the terms contained in it were different from those of their
proposition of December 10, 1872; but they afterwards signed
the following contracts."
The findings set out in full the contracts, and further show
that the company entered into five of such contracts with the
board of public works, the first bearing date July 5 and the
last December 19, 1873; that all the work done by the company and every yard of pavement laid by it were done and
laid under one of those several contracts; that every engi-.
neer's certificate of measurement gave on its face the number
of one of those contracts as that under which the work named
in the certificate had been done; that the company signed a
receipt for every such certificate, and that upon those certificates the company received the auditor's certificates, which
they voluntarily sold in the market for about fifty cents on the
dollar.
In the face of these facts, found almost wholly from the evidence on the part of the claimant, we are of the opinion that
we would not be justified in finding that the alleged contract
of December 10, 1872- the one sued on here - was such as
the statute prescribes, or that it was 'a valid contract in any
respect.

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

By the 37th section of the act approved February 21, 1871,
the board of public works is provided for, to consist of five
persons, whose duties and powers it is said shall embrace the
regulation and repair of the streets and highways of the District of Columbia. In Barnes v. Tlhe -Districtof Columbia,
91 U. S. 540, this court held that, under that act, the board of
public works was not an independent body, acting for itself,
but was a part of the municipal corporation of the District of
Columbia, to which was given the exclusive control of the
streets and alleys; that in those matters the board acts as
the representative of the corporation, or is "like an ordinary
agent of the corporation." We have seen from the findings
in the trial below that the board had made no contract with
the company on the 10th of December, 1872. It consisted of
five members. Those members were the joint agents of the
District of Columbia in the management of its streets and
alleys, and a contract with the board to be binding upon the
District must have been ratified by a majority of the members
of the board.
The rule on this subject has been well stated by Dillon in
his work on Municipal Corporations, § 283, as .follows:
"As a general rule, it may be stated, that not only where
the corporate power resides in a select body, as a city council,
but where it has been delegated to a committee or agents, then,
in the absence of special provisions otherwise, a minority of
the select body, or 'of the committee or agents, are powerless
to bind the majority or do any valid act. If all the members
of the select body or committee, or if all of the agents are
assembled, or if all have been duly notified, and the minority
refuse or neglect to meet with the others, a majority of those
present may act, provided those present constitute a majority
of the 'whole number. In other words, in such a case, a major
part of the whole is necessary to. constitute a quorum, and a
majority of the quorum may act. If the major part withdraw so as to leave no quorum, the power of the minority to
act is, in general, considered to cease."
It is said, however, by appellant's counsel, that, if the
alleged contract of December 10th, 1872, was not originally

BROWN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

binding on the District of Columbia, it became valid and
binding by reason of the fact that it was afterwards recognized by the parties, was performed in part by the District in
designating the streets whereon the work should be done, by
approving and accepting said work, and by the part performance of the contract on the part of the pavement company.
In our apprehension no action of the board gives the slightest
ground for this position. The refusal of the board to accept
any of the work, or to allow any certificate of its amount to
be given until after other contracts, entirely different in terms,
were duly entered into, and bonds were given for their faithful performance, negatives any suggestion of recognition or
ratification by the District of Columbia of the alleged contract of December 10th, 1872, or of any acquiescence in its
part performance. This claim is utterly inconsistent with the
conduct of the company. The very fact that it entered into
these other contracts, different in terms from the alleged contract of December 10th, 1872, and accepted the certificates of
the board issued for the work done under those contracts, (and
those alone,) proves that it did not regard the verbal negotiations with Shepherd, and the unauthorized letter of Johnson
thus disavowed by the board, as binding upon the District of
Columbia.
The counsel for appellant further urge that, notwithstanding all this, the alleged contract sued on has been rendered
valid by reason of the recognition of such contracts and the
ratification thereof by Congress, citing the several acts of
June 20, 1874, June 11, 1878, June 16, 1880, and the joint
resolution of December 21, 1874.
We have not been referred to any particular section of any
one of these acts that would work a confirmation or ratification of a transaction such as forms the basis of this suitL Nor
does a close study of them disclose any such provision. On
the contrary, by the act of June 16, 1880, § 8, 21 Stat. 284,
286, the Court of Claims is prohibited frotmi taking jurisdiction
of this claim as set up in the first count. That section provides that " No claim shall be presented to or considered by
the Court of Claims under the provisions of this act which
was rejected by the board of audit."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Now, it is shown by the record in this case that this identical claim (differing only in amount) was presented to the
board of audit, and was disallowed by that board. The substance and the effect of the petition submitting such claim to
the board of audit is substantially the same as that in the first
count of the petition in this case. This is conclusively shown
by the 15th finding:
"Upon the jacket wherein this petition and exhibit were
inclosed this indorsement was made:
"'O IoE BoAnu op AuiT,

IFaskington, August 3, 1874.
"'CLss 4, No. 239.
"'Claims against the board of public works for which no
evidence of indebtedness has been issued.
"'C laims damages for breach of contract in the sum of
$75,000.
"And on the opposite side of said jacket was written:
"'The within claim against the board of public works has
been examined and not allowed.'
"The board of audit kept a record of claims allowed and
disallowed, in which appear the following:
"'REcoRD OF CLAIMS, CLASS 4.
Date.Dt. iTo.of
claim.,
1874.
Aug.

3239

xame
ae

Description
of work.

Ballard Pavement

Breach of

Company.

contract....

Certifi,utN, '.

claimed
Clie:

75,000

Alowed
loe.lowed. Disal-

.....

75,000

"And the members of the board of audit reported said
claim to Congress in a list of; disallowed claims."
The interest of the claimant in this case is the same as that
of the Ballard Pavement Company, which presented the claim
to the board of audit. IHe is the successor of that company.
True, in that petition damages were claimed only to the
extent of $75,000 for breach of the alleged contract of
December 10, 1872, while here the claim for damages is laid
at $100,000. That, however, is an immaterial matter. The

ALLEN v. GILLETTE.
Syllabus.

cause of action in each instance is the breach of contract, and
the mere fact that in one instance the damages are laid at
$75,000, while in the other at $100,000, does not change its
identity.
The suggestion that the claim was not rejected by the board
of audit within the meaning of § 8 of the act of June 16,
1880, sup:va, but was only disallowed, may be dismissed with
the remark that the two words when used with reference to
the disposition of claims are synonymous.
We think, therefore, that there was no jurisdiction in the
Court of Claims to entertain this branch of the case.
We also concur with the court in holding that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a suit
brought on the 6th of January, 1875, by William W. Ballard,
Edward L. Marsh, and the claimant, Talmadge E. Brown,
against the District of Columbia, to recover damages alleged
to have been sustained by them under the said proposition and
said Johnson's letter sued on in this case, is a bar to the first
count of the petition. Gould v. Evansville &o. Railroad Co.,
91 U. S. 526.
In no view that has been presented or that seems capable of
presentation, can the alleged contract be considered binding
upon the District of Columbia.
f/w judgment of the Cowrt of Claims is cffirmed.

ALLENT v. GILLETTE.
APPEAL FROM THE oIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOr
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 277. Argued and Submitted May 3,1888.-Decided May .14,1888.
The principle that a trustee may purchase the trust property at a judicial
sale, brought about by a third party, which he had no part in procuring,
and over which he could not have had control, is upheld by numerous
decisions of this court, and of other courts of this country, and prevails
in Texas.

