WHITBECK v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Statement of the Case.

WHITBECKI v. 'MERCANTILE NATIONAL BANK OF
CLEVELAND.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 970. Argued March 20, 1888.-

STATES

FOR

Decided April 23,1888.

The auditor of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, fixed the taxable value of shares
in a national bank at 60 per cent of their true value in money, in accordance with the practice adopted for the valuation of other moneyed
capital of individuals in the courts and State, and transmitted the same
to the State Board of Equalization for incorporated banks. That board
increased the valuation to 65 per cent, and this value, being certified
back to the auditor, was placed by him on the tax list without a corresponding change being made in the valuation of other moneyed capital
of individuals. Held, that this was such a discrimination as is forbidden
by ยง 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
The statutes of Ohio regulating assessments for taxation allow an owner
of moneyed capital other than shares in a national bank to have a deduction equal to his bonafide indebtedness made from the amount of the
assessment of the value of such moneyed capital; but they make no
provision for a similar deduction from the assessed value of shares in
a national bank, and provide no means by which such a deduction may
be obtained. Held:
(1) That the owners of such shares are entitled to have a deduction of
their indebtedness made from its assessed value as in the case of
other moneyed capital; and
(2) That the right to it is not lost by not making a demand for it until
the entire process of the appraisement and equalization of the value
of the shares for taxation is completed, and the tax duplicate is
delivered to the treasurer for collection.
The laws of Ohio regulating the taxation of shares in national banks considered.

BILL n EQUITy to restrain the treasurer of Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, from collecting a tax upon shares of the stock
of a national bank in Cleveland alleged to have been illegally
assessed. Decree granting the relief prayed for except as to
three stockholders. The treasurer appealed. The bank took
no appeal as to the three shareholders. A certificate of division of opinion was filed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
VOL. C0XV1-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

.Ab. James Iawrence and Mr. Clarence Brown for appellant. .Mr. David - Tatson, Attorney General of Ohio, and
.Mr. Frederick I. Geddes were with them on the brief.
-Mr.

. W. Boynton and XAr. John C. Hale for appellee.

M . JusTicEn MILLEn

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio:
The Mercantile National Bank of Cleveland, Ohio, brought
this suit against Horatio N. Whitbeck, the appellant here, as
treasurer of Cuyahoga County, in that State, in which the
city of Cleveland is located, to restrain him from the collection of certain taxes levied upon the shares of the capital
stock of that bank. The substantial allegations of the bill
are that upon the assessment of the value of the shares of its
capital stock for purposes of taxation they were estimated at
sixty-five cents on the dollar of their real value in money,
while all other personal property in the city of Cleveland and
county of Cuyahoga, including the moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of said city and county, was estimated at only sixty cents upon the same basis.
This occurred in the. following manner: The auditor of
Cuyahoga County, in accordance with the rules and practice
adopted for the valuation of other moneyed capital of individuals, fixed the taxable value of these bank shares at sixty
per centum of their true value in money, and certified and
transmitted the same to the annual State Board of Equaliza.
tion for incorporated banks. This board made an order increasing the valuation to sixty-five per centum, which latter
value was certified back to the auditor and by him placed
upon the tax duplicate for the year 1885. This was delivered
to the defendant, the treasurer of said county, for the collection of the taxes thereon.
Another point made by the bill was, that while the statutes
of Ohio permit the tax-payer owning moneyed capital subject
to taxation to make a deduction, from the amount assessed

WHITBECK v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

against him on account of credits, of the amount of his bona
fide indebtedness, no such provision is made in regard to the
indebtedness of any holder of bank stock. The bill sets up
as affected by this proposition the names of certain shareholders of the plaintiff bank, who claim that they should be
allowed this deduction for their indebtedness upon the taxable
value of their bank shares.
The case was tried before the Circuit and District Judges,
sitting together, aid a certificate of a division of opinion was
made, accompanied by a statement of the facts on which the
difference arose. A decree was entered in accordance with
the opinion of the Circuit Judge, enjoining the collection of
the amount represented by the difference between sixty and
sixty-five per centum of the actual value of the stock, and
granting the relief asked for by the shareholders who claimed
a deduction on account of their indebtedness, except as to
three of them.
As regards the allegation of a discrimination against the
stockholders on account of the shares held by them, caused by
the increase in the assessment of five per centum made by the
State Board of Equalization, the matter is not altogether free
from difficulty; but we are of opinion that there is such a discrimination as is forbidden by ยง 5219 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. It is certainly true that the tax upon personal property, including the moneyed capital of private citizens, in Cuyahoga County is made upon an estimate of sixty
per centum of its cash value in all cases except with regard to
bank stocks, and that in regard to these the valuation is fixed
upon the same basis at sixty-five per centum. It is probably
the fact, as alleged by the counsel for the treasurer, that the
State Board having these stocks under consideration may have
made a truer estimate and may have equalized their assessed
value over the entire State; but this equalization from the
very nature of the functions and powers of that body merely
has reference to bank shares as among themselves; that is to
say, its purpose is to make the capital stock of all incorporated banks in the State equal in valuation for the purposes of
taxation so far as relates to their actual cash value. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

board has no other power than this; it has no capacity to
equalize the valuation of bank shares for taxation as compared
with other moneyed capital in the State. Such capital may,
therefore, have a valuation very much below its real value,
and even very much below the conventional rate fixed upon
bank stocks by the action of this body, and that result almost
necessarily follows in this case from the nature of the powers
which have been conferred upon it. While it has the power,
and it is made its duty, to take the valuation of bank shares,
as reported to it by the auditor of Cuyahoga County, and
make a comparison between it and the reports of the same
character made to it by the eighty other counties in the State,
it receives no such report in regard to any other moneyed capital. There is no means furnished it for the purpose of making
a comparison of the proportion which the assessment sustains
to the true value, as between the banks and the other moneyed
capital of the State, in the different counties thereof. While
it is not an absolute necessity that this method should result
in a discrimination against the national banks, it is one of the
probabilities, as has happened in this case, that it may produce such a result, which shall be unfavorable to those institutions.
Section 2804 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio enacts that an
annual county board for the equalization of the real and personal property, moneys, and credits in each county, exclusive
of cities of the first and second class, shall be composed of the
county commissioners and county auditor, who shall meet at
the office of the latter in each county on the Wednesday
after the third Monday in MVay, annually. It is provided that
this board shall have power to hear complaints and to equalize the valuation of all real and personal property, moneys,
and credits within the county. It is under this statute that
the assessment was made which the auditor certified to the
State Board of Equalization. No complaint has been made
that this assessment upon the capital shares of the plaintiff
bank was in anywise unequal as regards the assessment upon
other moneyed capital.
The organization and method of proceeding of the State

WVHITBECK v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Board of Equalization for incorporated banks is provided for
in the following sections of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, 1880:
"SEc. 2808. (As reenacted March 9, 1883; 80 Ohio Laws,
55.) The governor, auditor of State, and attorney general
shall constitute a board for the equalization of the shares of
incorporated banks, and for this purpose they shall meet on
the third Tuesday of June, annually, at the office of the
auditor of State, and examine the returns of said banks to
the county auditors, and the value of said shares as fixed by
the county auditors, as the same shall have been reported
by the county auditors to the state auditor.
"SEC. 2809. (As amended March 9, 1883; 80 Ohio Laws,
55.) Said board shall hear complaints and equalize the value
of said shares according to the rules prescribed by this title
for valuing and equalizing the values of real and personal
property, and if in the judgment of the board, or a majority
of them, the aggregate value of all the bpnk property so
reported to said board by the county auditors is below its true
value in money, they may increase or diminish the value of
said shares by such a per cent as will equalize said shares to
their true value in money; provided, that said board shall not
increase or reduce the grand aggregate value of bank shares
as returned by the several county auditors by more than
twenty (20) per centum."
It is obvious from these two sections that the only power
of this board is to diminish or increase the assessed value of
the shares of stock by such a per centum as will make them
equal among themselves, and that there is no power of equalization so far as other personal property is concerned or in comparison with other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals.
The language directing the board to proceed " according to
the rules prescribed by this title for valuing and equalizing
the values of real and personal property" does not authorize
a comparison of the value of bank shares with that of real
and personal property, but is only intended to have regard to
the mode of procedure, such as laying before that body the
reports of the county auditors, hearing complaints, and equalizing the assessments as between the shares of the different

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

banks. Therefore in the order by which it equalized the
various bank shares as among themselves, from all over the
State, and certified this increase of five per centum upon
the assessment to the auditor of Cuyahoga County, it had no
purpose to change or to equalize the assessment in its relation
to other moneyed capital of the State, of the city of Cleveland, or of the county of Cuyahoga.
It is said, however, that the standard of comparison required
by the act of Congress is the assessment of all the banks in the
State with that upon moneyed capital all over the State, and
that there is no evidence presented in this suit that there was
any discrimination against the bank if the standard of comparison here suggested is the one which should govern. There
is evidence that the rule which was adopted by the board of
equalization of Cuyahoga County of fixing the assessment at
sixty per centum of the cash value of the property, prevailed
in eleven other qounties in the State. It is also a fact that in
regard to those counties the discrimination against the national
banks, as compared with other moneyed capital, is established.
This alone would be sufficient to establish a discrimination
as to 23.6 mills out of the entire rate of 26 mills on- the dollar
of valuation; it being found as a matter of fact that 26 mills
was the entire tax levied upon all the property in the county of
Cuyahoga under this assessment, of which the amount of 23.6
mills was exclusively devoted to county and city purposes, and
but 2.4 mills was levied for state purposes.
While it might, perhaps, be plausibly said, that in regard to
taxation for state purposes, the rule of comparison should
include the whole State, it is equally clear that for the much
larger proportion of tax levied for county and city purposes
the assessment upon the moneyed capital of the citizens in
such county and city should furnish the standard by which
the inequality of taxation should be determined.
As it has already been shown that the board for the equalization of the shares of incorporated banks had neither the
authority nor the means to establish and equalize the assessment of the shares of all the banks of the State with the other
moneyed capital of the State, we do not very well see how the

WItlTBECK v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

oral testimony of witnesses offered to establish this uniformity
of assessment could do so; and if it could, how it was compe-

tent to do it in the face of the fact that the board had no such
power.
In regard to the deduction of their bona fide indebtedness,
claimed on the part of certain owners of shares in the plaintiff
bank from the assessment levied upon such shares, the court
finds that no demand was made therefor "either by the complainant or by any of its shareholders until the 17th day of
December, A.D. 1885, a date prior to the commencement of
this action, at which time the entire process of the appraisement and equalization of the value of said shares for taxation
had been completed, and the tax duplicate for said year had
been delivered in accordance with law to the treasurer of said
county for the collection of said taxes; but the laws of Ohio
make no provisions for the deduction of the bona Xde indebtedness of any shareholder from the shares of his stock and provide no means by which said deduction can be secured."
Under the decision in Hills v. Exce ange Bank, 105 U. S.
319, we are of opinion that the bank was entitled to relief in
the cases of all the shareholders named in the bill, (except
James A. Barnett, Robert L. Chamberlain, and James Parmalee,) and that the fact that they did not make an earlier demand for the deduction of their indebtedness from the assessed
value of the shares of their bank stock does not defeat their
right to have it made by this bill in chancery, for the reason
that the court expressly finds that "the laws of Ohio make
no provision for the deduction of the 7onafide indebtedness of
any shareholder from the shares of his stock and provide no
means by which said deduction can be secured."
This was precisely the case in regard to _fills v. Exchange
Bank, in which this court said: "We are of opinion that, considering the decision of the Court of Appeals of N~ew York,
the action of the assessors in the case of Williams, and their
own testimony in this case, it is entirely clear that all affidavits and demands for deduction which could and might have
been made would have been disregarded and unavailing, and
that the assessors had a fixed purpose, generally known to all

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

persons interested, that no deduction for debts would be made
in the valuation of bank shares for taxation. It is, therefore,
not now essential to show such an offer when it is established
that there were debts to be deducted, and when the matter is
still inAferi, the tax being unpaid."
In regard to all of the shareholders claiming this deduction,
except Barnett, Chamberlain, and Parmalee, the court finds
that the allegations of the bill are true, but that as to them
they are untrue. It, therefore, granted relief by the injunction as to all of them except these three, as to which it was
denied. It is to be observed, however, that the bank takes no
appeal from the part of the decree denying relief to these
three shareholders.
These principles require the affirmance of the decree of the
Circuit Court; and while there will be found in them a sufficient answer to the questions certified by the judges of that
court, we do not think it necessary to make a more specific
answer to each of them.
The decree is afi"ned.

PEORIA AND PEKIN UNION RAILWAY COMPANTY
v. CHICAGO, PEKIN AND SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COIMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 210. Argued April 6,1888.-

Decided April 23, 1888.

A railroad company, all whose stock was owned by four other companies,
whose roads connected, having obtained a lease of another connecting
railroad, and improved the terminal facilities, made a contract with the
four companies, by which they should have the use of its tracks and
terminal facilities for fifty years, each paying the same fixed rent and
certain terminal charges, and any other company with the same terminus
might, by entering into a similar contract, acquire like privileges upon
paying the same rent and similar charges; and demanded the making of
such a contract by the receiver of another company, who previously had
the use of the road now leased, and of its terminal facilities, upon terms

