ALLEN v. GILLETTE.
Syllabus.

cause of action in each instance is the breach of contract, and
the mere fact that in one instance the damages are laid at
$75,000, while in the other at $100,000, does not change its
identity.
The suggestion that the claim was not rejected by the board
of audit within the meaning of ยง 8 of the act of June 16,
1880, sup:va, but was only disallowed, may be dismissed with
the remark that the two words when used with reference to
the disposition of claims are synonymous.
We think, therefore, that there was no jurisdiction in the
Court of Claims to entertain this branch of the case.
We also concur with the court in holding that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a suit
brought on the 6th of January, 1875, by William W. Ballard,
Edward L. Marsh, and the claimant, Talmadge E. Brown,
against the District of Columbia, to recover damages alleged
to have been sustained by them under the said proposition and
said Johnson's letter sued on in this case, is a bar to the first
count of the petition. Gould v. Evansville &o. Railroad Co.,
91 U. S. 526.
In no view that has been presented or that seems capable of
presentation, can the alleged contract be considered binding
upon the District of Columbia.
f/w judgment of the Cowrt of Claims is cffirmed.

ALLENT v. GILLETTE.
APPEAL FROM THE oIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOr
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 277. Argued and Submitted May 3,1888.-Decided May .14,1888.
The principle that a trustee may purchase the trust property at a judicial
sale, brought about by a third party, which he had no part in procuring,
and over which he could not have had control, is upheld by numerous
decisions of this court, and of other courts of this country, and prevails
in Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Decree dismissing the bill.
pealed., The case is stated in the bill.
IN

EQUITY.

Mr. J. .Brnady for appellant.
him on the brief.
.31.

.

Complainant ap-

_A&. -H. F. Ring was with

VWauZ for appellee submitted on his brief.

Mr. JUSTIE

LAmAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas. The bill sets forth
that complainant, Fannie B. Allen, a citizen of Kentucky, is
the granddaughter of James Morgan, who died in 1866 seized
and possessed of an estate of 70,000 acres of land, and a homestead in Galveston, with some personal property. The land
was unproductive and scattered throughout the State. The
deceased devised his property to seven grandchildren, of whom
complainant was the oldest, and who in 1866 married at the
age of seventeen years.
By the terms of the will Henry F. Gillette, George Ball, both
of Texas, and W. HI. N. Smith, of North Carolina, were appointed executors. They were authorized, after probating said
will and filing inventory and appraisement of the property, to
administer the estate without any accountability to any judge
or .court. Gillette and. Ball on being duly qualified entered
upon the management of the estate.
On the 13th day of June, 1872, complainant and her husband, HT. A. Allen, gave their note for $1200, payable six
months from date, with 12 per cent interest, to the Banking
and Insurance Company of Galveston, to secure the payment
of which note they also executed a deed of trust on all complainant's interest in the various tracts of laud described in said
deed belonging to the estate. Complainant and her husband
being unable to pay said note when it became due, the deed of
trust was foreclosed, her interest in said estate was sold thereunder, and the said defendant, Gillette, became the purchaser
of said interest at the foreclosure sale.
The complainant alleges, at length, that, being poor and in

ALLEN v. GILLETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

needy circumstances, arising from the failure and refusal of
said defendant to settle up the said estate so as to let her have
her portion thereof, or to render it available to relieve her
pressing necessities, she was induced by the advice of said
defendant to borrow said money from the bank and to execute the said note and deed of trust, which she would not have
done but for defendant's promise to make her said interest in
the estate available, so as to pay off said note, and thus prevent the sale under the deed of trust. She further alleges
that, by withholding from her information as to the condition
and value of the estate and making no reports to the court,
the defendant obtained an undue advantage over her, and was
thereby enabled to bid in her interest for much less than it
was worth at the time of the sale. After alleging other circumstances of wrongful conduct and dereliction of duty, she
states that, owing to enforced absence from Texas, to her
poverty, and to the ignorance in which she was kept as to the
real facts relative to her father's estate, it was not until a few
months before this suit was commenced that she, by accident,
discovered that she had any lawful claim to recover of said
defendant her interest in the lands purchased by him.
The bill closes with the prayer that she be allowed to redeem said land from the said defendant, Gillette, by paying
said purchase money, and that, in the event of her being unable to redeem it within such reasonable time as the court might
direct, then that the land be resold for her benefit, paying the
defendant the amount of his advances and interest; that the
said defendant be required to answer, under oath, each and
every allegation of the bill, and to make a full account of all
his actings and doings as executor of Morgan's estate,
The defendant denies the allegation that the note and mortgage were executed by said complainant at his (defendant's)
suggestion, by his advice, or with his approval, and alleges, in
specific detail, that each and all the statements in the bill as
to his (defendant's) conversations, actions, or privity with said
complainant and her husband, or said company, in any manner leading to or connected with said loan, note, and trust
deed, are wholly untrue and unfounded; and avers that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was entirely ignorant of the borrowing of the said money and
of the execution of said note and deed of trust, and of any and
all negotiations with reference thereto, or of any purpose of
the kind on their part, until long afterwards, when he happened to see in a newspaper an advertisement of the sale to
be made under the trust deed by complainant and her husband.
The answer proceeds to give a full recital of the circumstances
of defendant's purchase of said interest, declaring that having
failed in his efforts to prevent said sale or to secure any better
price to be paid, and that having ascertained that the property
would be inevitably sold, he attended and purchased said interest, bidding the ahount of said debts and expenses of the
sale, and that said husband of complainant was present at the
sale, repeating his assurance, previously given, of satisfaction
at the purchase of defendant in his own personal right and
for his own benefit, and without trust or liability to complainant. Defendant further alleges that the price was entirely
adequate to the value of the interest at that time, and denies
the allegations of complainant to the contrary; alleges that
said lands were appraised at twenty-five cents per acre; that
the indebtedness of the estate exceeded $20,000; that if settlement had been forced it would not have yielded sufficient to
pay the indebtedness; and that the policy of paying off the
debts gradually, by inducing creditors to accept lands in settlement and selling in small parcels on time, thus saving all the
lands they possibly could for division among the grandchildren
of Morgan, was known to, and approved by, the relations and
friends of the other six minor children. He denies all concealment of the condition and indebtedness of the estate from complainant and her husband, who was a young man of good
business qualifications, fully able, so far as defendant knows
and believes, to maintain his family in comfort by economy and
industry; and in specific detail shows how he (the defendant)
acted in good faith, with all reasonable diligence, in the discharge of his trust to the creditors and devisees of the estate.
The case was set for hearing upon bill and answer, and the
exhibits to the bill and answer respectively. Upon the trial,
the court held that the complainint was not entitled to the

ALLEN v. GILLETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

relief prayed for in the bill; that no fraud was shown to have
been committed, and that the defendant acted in the purchase
with good faith; and rendered a decree against complainant,
dismissing her bill with costs.
The complainant in this case prayed that the defendant
be required to answer upon oath, fully and distinctly, each
allegation of the bill. He did answer, and repelled every
allegation of suggestion or knowledge on the subject of complainant's transactions with the bank, or of any approval of
them after he was informed of them. fHis answer is corroborated by the circumstances and facts developed. There is not
in those circumstances the slightest trace of fraud, false
representation, or unfair dealing on his part in making the
purchase, or of inadequacy of the price paid. It is, perhaps,
worthy of remark, that counsel for complainant, both in oral
argument and printed brief, was particular to call especial
attention of the court to the fact that it is not alleged "that
the defendant was guilty of fraud of any kind, either express,
implied, or constructive;" nor is it claimed that the facts
alleged in the bill show fraud of any kind on the part of the
defendant. The theory of his case is, that, on account of the
fiduciary Prelation of the defendant, the law conclusively presumes that he made the purchase for the benefit of the complainant as the cestui que trust; and that he thereby acquired
only the right of holding the property as a trust mortgagee,
and was entitled to realize what he had paid for it in the same
manner as a mortgagee realizes from his investment. This is
the whole extent of the claim ; - not that the purchase shall
be set aside and declared void for fraud of any kind, either
express or implied, but that it should be upheld and made to
operate as a resulting trust for the benefit of the complainant.
It must be conceded that, as a general rule of equity jurisprudence, a trustee or person acting in a fiduciary character
for the benefit of others cannot become a purchaser at his own
sale, or acquire any interest therein without the express
consent, or under a special permission given by a court of
competent jurisdiction. The cases cited by counsel for appellant abundantly support this doctrine. It applies to executors
VOL. cxX-V-38

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and administrators who are not permitted to derive a personal
benefit from the manner in which they transact the business
or manage the assets of the estates intrusted to them; but
whatever advantage is derived by them from a purchase at an
undervalue is for the common benefit of the estate.
In this case the precise nature of the trust, as well as the
character and limits of the relations of the executor to the
estate, are fixed with precision by the terms of the will, which
is as follows:
"I do hereby constitute and declare the children of Son
Kosinsko Morgan and his wife Caroline, to wit, Fannie Belle,
Chhrles W., P. May, Maria Orphelia, and Nellie Latham, and
Ellen Lee, the daughter of my daughter Othelia Lee, my
residuary legatees, and to them in equal shares I will, devise,
and bequeath all my estate and property, both real and personal, wherever the same may be, after all just debts against
my estate and expenses accruing in the settlement thereof
shall have been paid and discharged.
"I hereby constitute and appoint George Ball, of Galveston
County, and H. F. Gillette, of Harris, both of the State of
Texas, and Mr. Wm.H. N. Smith, of Murfreesborough, North
Carolina, the executors of this my last will and testament
(and to qualify without bond), with power, jointly or either
two of them, to do all such acts and things, to sell any property necessary for the liquidation of debts, and to take all such
steps and measures as may be necessary or expedient in the
discharge or execution of the trust hereby reposed in them,
and in payment and discharge of all the provisions and bequests herein contained, and in the administration of the
estate and property devised and disposed of by virtue of this
testament; and finally, it is my special desire that when this
my last will and testament shall have been proven and recorded and an inventory and appraisement of my estate recorded in the probate court, neither such court nor any other
shall have anything further to do with the administration of
my estate, but my said executors, George Ball, H. F. Gillette,
and W. H. N. Smith, or any two of them who shall qualify
and act, shall have full control of my estate under the will,

ALLEN v. GILLETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

without accountability to any judge or court further than
before expressed by the will."
It is clear, that, with the exception of the exemption of the
executors from accountability to the court in the details of
administration, the trust created by this will is the same that
attaches by operation of law to any executor, to wit, a trust
to pay the debts of the estate and then to deliver over the
remainder of the lands for partition among the devisees or
heirs.
The subject matter of the trust in this case is the whoIe
estate in its entirety: (1) for the common benefit of all the
creditors; and (2) for the common benefit of all the heirs or
devisees. Respecting these creditors or devisees in their separate and individual capacity, he is not the representative or
guardian of their person or property, and can exercise no
legal control over either. The disposition which a single
creditor may make of his debt against the estate, or the sale
or other disposition which an individual devisee may make of
his individual interest in said estate, cannot interfere with the
executor's control of the estate for the payment of the debts
of the creditors, on the one hand, or for its ultimate partition
among the devisees, on the other; and both are, therefore,
matters entirely outside of his trust and his office.
We have already taken it as true that fraud is out of the
question in this case, and that the defendant had no agency in
the borrowing of the money and incumbering her separate interest as above described, by the complainant. She had, in
conjunction with her husband, absolute authority to contract
that debt, and to convey her inteiest in the lands of the estate
in trust to the bank, with a power, in case of default of payment, to sell said property. Having this right free from any
power of interference on the part. of the executor, Gillette, it
must follow that the debt was a legal one, the incumbrance a
valid one, and the sale under it by the trustee in the deed
equally valid and legal. Up to this point the defendant
occupies no relation of trust or confidence to the transaction.
With no legal power over any of the contracting parties, with
no right to interfere with the trustee, to whom full power by

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the deed is lawfully given to sell the incumbered interest at
public auction, he has no trusteeship in regard to it, no duty
to perform in respect to it. The debt itself,' incurred by complainant, constitutes no part of the liabilities of the estate
which he, as executor, represents. The sale, when made,
touched that estate nowhere, did not diminish its assets in the
least, nor withdraw from it any lands subject to the debts of
creditors, and to the ultimate partition of the devisees and
their assigns.
There is nothing in the transaction, from its inception to its
final consummation, that imposed upon the defendant any
duty incompatible with his right as a purchaser at the sale.
The principle that a trustee may purchase the trust property at a judicial sale brought about by a third party, which
he had taken no part in procuring, and over which he could
not have had control, is upheld by numerous decisions of this
court and of other courts of this country. Prevostv. Gratz,
1 Pet. 0. C. 364-, 378; Twim Lick Oil Co. v. .arbury, 91 U. S.
587; Cworpening's Appeal, 32 Penn. St. 315; Piq v. &aber,
6 W. & S. 18.
It is true that the rule upon this subject as stated by some
text writers is more stringent than that stated in these cases.
1 Perry on Trusts, ยง 205; Hill on Trustees, 250. We think,
however, that the language -employed by them does not present a thorough and perfect generalization of the essential
principles pervading the decisions upon this subject. They are
in manifest conflict with the uniform current of decisions of
the Supreme Court of Texas, which are our guides in this case.
Erskine v. .De la Baum, 3 Texas, 406, 417; Howard v. Davis,
6 Texas, 174; Scott v. 2fann, 33 Texas, 725; Goodgame v.
Bushing, 35 Texas, 722.
From all of which we are of the opinion that the decree of
the court below was correct, and it is accordingly
Apffrmed.

