OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

MOREI.
APPEAL FROM

STEINBAOH.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 176. Submitted February 9, 1888.-

FOI

Decided April 16, 1888.

The act of Congress of March 3, 1851, "to ascertain and settle the private
land claims in the State of California," 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, created a
board of commissioners to which all persons, claiming land by virtue
-of any right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government,
-wererequired to present their claims for examination and determination
within two years from its date, with such documentary evidence and
testimony of witnesses as they relied upon to support their claims, and
provided, in substance, that if upon examination they were found by the
board, and by the courts of the United States, to which an appeal could
be taken, to be valid, the claims should be confirmed and surveyed, and
patents issued therefor to the claimants; but that all lands, the claims
to which were not presented to the board within that period, should be
considered as a part of the public domain of the United States. Held,
(1) That this provision requiring the presentation of their claims was
obligatory on claimants, and that they were bound by the judgment of the board, if confirmed by the courts of the United States
on appeal, and by the survey and location of the claim by the
officers of the Land Department, following the final decree of confirmation.
(2) That the patent of the United States, issued after the claim was
surveyed and located, is conclusive, both as to the validity of
the title of the claimant and the extent and boundaries of his
claim, as against all parties not claiming by superior title, such as
would enable them to contest the action of the government respecting the property.
In order that a perfect title to land might vest under a grant from the
Mexican government a delivery of possession by its officers was necessary. The proceeding was termed a judicial delivery of possession.
'The authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials in California terminated
on the 7th of July, 1846. No alcalde appointed or elected subsequent to
that date was empowered to give judicial possession of land granted by
the previous government.
The doctrine that the laws of a conquered or ceded country, except so far
as affected by the political institutions of the new government, remain in
force after conquest or cession until changed by it, does not apply to
laws authorizing the alienation of any portions of the public domain, or
to officers charged under the former government with that power. No
proceedings affecting the rights of the new government over public
property could be taken, except in pursuance of its authority on the
subject.

MORE v. STEINBACH.
Statement of the Case.
Under the Code of Civil Procedure of California a plaintiff asserting title to
lands, though out of possession, may maintain an action to determine an
adverse claim, estate, or interest in the premises.

THE

case as stated by the court was as follows:

This is a suit in equity to determine the adverse claims of
the defendants below, appellants here, to certain lands in the
county of Ventura, in the State of California. One of the
plaintiffs, Rudolph Steinbach, is an alien and a subject of the
Emperor of Germany. The other plaintiff, Horace W. Carpentier, is a citizen of the State of New York. The defendants are all citizens of the State of California. In their complaint the plaintiffs allege that they are the owners in fee of
the premises, which are fully described; that the defendants
claim an estate therein adverse to them; that such claim is
wholly unfounded and invalid in law or equity; and that its
assertion depreciates the value of their title and property, and
prevents them from using or selling the property, and otherwise harasses and anioys them in its possession and ownership.
They therefore pray that the defendants may be
required to set forth the grounds and nature of their claims
and pretensions, that the court may determine each of them;
and that it may be adjudged that they are unfounded in law
and equity, and that the plaintiffs are the owners of the
premises and entitled to their possession, and may have a writ
of assistance for the possession of such portions as may be
found to be in the occupation of the defendants, and for such
other and further relief as may be just.
In their answer the defendants disclaim all interest in a
portion of the premises, and deny that the plaintiffs have any
estate in the residue. As to such residue, they admit that
they claim an estate in fee simple therein, and aver that the
defendant A. P. More is now, and his grantors have been since
1843, the owners thereof in fee by virtue of a grant made
April 28, 1840, by Alvarado, then governor of the Department of California under the Mexican government; that the
grant was approved by the Departmental Assembly on the
:26th of May, 1840; and that thereafter, on the 1st of April,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

1843, Micheltorena, then governor of the Department, ratified
and confirmed the grant; and that, on the 17th and 18th of
November, 1847, the grant was duly surveyed, and the grantee
placed in possession by the First Alcalde of the district in
presence of the neighboring proprietors, who consented to the
lines thus established.
The answer further alleges that the grant was adjudged to
be valid and confirmed under the act of Congress of March 3,
1851, "to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California," 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, and that the defendant A. 1. More, on the 4th of March, 1858, succeeded by
proper conveyances to all the interests of the grantee in the
premises, and still remains the owner thereof, except as to a
portion not in dispute here, which he has alienated, and as to.
portions which are described as belonging to the other defendants, all of whom assert title to the parcels held by them
under conveyances from him.
A replication being filed, proofs were taken, from which it
appears that the plaintiffs claimed under a patent of the
United States, issued to one Manuel Antonio Rodrigues de
Poli, bearing date on the 24th of August, 1874. It is conceded that whatever title was acquired by Poli under the
patent had passed by proper mesne conveyances to them.
The patent recites the proceedings taken by Poli before the.
Land Commissioners under the act of March 3, 1851; the
filing of his petition in March, 1852, asking for the confirmation of ihis title to a tract of land known as the mission of San
Buenaventura, his claim being founded upon a sale made on
the 8th of June, 1846, by the then governor of the Department of California; the decree of confirmation rendered by
the Board of Commissioners in May, 1855; the affirmation
of said decree by the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of California in April, 1861, to the
extent of eleven square leagues, and by the Supreme Court of
the United States, as shown by its mandate issued in December, 1868; and the subsequent depositing in the General Land
Office of a plat of the survey of the claim confirmed, authenticated by the signature of the Surveyor General of the United

MORE v. STEINBACH.
Statement of the Case.

States for California, the descriptive notes and plat of the
survey being set forth in full.
The land of which the plaintiffs claim to be the owners is
embraced in this patent, and upon its efficacy in transferring
the title they rely.
The defendants, as stated in their answer, claim under a,
grant made by Governor Alvarado to Manuel Jimeno on the
28th of April, 1840, which was confirmed under the act of
Congress of March 3, 1851, to ascertain and settle private
land claims in California. It appeared in evidence, a fact not
averred in the answer, that the claim thus confirmed was
subsequently surveyed as required by that act, and on the
22d of April, 1872, a patent of the United States therefor was
issued to the claimants, Davidson and others, who had acquired
by proper conveyances whatever rights Manuel Jimeno possessed under the grant. The defendants afterwards succeeded
to the rights and title of these claimants.
The patent to Davidson and others recites the various proceedings taken by them for the confirmation of the claim to
the land covered by the grant to Manuel Jimeno, issued by
Governor Alvarado on the 28th of April, 1840, and approved
in a subsequent instrument by Governor Micheltorena on the
1st of April, 1843, which two instruments are described as
separate grants; the confirmation of the claim by the Board
of Land Commissioners on the 22d of May, 1855, and that, an
appeal having been taken to the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of California, the Attorney
General of the United States gave notice that it was not tue
intention of the United States to prosecute it, and thereupon,
at its December Term, 1857, it was dismissed by the court.
The patent also recites the subsequent proceedings taken
for the location and survey of the claim, by which it appears
that two surveys were made, both of which were brought before the District Court of the United States under the act of
1860; and that the one made under instructions of the United
States Surveyor General in December, 1860, and approved by
him in February, 1861, was adopted by the court "as the correct and true location of the lands confirmed." The descrip-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Argument for Appellants.

tive notes of the survey approved are set forth in full in the

patent with a plat of the lands.
This patent does not embrace the premises to which adverse
claims are asserted by the defendants. Their contention is
that the grant followed by the judicial possession given by the
alcalde of the vicinity in 184:7, vested in the grantee a perfect title to the lands within such judicial possession, which
does embrace these lands; and that their right to such lands
is not lost by reason of the fact that they are not included in
the subsequent survey of the claim under the act of 1851, and
the patent of the United States. The court below held against
their contention, and adjudged that the plaintiffs were owners
in fee of the described premises, and that the adverse claims
of the defendants to an estate or interest therein were unfounded in law or equity, and gave a decree, as prayed, for
the plaintiffs. From this decree the defendants have appealed
to this court.
ir. George Plournoy and XAr. John B. .Mhoon for appellants.
I. If the court be of opinion that the patent to De Poll is
admissible in evidence we still claim that it did not vest title
in the patentee, either as against (1) claimants under a complete Mexican title, or (2) the United States. If Mexico had
invested Jimeno with a complete title she had no title to cede
to the United States in 1848, and did, in fact, only cede, as to
this parcel of land, territorial sovereignty. The United States
could not convey by its patent, or otherwise, that which she
never had. And if the sale to Jose Arnaz was void, the
patent issued thereon is clearly void. The United States can
only patent its domain and convey its territory pursuant to
law. Any acts of even the highest officers of the United
States-, contrary to law, will not estop the government from
denying that act. Story on Agency, ยง 307 a; Hunter v.
United States, 5 Pet. 173, 188.
I. The appellants' title to the land described in the answer
was complete and perfect in all respects prior to the cession

MORE v. STEINBACH.
Argument for Appellants.

of California to ihe United States; and the United States cannot, either by an act of Congress, or patent of the Executive.
or decree of the Judicial Department, in contravention of that
treaty, divest the appellants.
[Counsel then stated the various steps in their chain of title
upon which they relied, and continued:]
We submit, without fear of contradiction, that in no case in
California, Florida, Louisiana or Texas has any Mlexican or
Spanish grantee shown a more perfect and complete title than
the grantee in the case at bar. And we confidently claim that
unless the fact that the juridical survey being made after July
6, 1846, vitiates said survey, Jimeno's title to the land described in that survey was in all respects perfect and complete.
.3inturnv. Brower, 24 California, 644; Schmitt v. Giovanari,
43 California, 617; 3Iala'tin v. United States, 1- Wall. 282;
United States v. Castro, 5 Sawyer, 625; Rancho Corte de
Madera del Presidio; Copp's Pub. Land Laws, p. 532.
That Pablo de la Guerra had jurisdiction to make the survey cannot be doubted. Cohas v. Raisin, 3 California, 443;
White v. -Moses, 21 California, 34; Merryman v. Bourne, 9
Wall. 592, 602; Palmer v. Low, 2 Sawyer, 248; Pico v.
United States, 1 Rfoffman Land Cas. 279.
"The laws of a conquered or ceded country remain m force
till altered by the new sovereign." .iitchell v. United States,
9 Pet. 711, 749.
Now, if we have shown a perfect title from Mexico in
Jimeno prior to the treaty of cession, the United States must
protect it. The treaty of cession stipulated for such protection, and as to perfect titles so acquired, they could not be
lawfully required to be presented for adjudication under the
act of 1851. Beard v. Bedery, 3 Wall. 478, 490. The treaty
was the law of the title.
There can be no estoppel by the patent to Davidson as in
favor of respondents, for the reason that there could be none
against them arising out of a proceeding to which neither they
nor their grantor was a party.
Neither the United States patent to De Poll nor the United
States patent to Davidson can affect the rights of the other

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Argument for Appellants.

party in a suit for said claims under Mexican grants, because a
United States patent on a Mexican grant is a quit claim deed
from the government, and does not enlarge or abridge preexisting titles. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 'T36;
NQew Orleans v. De Armas, 9 Pet. 224:; ITangdeau v. Hanes,
21 Wall. 521 ; Nelson v. .Woon, 3 McLean, 319.
The appellants are not estopped by a quit claim deed under
which they do not claim. Hidder v. Blaisdell,45 Maine, 461.
Under the rule in Ca~sidy v. Carr, 48 California, 339, and
Boyles v. Hfinds, 2 Sawyer, if these respondents derived their
title by grant from the United States, as, for instance, under
the preemption or other valid act by which the United States
disposes of its lands, then the patent to Davidson would estop
these appellants for the sole reason that appellants would have
litigated their rights in a proceeding to which respondents'
grantor was a party, and the decree in that case would be an'
estoppel on both parties to this suit. The case at bar presents
no such facts. The United States is not respondents' grantor,
nor is it appellants' grantor. It never had the title to the
land described in either patent. If so, both patents are void,
for under the act of 1851 the United States could issue patents
only on lands the right to which came from Mexico to claimants.
The land in dispute is embraced in the De Poli patent, that
patent issued in a proceeding to which appellants (and their
grantors) were not parties. By that patent the United States
declared that it had no title or rights to the land therein described and that, as against the United States, De Poli had
derived title from Mexico.
By its patent to Davidson the United States did not undertake to do more than segregate Davidson's land from the
public domain. It had no power to establish lines which
would determine the rights of private parties inter sese, because those private parties were not parties in the proceedings
under which such patents issued. The land in dispute here
never was public domain. It either belonged to De Poli or
Jimeno at the time of the cession to the United States, and
nothing the United States has since done, or can now do,

IMORE v. STEINBACH.
Argument for Appellants.

should estop those who have succeeded to De Poli or Jimeno
from showing to whom it did then belong. "In such a case
the United States has no interest." United States v. Tfhite,
23 How. 249.
As was said in Bissell v. Renshaw, 1 Sawyer, 553, 583:
As if aware of the confusion which must follow such
proceedings, the act of 1851 provides expressly that neither
the final decree of the Board of Commissioners, or of the
District, or the Supreme Court, or any patent to be issued
under that act, shall be conclusive against any one but the
claimants and the United States. . . . Rodrigues v. Urnited
States, 1 Wall. 582, 588."
If there were a contest between the United States and
either of these patentees, or a grantee of the United States
and either of the patentees, the patent would clearly be conclusive. But how can such a rule apply when both parties
claim the land under a title paramount to the United States?
The land in question does not belong to the United States.
It is the property of either appellants or respondents. The
title came from Mexico to its present owners - not from the
United States. The determination of the suit will depend
upon the question: To whom did Mexico convey ?. If Mexico
conveyed the property to appellants, the United States cannot
convey it to respondents; and, on the other hand, if she conveyed it to respondents, the United States cannot convey it to
appellants. The United States has, by its Executive Department, segregated it from the public domain, and it now remains for the Judicial Department of the government, as the
last duty of the government under the treaty, to determine
to whom Mexico did convey, and to then protect the Mexican
grantee in his property.
III. But if the Pico sale, upon which the De Poli patent
issued, is valid, and the juridical survey of November, 184'7,
is void, the respondents are estopped from now objecting to
the lines then established and agreed upon by Anguisola, in
charge of the Mission.
The recital in the juridical survey, that the neighboring
owners were present and consented to that survey and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

lines then established, and that Anguisola was then in charge
of the Mission lands, and was present and satisfied with said
lines, is presumptively true. California Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 1963, Subd. 15; Stinson v. Hawkins, 13 Fed. Rep.
833.
Respondents are estopped by their assent from denying the
division line between themselves and defendants. Stowe v.
United States, 19 Wall. 13.
The line established by agreement controls as between the
parties or their privies: Br'onson's Executor v. Clappell, 12
Wall. 681; Spring v. Hewston, 52 California, 442; Carentierv. Thurston, 24 California, 281; Aldviso v. United States, 8
Wall. 337; iiguerasv. United States, 5 Wall. 824; -FossattsCase, 2 Wall. 649, 715. "Acquiescence in drror takes away
the right of objecting to it." California Civil Code, ยง 3516.
21P. E. S. Pillsbuwly for appellees.
MR. JusTicE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The question presented for determination in this case relates
to the effect of proceedings taken under the act of March 3,
1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in California,
upon the claims of parties holding concessions of lands in thatState under the Spanish or the Mexican government. By the
cession of California to the United States, the rights of the
inhabitants to their property were not affected. They remained as before. Political jurisdiction and sovereignty over
the territory and public property alone passed to the United
States. United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51, 87. Previous.
to the cession numerous grants of land in California had been
made by the Spanish and Mexican governments to private
parties. Some of these were of tracts with defined boundaries;
some were for specific quantities of land to be selected from
areas containing a much larger quantity; and others were of
lands known only by particular names, without any designated
boundaries. To ascertain what rights had thus passed, and to,

21ORE v. STEINBACH
Opinion of the Court.

carry out the obligation which the government of the United
States had assumed to protect all rights of property of those
who remained citizens of the country, Congress passed the act
of March 3) 1851. By it a board of commissioners was created, to which all persons claiming land by virtue of any right
or title derived from the Mexican or Spanish governments
could present their claims and have them examined and their
validity determined; and the claimants could appear by counsel and produce documentary evidence and witnesses in support of their claims. The act required all persons thus claiminglands in California to present their claims to the board within
two years from its date, and declared in substance, that if,
upon examination, they were found by the board, and by the
courts of the United States to which an appeal was allowed, t&
be valid, the claims should be confirmed and surveyed, and
patents issued therefor to the claimants. But the act also,
declared that all lands the claims to which were not presented
to the board within that period, should be considered as part
of the public domain of the United States. In Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 490, this court, whilst stating that it was unnecessary to express any opinion as to the validity of the legislation in respect to perfect titles acquired under the former
government, held that it was not subject to any constitutional
objection, so far as it applied to grants of an imperfect character, which required further action of the political department
to render them perfect. The grant to Manuel Jimeno, under
which the defendants claim, was one of an imperfect character.
Upon the cession of the country there remained a further proceeding to be had with respect to that grant before an indefeasible title could vest in the grantee. A formal transfer of
the property to the graiitee by officers of the government was
necessary. The proceeding was termed a judicial delivery of
possession. Until it was had the grant was an imperfect one.
As preliminary to, or as a part of the official delivery, the
boundaries of the land were to be established, after summoning
the neighboring proprietors as witnesses to the proceeding.
.Malariln v. United States, 1 Wall. 282, 289. No such official
delivery of possession was had under the former government

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1887
Opinion of the Court.

to the grantee, Jimeno, though the grant to him contains these
conditions: "He shall petition the proper judge to be put in
judicial possession by him in virtue of this document, by whom
the boundaries shall be marked out, on the limits of which he
shall place the proper land marks. The land now granted is
of the extent of four square leagues, more or less, as shown by
the map which accompanies the espediente. The judge who
shall give him possession shall have it measured in conformity
with the evidence, the surplus that results remaining in the
nation for its proper use."
The authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials termi-,
nated on the 'th of July, 1846. On that day the forces of the
United States took possession of Monterey, the capital of California, and soon afterwards occupied the principal portions of
the country, and the military occupation continued until after
the treaty of peace. The political department of the g6vernment designated that day as the period when the conquest of
California was complete and the authority of the officials of
Mexico ceased. In this matter the judiciary follows the political department. United States v. Yorba, 1 Wall. 412, 423;
United States v. Pico, 23 How. 321, 326; -Hornsbyv. United
States, 10 Wall. 224, 239.
After that date no alcaldes elected
by the citizens had any jurisdiction to deliver judicial possession. This was distinctly held in the case of -Fr2emont v.
United States, 11 How. 542, 563. In answer to the objection
there taken that there was no survey or judicial possession of
the land granted to Alvarado, under whom Fremont claimed,
the court said: "The alcalde had no right to survey the land.
or deliver judicial possession, except by the permission of the
American authorities. He could do nothing that would in any
degree affect the rights of the Unitd States to the public
property; and the United States could not justly claim the
forfeiture of the land for a breach of these conditions, without
showing that there were officers in California, under the military government, who were authorized by a law of Congress
to make this survey, and deliver judicial possession to the
grantee. It is certain that no such authority existed after the
overthrow of the Mexican government."

MORE v. STEINBACH.
Opinion of the Court.

The doctrine invoked by the defendants, that the laws of a
conquered or ceded country, except so far as they may affect
the political institutions of the new sovereign, remain in force
after the conquest or cession until changed by him, does not
aid their defence. That doctrine has no application to laws
authorizing the alienation of any portions of the public domain, or to officers charged under the former government
with that power. No proceedings affecting the rights of the
new sovereign over public property can be taken except in
pursuance of his authority on the subject. The cases in the
Supreme Court of California and in this court which recognize
as valid grants of lots in the Pueblo or City of San Francisco
by alcaldes appointed or elected after the occupation of the
country by the forces of the United States, do not militate
against this view. Those officers were agents of the pueblo or
city, and acted under its authority in the distribution of its
municipal lands. They did not assume to alienate or affect
the title to lands which was in the United States. Welch v.
Sullivan, 8 California, 165; TFhite v. .Aoses, 21 California, 34;
_fer'ryman v. Bou-ne, 9 Wall. 592.
It follows from what is thus said that it would be a sufficient
answer to the contention of the defendants, that the grant
under which they claim to have acquired a perfect title conferred none. The grantees were not invested with such title,
and could not be, without an official delivery of possession
under the Mexican government, and such delivery was not
had, and could not be had, after the cession of the country,
except by American authorities acting under a law of Congress. But independently of this consideration, and assuming
that the title under the grant was perfect, the obligation of
the grantee was none the less to present his claim to the Board
of Land Commissioners for examination. The ascertainment
of existing claims was a matter of vital importance to the
government in the execution of its policy respecting the public lands; and Congress might well declare that a failure to
present a claim should be deemed an abandonment of it, and
that the lands covered by it should be considered a part of the
public domain. Certain it is that a claimant presenting his
VOL. CXxVn-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

claim to the Board for examination and confirmation, in order
that he might subsequently acquire a patent from the government, is bound by the adjudication of the Board. After submitting his claim to its examination and judgment, he cannot
afterwards be heard to say that in adjudicating upon his title
the Board erred, or that the Land Department in determining
the boundaries of his claim erred, in order that he may claim
outside of the survey and patent other lands which he considers covered by his grant. He cannot repudiate a jurisdiction to which he has appealed; and the estoppel extends to
parties claiming under him. Boyle v. Hinds, 2 Sawyer, 527;
Cassidy v. CaOr, 48 California, 339.
In determining claims under MNexican grants the Board of
Land Commissioners was required by the act under which it
was created, to be governed by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages and customs of
the government from which the claim was derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the United States, so far as they were applicable. And in
United States v. Fossatt, 21 How. 445, 448, 449, this court,
in considering what was involved in the inquiry into the
validity of a claim to land under that act, said: "It is obvious
that the answer to this question must depend, in a great
measure, upon the state and condition of the evidence. It
may present questions of the genuineness and authenticity
of the title, and whether the evidence is forged or fraudulent;
or, it may involve an inquiry into the authority of the officer
to make a grant, or whether he was in the exercise of the
faculties of his office when it was made; or, it may disclose
questions of the capacity of the grantee to take, or whether
the claim has been abandoned or is a subsisting title, or has
been forfeited for a breach of conditions. Questions of each
kind here mentioned have been considered by the court in
cases arising under this law. But, in addition to these questions upon the vitality of the title, there may arise questions
of extent, quantity, location, boundary, and legal operation,
that are equally essential in determining the validity of the
claim. In affirming a claim to land under a Spanish or

MORE v. STEINBACH..
Opinion of the Court.

Mexican grant, to be valid within the law of nations, the
stipulations of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and the
usages of those governments, we imply something more than,
that certain papers are genuine, legal and translative of property. We affirm that the ownership and possession of land
of definite boundaries rightfully attach to the grantee."
Trust relations respecting the property between the patentee
and others may be enforced equally with such relations between him and others respecting any other property, but until
the patent is set aside or modified by proceedings taken at,
the instance of the government, all the questions necessarily
involved in the determination of a claim to land under a
Spanish or Mexican grant, and in establishing its boundaries,
are concluded by it in all courts and proceedings, except as
against parties claiming by superior title, such as would enable.
them to resist successfully any action of the government in.
disposing of the property. The confirmation takes effect, by'
relation, as of the date of the first proceeding commenced'
before the Land Commissioners; and an adjudication that at
that date it was valid is also an adjudication that it was valid
at the date it was made. And the patent which follows the
confirmation and approved survey and is a matter of record,.
is itself evidence of the regularity of preliminary proceedings.
As was said in Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 492, "by it the'
government declares that the claim asserted was valid under.
the laws of Mexico; that it was entitled to recognition and
protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might have
been located under the former government, and is correctly
located now, so as to embrace the premises as they are surveyed and described. As against the government this record,
so long as it remains unvacated, is conclusive. And it is
equally conclusive against parties claiming under the government by title subsequent. It is in this effect of the patent as
a record of the government that its security and protection
chiefly lie."
It remains to consider two other positions taken by the
appellants; first, that the sale to Poli of, the ex-mission of
San Buenaventura was illegal and -void, and hence that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

title passed to the patentee on its confirmation; second, the
want of any allegation in the complaint, or any evidence in
the proofs, that the plaintiffs were in possession of the premises when this suit was commenced. In support of the first
position the appellants cite United States v. Workman, 1 Wall.
745. In that case it was held that the Departmental Assembly of California had no power to authorize the governor to
Allenate any public lands of the department, and that its own
power was restricted to that conferred by the laws of colonization, which was simply to approve or disapprove of the
grants made by the governor under those laws. But it does
not follow that there were not exceptional circumstances with
reference to the sale to Poli, which authorized the governor to
make it. We are bound to suppose that such was the case, in
!le absence of any evidence to the contrary, from the fact
that the validity of his claim under it was confirmed by the
Board of Land Commissioners, by the District Court of the
United States, and by this court on appeal. The question of
its validity was thereby forever closed, except as against those
who might be able to show a prior and better title to the
premises. The defendants show no title whatever; but, on
the contrary, the grant under which they assert title has been,
by the adjudication of the Board of Land Commissioners and
by the survey and patent, confined to other land. Second, as
to 'the want of any allegation in the complaint of possession
by the plaintiffs, or any evidence of that fact in the proofs, it
is sufficient to say that, by ยง 738 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, a plaintiff asserting title to lands, though
out of possession, may maintain an action to determine an
adverse claim, estate, or interest in the premises. People v.
Center, 66 California, 551. A statute of Nebraska, authorizing a similar suit by a plaintiff out of possession, was before
this court for consideration in Holland v. Ckalen, 110 U. S.
15, and the jurisdiction of a court of equity to grant the
relief prayed in such case was sustained. See, also, Reynolds
v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405, 411; Ohapman, v.
Brewer, 114 U. S. 158, 170, 171; United States v. Wilson,

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

118 U. S. 86, 89; Frost v. Spitley, 121 U. S. 552, 557. We
see no error in the decree of the court below, and it is accordingly

RUOKER v WHEELER.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1306. Submitted January 9, 1888.- Decided April 16, 1888.

In the courts of the United States the presiding judge may, in submitting
a case to the jury, express his opinion on the facts; and when no rule of
law is incorrectly stated, and all matters of fact are ultimately submitted
to the jury, such expression is not reviewable on writ of error.
In this case there was no error in the charge of the court to the jury.

THE

case as stated by the court was as follows:

The cause of action- set out in the first count of the complaint is, that the defendant in error, who was the defendant
below, agreed with the plaintiff in error that if the latter
assisted the former and his agents, in purchasing the interest
of Julia Webber in the Emma lode mining claim at a price
not exceeding forty thousand dollars, he should receive for his
services the sum of ten thousand dollars, but only five thousand dollars if the defendant was compelled to pay more than
forty thousand dollars for said interest. The complaint alleges
that, in consequence of services rendered by the plaintiff under
that agreement, the defendant was, on the 22d of lNovember,
1884, enabled to buy said interest at a sum exceeding forty
thousand dollars, whereby the latter became indebted to plaintiff in the sum of five thousand dollars.
The defendant in his answer denies that he made any such
agreement as that alleged, or that he was enabled to purchase
the interest of Julia Webber, by reason of any services rendered by the plaintiff.
The second count of the complaint sets forth the following
cause of action:

