OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

sums and interest to that date added for the purposes of the
sale and distribution, and the decree of January 5, 1884,
directing the calculation of interest for purposes of distribution upon the aggregate amount of the principal and interest
as of October 15, 1875, was only a proper explanation of the
decree of April 28, 187G, confirming the master's report. The
date of the confirmation of that report was a suitable period
in the progress of the cause, where the creditors were so
numerous and the calculations so complicated, for the court
to fix, for the information and guidance of all concerned, the
amount severally due to each creditor with the order of priority in which he was entitled to be paid. The amounts to be
found due necessarily embraced the principal sum with the
accrued interest up to a fixed date, and from that period the
aggregate became the sum of the debt, the whole of which
thenceforth properly carried interest. INo exception was taken
to the report; it was confirmed by the court; and, in our
opinion, it cannot reasonably bear any other construction than
that which the court subsequently -placed upon it.
Upon the whole case, no injustice has been done the appellant; and the decree of the District Court of West Virginia is

Ajflbned.

EASTON v. GERMAN-AM1ERICAN BAN{K.
APPERA

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF T

UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 291. Argued May 4,1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

A creditor whose debt is secured by a deed of trust of real estate to a third
party as trustee, may purchase the property at a sale by the trustee under
the terms of the trust; and if he credits the debtor on the mortgage debt
with the amount of the purchase money, it is in fact and in law a money
payment to the use and benefit of the debtor.
The plaintiff in error acquired by the purchase from the assignee in bankruptcy no interest either in the debt of the bankrupt to the defendant in
error, or in the real estate conveyed in trust to secure it.

EASTON v. GERMDAN-AMERICAN BANK.

533

Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case as follows:
On April 14, 1875, the firm of Bowen Brothers, of Chicago,
borrowed of the German-American Bank of New York the
sum of $27,500, for which they gave their promissory notes,
payable, respectively, in two, three, and four months from
date. As collateral security for the payment of the loan they
deposited with the bank forty bonds executed by themselves,
payable to bearer five years from date, with interest semiannually, of the denomination of $1000 each, dated April 1,
1873, the payment of which was secured by a deed of trust
made by the individual members of the firm to George W.
Smith, conveying to him certain real estate therein described,
situated in Cook County, Illinois. By the terms of the written
agreement, under which the collateral security was deposited,
the bank was authorized, on non-payment of the notes at
maturity, to sell the bonds either at the board of brokers, at
public auction, or at private sale, and without notice, and to
apply the proceeds of the sale to the payment thereof. These
collateral bonds thus deposited were part of a series of one
hundred of like tenor and amount, all secured by the deed of
trust to Smith. That deed of trust provided that, in case of
default in the payment of the bonds or interest, it should be
lawful for the trustee, on the application of the holder of any
of the bonds, to sell the real estate or any part thereof, and
all the right and equity of redemption of the grantors therein,
at public vendue, to the highest bidder, for cash, and, upon
making such sale, to execute and deliver a deed of conveyance
in fee of the premises sold. In January, 1877, the trustee in
the trust deed, upon the application of the State Savings
Institution of Chicago, the holder of thirty-two of the bonds
upon which there had been a default for non-payment of
interest, sold the real estate in strict conformity with the terms
of the power in the trust deed, after due notice, at public
auction, to Wirt Dexter, for the sum of $50,000, and conveyed the premises to the purchaser in pursuance of the same.
Dexter, in making the bid and purchase of the premises at
public auction, acted as agent for the holders of all the bonds,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

including the German-American Bank,. he having been anthorized by them to bid for and purchase the property for them
jointly. Thereafter he conveyed hn undivided forty one-hundredths of the property purchased by him, and in a partition
suit that interest in the real estate was set off, to the GermanAmerican Bank in severalty. Dexter paid no money in bidding in the property except the actual costs of the sale, but
the trustee credited upon the bonds held by the German.American Bank forty one-hundredths of the amount of the
bid, being $472 upon each bond; and the whole sum, amounting to $18,880, was indorsed as a payment on the three notes.
The German-American Bank continued to hold title to the
real estate conveyed to it by Dexter until February 8, 1881,
when, in consideration of $56,000, the bank conveyed the
same in fee to John C. Dore, and thereafter, in February,
1882, also delivered to Dore the forty bonds then in its possession with the credits indorsed thereon. These bonds were
delivered to Dore in accordance with an agreement dated
February 19, 1881, which recited that Dore "desires to obtain
possession and ownership of said forty bonds in connection
with the purchase of said property from said bank."
In the meantime, the members of the firm of Bowen
Brothers, on November 10, 1877, were adjudged bankrupts on
a petition filed on June 2 of that year; and during 1878 they
severally received their final discharges in bankruptcy. On
April 21, 1880, IRobert E. Jenkins, assignee in bankruptcy of
the Bowen Brothers, by an order of the court, sold all his
right, title, interest, and claim as assignee, and all right, title,
interest, and claim of the bankrupts in and to the land described in the trust deed, to Carl F. Hermann for the sum
of $840, and afterwards conveyed the same to him by deed
dated and acknowledged May 13, 1880. The assignee also on
April 21, 1880, sold to the appellant, Charles L. Easton, for
the sum of $5, the claim against the German-American Bank
of New York "for interest in all collaterals pledged with said
bank by said bankrupts or either of them;" and by a deed
dated May 15, 1880, assigned the same by the same description to him.

EASTON v. GERMAN-AMERICAN BANK.
Statement of the Case.

It was not denied that John C. Dore purchased the land
from the German-American Bank with knowledge of the
previous conveyances by the assignee in bankruptcy, to Hermann and to Charles L. Easton.
On February 24, 1881, James H. Easton, a brother of the
appellant, having succeeded to the title of Hermann to the
land in question, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, against
the German-American Bank, to which, by an amended and
supplemental bill, John C. Dore was also made a defendant,
in which were set forth substantially the facts stated in the
present bill of complaint, and praying for an account against
the German-American Bank, and that the complainant might be
permitted to redeem the land on payment of what might be
found due on the original loan to Bowen Brothers. It is admitted that this suit was brought in the name of James H.
Easton, for the benefit of Josiah H. Helmer, the latter having
previously acquired the title of Hermann and conveyed it to
James H. Easton in order to enable the suit to be brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States. Helmer himself had
previously brought an action of ejectment to recover possession of the land. The ejectment suit was abandoned when
the bill in equity was filed; and pending the bill, in September, 1883, before the commencement of the present suit, a settlement Was made between Helmer and Dore, whereby, in
consideration of a certain sum paid by Dore, both Helmer and
James H. Easton, the latter at Helmer's request, by separate
deeds released all their right, title, and interest in and to the
lands in question to one Berger for the benefit of Dore.
On January 27, 1884, the present bill in equity was filed,
wherein Charles L. Easton, claiming title by virtue of the
deed of assignment made to him by Jenkins as assignee in
bankruptcy of the Bowen Brothers, seeks to hold the GermanAmerican Bank accountable to him for the sum of $56,000, as
the proceeds of the collaterals held by it realized from the sale
of the real estate conveyed to the bank by Dexter, and a decree for any sum found due to it by reason thereof after payment from the said proceeds of the original indebtedness of
Bowen Brothers to the bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was heard in the Circuit Court upon the pleadings
and proofs disclosing the state of facts already recited, when
a decree was rendered dismissing the bill for want of equity.
From this decree the present appeal has been taken.
r. "arles P. Crosby and -Mr. Charles 1. Easton, in person, for appellant.
.M. Edward Salomon for appellee.
MR. JusTICE MATTHEws, after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
'The right of the complainant to the relief prayed for is
based upon the contention that the German-American Bank
originally held the bonds secured by the deed of trust as a
pledge given by way of security for the repayment of the loan
to Bowen Brothers; that it has never sold that pledge, in pursuance of the terms of the agreement between the parties, and
as required by law; that the land itself, the title to which
was conveyed by Bowen Brothers to Smith in trust, was a
mere incident to the pledge and a part of it; that notwithstanding the form of a sale under the trust deed by the trustee to Dexter, there was no sale in fact, and in law the conveyance by Dexter to the bank operated only to convey the
title to the bank in the same capacity in which it held the
bonds as collateral, that is, as trustee for the debtors; that
the subsequent sale by the bank to Dore was the first effective
conveyance of an absolute title, but was made by the bank in
its capacity as trustee for the Bowens; and that as such the
complainant, having succeeded to the Bowens' rights, is entitled to require the bank to account for its proceeds.
Where personal property is pledged, the pledgee acquires
the legal title and the possession. In some cases, it is true, it
may remain in the apparent possession of the pledgor, but, if
so, it can be only where the pledgor holds as agent of the*
pledgee. By virtue of the pledge, the pledgee has the right
by law, on the default of the pledgor, to sell the property
pledged in satisfaction of the pledgor's obligation. As in that

EASTON v. GERMAN-A.MERICAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

transaction the pledgee is the vendor, he cannot also be the
vendee. In reference to the pledge and to the pledgor, he
occupies a fiduciary relation, by virtue of which it becomes
his duty to exercise his right of sale for the benefit of the
pledgor. Ie is in the position of a trustee to sell, and is by a
familiar maxim of equity forbidden to purchase for his own
use at his own sale.
The same principle applies with a like result where real
estate is conveyed by a debtor directly to a creditor as security for the payment of an obligation, with a power to sell in
case of default. There the creditor is also a trustee to sell,
and cannot purchase the property at his own sale for his
own use.

In the present case, the bonds of the Bowen Brothers, secured by the deed of trust, were pledged to the GermanAmerican Bank as security for the repayment of the loan
made to the Bowen Brothers, but those bonds have not in
fact been sold, unless the transfer of them by the bank to
Dore be considered a sale. It was not such, however, in point
of fact or of law; nothing was paid for them, and they were
delivered to Dore merely as muniments of title in connection
with his purchase of the real estate. At that time they were
of no value, for they were merely the personal obligations of
the Bowen Brothers, from which they had been released by
the discharge in bankruptcy. No suit could have been maintained upon them as against the only obligors by whose discharge in bankruptcy they had lost their character as well as
their value as property.
The equity of the complainant, therefore, if he have any, must
be considered as transferred from the bonds themselves, viewed
as instruments and obligations, to the money which had been
received on account of them by virtue of the sale of the real
estate by the bank to Dore. Whether the complainant can
now assert any equitable interest in that money depends in
the first place on the nature of the title which the bank acquired by the conveyance to it from Dexter; and whether the
principles of a pledge, and of a trust arising thereon, apply to
the real estate conveyed by the Bowens to Smith as a trustee
to secure the payment of the bonds.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

It is very plain, we think, that these principles do not
apply. The laud in question was conveyed by the debtor, not
directly to the creditor, but to a stranger. That stranger, by
virtue of the conveyance, held the legal title in trust for the
purpose of sale according to the power contained in it. That
power he' executed in strict accordance with its terms. A
default has been made by the debtor, and at the request of a
part of the creditors he was required to sell the property at
public auction to the highest bidder, without limit or condition, in order that the proceeds of the sale might be applied
to the payment of the debt, to secure which the land had been
conveyed in trust. The sale was made under the direction
and control of the trustee, but, as the creditors who held the
obligations of the debtors were not themselves trustees, there
was nothing, either at law or in equity, to prevent their being
bidders and becoming buyers at the trustee's sale. In reference to that sale they occupied no position towards the
debtor of trust or confidence. They were charged in respect
to it with no duty whatever. They had an interest in it that
the property should produce enough to satisfy the debts which
it had been given -to secure. Beyond that they had neither
interest nor duty, and in their own interest the creditors had
a right to bid so as to prevent the property from being sacrificed at the sale below its value in order that it might be made
to produce the largest amount towards payment of the debt.
The relation of a creditor secured by such a deed of trust to
a sale made under a power given to a stranger as trustee does
not differ from that of a mortgagee of real estate sold under
judicial proceedings for foreclosure by a decree of a court of
equity. At such a sale nothing is more common than for the
mortgagee to become the purchaser; and it is as beneficial to
the debtor as to himself that he should be permitted to enhance the competition at such a sale in order to protect his
own interests. In that respect, his own interest coincides
with that of his debtor, as it is for their mutual benefit that
the property should not be sacrificed so as to leave any part
of the debt unpaid.
It is argued, however, that in the present instance the sale

EASTON v GERMAN-AMERICAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

to Dexter was a sale only in form, and not in fact, because no
money passed. This, however, is an error, because the whole
amount bid by Dexter at the sale, which was the consideration for the conveyance to him by the trustee, was at once
credited by the principal creditors, for whom he was acting
as agent, as a credit of cash upon the overdue obligations of
the debtor. In fact and in law it was a payment of money
to the use and benefit of the debtors in pursuance of their
authority.
In addition to this, there is another ground which equally
supports the decree below. As already recited, the assignee
in bankruptcy, in pursuance of an order of the court, sold and
conveyed to Hermann all the interest which he as assignee
and the Bowens as bankrupts had in and to the real estate in
question; and by subsequent conveyances whatever title, if
any, thereby passed has become vested in Dore for his use.
All that was conveyed by the assignee to Charles L. Easton,
the complainant in this suit, was the interest of the assignee
and of the bankrupts "in all collaterals' pledged with said
bank by said bankrupts or either of them." If this can be
considered as the conveyance of any interest in the real estate,
it was ineffectual and void, because that interest had been
previously conveyed by the same grantor to Hermann. If it
is limited to the bonds of the Bowen Brothers secured by the
deed of trust, it is equally ineffective, because there was nothing to convey. These bonds were the mere personal obligations of the bankrupts themselves, in which neither they nor
their assignee had any right of property, and which had.
become extinguished as obligations in the hands of any one
by the bankrupts' certificate of discharge.
For these reasons the decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

