CORNELL v. WEIDNER.
Opinion of the Court.

No claim for the allowance of interest can be predicated
in this case upon the language of any notification or circular
or letter which issued from the Department of State. No
binding contract for the payment of interest was thereby
created, and the present Secretary was at liberty to act on his
own judgment in the premises, irrespective of anything contained in any such notification, circular, or letter.
Upon these considerations,
The judgment of the court below in generaZterm is tafmed.

CORNELL v. WEIDN ER.
APPEAT

FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT
TEE EASTERN
No. 240.

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.

Argued April 19, 1888. -Decided

April 30, 1888.

A patent for a bushing, or tapering ring of metal, for the bungs of casks,
with a screw-thread on its outer surface, and with a notched flange at
the edge, so as to enable the bushing to be forced into place by a wrench
having a projection to fit the notch, was reissued, nearly seven years
afterwards, for a bushing without any notch. Held, that the reissue was
void.

B TLn EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. -lerriam for appellant.
was with him on *thebrief.

Mir. John HI. W-hk'ple

-Mr. George H. Lothrop for appellee.
Mm. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This
reissue
case is
The

was a bill in equity for the infringement of a second
of letters patent. When the facts are understood, the
clear.
original patent, issued August 29, 1871, No. 118,517,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

was for an "improvement in metallic bushings for the bungs
of casks, etc., and in wrenches for operating the same;" and
described the bushings thus: "A tapering thimble or ring of
metal, provided with a flange, b, at its larger end, and having
a screw-thread, c, on its outer surface, which screw-thread is
cast on the bushing in the mould, and is capable of immediate
use without other finishing. The flange b is rounded off at its
edge, and is provided at some point in its extent with a Vshaped notch, d, extending in to the screw-thread."
It then described the wrench and its mode of operation as
follows: "E represents the wrench-bar, consisting of the slotted
plate e and the shankf. The metal of the shank, at its junction with the plate, forms a downward V-shaped projection, Z,
whose point extends forward toward the centre of the plate e.
F represents a tapering core of metal, adapted to fit the bungbushing a, and secured to the plate e by means of the bolt A
and its nut. This core is made separable from the wrench-bar,
in order that, by providing a number of cores of different
sizes, the same wrench may be used for bushing of different
diameters. Provision is also made by the slot k, for moving
the bolt toward the angular projection 1, which becomes necessary when a smaller core is substituted for a larger one.
"The wrench is applied by inserting the core into the opening through the bushing, and turning it until the projection I
falls into the notch d. By means of the core the bushing is
kept steady, and is readily prevented from assuming an oblique
position in the bung-opening; at the same time the operator
is enabled to get a better hold on the bushing than by means
of the wrenches in common use, which are .apt to slip from
their seats when used on such difficult work as turning a
rough-cast screw into place."
The single claim was in these words: "What we claim as
our invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, is "The combination, With the notched bung-bushing a, of the
wrench, consisting of the bar E having the slotted plate e and
angular projection 1, and the removable core F, substantially
as specified."
It thus appears thtt the original patent described a bushing

CORNELL v. WEIDNER.
Opinion of the Court.

with a V-shaped notch in the flange, and a wrench made with
an angular projection to fit that notch, and applied by turning
the wrench until the projection fell into the notch; and that
all that the patentee claimed as his invention was the combination of the notched bushing with the wrench having a projection to fit it.
On August 6, 1872, the patent was reissued in two divisions,
No. 5026 (not in this record) being for the wrench, and No. 5027
beiifg for the bushing, describing it as "an angular ring of
metal. This ring is made tapering on both its outer and inner
sides, and, is screw-threaded upon its outer side, by which
means the same is secured within the aperture in the cask.
This thread may be formed by a suitable tool, or may be
formed in the mould, as found most advantageous. The
larger end of the said ring is provided with a flange B, the
outer surface or periphery of which is made in an ovolo shape,
and is provided with a V-shaped notch d, which extends
inward to a point near the body of the ring. The object of
this notch is to allow a suitable wrench, adapted for the purpose, to engage therewith, whereby the said bushing may be
turned into place without the wrench slipping from its seat,
as would be the case with a bushing having a smooth surface."
The claim in that reissue was for "The screw-threaded
metallic bung-bushing, made tapering upon both its outer and
inner sides, and provided with the flange B having the V-shaped
notch d, as and for the purpose described."
The specification and the claim of that reissue, as clearly
appears upon its face, both treated the notch in the flange of
the bushing as an essential element of the invention. Of the
notch in that reissue it may be said, as this court, in a case
decided at October Term, 1877, said of the notch described in
the reissue for the wrench, that it was "vital in the invention
covered by his patent. The notch is the point of engagement
between the bushing and the wrench when the latter, operating as a lever, gives the former its circular motion and thus
forces it home. Without this arrangement such motion could
not be communicated and the desired result produced. Hence
its importance in the scheme of the invention." Schumaohe-v
v. Cornell, 96 U. S. 549, 555.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

On June 17, 1879, a second reissue, No. 8759, was obtained
for the bushing, the material parts of the specification and
the claim of which were as follows:
"Our invention relates to bushings for barrels; and consists
of a short metallic tube in exterior form in shape of the
frustum of a cone, slightly tapering. The outer surface is
screw-threaded, to adapt it to be screwed forcibly into the
bung-hole of the barrel, and to be held securely in place by
the contact of the surfaces. The larger end of this tube is
provided with an annular flange projecting outwardly, and
adapted to rest, when the bushing is screwed to its place in
the hole of the barrel, snugly upon the outer surface of the
stave. The interior surface of the bushing is also made in
the form of a frustum of a cone, and tapers uniformly from
the exterior or flanged to the inner end of the bushing. This
surface is made smooth and unbroken, and extends in such
form quite through from one end of the bushing to the other,
so that the wooden or compressible plug or bung to which it
is adapted may have a ready and unobstructed entrance, and
may pass, if necessary, beyond the inner end of the bushing,
and have a uniform bearing-surface throughout the entire
length of the bushing."
"Having thus described our invention, what we claim as
new, and desire to secure by letters patent, is "A metallic bushing for the bung-holes of barrels, made
with a flange adapted to rest on the outer surface of the stave,
and with an exterior threaded and an interior smooth surface,
both tapering from the flanged to the interior end, said inner
surface being unbroken and unobstructed, and tapering uniformly from one end of the bushing to the other, as and for
the purpose set forth."
The notch in the flange of the bushing is not mentioned
either in the specification or in the claim of this reissue,
although it is shown in the accompanying drawings, substantially as it was shown in the drawings of the original patent
and of the former reissue.
The original patent and the first reissue having been distinctly limited to a bushing having a notch to aid in forcing

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

it into place, the second reissue, obtained nearly seven years
later, for a bushing without any such notch, is an unwarrantable enlargement of the supposed invention, which, according
to the now well settled law, Lenders the reissue void. Yale
Zooe Co. v. James, 125 UT. S. 447, 464, and cases there cited.
The defendant's plea, that the second reissue was for a different invention from that described or claimed either in the
original patent or in the first reissue, was therefore rightly
adjudged good by the Circuit Court, and
J7e decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

STATE OF WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
Argued April 25, 1887.-Decided May 14, 1888.

This court has not original jurisdiction of an action by a State upon a
judgment recovered by it in one of its own courts against a citizen or a
corporation of another State for a pecuniary penalty for a violation of
its municipal law.

THis was an action of debt, commenced in this court by the
State of Wisconsin against a corporation of Louisiana. The
declaration was as follows:
"The plaintiff, The State of Wisconsin, and one of the
States of the United States, now comes and complains of the
defendant, The Pelican Insurance Company of New Orleans,
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of
the State of Louisiania, in a plea of debt "For that, whereas the plaintiff, the said State of Wisconsin, on the 16th day of September in the year 1886, at the
county of Dane in the said State of Wisconsin, and in and
before the Dane County Circuit Court, in said State -such
court being then and there a court of general jurisdiction
under the laws of said State - and by the consideration and
judgment of the said court, recovered against the said defend-

