RATTERMAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

411

Syllabus.

that more or less stone or rock would be found in the progress
of the work, and the price was evidently fixed upon its supposed av6rage character.
In the second place, the act of Congress of February 21,
1871, "to provide a government for the District of Columbia,"
in force at the time, required that all contracts by the Board
should be in writing, be signed by the parties making the
same, and a copy thereof filed in the office of the secretary of
the District; and it forbade the allowance of any extra compensation for work done under a contract. 16 Stat. 419,423,
e. 62, §§ 15, 37.
The entry in the journal of the Board was no part of the
contract with the claimant, nor could it in any respect control
the construction or limit the effect of such contract. The
Board could not in that way either make a new contract or
alter the one previously made, so as to bind the District.
Barnes v. Districtof Columbia, 22 C. C1. 366.
Judgment aflrned.

RATTERMAN

v. WESTERN UNION
COMPANY.

TELEGRAPH

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RATTERMAI.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, WESTERN DIVISION.
Nos. 1360, 1361.

Argued Marcb 21,1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

A single tax, assessed under the laws of a State upon receipts of a telegraph
company which were partly derived from interstate commerce and partly
from commerce within the State, and which were capable of separation
but were returned and assessed in gross and without -eparation or apportionment, is invalid in proportion to the extent that such receipts
were derived from interstate commerce, but is otherwise valid; and
while a Circuit Court of the United States should enjoin the collection of
the tax upon the portion of the receipts derived from interstate com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
merce, it should not interfere with those derived from commerce entirely within the State.
The decisions of this court respecting the taxation of telegraph companies
reviewed.

T.E case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
These are cross appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of Ohio, Western Division.
The suit was begun by a bill of complaint, filed by the
Western Union Telegraph Company against Frank Ratterman, treasurer of Hamilton County, in the State of Ohio. As
the bill is not very long, it is here presented in full:
"To the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Ohio, Western Division:
"The Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation
duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of
:New York and a citizen of said State, brings this its bill
against Frank Ratterman, treasurer of Hamilton County,
Ohio, and a citizen of the State of Ohio.
"And thereupon your orator complains and says:
"That its principal office is, and during the times hereinafter mentioned was, in the city of New York; that during
said time it had been and now is engaged in the business of
receiving and transmitting for hire telegraph messages between different points in the United States, and in the carrying on of said business has offices in the city of Cincinnati and
at other points in the county of Hamilton and in the State of
Ohio, and has been engaged in the transmission of messages
between said offices and other points both within and without
the State of Ohio.
"That prior to 1869 your orator accepted in writing the
provisions of the act of Congress of July 4, 1866, 14 Stat. 221;
that your orator's wires, poles, batteries, office furniture, and
other property in the State ot Ohio have been and are taxed
like other property in said State; that your orator's telegraph
lines cross nearly all of the States of the Union and occupy
portions of British America, and that a large amount of the

RATTERIAN 'o. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

413

Statement of the Case.

commercial transactions, business, and intercourse of the
people is carried on by means of their wires.
"That in the month of May, 1881, your orator, under protest, delivered to the auditor of said county a statement, as
required by Revised Statutes Ohio, § 2778, showing the entire
receipts of your orator in said county for the year next preceding, which said gross receipts amounted to the sum of
$175,210.88, and were principally for business between points
in the State of Ohio and points outside the State of Ohio that is to say, the receipts of your orator for messages and
business pertaining to commerce between the States, and not
for messages between different points within the State of
Ohio; that thereupon said auditor assessed a tax thereon
amounting to five thousand two hundred and six and W-c dollars.
"Your orator says that said tax is illegal and void and in
violation of the Constitution of the United States.
"Your orator has offered to the defendant and is ready and
willing to pay to him the taxes chargeable against its personal property within said county, but the defendant refuses
to accept payment thereof unless your orator also at the same
time pays said total assessment for all of said gross receipts;
and, unless restrained, the defendant will impose and enforce
the penalties for non-payment of said tax provided for by
Revised Statutes of Ohio, § 2843, to the interference, stoppage,
and destruction of your orator's business.
"Wherefore your orator prays that the defendant may be
required to accept payment of so much of said tax assessment
as covers the property of your orator in the said county, and
that he may be enjoined by preliminary injunction and by
final decree from levying or collecting the balance of said
assessment.
"Your orator prays that a writ of' subpcena may issue
against the defendant, and that your orator may have such
other and further relief as it is in equity and good conscience
entitled to."
To this bill a general demurrer was filed, which was overruled by the court. The record then proceeds as follows:

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"And thereupon it was agreed by and between the complainant and the defendant that the cause be submitted to
the court on the bill without further pleading to the same by
the defendant, upon the following facts:
"That of the entire receipts mentioned in the bill $142,154.18 were for business done by the plaintiff between its
offices in said county and points outside of the State of Ohio.
-that is, for messages and business pertaining to commerce
between the States and not for messages between different
points within the State of Ohio, and that the balance of said
receipts, to wit, $33,056.70 was for business between the offices of the plaintiff in said county and other points within the
State of Ohio; and that if said receipts had been so separated
and apportioned and said tax had been separately assessed on
the basis of such separation and apportionment the amount of
said total tax of $5206.90 apportionable to said receipts for
interstate commerce would be $3931.51, and the amount apportionable to said receipts for business between the offices of
the complainant in said county and other points within the
State of Ohio would have been $910.40, and that the remainder of said sum of $5206.90, viz., $364.99, was for tax
assessed upon the personal property of the said complainant
within the said county of Hamilton aforesaid, namely, upon
its instruments, wires, poles, and other chattel property which
were returned by said complainant to the auditor of said
county at a valuation of $18,059.
"That Exhibit ' A,' hereto annexed and made a part of this
stipulation, is a copy of the return made by complainant to>
the auditor of said county in pursuance of the law of the
State of Ohio, and that said complainant made no other
return and furnished no other information to said auditor at,
the time of said return, save what is contained in said return.
"That Exhibit ' B,' hereto annexed and made a part hereof,
is a copy of the return of the chattel property of said complainant made at the same time to said auditor.
"It is further agreed that the auditor of said county placed
on the tax duplicate of said county said sums of $175,210.88,
and $18,059 as the personal property of said complainant, to.

RATTERMAN va. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

415

Statement of the Case.

be assessed for taxation in said county of Hamilton, and that
the rate of taxation assessed thereupon was the same as was
assessed against the personal property listed for taxation by
the citizens of said county.
"It is further agreed that complainant, prior to December
20, 1887, offered to pay the tax properly assessable against
said return of $18,059 for personal property, but the defendant refused to accept payment of said assessment of $5206.90
unless the whole were paid. The plaintiff did not disclose to
said auditor at the time it made said return what portion, if
any, of the gross receipts of its said offices in said county was
for interstate commerce.
"1It is further agreed that neither said auditor nor said
treasurer had any actual knowledge that any portion of the
returns of said gross receipts was for interstate commerce
business, but said officers knew that plaintiff's said business
included interstate commerce.
"And the only knowledge said auditor and said treasurer
had of the business of said company and what said receipts
were derived from was from the returns hereto annexed,
marked Exhibit ' A,' and from their knowledge as aforesaid of
the plaintiff's business.
"9The cause being thus submitted to the court on the foregoing stipulation of facts and the argument of counsel, the
court is of the opinion that said receipts and tax may be
separated and apportioned, and that said tax so far as so separated and apportioned to said receipts derived from the interstate commerce is unconstitutional and void, but valid apportionable to said receipts derived from state business.
" It is thereupon ordered by the court, adjudged, and decreed that the defendant is hereby forever enjoined from collecting on said assessment of $5206.90 more than the sum of
$1275.39, and an injunction is refused as to the balance of said
tax. It is further ordered that the defendant pay the costs of
this suit."
The judges of the Circuit Court, upon this state of facts,
made the following certificate of a difference of opinion:
" This is to certify that at the hearing of the above entitled

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Mr. Maxwell's Argument for W. U. Tel. Co.

cause before Hlon. Howell E. Jackson, circuit judge, and
George R. Sage, district judge, said judges differed in opinion
upon the following question of law, to wit:
"Whether a single tax, assessed under the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, § 2778, upon the receipts of a telegraph company,
which receipts were derived partly from interstate commerce
and partly from commerce within the State, but which were
returned and assessed in gross and without separation or apportionment, is wholly invalid, or invalid only in the proportion and to the extent that said receipts were derived from
interstate commerce.
"And the district judge being of the opinion that such a
tax is wholly invalid, and the circuit judge being of the opinion that it is invalid only to the extent and in the proportion
that the receipts upon which it is based were derived from
interstate commerce, said question is hereby certified to the
Supreme Court of the United States for its opinion.
"HowELL E. JAcKsoN, Circuit Judge.
"GEo. R. SAGE, District Judge."
.Mr. 1awrence .Maxwell, Jr., for the Western Union Telegraph Company. .JY. Williamn -H. Ramsey, -Mr. William
-Brown, and 2fr. 6Narles iv. Wells were with him on the
brief. On the question whether the tax could be separated,
and upheld in part and annulled in part, Mr. Maxwell said:
The questions are (1) whether the State of Ohio, although
not at liberty to prevent the complainant from coming into
the State to do interstate commerce, nor to tax it for that
privilege, is nevertheless entitled to prohibit it from doing
business between points within the State, and to tax it for
that privilege? (2) whether the law, in its present form, can
be used to enforce the collection of such a tax? in other words
whether, after striking out the provisions of the Statute
which are unconstitutional, effect is given to legislative intent
by permitting the statute, thus emasculated, to stand as one
authorizing and directing a tax upon the receipts derived from
internal commerce?

RATTERMAN ,v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

417

Mr. laxwell's Argument for W. U. Tel. Co.

The Entire Law Falls.
Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, was a suit
brought by the State against the telegraph company to recover
unpaid taxes under a statute of Texas which required every
chartered telegraph company to pay a tax of one cent for
every full rate message sent, and one half cent for every
message less than full rate. The state court rendered judgment for the tax on all messages that had been sent by the
company, including those sent to places out of the State, and
those sent by officers of the government of the United States
on public business. The Supreme Court of Texas affirmed the
judgment, and the case came into this court upon writ of
error for review of the federal question, and the decision of
this court was limited to the determination of that question,
and was confined to a reversal of the judgment upon the
ground that it included a tax upon interstate and government
messages. With respect to the question whether the statute
being found to be unconstitutional in that respect could nevertheless be used to enforce the collection of a tax upon messages passing between points within the State, this court said:
"Whether the law of Texas in its present form can be used
to enforce the collection of such a tax is a question entirely
within the jurisdiction of the courts of the State, and as to
which we have no power of review."
But in the case at bar, which is not a writ of error to a
state court, but an appeal from the Circuit Court, sitting
as a court of original jurisdiction to decide all questions arising in the case, it is the right and duty of this court to declare
upon its own judgment whether, in view of the unconstitutional features of this statute, it can be used to enforce the
collection, not of the tax for which it was intended to provide, but of a tax limited to receipts from internal business,
even assuming the power of the State to tax such receipts.
In State v. Hivj, 38 Ohio St. 199,230, it is said:
"Finally, it is urged that even if the section providing punishment for non-compliance with the requirements of the
statute should be held to be unconstitutional, still that other
parts of the act may stand. But, as Blackstone observes,
VOL. cxxvn-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for W. U. Tel. Co.

'the main strength and force of a law consisfs in the penalty
annexed to it.' 1 B1. Com. 57. It is not to be supposed that
the legislature would have enacted this statute without such
clause; and hence, the whole act fails. The State v. Perry
County, 5 Ohio St. 497."
In State v. Commissioners of Perry County, 5 Ohio St.
497,506, our Supreme Court laid down the following rule:
"As a general rule, one part of an act will not be held constitutional and another part unconstitutional, unless the respective parts are independent of each other," and the following
language of Shaw, C. J., in Warren v. _Mayor and Aldermen
of Charlestown, 2 Gray, 84, was quoted with approval: "The
same act of legislation may be unconstitutional in some of its
provisions, and yet constitutional in others..... .. But this
must be taken with this limitation, that the parts, so held respectively constitutional and unconstitutional, must be wholly
independent of each other. But if they are so mutuaIly
connected with and dependent on each other as conditions,
considerations or compensations for each other, as to warrant
a belief that the legislature intended them as a whole, and
that if all could not be carried into effect the legislature
would not pass the residue independently, and some parts are
unconstitutional, all the provisions which are thus dependent,
conditional or connected, must fall with them."
The same language is quoted with approval by this court in
Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 84, the Chief Justice adding:
"The point to be determined in all such cases is whether the
unconstitutional provisions are so connected with the general scope of the law as to 'make it impossible, if they are
stricken out, to give effect to what appears to have been the
intent of the legislature."
Is it not clear that the unconstitutional provisions of the
Ohio statute are so connected with the general scope of the
law as to make it impossible, if they are stricken out, to give
effect to what appears to have been the intent of the legislature?
The intent of the legislature, as declared by our own Supreme Court, in Western Union Telegravh Co. v. Mayer, 28

RATTERMAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

419

Argument for Ratterman.

Ohio St. 521, was to impose a charge upon foreign telegraph
companies for the privilege of exercising their franchises and
powers within the State, graduated according to the amount
of receipts. The execution of that intention is now found to
be impossible. The legislature cannot prevent these companies from exercising their powers and franchises with respect
to the great bulk of their business. Can the court discover,
nevertheless, an intent to charge them for the privilege of
doing business wholly within the State based upon the amount
of their receipts from such business. Did not the legislature
intend the law as a whole? Had it been advised that it could
not tax the Western Union Telegraph Company for the privilege of coming into Ohio to do interstate commerce, nor with
respect to that commerce, would it have passed the law at all?
Would it have laid a tax which, being confined to Ohio messages, must in the nature of things, be borne ultimately by
the merchants of Ohio? Had it known that its power was
confined to taxing the receipts of the company from internal
business, would it not have increased the rate?
These are only a few of the questions which embarrass us
in an attempt to give effect to the statute by upholding it, notwithstanding its unconstitutional provisions, as a law authorizing and directing a tax against foreign telegraph companies
.upon their receipts from internal commerce.
It may be that the legislature of Ohio has authority to pass
a law taxing such receipts, but it will be time enough for the
courts to enforce such a law when warranted thereunto by
some clear declaration of legislative intent. It is not for the
courts to enapt or amend laws.
rfr.Thomas .MoDougall and .f. David -. Watson, Attorney General of the State of Ohio, for Ratterman. X1rb.WlZiam
A. Davidson, County Solicitor for Hamilton County, Ohio,
was with them on the brief. To the point that the receipts
were separable, and that the court might apportion them,
they said:
The certificate of division of opinion in this case presents
this question. Take it for granted, for the purposes of arga-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Ratterman.

ment, that the tax on the receipts from interstate commerce
business is unconstitutional, does that vitiate the whole act so
a to authorize the court to enjoin the collection of the tax
assessel on the receipts for business done wholly within the
State, as well as the receipts for business done without the
State .
It must be admitted that the legislature of Ohio intended to
tax the business done wholly within the State. Its authority
to tax the receipts from that business cannot be questioned in
this court; but has been expressly upheld in numerous cases.
Does the fact that the tax is levied, or, if you please, intended
to be levied, upon that which it had no power to levy it on,
destroy its right to collect a tax from that which it had the
right to tax?
This court has held that the law may be valid as to one class
of receipts, and invalid as to another. In the Piladelphia
Steanship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S., on page 339, the
court say: "The court, in its opinion, took notice of the
fact that the law was general in its terms, making no distiiction between freight transported wholly within the State
and that which was destined to or came from another State.
]But it was held that this made no difference. The law might
be 'valid as to one class, and unconstitutional as to the other."
In the case of Fargo v. .Michigan, 121 U. S., the court,
speaking of the same law, (on page 24:1,) say: "The Supreme
Court of the State of Pennsylvania decided that all the
freight carried, without regard to its destination, was liable
to the tax imposed by the statute. This court, however,
held that freight carried entirely through the State from
without, and the other class of freight brought into the State
from without, or carried from within to points without,
all came under the description of 'commerce among the
States,' within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States; and it held also, that freight transported from and to
points exclusively within the limits of the State was internal
commerce, and not commerce among the States. The taxing
law of the State was, therefore, valid as to the latter class oV
transportation, but with regard to the others it was invalid,

RATI2TERMA

v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

42-1

Argument for Ratterman.

because it was interstate commerce, and the State could lay
no tax upon it."

In the case of the Telgea/ph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S., on
page 465, the court say: "The present case, as it seems to
us, comes within this principle. The tax is the same on every
message sent, and because it is sent, without regard to the
distance carried or the price charged. It is in no respect
proportioned according to the business done. If the message
is sent, the tax must be paid, and the amount determined
solely by the class to which it belongs. If it is full rate, the
tax is one cent, and if less than full rate, one half cent.
Clearly, if a fixed tax for every two thousand pounds of
freight carried is a tax on the freight, or for every measured
ton of a vessel a tax on tonnage, or for every passenger
carried a tax on the passenger, or for the sale of goods a tax
on the goods, this must be a tax on the messages. As such,
so far as it operates on private messages sent out of the State,
it is a regulation of foreign and interstate commerce, and
beyond the power of the State. That is fully established by
the cases already cited. As to the government messages, it is
a tax by the State on the means employed by the government of the United States to execute its constitutional powers,
and therefore void. It was so decided in .X'Cullock v.
.Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, and has never been doubted since.
It follows that the judgment, so far as it includes the tax
on messages sent out of the State, or for the government, on
public business, is erroneous."
In that case a judgment was rendered by the state court
against the telegraph company for the tax on the messages
within the State, and for the messages which were wholly
interstate commerce. And this court held that, so far as the
judgment included the tax on messages sent out of the State,
or for the government, it was erroneous, and reversed the
judgment, and remanded the case for proceedings in accordance with the opinion. In the case at bar the court's attention is called to what constituted the sum of $5206.90, which
was the amount of the tax sought to be enjoined by the bill
of the telegraph company. A part of that sum consisted of

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Arguent for Ratterman.

the tax levied on the personal property, the wires, batteries.
and poles of the company within the county of Hamilton.
The remainder of the tax was what was assessed, as we claim,
on the moneys received from the business, and treated as other
personal property for taxation. There was no practical difliculty in tile way of separation. There was no such intermingling of the receipts as made it impossible to separate the
one class from the other. They were in fact separated by the
court below. And yet it is claimed, though the separation is
practicable, and has been made by the court below, though
the amount can be ascertained to a cent of what was received
from each class of business, yet the telegraph company has a
right to perpetually enjoin, and thereby be released from the
tax on the whole gross receipts, notwithstanding the admitted
fact that the State may tax the gross receipts for the business
done within the State. We know of ho rule of construction
of a statute that authorizes the holding of the whole tax invalid, because it was levied on property a part of which it is
claimed the State had no right to tax. It will be remembered
by this court that the tax laid on railway gross receipts, held
to be valid in 15 Wall. included the receipts of both classes,
and that in that case, as in the case of .Fargov. .Afic igan, 121
U. S., the receipts were separated, although the law in one of
the cases was general in its terms, as in the case at bar.
The rule applicable to the granting of relief by way of injunction, which was what was sought in the case at bar, is to
be found in the case of Frazer v. Seiben, 16 Ohio St. 614.
In that case, on page 624, the court say, after finding that
the act itself, to the extent that it taxed banks in excess of
the taxation levied on the state banks, was unconstitutional:
"' It by no means follows, however, that the plaintiffs are
entitled to an unconditional injunction against the collection
of the tax. They ask equity, and must do equity. They invoke the exercise of an extraordinary power of the court for
their relief, and the court, in its discretion, should refuse that
relief, except upon conditions that are equitable and just. We
think, therefore, that the injunction should only be granted upon
-the condition that the plaintiffs, or their bank, shall first pay

RATTERMAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

to the treasurer of Hamilton County a sum that will be a pro
rata equivalent for the tax imposed upon the State and independent banks under the act of 1861; that is to say, such sum
as might lawfully have been assessed upon the plaintiffs, or
their bank, under said act, had it been one of said state banks.
If the parties cannot agree upon this sum, proceedings can be
adopted to ascertain it by the court; and, if found necessary,
the bank itself can be made a party."
We submit, therefore, that should this court hold the law
of the State of Ohio unconstitutional, it can only do so to
the extent that it taxes the moneys received from the interstate commerce business of the Western Union Telegraph
Company.
M . JusricE MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The case has been fully argued before us upon all the matters properly presented by the record, and it seems probable
from the amicable nature of the proceedings and the agreement as to a statement of facts upon which the case was to
be tried, without any answer being filed to the bill, that the
purpose was to obtain the judgment of this court upon the
general subject of the liability of the corporation to taxation
upon the amount of its receipts, and that the certificate of a
difference of opinion has been used for that purpose.
With regard to the question which is certified to us as
dividing the opinions of the judges of the Circuit Court, we
do not think that there is any difficulty, and can hardly see
how it arose in the present case. That question is "whether
a single tax, assessed under the Revised Statutes of Ohio,
§ 2778, upon the receipts of a telegraph company, which receipts were derived partly from interstate commerce and partly
from commerce within the State, but which were returned and
assessed in gross and without separation or apportionment, is
wholly invalid, or invalid only in the proportion and to the extent that said receipts were derived from interstate commerce."
We do not think this particular question is material in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

this case, because the state of facts agreed upon by the par:
ties makes this separation and presents the matter to the court,
freed from the point raised by the question that the tax was
not separable. Nor do we believe, if there were allegations
either in the bill or answer setting up that part of the tax was
from interstate commerce and part from commerce wholly
within the State, that there would have been any difficulty in
securing the evidence of the amount of receipts chargeable to
these separate classes of telegrams, by means of the appointment of a referee or master to inquire into that fact and make
report to the court. Neither are we of opinion that there is
any real question, under the decisions of this court, in regard
to holding that, so far as this tax was levied upon receipts
properly appurtenant to interstate commerce, it was void, and
that so far as it was only upon commerce wholly within the
State it was valid.
This precise question was adjudged in the case of The State
-FreightTax, 15 Wall. 232. That was a case in which a statute of the' State of Pennsylvania was examined which provided
for a tax upon every ton of freight transported by any railroad
or canal in that State at certain rates, two cents for one class
of freight, three cents for another, and five cents for still another class. The payment of this tax was resisted by the
Reading Railroad Company upon the ground that it was levied on interstate commerce. The company made returns to
the accounting officers of the commonwealth, in which they
stated separately the amount of freight whose transportation
was wholly within the State, and also the amount of the transportation of freight brought into or carried out of that State.
This court held that the tax upon the former class, being upon
commerce wholly within the State, was valid under the law of
Pennsylvania by which it was imposed, but that the latter
classes, being commerce among the States, were not subject to
such taxation.
This ruling shows that where the subjects of taxation can be
separated so that that which arises from interstate commerce
can be distinguished from that which arises from commerce
wholly within the State, the court will act upon this distinc-

RATTERMAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

425

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and will restrain the tax on interstate commerce while
permitting the State to collect that arising upon commerce
solely within its own territory.
In Pensaola TelegrhpA Company v. T'este,,n Union Telegrap Cormpany, 96 U. S. 1, it was decided by this court that the
telegraph was an instrument of commerce ; that telegraph companies were subject to the regulating power of Congress in respect to their foreign and interstate business, and that such a
company occupies the same relation to commerce, as a carrier of
messages, that a railroad company does as a carrier of goods.
In Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, the same
question presented in this case was before the court, that of
the power of the State to tax telegraphic messages received
and delivered by the same corporation which is now before us.
In that case no distinction was made by the statute between
what we now call interstate messages and those exclusively
within the State. This court, therefore, in reviewing the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Texas, which had
allowed no deduction for taxes on messages sent out of the
State, or by government officers on government business, said:
"It follows that the judgment, so far as it includes the tax
on messages sent out of the State, or for the government on
public business, is erroneous. The rule that the regulation of
commerce which is confined exclusively within the jurisdiction
and territory of a State, and does not affect other nations or
States or the Indian tribes, that is to say, the purely internal
commerce of a State, belongs exclusively to the State, is as
well settled as that the regulation of commerce which does
affect other nations or States or the Indian tribes belongs to
Congress. Any tax, therefore, which the State may put on
messages sent by private parties, and not by the agents of the
government of the United States, from one place to another,
exclusively within its own jurisdiction, will not be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States. Whether the law of
Texas, in its present form, can be used to enforce the collection
of such a tax is a question, entirely within the jurisdiction of
the courts of the State, and as to which we have no power of
review."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The court reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Texas, and remanded the cases with instructions for such further proceedings as justice might require. Evidently, the purpose of this was to permit the Supreme Court of that State, if
it could separate the taxes upon the two classes of telegrams,
to do so, and to render judgment accordingly.
In the recent case of The Western Unhion Telegraph Co. v.
:The Attorney General of the Commonwealth of ]f!assachusetts,
125 T. S. 530, decided at this term, a tax was levied upon that
corporation, apportioned under the laws of Massachusetts upon
the taxable value of its capital stock. The ratio which should
have been allotted to that commonwealth may be supposed to
have been properly apportioned to it, ascertaining that portion
by means of the length of the lines of the company in relation
to the entire mileage of its lines in the United States. The
payment of the tax was resisted, however, partly upon the
ground that it was levied upon interstate commerce, but
mainly because it was asserted to be a violation of the rights
conferred on the company by the act of July 24, 1866, now
Title LXV., §§ 5263 to 5269 of the Revised Statutes. It was
alleged that the defendant company, having accepted the provisions of that law, was entirely exempt from taxation by the
State. This court, however, held that this exemption only
extended under that law to so much of the lines of the telegraph company as were, in the language of § 5263, "through
and over any portion of the public domain of the United
States, over and along any of the military or post roads of the
United States which have been or may hereafter be declared
such by law, and over, under, or across the navigable streams
or waters of the United States."
It was shown in that case that, of the 2833.05 miles of
the lines of the defendant corporation within the boundaries
of Massachusetts, more than 2334.55 miles came within the
terms of that section, being over or along post roads, made
such by the United States, or over, under, or across its navigable streams or waters, leaving only 498.50 miles not within such
description, on which the company offered to pay the proportion
of the tax assessed against it according to mileage by the state
authorities.

RATTERMIAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

427

Opinion of the Court.

We refer to this now only for the purpose of showing how
easily the subject of taxation which is forbidden by the Constitution may be separated from that which is permissible in
this class of cases. The court held in that case that this tax,
being in effect levied upon the capital stock or property of
the company in the State of Massachusetts, which was ascertained upon the basis of the proportion which the length of
its lines in that State bore to their entire length throughout
the whole country, and not upon its messages or upon the
receipts for such messages, was a valid tax. The question of
interstate commerce, as affecting the tax in that action, was
very little pressed by counsel for the company, but they relied
upon the privilege granted by § 5263, already cited, to companies which accepted its provisions, and upon the fact that a
large proportion of the lines of the defendant telegraph company were over or along post roads, or over, under, or across
the navigable streams or waters of the United States.
In the present case counsel for the telegraph company have
argued that this statute secures the corporation from taxation
of any kind whatever, and especially as to receipts arising
from messages sent over its lines; but that question does not
arise in this action, because there is no allegation or averment,
either in the bill itself or in the statement of facts, that any
part of the lines of the telegraph company in the State of
Ohio is built over or along a post road, or comes within the
provisions of § 5263. The only reference to this subject is in
the following allegation of the bill: "That prior to 1869 your
orator accepted in writing the provisions of the act of Congress of July 4, 1866, 14 Stat. 221." Under this allegation
the complainant can, of course, claim no benefit from the.provisions of that section, for it does not appear that any part of
the company's line comes within the description of this section
of the Revised Statutes.
Under these views, we answer the question, in regard to
which the judges of the Circuit Court divided in opinion, by
saying that a single tax, assessed under the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, upon the receipts of a telegraph company which were
derived partly from interstate commerce and partly from com-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Syllabus.

merce within the State, but which were returned and assessed
in gross and without separation or apportionment, is not
wholly invalid, but is invalid only in proportion to the extent
that such receipts were derived from interstate commerce.
Concurring, therefore, with the circuit judge in his action,
enjoining the collection of the taxes on that portion of the
receipts derived from interstate commerce, and permitting the
treasurer to collect the other tax upon property of the company and upon receipts derived from commerce entirely
within the limits of the State, this decree is

Afi~'mec.

UMITED STATES v. McLAUG-LIIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
To. 1027.

Argued December 8, 9, 12, 1887. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

The boundaries of the MIexican grant, called the Moquelamos grant, considered, - the same being described as "bounded on the east by the
adjacent sierra:" held, as the result of the evidence adduced, that its
eastern limit was at the point where the foot hills of the sierra begin to
rise above the plain, near the range line between ranges 7 and 8.
Mexican grants were of three kinds; 1, graut6 by specific boundaries, where
the donee is entitled to the entire tract; 2, grants of quantity within a
larger tract described by outside boundaries, where the donee is entitled
to the quantity specified and no more; 3, grants of a certain place or
rancho by name, where the donee is entitled to the whole place or rancho.
The second kind, grants of quantity in a larger tract, are, properly,
floats, and do not attach to any specific land until located by authority
of the government. The Mloquelamos grant was of this kind.
In the case of floating grants, as above described, it was only the quantity
actually granted which was reserved during the examination of the
validity of the grant; the remainder was at the disposal of the government as part of the public domain. If within the boundaries of a landgrant made in aid of a railroad, such land-grant would take effect, except
as to the quantity of land, or float, actually granted in the Mexican
grant, If that quantity lying together was left to satisfy the grant, the
railroad company would be entitled to patents for the odd sections of
the remainder.

