OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Service was had on the attorneys for Crabtree on September
16, 1885. The time intervening between the date of service
and the return of the citation was less than thirty days, and
the notice to the defendant in error, Crabtree, was not sufficient. Rev. Stat. ยง 999.
.r. 0. . Bar'ett opposing: The facts stated in the motion
show that plaintiffs in error have fully complied with the fifth
section of the eighth rule of this court, which simply provides
that the citation be served before the return day of the writ.
It was so served.
MR. JUSTICE MLER: This is a motion to dismiss, the ground
for which is that the citation was served and made returnable
less than thirty days after the writ was granted. We do not
think that is a sufficient ground to dismiss the writ of error,
whatever may be the ground for relief.

=UNT v. BLACKBURN.
APPEAT

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
ARKANSAS.
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF

STATES

FOR

No. 199. Submitted April 2, 1888. -Decided April 9, 1888. -Motion to reinstate submitted
April 26, 188. - Ordered continued April 30, 1888.

A cause under submission having been dismissed by the court of its own
motion for want of jurisdictional amount, the appellant moves to reinstate and submits affidavits. The court orders the motion continued,
with leave to each party to file further affidavits.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.

. . B. lasTkell for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER: After an examination of the record
in this case, which was submitted on printed arguments, we

MARCHAND v. LIVANDAIS.
Syllabus.

have not been able to find any evidence of the value of the
land in controversy, which is the subject of this suit. It is
therefore
-Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.
IMr. Haskell, on the 26th April, 1888, submitted a motion to
reinstate the cause, accompanied by affidavits of the value of
the property in dispute.
No appearance for'opposition.
MR. TusTIcE MILLER: This case was dismissed by the court
on April 9, 1888, because there was no evidence of there being

a sufficient amount in controversy to give this court jurisdiction. A motion is now made to reinstate it, and affidavits
submitted on the part of the appellant intended to show that
the value of the land in controversy is over $5000. Although
notice was given to the opposite party by telegraph, there has
been no sufficient opportunity or time for them to produce
counter affidavits, nor are we entirely satisfied with the sufficiency of those produced by the appellant. This motion to
reinstate the case is, therefore, continued until the next term
of the court, with leave for either party to ifie additional
affidavits on this subject.

MARCHAND v. LIVANDAIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1077. Submitted January 4, 1M.-Decided April 16, 1888.

A ferne covert was sued in Louisiana to recover upon notes said to have been
executed by her with the authority and consent of her husband. The
husband was made a party to the suit under the Code, although without
interest in the suit. Judgment being given for defendant, the plaintiff
sued out a writ of error against the wife only, but serving it on the husband also. On motion' by defendant in error to dismiss the writ: Held,
that the motion should be denied.

