OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

the implied power to issue bonds therefor, especially where, as
in the present case, special provisions were made for paying
the subscription by taxation.
Our views as to the proper construction of the general laws
of Tennessee, Code of Tennessee, §§ 1142 to 1161, have been
fully expressed in the case -of Jfelley v. Town of Milan, just
decided.
It is further contended for the plaintiff in error, that -this
court should, in any event, hold the town liable as upon nonnegotiable bonds or notes, treating the issue of the negotiable
bonds as an excess of authority only, and not invalidating the
loan, with interest, as agreed upon. It is a sufficient answer
to this proposition to say that this suit is brought solely for a
recovery upon the bonds and coupons, and no question growing out of the liability of the town for the subscription to the
stock can be inquired into in this suit.
T•
T judgmnz of the Circuit Court 16 a/vned.

FORITCROOK v. ROOT.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 225.

Argued April 13, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888

Letters-patent No. 243,674, granted to James Forncrook, June 28, 1881, for
an "improvement in sectional honey-frames," on an application filed
lay 13, 1879, are invalid, for want of novelty.
The claim of the patent, namely, "As a new article of manufacture, a blank
for honey-frames formed of a single piece of wood, having transverse
angular grooves c, longitudinal groove d, and recesses b, all arranged in
the manner shown and described," is not infringed by a blank whichdoes not contain the longitudinal groove, or any substitute or equivalent
for it.

IN EQUITY to restrain alleged infringements of letters-patent.
Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.

FORNCROOK v. ROOT.
Opinion of the Court.

Xir'.

William P. Wells for appellant.

.&. .. D. Leggett and .X. J. A. Osbornw for appellee.

MR.JUSTICE BLA.TOHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio, by James
Forncrook against Amos I:Root, for the infringement of letters-patent of the United States, No. 243,674, granted to the
plaintiff, June 28, 1881, for an "improvement in sectional
honey-frames," on an application filed May 13, 1879.
The specification, claim, and drawings of the patent, are as
follows:
"Be it known that I, James Forncrook, of Watertown, in
the county of Jefferson and State of Wisconsin, have invented
certain new and useful improvements in sectional honey-frames,
and I do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and
exact description of the invention, such as will enable others
skilled in the art to which it appertains to make and use the
same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, and
to letters of reference marked thereon, which form a part of
this specification. This invention relates to an improvement
in sectional honey-frames, the object being to so construct
them that they shall be stronger and in a more portable form
than the frames now used for such purposes; and the invention consists essentially in forming the frames from a single
blank or piece of material having all the necessary grooves
and recesses required to form a complete frame cut in it, the
ends of the blank being notched or dentated, and angular
grooves cut across it at those points which are to form the
corners. These blanks, after being thus prepared, may be
packed solidly in boxes, or otherwise, for transportation, and,
when required for use, are bent into the square forms, and
their ends united at one of the corners, by means of the interlocking notches or teeth, thus forming a complete frame ready
for use. In the drawings, Fig. 1 is a plan of one of the blanks,
showing the various recesses and grooves with which it is supVOL. cxxvn-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

plied. Fig. 2 is an edge view of the blank, and shows the
form and depth of the angular grooves which form the corners of the frame. Fig. 3 shows the blank bent into a square
form, with the ends united, making a complete frame ready
for use. Fig. I shows a modification of the groove or mitre c,
Fig. 2. The blanks for these frames are preferably formed
from some light, tasteless, and comparatively tough woo.d,
which will bend at the corners without steaming or boiling,
such as bass wood or white wood, ihe material being produced
by cutting it from the log in the form of a thick veneer, or by
sawing into thin stuff and then planing both surfaces. The
blanks A are then cut from this material, of the proper width
and length, the ends dentated, as shown at a a, by means of a
series of circular saws placed close together upon an arbor or
other suitable tool, so that they will interlock when brought
together. The recesses b b are then formed in its edges, at
such points in its length as will bring them at the top and
bottom of the frames when set up in the hive. These recesses
form openings which allow space for the passage of the bees
between the frame, and for the ventilation of this part of the
hive. Three triangular grooves c c o are then cut across the
blank at such points in its length as will divide it into four
nearly equal parts, each of which forms one side of the frame
after the blank is bent into a quadrangular shape. These triangular grooves are cut nearly through the blank, sufficient wood
only being left to hold the parts firmly together. As the sides
of the grooves c are inclined toward each other at a right angle, it follows that, when the blank is bent into the form of
a frame, these grooves make perfectly fitting interjoints at
three of its corners, the fourth corner being that at which the
ends of the blank are united to each other by means of the
interlocking teeth formed thereon. In one of these spaces,
between two of the grooves c, and preferably that which will
form the top of the frame when placed in the hive, is formed
a longitudinal groove, d, for the guide-strip, which makes a
secure point of attachment for the comb, when the bees begin
to build in the frames set side by side in the hive, with the
parts of the frame containing the recesses b b at top. These

FORNCROOK v. ROOT.
Opinion of the Court.

frames meet a want long felt by bee keepers, as those in common use are either dovetailed or nailed together at the corners,

and, if set up at the manufactory, form a large bulk for transportation, and are very liable to breakage in handling; but,-

if sold to the user in pieces, to be put together by him, the
numerous joints to be made cause loss of time and produce a
very fragile article when finished, which loses its rectangular
shape with the slightest rough usage, as the joints at the cor-.
ners lack the necessary strength and rigidity to hold them in:
shape. My frame will be found to possess none of the above
named defects, as it is intended for transportation in solid,
packages before being set up,and, when set up, possesses great
strength and rigidity, preserving its form without difficultyduring all the rough handling to which such frames are frequently subjected. Having thus described my invention, I
claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent, the following: As a new article of manufacture, a blank for honeyframes formed of a single piece of wood, having transverse
angular grooves c, longitudinal groove d, and recesses b, all,
arranged in the manner shown and described."

cO,
-------

OCTOBER TERMYf,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

The answer sets up as defences non-infringement and want
of novelty. After issue joined, proofs were taken on both
sides, and the Circuit Court, on a hearing, dismissed the bill.
Its decision is reported in 21 Fed. Rep. 328.
The plaintiff does not carry his invention further back than
the summer or late spring of 1877. The answer sets up that
the same invention as that patented was known to Alexander
Fiddes, who resides at Centralia, in the State of Illinois, as
early as May or June, 1873.
The Circuit Court, in its decision, said, that if the patentee
was entitled to claim the blank for honey-frames as a new and
useful device, it was because it is a constituent of the frame or
section into which it is formed by bending, no matter who
bends it, whether the maker or the purchaser for use; and
that, if the state of the art at the date of the alleged invention was such that the patentee could not claim as his invention the honey-frame or section when formed by bending and
uniting the ends of such a frame, he, for the same reason,
could not claim as his invention such a blank for the purpose
of forming it into a frame or a section. The opinion then
proceeded: "The question, therefore, is whether, upon the
evidence, at the date of the alleged invention, the manufacture
of honey-frames or sections, by bending and uniting the ends
of a blank consisting of a single piece, substantially as described in this patent, was a patentable novelty. Upon a
careful comparison and consideration of all the evidence this
question must be answered in the negative. Alexander Fiddes
testifies to making and using honey sections formed from a
single piece, grooved, bent, and united at the ends, as early as
1872 and 1873, some of which he sold to others for use; and,
if those now made by the complainant under his patent are
superior in any respect to the first specimens of the manufacture, it is merely in point of finish and workmanship. There
is no difference whatever in principle, and the early examples
were complete and practical frames, actually used and perfectly serving the purpose, so that they cannot be considered
as rude and imperfect experiments, subsequently developed
into a successful manufacture." We concur in these views of
the Circuit Court.

FORNCROOK v. ROOT.
Opinion of the Court.

In addition to this, the claim of the patent is as follows:
"As a new article of manufacture, a blank for honey-frames
formed of a single piece of wood, having transverse angular
grooves c, longitudinal groove d, and recesses b, all arranged
in the manner shown and described." The description in the
specification states that "the invention consists, essentially, in
forming the frame from a single blank or piece of material
having all the necessary grooves and recesses required to form
a complete frame cut in it." It also says, that "in the drawings, Fig. 1 is a plan of one of the blanks, showing the various
recesses and grooves with which it is supplied." One of those
grooves is the longitudinal groove d. The description further
says: "In one of these spaces, between two of the grooves c,
is formed a longitudinal groove, d, for the guide strip, which
makes a secure point of attachment for the comb, when the
bees begin to build in the frames, set side by side in the hive,
with the parts of the frame containing the recesses b b at the
top." Thus, the longitudinal groove d is made by the patentee
a necessary element in the structure. The defendant's structure has no longitudinal groove, and no substitute or equivalent for it. Fay v. Cordesm n, 109 U. S. 408; YTale -Lock Co.
v. Sargent, 117 U. S. 373; Dryfoos v. Wiese, 124 U. S. 32.
It is urged by the plaintiff that it is shown that the defendant's section is to be used with the comb foundation or attachment made by the putting, by the user, of pieces of wax on
the section. But this is not a mechanical equivalent in the
blank for the longitudinal groove, any more than, in Gage v.
Herring, 107 U. S. 640, 648, the person who shovelled or
swept up, by manual labor, the meal deposited upon the floor
of the dust-room, was a mechanical equivalent, in the sense of
the patent law, for the automatic conveyor shaft in the dustroom.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

