OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

persons interested, that no deduction for debts would be made
in the valuation of bank shares for taxation. It is, therefore,
not now essential to show such an offer when it is established
that there were debts to be deducted, and when the matter is
still inAferi, the tax being unpaid."
In regard to all of the shareholders claiming this deduction,
except Barnett, Chamberlain, and Parmalee, the court finds
that the allegations of the bill are true, but that as to them
they are untrue. It, therefore, granted relief by the injunction as to all of them except these three, as to which it was
denied. It is to be observed, however, that the bank takes no
appeal from the part of the decree denying relief to these
three shareholders.
These principles require the affirmance of the decree of the
Circuit Court; and while there will be found in them a sufficient answer to the questions certified by the judges of that
court, we do not think it necessary to make a more specific
answer to each of them.
The decree is afi"ned.

PEORIA AND PEKIN UNION RAILWAY COMPANTY
v. CHICAGO, PEKIN AND SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COIMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 210. Argued April 6,1888.-

Decided April 23, 1888.

A railroad company, all whose stock was owned by four other companies,
whose roads connected, having obtained a lease of another connecting
railroad, and improved the terminal facilities, made a contract with the
four companies, by which they should have the use of its tracks and
terminal facilities for fifty years, each paying the same fixed rent and
certain terminal charges, and any other company with the same terminus
might, by entering into a similar contract, acquire like privileges upon
paying the same rent and similar charges; and demanded the making of
such a contract by the receiver of another company, who previously had
the use of the road now leased, and of its terminal facilities, upon terms

UNION RAILWAY v. CHICAGO, PEKIN &c. R'D. 201
Opinion of the Court.
agreed on between him and the company owning that road. The receiver
objected that the teans demanded were exorbitant and oppressive, and
could not be assented to by him without an order of the court which
appointed him; and it was thereupon agreed that his company should
enjoy like privileges, paying the like terminal charges as the four companies, and such rent as the judge should award, and meantime should
pay at the same rate as before. The judge declining to act as an arbitrator, the receiver was excluded from the use of the tracks. Held, that
he had not assented, and was not liable, to pay the same rent as the four
companies, during the time that he used the tracks and terminal facilities
of the first company.

Tnxs was a petition by an intervenor in a suit to foreclose
a railway mortgage, in order to compel the receiver of the
mortgaged property to pay rent. Decree dismissing the petition, from which the petitioner appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.
.Mr. Wager ,Swayne for appellant.
with him on the brief.

.A

r. C. Walter Artz was

X.r. Thomas S. -[oCledland for appellee.
IMm. JUSTICE- GrAy delivered the opinion of the court.
Pending a suit in equity by the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company against the Chicago, Pekin and Southwestern Railroad Company, to foreclose a mortgage of its road, the Peoria
and Pekin Union Railway Company fied this intervening
petition to compel the receiver of the defendant company,
appointed in that suit, to pay to the petitioner the sum of
$16,231.55 for rent of tracks and terminal facilities at Peoria
from February 1, 1881, to March 1, 1882.
From the documents in the record, and the very argumentative and somewhat conflicting affidavits of Cohr, the
vice-president and general counsel of the petitioner, and of
Hinckley, formerly the president and now the receiver of the
defendant, the material facts appear to be as follows:
Peoria and Pekin are ten miles apart, on opposite sides of
the Illinois River, and connected by two lines of railway tracks,
that of the Peoria and Springfield Railroad Company on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

east side of the river, and that of the Peoria, Pekin and Jacksonville IRailroad Company on the west side of the river, and
each crossing the river on a bridge. Connecting with these at
Peoria or at Pekin are the lines of four other railroad companies, the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company,
the Indiana, Bloomington and Western Railway Company, the
Peoria, Decatur and Evansville Railway Company, and the
Peoria and Jacksonville Railroad Company.
The petitioner was organized in 1880, its whole capital stock
being owned by these four companies, one quarter by each.
On February 1, 1881, the petitioner, having obtained a lease
of the Peoria and Springfield Railroad, and acquired by purchase the Peoria, Pekin and Jacksonville Railroad, and having
improved the terminal accommodations and facilities at Peoria,
entered into a contract in writing with the four companies
aforesaid, by which it leased to them for fifty years the tracks
between Pekin and Peoria, with the use of its terminal accommodations and facilities at Peoria; and each of the four companies agreed to pay a yearly rent of $22,500 and a proportionate share of the expenses of maintaining the terminal accommodations at Peoria and of terminal services, according to
the business done by each; and it was further agreed as follows:
"1Eighth. Any other railroad company, whose road shall
now or hereafter run into said city of Peoria, or that shall
desire to procure an entrance into said city, shall be allowed
to acquire the same rights And privileges as the said several
lessees, but no other, and upon no less rental, upon entering
into a like contract hereto with the party of the first part,
except as to representation in the board of directors of the
party of the first part and ownership in its capital stock."
Before February 1, 1881, the trains of the defendant company had been run over the road of the Peoria and Springfield
Railroad Company, at a rate of compensation fixed by agreement between the receivers of those two companies.
On February 1, 1881, Cohr, in behalf of the petitioner,
demanded of Reed, then the receiver of the defendant company,
that he should enter into or contract to pay, during his receivership, the same rent and other charges as the four companies,

UNION RAILWAY v. CHICAGO, PEKIN &c. R'D. 203
Opinion of the Court.

and insisted that he had no authority to allow the use of the
petitioner's tracks on any other terms. Reed objected that
the terms demanded were exorbitant and oppressive, and that
he had no authority to assent to them without an order of
the court; and it was thereupon agreed that the defendant
company should enjoy the use of the tracks and the terminal
facilities, and should pay the like terminal charges as the
four companies, and should also pay such rent from February
1, 1881, as should be determined by Judge Drummond, upon
an application to be forthwith made by Reed, and that until
such determination the defendant company should pay at the
same rate as formerly paid to the receiver of the Peoria and
Springfield Railroad Company, and should pay the residue, if
any, when the judge should so determine.
Pursuant to this agreement, Reed made an application in
writing to Judge Drummond, who, as Cohr testifies, in December, 1881, or early in 1882, informed him that he declined to
decide upon it, and that, unless the defendant settled with the
petitioner by March 1, 1882, the petitioner might shut out the
defendant from its tracks. Upon notice to that effect, Reed
declined to pay, and on March 1, 1882, ceased to use the tracks
of the petitioner.
The defendant paid the petitioner for the use of its tracks
and terminal facilities from February 1, 1881, to March 1,
1882, at the same rate as previously paid to the receiver of
the Peoria and Springfield Railroad Company, amounting to
$17,537.83. The petitioner claimed for the same period the
sum of $9394.38 for terminal expenses, and the sum of $24,375 for rent, and applied the sum received from the defendant
to the payment in full of the first of these claims, and in part
of the second, leaving $16,231.55, which the petitioner now
sought to recover.
The master, to whom the petition was referred, reported
that there was nothing before him which enabled him "to report the amount of compensation which the petitioner should
have, except as the result of the conditions upon which the receiver continued to use the property after the attempted making of a contract between the parties resulting in the notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to;" but found "from their relations, and the implied understanding upon the part of the receiver arising from
them," that the sum claimed was due from the defendant to
the petitioner.
The Circuit Court sustained exceptions taken by the defendant to the master's report, and dismissed the petition. Its
opinion, which is not made part of the record, is reported in
18 Fed. Rep. 484. The petitioner appealed to this court.
The only matter in dispute is whether the defendant is liable
to the petitioner, by way of rent, from February 1, 1881, to
March 1, 1882, for anything more than has already been paid.
There is no more ground for implying an assent by the defendant to the claim of the petitioner, than for implying an
assent of the petitioner to the position of the defendant.
When the petitioner demanded of the receiver of the defendant the like rent, as well as the like rate for terminal expenses,
as was to be paid by the four companies, the receiver of the
defendant declined to assent to the demand without an order
of the court whose officer he was. The parties thereupon
came to a temporary arrangement, by which the defendant
agreed to pay the terminal expenses demanded, and the parties submitted the question of rent to the Circuit Judge as an
arbitrator, and it was agreed that until his determination the
defendant should continue to pay the same charges that it had
paid before February 1, 1881.
By the terms of that agreement, then, the amount of rent
to be paid by the defendant .was left uncertain and dependent
upon the award of the judge. The affidavit of the petitioner's
own witness shows that the judge, after some delay, declined
to act as an arbitrator. The judge's -view upon the subject
appears in the opinion afterwards delivered by him in the Circuit Court, in which he said: "On looking into the question
at the time, the judge was of the opinion that the contract
which was demanded of the receiver by the Peoria and Pekin
Union Company was oppressive in its terms, and doubted
whether the receiver could afford to pay the prices then demanded; but at the same time, admitting that the Peoria and
Pekin Company was the owner of the property, and that it had

MISSOURI RAILWAY CO. v. MACKEY.
Syllabus.

the right to,prescribe on what terms the receiver should do
his railroad business between Pekin and Peoria and in the
latter city, stated that if the receiver would not accept the
terms he could not be permitted to have the use of the property of the Peoria and Pekin Union Company." The judge,
while he recognized the right of the petitioner, as owner of
the property, to exclude the defendant from its use, if the. defendant would not accept the petitioner's terms, in no way intimated that upon the facts of the case the defendant could be
held to have accepted those terms.
There is no evidence tending to show that the sum paid by
the defendant is not all that its use of the property was fairly
worth. The rent which each of the four companies, who
owned all the stock of the petitioner company, agreed by express contract to pay that company, affords no test of what
is a reasonable rent as between the petitioner and a stranger,
like this defendant, who had no interest in its stock and was
no party to that contract. As observed in the opinion of the
Circuit Court, "The Peoria and Pekin Union Company was
really owned by the other companies which made the agreement with it, and consequently they were substantially owners
of the property of the Peoria and Pekin Company. It was
substantially a contract, therefore, made by one party with
itself, which it was insisted should be the test of payment by
the receiver."
Decree acfljmed.

M1ISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MACKEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME couR OF THE STATE OF KANsAs.
Nto. 218. Argued April 12, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

The statute of Kansas of 1874, c.93, ยง 1, p. 143, Comp. Laws Kansas, 1881,
p. 784, which provides that "1Everyrailroad company organized or doing
business in this State shall be liable for all damages done to any employ6
of such company in consequence of any negligence of its agents, or by
any mismanagement of its engineers, or other employ~s, to any person

