RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

118 U. S. 86, 89; Frost v. Spitley, 121 U. S. 552, 557. We
see no error in the decree of the court below, and it is accordingly

RUOKER v WHEELER.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1306. Submitted January 9, 1888.- Decided April 16, 1888.

In the courts of the United States the presiding judge may, in submitting
a case to the jury, express his opinion on the facts; and when no rule of
law is incorrectly stated, and all matters of fact are ultimately submitted
to the jury, such expression is not reviewable on writ of error.
In this case there was no error in the charge of the court to the jury.

THE

case as stated by the court was as follows:

The cause of action- set out in the first count of the complaint is, that the defendant in error, who was the defendant
below, agreed with the plaintiff in error that if the latter
assisted the former and his agents, in purchasing the interest
of Julia Webber in the Emma lode mining claim at a price
not exceeding forty thousand dollars, he should receive for his
services the sum of ten thousand dollars, but only five thousand dollars if the defendant was compelled to pay more than
forty thousand dollars for said interest. The complaint alleges
that, in consequence of services rendered by the plaintiff under
that agreement, the defendant was, on the 22d of lNovember,
1884, enabled to buy said interest at a sum exceeding forty
thousand dollars, whereby the latter became indebted to plaintiff in the sum of five thousand dollars.
The defendant in his answer denies that he made any such
agreement as that alleged, or that he was enabled to purchase
the interest of Julia Webber, by reason of any services rendered by the plaintiff.
The second count of the complaint sets forth the following
cause of action:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

On the 29th. of November, 1882, one Henry Webber was
the owner of an undivided 20 of the Emma lode mining claim
in Colorado, one Archie C. Fisk being the owner of 2-,1and
-Charles F. Abbey the owner of the remaining ff. In 1883
Fisk commenced proceedings under the statutes of the United
States in advertising the interest of Webber "out of said
claim" on account of alleged non-payment of assessment work
done by Fisk on said claim in 1882. After the period of
the publication of said advertisement, Fisk asserted ownership
of ,-of said mining claim.
On the 20th of November, 1883, Fisk leased to Abbey
said -0-.4
Webber, desiring to secure possession of said claim,
procured from Abbey, November 26, 1883, a lease in the
name of Nevitt, his brother-in-law, of an undivided --, the
latter being the nominal and Webber the real owner of the
lease. On the 18th of April, 1884, the defendant, Wheeler,
.by conveyances, had become the owner of all the interest
claimed by Fisk. During the same month Webber commenced suit against the grantor of Wheeler, and the administrator and heirs-at-law of Abbey, to recover his interest
of -2 in said premises.

On the 28th of April, 1884, Webber gave to the plaintiff,
Rucker, a quit-claim deed in and to an undivided one-twelfth
interest (-&) in said mining claim, as his compensation for
legal services rendered and to be rendered in the prosecution
of said action. In the same year Wheeler and the administrator and heirs-at-law of Abbey commenced an action against
Nevitt for the possession of said premises, and to restrain him
and his agents from working and mining the same.
At the time the quit-claim deed was made to Rucker, it was
agreed between him and Webber that Rucker's interest would
not be subject to the burden of the lease made by Abbey to
Nevitt. In consideration of that deed and agreement the
plaintiff entered upon the performance of the legal services
necessary to establish Webber's title to said interest of *.
On the 26th of September, 188the defendant being
then the owner of both the Abbey and Fisk interests in said
claim - the plaintiff, for and on behalf of Webber, and acting

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

nominally for Webber, together with the defendant's attorney,
prepared a written agreement, which was signed and executed by Webber, Nevitt, and the defendant. It had for its
object the compromise of the pending litigation between the
parties. That agreement was as follows:
"This agreement, made and entered into on this 26th day
of September, A.D. 1884, by and between J. B. Wheeler, of
the first part, and C. E. Kevitt, of the second part, and Henry
Webber.
"Witnesseth, That whereas the said party of the first part
is the owner of certain interests in the Emma mine, situate in
Pitkin County, State of Colorado, and a suit is now pending
in the District Court of said county on behalf of said Webber
against said party of the first part and others for a onethird
(f) interest in said" mine; and whereas another suit is pending
in said court in behalf of the said J. B. Wheeler and others
against the said second party to recover possession of said
mine; and the said second party in his defence thereto claims
to hold a lease of said mine expiring on the 20th day of
November, 1884, in which said suit the District Judge of said
court has made an order allowing the possession of said property to remain in the hands of said second party during the
period of said lease, two-thirds (-) of the proceeds thereof to
be paid to John Hulbert, receiver, to be held by him to await
the determination of said suit or the further order of the court,
less a royalty of fifteen (15) per cent; and whereas said party
of the second part has been for some time in the possession of
said mine and has extracted a large quantity of ore, a greater
portion of which is now on hand undisposed of ; and whereas
said second party, being desirous of compromising and settling said actions, it is agreed, in consideration of the premises,
the said first party will, upon the ensealing of these presents,
make, execute, and deliver a sufficient deed of quit-claim to
said Webber, his grantees or assigns, for an undivided onefourth (4) interest in said mine, and said Webber, on receipt of
said deed, agrees to release, waive, and does hereby release
and waive, unto said party of the first part all claims which
he may have to any further or other interest in said property.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"And the suit aforesaid between the said parties to be
dismissed upon each party paying their own' costs therein.
That the suit aforesaid between said first party and said second party shall likewise be dismissed upon the same terms,
and the said second party hereby releases and waives to said
first party all right and title as to said lease, save and except
a one-third () interest therein, and at the end of said term to
release and surrender the whole thereof and possession thereunder peaceably to said owners, their grantees or assigns.
"It is further agreed that the proceeds of the ore now on
hand, after payment of the cost of production and after the
payment of the costs of hauling and treatment, shall be
divided as follows: The said party of the second part to receive one-third (*) thereof, less a royalty of fifteen per cent
on said one-third interest, according to the terms set forth in
his said lease, and the said party of the first part to receive
three-fourths (j) of the remaining two-thirds (%), and the said
Webber, his grantees or assigns, one-fourth (4) of the said remaining two-thirds (1), and during the remainder of the term
of said lease, namely, up to and inclusive of the 20th day of
November, A.D. 1884, the proceeds of the mine to be divided
in the same manner and in the same proportions aforesaid,
such division also to apply to and include the said royalty to
be paid by the second party as aforesaid.
"And it is mutually agreed by and between the parties
hereto that during the remainder of the term of said lease the
said mine shall be under the superintendence of Joseph Ruse,
who shall operate, work, and develop the said property for the
mutual interest of all the parties hereto, and with a view to developing and preserving the said property as a workable mine
as well as the production of ore therefrom, said work to be done
by said Joseph Ruse in as economical a manner as possible,
and to limit the production therefrom so as to correspond to
the expense incident to mining, and the price for which said
ore can be sold, and any failure upon the part of said Joseph
Ruse to comply with the conditions herein mentioned shall be
the cause for removal from such position of superintendent.
"The said Joseph Ruse during his continuance as superin-

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

tendent shall be under the advisory control of said first party.
And the said second party and the said Webber shall have

the right at all times to make suggestions in the matter of
the authority of the said party of the first part respecting
the management of the said mine.
"In witness whereof we hereto set our hands and seals on
the day and year first herein above written.
"J. B. WHEELER. [SEAL.]

"0. E. NEviTT.

[S-FAT.]

"HENRY WEBBER.

[SEAL.]"

At the time this agreement was executed the defendant,
the complaint alleges, "knew that said Nevitt was representing the said Webber, and that said lease was in fact owned by
the said Webber, and that plaintiff was entitled to - of the
proceeds of said mine out of the -A-, thereof awarded to said
Webber under and in virtue of said agreement; that in pursuance of said agreement the management and control of the
working of said mine was given over to the said defendant,
who recovered the proceeds thereof and placed the same in his
banking-house to the credit of the mine."
On the 21st of October, 1884, the defendant purchased said
leasehold interest from Nevitt, who was acting for Webber as
aforesaid, and took an assignment thereof to himself; that by
virtue of said purchase he became entitled to -- more of the
ore then on hand, and -,-uO
of that produced thereafter and until
November 21, 1884.
On the 17th of November, 1884, Henry Webber sold his interest, -, to his wife, who, November 22, 1884, sold and conveyed to the defendant. Up to the time of Mfrs. Webber's
sale to the defendant a large sum of money was realized from
the sale of the ore, and there was on hand, unsold, a large
quantity taken from the mine subsequent to September 26,
1884, the money thus realized being in defendant's bank to the
credit of the mine. The plaintiff claims that at the time the
defendant purchased said leasehold interest there was due to
him, on account of his A out of the -- of the proceeds of the
mine accorded to Webber and his grantees and assigns by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

agreement of September 26 a balance of $2262.30; that on
the same basis there was due him $2630.66 at the time of defendant's purchase of -Mrs.Webber's interest; which sums the
defendant placed to his own account and converted to his own
use.
The complaint further alleges:
"That at the time of the purchase of said leasehold interest
and at the time of the purchase of said Julia Webber's title
by the defendant the said defendant well knew that the plaintiff and the said Henry Webber had agreed at the time of the
plaintiff obtaining his title aforesaid that plaintiff's interest
was not subject to the burden of said lease, and that he, the
said plaintiff, was to receive out of the interest of the said
Webber, as the grantee of said Webber, his full one-twelfth
share and interest in the ore produced and to be produced
from said mine, and he well knew that by virtue of the terms
of said agreement of the 26th day of September, 1881, plaintiff was entitled to his five-sixtieths of the proceeds of all ores
extracted from said mine out of the ten-sixtieths aforesaid accorded to the said Webber by virtue of said agreement.
"That by virtue of the sale made by said Henry Webber
-to the said Julia Webber no part of the proceeds of said mine
theretofore produced were sold to said Julia Webber, and that
when said Julia Webber received said conveyance she also
knew that plaintiff's five-sixtieths interest in the proceeds of
the ore theretofore extracted from said mine was to come out
of the ten-sixtieths thereof accorded to said Henry Webber
under and by virtue of said agreement of the 26th of September, 1884, and that she also knew and understood that by virtue of said agreement made between the plaintiff and said
Henry Webber at the time of his conveyance to said plaintiff
that his, said plaintiff's, interest was not subject to the burden
of said leasehold interest, and that said leasehold interest was
owned and controlled by said Henry Webber."
Such is the case made by the complaint.
The defendant in his answer admits maniy of the allegations
of the complaint, but denies that at the time of the making of
the deed to him by Webber, or at any other time, it was

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

agreed between them that the plaintiff's interest would not
be subject to the burden of the lease made by Abbey to Kevitt,
or that he, defendant, knew, either at the time of the signing
and execution of the agreement of September 26, 1884, or at
any other time, that Nevitt was representing Webber, or that
said lease was owned by Webber, or that the plaintiff was entitled to 6- of the proceeds of the mine out of the 3A awarded
to Webber under said agreement.
He admits that up to the time of the sale to him by Julia
Webber of the interest previously held by her husband, "there
had been a large sum of money realized from the sale of ore
taken from the said mine, together with a large amount unsold," and that "the moneys belonging to said interests were
by him purchased with the said interests, and that he consequently realized the amount thereof." But he denies that
any part or portion of the said proceeds of ores belonging to
the plaintiff were ever withheld from him. He denies that
at the time of his purchase from Julia Webber he ever
knew, or that Henry Webber and plaintiff ever agreed at the
time the latter got his title, "that plaintiff's interest was
not subject to the burden of said lease, or that plaintiff was
to receive out of the interest of said Webber, as the grantee
of said Webber, his full
share or interest of the ore produced or to be produced from said mine." He denies that
"he well knew, or knew at all, either by virtue of the terms
of said agreement of the 26th of September, 1884, or at any
other time, that the plaintiff was entitled to A or any other
amount of the proceeds of ores extracted from said mine out
of the -'-Or accorded to said Webber by virtue of said agreement,
or any other sum; but, on the contrary, alleges that the said
plaintiff was to receive his proportion, to wit, - of the proceeds of all the said ores, less the proportion which the V interest should bear of the burden of the said lease upon the said interest in said mine." He denies that Julia Webber knew or
understood that by virtue of the agreement of September 26,
1884-, or of any agreement, the plaintiff's interest was not
subject to the burden of the said leasehold interest, or that
said interest was owned or controlled by said Henry Webber.
*

OCTOBER. TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Verdict for defendant, and judgment on the verdict.

De-

fendant sued out this writ of error.

Mr. A. T. Rucker in person for plaintiff in error.
.
1..
M. Patterson and Xr.
in error.
MRi.. JUsTICE HARLAN,

. S. Thomas for defendant

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. We perceive no error in the court's charge to the jury
upon the cause of action set out in the first count of the complaint, namely, as to whether any such agreement as that
alleged was ever made between the plaintiff and the defendant.
The court properly said:
"On the cause of action as stated here, in order to show
any right upon the part of the plaintiff to the commission for
which he sues, in making the sale, the proof must be of a sale
made to the defendant, or an agreement for a sale to be made
to the defendant, not a sale to Judkins and Devereux, not a
sale to Judkins and the defendant, because that is a very different matter from a sale to the defendant alone. If Judkins
was to be interested in the purchase he would also join in the
payment of the commission- that is to say, Judkins and
Devereux, if they purchase, Devereux acting on his own behalf, Judkins and the defendant, if they purchase jointly,
would pay it. If some other man was brought into the purchase-some one not named at that time or referred to in
any way-then it would be that other man and Judkins
who would pay the plaintiff the commission; furthermore,
it does not appear -in fact the evidence tends to prove that
Devereux had no authority from Wheeler at that time to make
any purchase of this property or any other, and, of course,
an agreement by Devereux on behalf of the defendant to purchase this property would not be binding on the defendant
unless afterwards with full knowledge of the situation and
circumstances, and of what had been done by Devereux in

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

his behalf, he should ratify" and confirm what had been done
by Devereux. I do not see that this evidence proves, taking
all that is said about it by these witnesses, a contract on
behalf of the defendant to purchase this property through
the plaintiff. I say now generally upon this branch of the
case that it must appear to you from the evidence, that
there is an agreement between the plaintiff and defendant Mr. Rucker and Mr. Wheeler -to
the effect that Mr. Rucker
was to secure the property for him and that he was to pay'
him for that service. The agreement, which appears to be
stated by Judkins and by Devereux, is not of this character that is, that was an agreement that Judkins would purchase
with somebody else, and of course Judkins would be chargeable with the commission if it was carried out."
It is insisted by the plaintiff that the court went too far in
its expressions of opinion upon the evidence bearing upon this
issue, and that what was said had practically the effect of
taking the case from the jury. It is no longer an open question that a judge of a court of the United States, in submitting a case to the jury, may, in his discretion, express his opinion
upon the facts; and that "when no rule of law is incorrectly
stated, and all matters of fact are ultimately submitted to the
determination of the jury," such expressions of opinion are not
reviewable on writ of error. Vicksburg &c. Railroadv. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 553; & Louis &c. Railway v. 7ickers,
122 U. S. 360; U. S. v. Reading Railroad,123 U. S.113, 114.
Whether the parties made such an agreement for compensation to the plaintiff as that alleged was the only issue made
by the first count of the complaint; and that was a question
of fact to be determined by the jury. Their right to determine it was distinctly recognized in that part of the charge
which immediately followed the court's expression of opinion
as to certain portions of the evidence, namely: "If you can
find anything in the evidence to support the conclusion that
the defendant made an agreement with plaintiff to pay this
commission, and that the property was afterwards purchased
by him in pursuance of that agreement, then the plaintiff is
entitled to recover; otherwise he is not entitled to recover."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Indeed, we are not sure but that the court might properly
have given a peremptory instruction in favor of the defendant
upon this branch of the case.
2. In reference to the cause of action set out in the second
count of the complaint, it ismanifest that the plaintiff bases
his right to recover upon the agreement alleged to have been
made between him and Henry Webber, at the time the latter
executed the quit-claim deed of April 28, 1884, to the effect
that plaintiff's interest would not be subject to the burden of
the lease made by Abbey to Nevitt; of which agreement, it is
further alleged, Julia Webber had knowledge when she purchased from her husband, and defendant had knowledge at
the time he purchased from her."
Upon this part of the case the court said to the jury:
"Now, the position of the plaintiff is that he comes in under
the designation of a grantee or assignee of Webber for onehalf of the amount reserved to Webber by this agreement
-that is -ths; this agreement reserves to Webber .ths;
and the position of the plaintiff is that he must be regarded as
an assignee and grantee of Webber in virtue of his deed of the
preceding April for half of that amount which was reserved
to Webber. He has brought this suit to recover that. Now,
as I said before, in the deed there is nothing about that, and
the question is, what was the intention of the parties at the
time this deed was made ? The plaintiff testifies' that it was
his intention that he should have the interest accruing under
this lease as it went along, and was not to be postponed to the
lease. I understand Mr. Webber to deny that proposition.
Some comments have occurred between counsel as to the
meaning of Mr. Webber's testimony, whether he has denied
it or not. Mr. Webber could, if he chose to, by the terms of
the agreement, reserve this entire interest to himself-that is,
all that was accruing under the lease; if it was his intention
to keep it to himself, and there was no agreement of the parties in respect to it, the deed constitutes no agreement. He
could reserve it to himself, and if he did reserve it to himself,
if nothing was said about it at that time, in the absence of any
agreement between them that it should go to the plaintiff,

RUCKER v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

then it would go to 'Webber; and under these circumstances
it remained in him up to the time that he made the sale to the
defendant in this case. After the agreement of September
26th, and some time in October, Nevitt sold, as you remember,
through the negotiations of Mr. Tudkins, to Mfr. Devereux or
to the defendant directly - I don't remember much about that
transaction -and subsequently IMrs. Webber, in a conveyance
which she made to the defendant, assumed to convey all right
and interest accruing to her under the lease. Upon that point
the question is whether there was any agreement between the
parties that the plaintiff's right and interest under this deed
should become effectual at once upon the execution of the
deed, and that he should be entitled to whatever should come
under the lease to Webber - that is, to his part of it, -th, -ths,
of the whole amount -and if Nevitt was taking the whole
preceeds of the mine, and I believe he was - at least it seems
that he did so or assumed the right to do so after the mine
became fruitful, and that was only in August, I think, of the
same year - there were no proceeds of the mine, nothing that
could be divided amongst them- among the several parties until that time, and nothing was in fact divided until after
this agreement of the 26th of September was made. So that
the question must be whether there was an agreement between
the plaintiff and defendant, or between the plaintiff and Webber, that he should be entitled to these proceeds from the time
of the conveyance to him; that is a question of fact for your
consideration. If you find that there was such an agreement;
that the parties understood and intended that Mfr. Rucker
should be entitled to whatever should arise under the lease
according to the proportion and interest conveyed to him by
this deed from and after the time of the deed until the end of
the lease, then my understanding is that he is entitled to
recover the sum specified in this stipulation between the parties. They have agreed upon the amount. In the absence of
such an agreement, then, he is not entitled to recover."
There was no error in this charge. It contained all that
need have been said. It fairly submitted to the jury the question as to the existence or non-existence of the agreement upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.,

which the plaintiff relied. That the plaintiff did rely upon
that agreement is perfectly clear, not only from the complaint,
but from his second request for instructions, as follows:
"12. The court is asked to instruct the jury that if they
believe from the evidence that the lease of a portion of the
lode, though made nominally to Nevitt, was in fact owned by
Mr. Henry Webber, and that the same Webber sold and conveyed a one-twelfth interest to the plaintiff after the making
and delivery of the lease, and if they also believe from the
evidence that at the time of the execution of the deed from
Webber to plaintiff it was mutually agreed between Webber
and plaintiff that this one-twelfth should be exempt from the
operation of said lease, then plaintiff is entitled to the proceeds
of the one-twelfth, and upon these facts they should find for
the plaintiff to the amount fixed by the stipulation of the parties read to the jury, and interest at the rate of ten per cent
per year from August 24th, 1885, the date the suit was
brought."
The jury having found, under appropriate instructions as to
the legal rights of the parties, that there was no such agreement, and the parties having stipulated that nothing was due
to the plaintiff if the interest he acquired from Henry Webber
was subject to the burden of the Nevitt lease, the judgment is
Affirnwd.

BLACKLOOK v. SMALL.
ArPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 148. Argued April 10, 11, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

Two plaintiffs, citizens of Georgia, broiight a suit in equity, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina, against
S., a citizen of South Carolina, and H., a sister of the plaintiffs, also a
citizen of South Carolina, to set aside the alleged payment by S. to R.,
another defendant, of a bond and mortgage given by him to B., the
father of the plaintiffs and of H., and to have the satisfaction of the

