BARNARD v.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

tially as it is in the Revised Statutes. When there are two
acts or provisions of law relating to the same subject, effect is
to be given to both, if that be practicable. If the two are repugnant, the latter will operate as a repeal of the former to
the extent of the repugnancy. But the second act will not
operate as such repeal merely because it may repeat some of
the provisions of the first one, and omit others, or add new
provisions. In such cases the later act will operate as a repeal only where it plainly appears that it was intended as a
substitute for the first act. As Mr. Justice Story says, it "may
be merely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary." W~ood v.
United States, 16 Pet. 342, 363.
The most that can be said of § 5 of the act of 1879, construed
with reference to § 3962 of the Revised Statutes, is that it
makes an exception to the provisions of that section, so far as
railway companies are concerned. Its repeal, therefore, leaves
the original section in full force. The repeal was before the
failures occurred for which the deductions complained of were
made.
Judgment aflnwd.

BARNARD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 272.

Argued May 2, 1888. -Decided May 14, 185S.

Plaintiff and the Board of Public Works of the defendant entered into a
contract by which plaintiff was to do certain work on a street in the
city of Washington and receive payment therefor at the rate of 30 cents
per cubic yard for grading, and 40 cents per cubic yard for excavation
and refilling, to be measured by excavation only. The Board had before
then entered in its record and notified its engineer, auditor and contractclerk that for rock excavation contractors should be paid $1.50 per cubic
yard in ditches and sewers, and $1.00 per cubic yard in street grading,
etc. Plaintiff did his work, was paid at the contract price, and brought
this action to recover for rock excavation, claiming that it was outside
of the contract. Held:
(1) That it was not outside of the contract.
(2) That the act of February 21, 1871, 16 Stat. 419, c. 62, forbade the Board

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.,
Opinion of the Court.
to contract except in writing, and forbade the allowance of extra
compensation for work done under a written contract.
(3) That the entry in the journal of the Board could not affect plaintiff's
contract.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.r. I ff. Ford for appellant.
fAfL.Attorney General and .M. Assistant Attorney General
Howard for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 23d day of July, 1879, Robert H. Ryan, since
deceased, entered into a contract with the Board of Public
Works of the District of Columbia to do certain work for the
improvement of New Jersey Avenue, in the city of Washington, from B Street south to the Potomac River. The different
kinds of work required were stated, and the prices for each
specified, among which were "grading, 30 cents per cubic
yard," and "excavations and refilling, 40 cents per cubic yard,
to be measured in excavating only." It is conceded that Ryan
performed the work pursuant to the contract, and has been
paid the amount agreed upon. The present claim is for extra
work on the avenue "in grading or excavating stone or rock,"
for which it is contended there is no provision in the contract.
The Board had entered in its journal before the contract was
made the following: "Chief Engineer was notified that the
following price was established for rock excavation, viz.: in
ditches for sewers, etc., $1.50 per cubic yard; cutting down
streets and the like, $1.00 per cubic yard. Auditor and contract clerk notified ;" and Ryan contended that he was therefore entitled for all rock excavations to one dollar a yard
instead of the price specified in the contract for grading and
excavating, the difference being $4060.
To this contention there are two answers. In the first
place, the "grading" and "excavation" specified in the contract are not limited to work done in sand or gravel or earth
free from stone or rock. It might reasonably be expected

RATTERMAN v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

411

Syllabus.

that more or less stone or rock would be found in the progress
of the work, and the price was evidently fixed upon its supposed av6rage character.
In the second place, the act of Congress of February 21,
1871, "to provide a government for the District of Columbia,"
in force at the time, required that all contracts by the Board
should be in writing, be signed by the parties making the
same, and a copy thereof filed in the office of the secretary of
the District; and it forbade the allowance of any extra compensation for work done under a contract. 16 Stat. 419,423,
e. 62, §§ 15, 37.
The entry in the journal of the Board was no part of the
contract with the claimant, nor could it in any respect control
the construction or limit the effect of such contract. The
Board could not in that way either make a new contract or
alter the one previously made, so as to bind the District.
Barnes v. Districtof Columbia, 22 C. C1. 366.
Judgment aflrned.

RATTERMAN

v. WESTERN UNION
COMPANY.

TELEGRAPH

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RATTERMAI.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, WESTERN DIVISION.
Nos. 1360, 1361.

Argued Marcb 21,1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

A single tax, assessed under the laws of a State upon receipts of a telegraph
company which were partly derived from interstate commerce and partly
from commerce within the State, and which were capable of separation
but were returned and assessed in gross and without -eparation or apportionment, is invalid in proportion to the extent that such receipts
were derived from interstate commerce, but is otherwise valid; and
while a Circuit Court of the United States should enjoin the collection of
the tax upon the portion of the receipts derived from interstate com-

