UNITED STATES v. WELD.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WELD.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1866.

Submitted March 20, 188.-Decided April 16, 1888.

In order to make a claim against the United States one arising out of a
treaty within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 1066, excluding it from the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, the right itself, which the petition
makes to be the foundation of the claim, must derive its life and existence from some treaty stipulation.
A claim against the United States made under the provisions of the act of
June 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 98, c. 195, "reestablishing the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims and for the distribution of unappropriated
moneys of the Geneva Award," is not a claim growing out of the treaty
of Washington within the sense of the word "treaty," as used in Rev.
Stat. § 1066.
The payment of the expenses of the Geneva Arbitration has not been
charged by Congress upon the fund received under the award made
there.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.X.

Assistant Attorney GeneralHowardfor appellant.

.Mr. Samuel Skellabaitgerand 2[r. Jeremiah X.
appellees.

Wilson, for

31n. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The suit was
brought in that court by the appellees, who were plaintiffs
below, to recover from the United States the sum of $5306.71,
which sum they alleged, was an unsatisfied part of a judgment
recovered by them in the Court of Commissioners of Alabama
Claims that had been improperly and illegally withheld from
them by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
and the accounting officers of that Department.
The petition was filed October 4, 1887, and sets forth that
on the 241th of October, 1883, the appellees recovered a judg

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment in the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, including interest, for the sum of $346,982.46, the case in which
the said judgment was rendered being one of the second class,
of which the said court was given jurisdiction by the act of
Congress approved June 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 98, c. 195, entitled
"An act reestablishing the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims and for the distribution of unappropriated
moneys of the Geneva Award;" that the aggregate amount
'of judgments of the second class rendered by said court, under
the said act of June 5, 1882, including interest, was $16,292,607.26, and of judgments of the first class, including interest,
was $3,350,947.51; that under and in pursuance of the provisions of the act approved June 2, 1886, 24 Stat. 77, c. 416,
entitled "An act to provide for closing up the business and
paying the expenses of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama
Claims, and for other purposes," after crediting to the amount
of the said Geneva Award fund named in section 5 of said act,
to wit, $10,089,064.96, the amounts authorized by said act,
charging it with the amounts in said act directed and specified
and deducting from it the amount of the judgments on claims
of the first class, to wit, $3,350,947.51, as aforesaid, there remained to satisfy pro rat& the judgments on claims of the
second class the sum of $5,988,663.82; that instead of distributing said last-named sum pro rata among the judgment
creditors of the second class, as they were required to do
under the said act of June 2, 1886, the Secretary of the
Treasury and the accounting officers of his Department wrongfully and in violation of said statute first deducted therefrom
'the sum of $249,168.48, which sum was claimed by them to
be available under the act for the purpose of reimbursing the
United States for the expenses of the Tribunal of Arbitration at Geneva, which expenditures had been already paid by
theUnited States under and in pursuance of an act of Congress approved December 21, 1871, entitled "An act to make
appropriations for expenses that may be incurred under articles
1 to 9, inclusive, of the said treaty between the United States
ond Great Britain, concluded at Washington, May 8, 1871,"
17 Stat. 24, c. 3, and only distributed among said judgment

UNITED STATES v. WELD.
Opinion of the Court.

creditors the sum of $5,739,495.41; that by reason of such
deduction the said claimants have been deprived of their proportionate share of the said sum of $249,168.41, to wit, the
sum of $5306.71; and that no assignment or transfer of said
claim, or any part thereof, or interest therein, has been made
by claimants, and that they are justly entitled to the said sum
of $5306.71, after allowing all just credits and set-offs, for
which said sum they demand judgment.
The answer of the United States consisted. of a general
denial of all the material allegations in claimants' petition,
and the case having been heard before the Court of Claims,
the court, upon the evidence, found the facts to be substantially as follows :
(1) October 24, 1883, the plaintiffs recovered judgment
in the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims for
$229,637.63, together with interest, aggregating the sum of
8346,982.46, such judgment being one of the second class
named in the act of Congress, entitled "An act reestablishing the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, and for
the distribution of the unappropriated moneys of the Geneva
Award, approved Juhe 5, 1882," 22 Stat. 98, and duly certified and transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury as
provided by said act.
(2) The aggregate amount of judgments of the second
class rendered by said court, reestablished by said act, including interest, was $16,292,607.26, and the aggregate amount
of judgments of the first class, including interest, was
$3,350,947.51.
(3) The Secretary of State, in pursuance of the provisions
of the fourth section of the act of June 2, 1886, entitled "An
act to provide for closing up the business and paying the expenses of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims,
and for other purposes," 24 Stat. 77, found and estimated the
value of the furniture named in said section to be $800, and
the same was credited to the fund to be distributed under said
act; and the Secretary of State, with the assistance of the
clerk of said court, under the provisions of said section 4 of
said act, estimated the cost and expenses therein mentioned at
$15,000, and the same was charged to said fund.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

(4) Under the provisions of section 4 of said act of 1886
the accounting officers of the Treasury, for the purpose of
making distribution of the balance of the Geneva Award
fund to the judgment creditors, as therein required, stated
the account, allowing the proper credits and charging the
fund with the amounts directed and specified therein, including therein as chargeable to said fund and deducting therefrom the "expenses of the Tribunal of Arbitration at Geneva"
($249,168.41).
(5) The claimants were paid their proportion of said balance as so stated by the accounting officers, being 35.22760549
per cent of their said judgment, but have received no part of
that portion of said fund, which was so retained to reimburse
the expenses of the Tribunal of Arbitration at Geneva,
$24:9,168.40. If said last-named sum is not legally chargeable to said fund, the claimants' proportion thereof would be
$5306.53, which the defendants have not paid and which they
refuse to pay.
The court thereupon decided, as a conclusion of law, that
the claimants were entitled to recover the sum of $5306.53,
and rendered judgment accordingly.
The main question in this case is a jurisdictional one. On
behalf of the United States it is claimed that this is a case
growing out of, and dependent upon, the Treaty of Washington, concluded iMay 8, 1871, between the United States and
Great Britain, and proclaimed July 4, 1871, 17 Stat. 863, and
that therefore by the express provisions of § 1066, Revised
Statutes of the United States, the Court of Claims was prohibited from taking jurisdiction of it. On behalf of the
appellees, it is contended that this case is not embraced within
the class of cases of which the Court of Claims is prohibited
by § 1066, Rev. Stat., from taking jurisdiction. But if that
contention cannot be sustained, then it is insisted by appellees
that said § 1066 has been repealed by the act of Congress
approved March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, and is no longer
law.
There is no dispute, apparently, as to the correctness of the
finding of the court below on the facts in the case; neither is

UNITED STATES v. WELD.
Opinion of the Court.

there any very great contention as to the correctness of the
judgment below, if it be found that that court had jurisdiction.
To sustain the view of the case contended for on behalf of
the United States, much reliance is placed on the decisions of
this court in great Westen I4nsurance Company v. United
States, 112 U. S. 193, and Ailing v. United States, 114 U. S.
562. We are of opinion, however, that a very broad distinction exists between those cases and this one. In the first case
cited, by the allegations of the petition itself, the claim was
declared to grow directly out of the treaty, and was thus
clearly dependent upon it. The petition based the right of
recovery on the provisions of the treaty itself. No statute
was invoked, nor was it charged that the United States was
directly and primarily liable on the claim. In the language
of the court below, which we approve: "In that case the
claimant corporation was not seeking to recover under any
law of Congress, but was attempting to enforce an alleged
implied assumpsit on the part of the United States, growing
out of and dependent upon the treaty of Washington, notwithstanding the laws of Congress, which expressly excluded
its claim from consideration and from payment out of the
fund in controversy. Instead of founding its claim on any
law of Congress, as do the present claimants, the company
invoked the jurisdiction of this court to set aside and annul
the statute provisions."
The Alling case is, in principle, the same as the Great Western Insurance case. In that case the claim on which the suit
was based was alleged in the petition to be founded on a treaty
stipulation. It had been submitted to the commission authorized and created in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty
of July 4, 1868, between the United States and Mexico, 15
Stat. 569, for the adjustment of claims of the citizens of the
respective countries against the government of the other for
injuries to persons and property, and the award of that commission was that the Mexican government should pay to the
United States on account of the claim a specific sum of money
out of which the United States might retain a certain amount

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

on account of certain duties originally paid by claimants but
subsequently refunded to them by the United States. The
claimants having received the sum specifically awarded to
them by the commission, and having been refused the sum
retained by the United States, on account of the duties aforesaid, by the Secretary of the Treasury, brought an action in
the Court of Claims to recover the amount of said duties.
This court held that the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction
to entertain such a suit, and ordered the dismissal of the petition, because the claim was founded on and grew out of the
treaty with :Mexico and was therefore clearly within the
provisions of § 1066, Rev. Stat. The reason of the ruling
by this court in that decision is plain. The claim there in
controversy was expressly recognized as a specific claim by
the commission organized under the provisions of the treaty
with Mexico, and was, therefore, dependent upon the treaty,
and grew directly out of it.
In this case the reverse is true. The treaty of Washington
did not recognize this claim as a specific claim. The award
of $15,500,000, directed to be paid by Great Britain, was to
the United States as a nation. The text of the treaty itself
speaks of the "claims on the part of the United States," and
in Article 7 the gross sum was "to be paid by Great Britain
to the United States." It is not necessary to discuss whether,
in the absence of any action by Congress as to the distribution
of this fund, there could have been any legal or equitable
right in any person or corporation to any portion of it. The
fact that the Congress of the United States undertook to dispose of this fund, and to administer upon it, in accordance
with its own conceptions of justice and equality, precludes, at
least for the purposes of this decision, judicial inquiry into
such questions. The claimants had to rely upon the justice
of the government, in someof its departments, for compensation in satisfaction of their respective claims; and this compensation the various acts of Congress, heretofore mentioned,
provided. The claimant in this case does not seek to recover
upon any supposed obligation created by the treaty of Washington, but upon the specific appropriation made in the act of

UNITED STATES v. WELD.
Opinion of the Court.

June 2, 1886. It is under this act that a means of satisfaction
of this claim was provided. The claim may, therefore, be
said to be "founded upon a law of Congress" within the
meaning of § 1059, Rev. Stat., and therefore clearly one of
which the Court of Claims could take jurisdiction.
It may be said, in opposition to this view of the case, that,
had there been no treaty of Washington, there would have
been no fund of $15,500,000 to distribute, the act of June 5,
1882, would never have been passed, and therefore, that the
treaty is the basis of all the subsequent legislation, and consequently the basis of this claim; in other words, that, therefore, this claim is "dependent upon and grows out of" the
treaty of Washington.
We are of opinion, however, that such a dependency upon
or growing out of, is too remote to come within the meaning
of § 1066, Rev. Stat. In our view of the case, the statute
contemplates a direct and _proximate connection between the
treaty and the claim, in order to bring such claim within the
class excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims by
§ 1066, Rev. Stat. In order to make the claim one arising out
of a treaty within the meaning of § 1066, Rev. Stat., the right
itself, which the petition makes to be the foundation of the
claim, must have its origin- derive its life and existence from some treaty stipulation. This ruling is analogous to
that of the ancient and universal rule relating to damages in
common-law actions; namely, that a wrongdoer shall be held
responsible only for the _proximate, and not for the remote,
consequences of his action.
This disposition of this question renders it unnecessary to
consider whether § 1066 has been repealed by the subsequent
act of Congress, approved March 3, 1887, (supra,) since, if
there has been such repeal, it is admitted, on all hands, that
the Court of Claims would have jurisdiction of the case.
On the merits of the case, we think there can be no doubt
that the accounting officers of the Treasury Department were
in error in charging to, and deducting from, the fund the
expenses of the Tribunal of Arbitration at Geneva. The pay.ment of those expenses had already been provided for by

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Congress by the act of December 21, 1871, 17 Stat. 24, and
was never chargeable to this fund.
In the language of the court below: "Section five of the
act of June 2, 1886, (supra,) fixes the amount of the fund and
specifies exactly what shall be deducted from it, and provides
that the balance shall be distributed to the judgment creditors. The item thus deducted was not among those thus
specified."
We are of the opinion that the claimants are entitled to
their share of the amount thus improperly deducted, and the
decision of the Court of Claims is therefore

Affirmed.

RoBARDS v. LAMB.
ER OR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 1088. Submitted March 20, 1888.-Decided April 16, 1888.

The Statute of Missouri which, as construed by the Supreme Court of that
State, authorizes a special administrator, having charge of the estate of
a testator pending a contest as to the validity of his will, to have a final
settlement of his accounts, conclusive against distributees, without giving
notice to them, is not repugnant to the clause of the Constitution of the
United States which forbids a State to deprive any person of his property
without due process of law.

THIS case was brought before the court on the following
motions made by defendant in error's counsel.
The court is moved to dismiss the writ of error or to affirm
the judgment herein on the following grounds:
1. This court is without jurisdiction under § '09 of the
fRevised Statutes.
2.. If any question cognizable under that section was in fact
decided, such decision was not necessary, and the judgment
rendered is supported on grounds which this court has no
jurisdiction to review.
G. G. VEST,
For -Defendaont in Error.

