OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

This court, therefore, cannot entertain an original action to
compel the defendant to pay to the State of Wisconsin a sum
of money in satisfaction of the judgment for that fine.
The original jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the
Constitution, without limit of the amount in controversy, and
Congress has never imposed (if indeed it could impose) any
such limit. If this court has original jurisdiction of the
present case, it must follow that any action upon a judgment
obtained by a State in her own courts against a citizen of
another State for the recovery of any sum of money, however
small, by way of a fine for any offence, however petty, against
her laws, could -be brought in the first instance in the Supreme
Court of the United States. That cannot have been the intention of the Convention in framing, or of the people in adopting, the Federal Constitution.
Judgmentfor the defendant on the demurrer

COLTON v. COLTON.
COLTON v. COLTON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 228, 229. Argued April 13, 16, 1888.-Decided April 30, 1888.

The intention of a testator, a. expressed in his will, is to prevail when not
inconsistent with rules of law.
No technical language is necessary for the creation of a trust in a will, and
no general rule can be formulated for determining whether a devise or
bequest carries with it the whole beneficial interest, or whether it is to
be construed as creating a trust.
If a trust be sufficiently expressed and capable of enforcement, it is not
invalidated by being called "precatory."
When property is given by will absolutely and without restriction, a trust
is not to be lightly imposed, upon mere words of recommendation and
confidence; but if the objects of the supposed trust are definite and the
property clearly pointed out, if the relations between the testator and
the supposed beneficiary are such as to indicate a motive on the part of
the one to provide for the other, and if the precatory clause, expressing
a wish, entreaty, or recommendation that the donee shall apply the prop-

COLTON v. COLTON.
Statement of the Case.
erty to the -benefit of the supposed cestui que trust warrants the inference
that it is peremptory, then it may be held that an obligatory trust is
created, which may be enforced in a court of equity.
C, a citizen of California, died there, leaving a will which contained the
following provisions: "I give and bequeath to my said wife E. M. C. all
of the estate, real and personal, of which I shall die seized, possessed, or
entitled to. I recommend to her the care and protection of my mother
and sister, and request her to make such gift and provision for them as
in her judgment will be best. . . . I hereby appoint my said wife to
be the executrix of this my last will and testament, and desire that no
bonds be required of her for the performance of any of her duties as
such executrix." This will was duly proved in the probate court of San
Francisco. Tile widow having failed to make suitable provision for the
-mother and sister, each filed a bill in equity against her, setting up that
the provision in their favor in the will was a trust. The bills alleged
that the property received by the widow under the will amounted to
$1,000,000; that the sister was dependent upon the mother for support;
that the mother was in feeble health and required constant care, and was
without means of support except the sum of .S15,000 loaned at interest,
which loan was well known to the testator when he made his will and at
the time of his death; that no suitable provision had been made for
either mother or sister by the widow, but that they had been left in "very
The remedy sought in each bill was that
straitened circumstances."
the widow should be required to make a suitable provision for the conplainant. 'I o each bill a demurrer was filed on the ground that the will
created no trust; that the court had no jurisdiction; that the claim was
stale, having accrued more than four years before the commencement of
the suit; and that the matter had been adjudicated by the probate court
of San Francisco in the probate of the will. Held,
(1) That the claim being against the defendant as devisee and legatee,
and not as executrix, and there being no allegation in the pleadings
that any jurisdiction was exercised by the probate court in the construction of the -will in this respect, tie adjudications in that court
were no bar to the prosecution of this suit;
(2) That the complainants took under the will a beneficial interest in
the estate given to the wife to the extent of a permanent provision
for them during their respective lives, suitable and sufficient for
their care and protection, having regard to their condition and
necessities, and the amount and value of the fund from which it
must come;
(3) That it was the duty of the court to ascertain, determine, and declare
what provision would be suitable and best under the circumstances,
and all particulars and details for securing and paying it.
THESE were two bills in equity, one filed by Martha Colton,
and the other by Abigail R. Colton, each of whom was a citi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statenent of the Case.

zen of the State of New York, against Ellen Al. Colton, a
citizen of California.
Martha Colton alleged in her bill that she was a sister of
David D. Colton, who. died in San Francisco, California, on
October 9, 1878, and that the defendant, Ellen M. Colton, was
his widow; that on October 8, 1878, the said David D. Colton
made and executed in due form his last will and testament, a
copy of which was made a part of the bill, and was set out as
follows:
"I, David D. Colton, of San Francisco, make this my last
will and testament. I declare that all of the estate of which
I shall die possessed is community property and was acquired
since-ny marriage with my wife. I give and bequeath to -my
said wife, Ellen M. Colton, all of the estate, real and personal,
of which I shall die seized or possessed or entitled to. I recommend to her the care and protection of my mother and sister,
and request her to make such gift and provision for them as in
her judgment will be best. I also request my dear wife to
make such provision for my daughter Helen, wife of Crittenden Thornton, and Carrie, as she may in her love for them
choose to exercise. I hereby appoint my said wife to be the
executrix of this my last will and testament, and desire that
no bonds be required of her for the performance of any of her
duties as such executrix. I authorize and empower her to sell,
dispose of, and convey any and all of the estate of which I
shall die seized and possessed, without obtaining the order of
the-probate court, or of any court, and upon such terms and
in such manner, with or without notice, as to her shall seem
best. If my said wife shall desire the assistance of any one in
the settlement of my estate, I hereby appoint my friend, S. Al.
Wilson, of San Francisco, and my secretary, Charles E. Green,
to be joined with her in the said executorship, and authorize
her to call in either or both of the said gentlemen to be her
co-executors; and in case she shall so unite either or both of
them with her, the same provisions are hereby made applicable
to them as I have before made for her in reference to bonds
and duties and powers."
The bill further alleged that on or about October 29, 1878,

COLTON v. COLTON.
Statement of the Case.

"the defendant duly filed the said last will and testament of
the said David ID.Colton in the then probate court in and for
the city and county of San Francisco, State of California, and
thereafter such proceedings were duly had in said probate.
court that on or about the 11th day of November, A.D. 1878,
an order of said probate court was duly made and entered
appointing the defendant executrix of said will and testament,
and thereupon the defendant duly qualified as such executrix,
and letters testamentary upon the said last will and testament
were duly granted and issued to her, the said defendant, and
the said defendant thereupon entered upon and thereafter continued to discharge the duties as such executrix until about
the 18th day of December, A.D. 1879, when, by an order or
decree of said probate court, then and there duly made and
entered, the whole estate, real and personal, of the said David
D. Colton then remaining was distributed to the said defendant, and she was discharged from any further duties as such
executrix."
The bill then alleged that the estate of David ID. Colton
thus distributed to the defendant was of the value of about
$1,000,000, and that the defendant, though often demanded,
has failed, neglected, and refused to make to the plaintiff any
gift or provision whatever from the estate of said David D.
Colton.
The bill also contained the following allegations:
"Your oratrix further shows that she has no estate, property, or income; that for many years she has been, and still is,
dependent upon her mother, the said Abigail R. Colton, for
her support and maintenance; that ever since your oratrix was
a young child her said mother has been in feeble health, and
has always required your oratrix' aid and services, and especially during the lengthened illness and last sickness of your
oratrix' said father, and ever since the death of your oratrix'
said father as aforesaid, her said mother has been an invalid,
and has endured much sickness and suffering, and has required
much medical attendance, and the almost constant nursing
and care of your oratrix.
"And your oratrix further shows that about December,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

1869, your oratrix' said father, Isaac W. Colton, then residing
in the city of New York, at the request of your oratrix'
brother, the said David D. Colton, then residing in San Francisco aforesaid, converted all of his property, consisting of
what was then known as five-twenty bonds of the government of the United States, as was well known to the said
David D., in gold, amounting to the sum of fifteen thousand
dollars, and loaned the same to the said David D.; and thereupon your oratrix' father received therefor the promissory
note of the said David D. Colton, dated at San Francisco
aforesaid, on or about December 7th, 1869, for the said sum
of $15,000, payable in gold, with interest; that afterwards, on
or about March 1st, 1873, the said David D. Colton renewed
his said note by giving his new note to his father, the said
Isaac W. Colton, for the same amount and payable in the
same manner, and which said new note was owned and held
by your oratrix' said father at the time of his death.
"And your oratrix further shows that her said father died
intestate, and that after his death, and on or about March 1st,
A.D. 1877, the said David D. Colton, with the consent of your
oratrix, took up said last mentioned note by giving his new
note therefor, payable to his and your oratrix' mother, the
said Abigail R. Colton, for the said sum of fifteen thousand
dollars, with interest, and thereby your oratrix surrendered and
relinquished all her legal share and interest in the said note so
held by her father at the time of his death, as aforesaid, as
your oratrix' brother, the said David D. Colton, well knew."
The prayer of the bill is that the "defendant may be compelled to execute the terms and directions of the said last will
and testament of the said David D. Colton, and to make your
oratrix a suitable provision from the said estate of the said
David D. Colton in such amount and in such manner as to
your honors shall seen most meet and proper in the premises."
Abigail R. Colton, complainant in the other bill, is the
mother of Martha Colton, and also of David D. Colton the
testator. Her bill is in substance the same as that of Martha
Colton, and prays for similar relief, but contains the following:

COLTON v. COLTON.
Statement of the Case.

"And your oratrix further shows that the said defendant
has, although often demanded, utterly failed, neglected, and
refused to make to or for your oratrix any gift or provision
whatever from the estate of your oratrix' son, the said David
D. Colton, except as hereinafter mentioned, that is to say:
On or about March 1st, 1880, the defendant sent to your oratrix the sum of fifty dollars; and thereafter, at divers times,
and at various intervals between the day last named and about
the first day of January, 1881, the defendant sent to your
oratrix about five other sums of fifty dollars each, amounting
in the whole, as above given to your oratrix, to the sum of
about three hundred dollars; and in or about the month of
February, 1881, the defendant sent to your oratrix the further
sum of six hundred dollars; and in or about November, 1882,
she gave to your oratrix the further sum of six hundred dollars; the whole given as aforesaid, since the death of the said
David D. Colton, amounting altogether to the sum of about
fifteen hundred dollars only.
"Your oratrix further shows that she is now in the seventyfifth year of her age, and that for many years prior to the
death of her husband, the said Isaac W. Colton, she was in
feeble health, and ever since that event she has been an invalid
and endured much sickness and suffering, and has required
much medical attendance, and the almost constant nursing and
care of her said daughter, Martha Colton, who has always
resided with her, until the present time.
"That your oratrix is not the owner of and has no interest
in any real estate, or chattels real, except a one-half lot in
Greenwood cemetery, near the city of New York, Where her
said husband is buried, and that besides her wearing apparel
your oratrix has no personal property whatever except the
sum of $15,000, which she has bad loaned out upon interest
ever since, on or about March 1st, 187, from which time the
possession and loaning out of the said sum of $15,000 by
your oratrix were well known to the said David D. Colton,
down to and at the time of his making his last will and testament.
"And your oratrix further shows, that her entire income
VOL. cxxvrr-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ever since the death of her son, the said David D. Colton, has
consisted solely of the interest moneys arising from the loan
of the aforesaid fifteen thousand dollars, and the aforesaid
several sums of money given by the defendant to your oratrix
as aforesaid; and ever since in November, 1882, her income
has consisted and 'does still consist solely of said interest
moneys alone.
"And your oratrix further shows, that at the time of the
death of the said David D. Colton, his sister, the said Martha
Colton, was not and is not now the owner of any real estate
or property, nor has she any income whatever, and your oratrix has, therefore, ever since the death of the said Martha's
father provided and still provides her, the said Martha, support and maintenance.
"That by reason of your oratrix' very limited income aforesaid, and notwithstanding great economy in her living and
expenses and the denying herself much that would conduce to
her health and comfort, your oratrix is in very straitened
circumstances."
To each of these bills the defendant demurred, and for
causes of demurrer assigned the following:
":First. That the said complainant hath not by her said bill
made such a case as entitles the said complainant to any relief
in this court. Avouching any of the matters therein complained of, in this, that no estate, trust, or interest exists in
favor of said complainant or arises in her favor out of the said
last will and testament in her bill set forth or any matter,
legacy, or devise therein contained.
"Second. That this court hath no jurisdiction of the matters and things set forth in said complainant's bill, nor hath it
jurisdiction to consider the same or to grant the relief prayed
for or any relief whatever.
"Third. That neither this court nor any other court whatever bath jurisdiction to hear and determine the matters and
things set forth in complainant's said bill or to grant the relief
therein prayed, or any other relief whatever.
"Fourth. That it appears on the face of said complainant's
bill that if any cause of action whatever exists by reason of

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the matters and things in said bill set forth, that such cause of
action is founded upon a stale equity and claim.
"Fifth. That it appears on the face of complainant's said
bill that the said cause of action therein set forth, if any such
exists, accrued more than four years before the commencement
of this action, and that the same is barred upon the principle
which courts of equity follow in analogy to the statute of
limitation at law.
"Sixth. That it appears upon the face of said complainant's
bill that the said pretended cause of action therein set forth
accrued more than four years before the filing of her said bill.
"Seventh. That it appears on the face of complainant's
said bill that the matters and things therein sought to be
inquired of and determined have long since been inquired
into and determined against the said complainant by the
probate court of the city and county of San Francisco, Stat&
of California."
The demurrer to each of the bills was sustained, and they
were severally dismissed. Colton v. Colton, 10 Sawyer, 325,
336. From these decrees the present appeals were prosecuted.
.Mr. Sherman, Evarts and Hr. William .M Evarts for
appellants.
Mr. George R. B. Hayes for appellee.
Stanly was with him on the brief.

.Ar. John A.

Mn. JUsTIcE MATmrws, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

These appeals bring before us the will of David D. Colton
for construction. The question is, whether his widow, Ellen
M. Colton, by its provisions, takes the whole estate of which
he died seized and possessed absolutely in her own right, or
whether she takes it charged with a trust enforceable in equity
in favor of the complainants, and, if so, to what extent. The
language of the will to be construed is as follows: "I givo
and bequeath to my said wife, Ellen M. Colton, all of the
estate real and personal, of which I shall die seized, possessed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Cofirt.

or entitled to. I recommend to her the care and protection
of my mother and sister, and request her to make such gift
and provision for them as in her judgment will be best."
Before proceeding, however, to a consideration of the will
itself, we are met with the objection, interposed by the counsel
for the appellee, that the matter of the present controversy
has already been finally adjudicated. The proposition is, that
the decree of the probate court of the city and county of San
Francisco, distributing the whole of the estate of the testator
to the appellee, was a complete and final adjudication as to
all parties claiming, as heirs, legatees, or devisees, any interest,
legal or equitable, in or to the estate, and is, therefore, a bar
to the present suit. It is contended that by the law of California, the probate court, having jurisdiction over matters
relating to the settlement of estates of deceased persons, and,
among other matters, to distribute the residue of the estate
among the persons who by law are entitled thereto, if a trust
is attempted to be created by will, that court must determine
how far the attempt is successful, rhat is the trust, who is
the trustee, and.who are the beneficiaries, and distribute accordingly.
,As there is no plea in bar of the relief sought by the bills,
setting up any decree of the probate court to which the appella'nts were parties, and by which they could be bound, denying
to them any interest under the will of the testator, we must
look to the bills themselves for the only allegations on that
subject. All that is said on the subject in them is that the
defendant "continued to discharge the duties as such executrix
until about the 18th day of December, A.D. 1879, when, by
an order or decree of said probate court, then and there duly
made and entered, the whole estate, real and personal, of the
said David D. Colton then remaining was distributed to the
said defendant, and she was discharged from any further duties
bas'such executrix."
'The entire effect of this averment is to show that the defendant had come into possession of the estate as devised and
legatee, as she was clearly entitled to, as soon as the estate
was fully administered by her as executrix. The claims in-

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

sisted on by the complainants are not against her as executrix,
but as devisee and legatee; and the trusts alleged to be created
by the will do not arise until the widow of the testator comes
into possession of the estate as devisee and legatee. Whatever
jurisdiction by the laws of California its probate court may
have been entitled to exercise for the purpose of construing
the will as between the widow and the present complainants,
there is no averment in the pleadings that it was ever exercised.
There is, therefore, no adjudication on the subject by the probate court, which has decided the question raised in these suits
so as to operate as a bar to their prosecution.
The fundamental and controlling rules for the construction
of wills are familiar and well understood. They were well
stated by Chief Justice Marshall in delivering the opinion of
this court in Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, as follows: "The first
and great rule in the exposition of wills, to which all other
rules must bend, is that the intention of the testator expressed
in his will shall prevail, provided it be consistent with the rules
of law. 1 Doug. 322; 1 W. B1. 672. This principle is generally asserted in the construction of every testamentary disposition. It is emphatically the will of the person who makes it,
and is defined to be 'the legal declaration of a man's intentions which he wills to be performed after his death.' 2 Bl.
Com. 499. These intentions are to be collected from his words,
and ought to be carried into effect if they be consistent with
law. In the construction of ambiguous expressions, the situation of the parties may very properly be taken into view. The
ties which connect the testator with his legatees, the affection
subsisting between them, the motives which may reasonably
be supposed to operate with him, and to influence him in the
disposition of his property, are all entitled to consideration in
expounding doubtful words and ascertaining the meaning in
which the testator used them.

.

.

.

No rule is better set-

tled than that the whole will is to .be taken together, and is
to be so construed as to give effect, if it be possible, to the
whole. . . . Notwithstanding the reasonableness and
good sense of this general rule, that the intention shall prevail, it has been sometimes disregarded. If the testator at-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

tempts to effect that which the law forbids, his will must yield
to the rules of law. But courts have sometimes gone farther.
The construction put upon the words in one will has been supposed to furnish a rule for construing the same words in other
wills; and thereby to furnish some settled and fixed rules of
construction which ought to be respected. We cannot say
that this principle ought to be totally disregarded; it should
never be carried so far as to defeat the plain intent; if that
intent may be "carried into execution without violating *the
rules of law. It has been said truly (3 Wils. 141) ' that cases
on wills may guide us to general rules of construction; but
unless a case cited be in every respect directly in point, and
agree in every circumstance, it will have little or no weight
with the court, who always look upon the intention of the
testator as the polar star to direct them in the construction of
wills.'" See Olarke v. Boorman's Emecutors, 18 Wall. 493, 502.
The object, therefore, of a judicial interpretation of a will
is to ascertain the ifitention of the testator, according to the
meaning of the words he has used, deduced from a consideration of the whole instrument and a comparison of its various
parts in the light of the situation and circumstances which
surrounded the testator when the instrument was framed.
These rules of construction, indeed, apply to every written
instrument, although in deeds and some other formal documents the long usage of the law has, in certain cases, required
the use of technical words and phrases to accomplish particular effects. No technical language, however, is necessary to
the creation of a. trust, either by deed or by will. It is not
necessary to use the words "upon -trust" or "trustee," if the
creation of a trust is otherwise sufficiently evident. If it
appear to be the intention of the parties from the whole instrument creating it that the property conveyed is to be held or
dealt with for the benefit of another, a court of equity will
affix to it the character of a trust, and impose corresponding
duties upon the party receiving the title, if it be capable of
lawful enforcement. -No general rule can be stated that will
determine when a conveyance will carry with it the whole
beneficial interest, and when it will be construed to create a

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

trust; but the intention is to be gathered in each case from
the general purpose and scope of the instrument. Perry on
Trusts, §§ 82, 151, 158; Creswell's Administrator v. Jones, 68
Alabama, 420.
The question upon the language of the present will, which
constitutes the point in dispute, is whether the testator intended to charge his estate in the hands of his widow with a
trust in favor of his mother and sister, or whether he intended
his widow to take the estate free from any obligation of that
character, at liberty to disregard the recommendation and
request, and to make provision for his mother and sister or
not out of property absolutely her own, as-she might choose.
It is argued against the establishment of the trust in favor
of the complainants that it is of the nature of those called
"precatory trusts," founded originally in the earlier decisions
of courts of equity in England and in this country, upon
strained, artificial, and inappropriate interpretations of the
language of testators, whereby their real intentions were perverted and defeated, according to a rule which is no longer
favored as an existing doctrine of equity, and which is excluded by the express terms of the Civil Code of California,
according to which the will in this case must be construed.
That code provides that "a will is to be construed according
to the intention of the testator. Where his intention cannot
have effect to its full extent, it must have effect as far as possible." Section 1317. "In case of uncertainty arising upon the
face of a will as to the application of any of its provisions,
the testator's intention is to be ascertained from the words of
the will, taking into view the circumstances under which it
was made, exclusive of his oral declarations." Section 1318.
"All the parts of a will are to be construed in relation to each
other, and so as, if possible, to form one consistent whole;
but where several parts are absolutely irreconcilable, the latter
must prevail." Section 1321. "A clear and distinct devise or
bequest cannot be affected by any reasons assigned therefor,
or by any other words not equally clear and distinct, or by
inference or argument from other parts of the will, or by the
inaccurate recital of or reference to its contents in another

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the will." Section 1322. "The words of a will are to
be taken in their ordinary and grammatical sense, unless a
clear intention to use them in another sense can be collected,
and that other can be ascertained." Section 1324. "The
words of a will are to receive an interpretation which will
give to every expression some effect, rather than one which
Will render any of the expressions inoperative."
Section
1325. "Technical words are not necessary to give effect to
any species of disposition by a will." Section 1328. And by
§ 1319 it is provided that these rules are to be observed "unless an intention to the contrary clearly appears." In relation
to trusts, the code also provides, in respect to real property,
that they must be either in writing or created by operation of
law (sec. 852); subject to which condition, it is further provided
that "a voluntary trust is created as to the trustor and beneficiary by any words or acts of the trustor indicating with
reasonable certainty; 1, an intention on the-part of the trustor to create a trust; and 2, the subject, purpose, and beneficiary of the trust." Section 2221. It will be observed, however, that these statutory provisions of the State of California
are merely declaratory of preexisting law, and are perfectly
consistent, if not identical, with the rules of construction
already noticed as of controlling and universal application.
As to the doctrine of precatory trusts, it is quite unnecessary
to trace its origin, or review the numerous judicial decisions in
England and in this country which record its various applications. If there be a trust sufficiently expressed and capable of
enforcement by a court of equity, it does not disparage, much
less defeat it, to call it "precatory." The question of its existence, after all, depends upon the intention of the testator as
expressed by the words he has used, according to their natural
meaning, modified only by the context and the situation and
circumstances of the testator when he used them. On the one
hand, the words may be merely those of suggestion, counsel,
or advice, intended only to influence, and not to take away
the discretion of the legatee growing out of his right to use
and dispose of the property given as his own. On the other
hand, the language employed may be imperative in fact,

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

though not in form, conveying the intention of the testator in
terms equivalent to a command, and leaving to the legatee no
discretion to defeat his wishes, although there may be a discretion to accomplish them by a choice of methods, or even to
define and limit the extent of the interest conferred upon his
beneficiary.
"All the cases upon a subject like this," said Lord Chancellor Cottenham in Shaw v. lawless,'5 Cl. & Finn. 129, 153,
"must proceed on a consideration of what was the intention
of the testator." In Williams v. Williams, 1 Simons N. S.
358, 369, Vice Chancellor Cranworth said: "The point really
to be decided in all these cases is whether, looking at the whole
context of the will, the testator has meant to impose an obligation on his legatee to carry his express wishes into effect, or
whether, having expressed his wishes, he has meant to leave it
to the legatee to act on them or not at his discretion." And
referring to rules for ascertaining this intention sought to be
deduced from the numerous decisions on the subject, he adds:
"I doubt if there can exist any formula for bringing to a
direct test the question whether words of request, or hope, or
recommendation are or are not to be construed as obligatory."
In B'iggs v. Penny, 3 Macn. & Gord. 546, 554, Lord Chancellor Truro stated the same rule with a little more particularity. He said: "I conceive the rule of construction to be that
words accompanying a gift or bequest expressive of confidence, or belief, or desire, or hope that a particular application
will be made of such bequest, will be deemed to import a trust
upon these conditions: first, that they are so used as to exclude
all option or discretion in the party who is to act as to his acting according to them or not; secondly, the subject must be
certain; and, thirdly, the3objects expressed must not be too
vague or indefinite to be enforced." The most recent declarations of the English courts of equity do not modify this statement of the law. -Lambe v. Fames, L. R. 6 Ch. 597; In re
HMutchinson and Tenant, 8 Ch. Div. 540; In re Adams and
the JXensington T7estry, L. R. 27 Ch. Div. 394, 406.
The existing state of the law on this question, as received in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

England, and generally followed in the courts of the several
States of this Union, is well stated by Gray, 0. X., in Hess v.
Singer, 114 Mass. 56, 59, as follows: "It is a settled doctrine
of courts of chancery that a devise or bequest to one person,
accompanied by words expressing a wish, entreaty, or recommendation that he will apply it to the benefit of others, may
be held to create a trust, if the subject and the objects are sufficiently certain. Some of the earlier English decisions had a
tendency to give to this doctrine the weight of an arbitrary
rule of construction. But by the later cases in this, and in all
other questions of the interpretation of wills, the intention of
the testator, as gathered from the whole will, controls the
court; in order to create a trust, it must appear that the words
were intended by the testator to be imperative; and when
property is given absolutely and without restriction, a trust is
not to be lightly imposed, upon mere words of recommendation and confidence."
In the previous case of Warner v. Bates, 98 Mass. 274, 277,
Chief Justice Bigelow vindicated the soundness and the value
of this rule in the following commentary. He said: "The
criticisms which have been sometimes applied to this rule by
text writers and in judicial opinions will be found to rest
mainly on its applications in particular cases, and not to involve a doubt of the correctness of the rule itself as a sound
principle of construction. Indeed, we cannot understand the
force or validity of the objections urged against it if care is
taken to keep it in subordination to the primary and cardinal
rule that the intent of the testator is to govern, and to apply
it only where the creation of a trust will clearly subserve that
intent. It may sometimes be difficult to gather that intent,
and there is always a tendency to construe words as obligatory in furtherance of a result which accords with a plain
moral duty on the part of a devisee or legatee, and with what
it may be supposed the testator would do if he could control
his action. But difficulties of this nature, which are inherent
in the subject matter, can always be readily overcome by
bearing in mind and rigidly applying in all such cases the
test, that to create a trust it must clearly appear that the

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

testator intended to govern and control the conduct of the
party to whom the language of the will is addressed, and did
not design it as an expression or indication of that which the
testator thought would be a reasonable exercise of a discretion which he intended to repose in the legatee or devisee. If
the objects of the supposed trust are certain and definite; if
the property to which it is to attach is clearly pointed out;
if the relations and situation of the testator and the supposed
cestuis que t7ts are such as to indicate a strong interest and
motive on the part of the testator in making them partakers
of his bounty; and, above all, if the recommendatory or precatory clause is so expressed as to warrant the inference that
it was designed to be peremptory on the donee, the just and
reasonable interpretation is that a trust is created which is
obligatory and can be enforced in equity against the trustee
by those in whose behalf the beneficial use of the gift was
intended."
In the light of this rule, as thus stated and qualified, we
proceed to ascertain the intention of the testator in this will
as to the point in controversy. In the first place, the language
of the bequest to his wife is undoubtedly sufficient to convey
to her at his death the whole estate absolutely and without
conditions. The will says: "I give and bequeath to my said
wife, Ellen Mvi. Colton, all of the estate, real and personal, of
which I shall die seized or possessed or entitled to." If this
stood alone there could be no controversy as to the nature
and extent of her title. But it does not stand alone, and it
does not contain any expressions which necessarily anticipate
or limit any subsequent provisions affecting it. It does not
say expressly that she shall have the absolute right to use, for
her own benefit exclusively, or the absolute right to dispose.
of, the estate which he gives to her. Her right to use and
her power to dispose are merely the legal incidents of the
title conveyed by the clause considered as unqualified by its
context. But the bequest to the wife is immediately followed
by the clause whiQh is the subject of the present contention.
In direct connection with this gift to his wife the testator
adds: "I recommend to her the care and protection of my

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

mother and sister, and request her to make such gift and provision for them as in her judgment will be best." It may well
be admitted that the recommendation of the testator to his
wife to care for and protect his mother and sister, when they
should be deprived of the care and protection which he could
personally secure to them while he lived, -is not sufficient of
itself to create a trust and attach it to the estate of his widow,
so as to be capable of enforcement. It is certainly the expression of a strong desire on the part of the testator for a continuance of care and protection by his legatee over his mother
and sister, but, considered by itself, cannot be construed as
creating in them an enforceable right to a beneficial interest
in the estate given to his widow. It is rather a personal charge
than a property charge. But he did not leave it so. The
testator adds: "And request her to make such gift and provision for them as in her judgment will be best." It is immaterial in the construction of this language to determine whether
the word "gift" means a donation from the legatee or from
the testator, for it is also to be.a "provision."
It is this which
he requests his widow to make, out of that provision which
the testator made directly for her, consisting of the whole of
his estate, real and personal. The entire estate bequeathed to
his widow is thus affected by this request. Is that request
equivalent to a command, or is it a mere solicitation, which
after his death she may reject and disregard without violating
the terms of his will and the conditions upon which she
accepted her estate under it? Is there anything in the language of the clause itself, in its context, or in the circumstances and situation of the testator when he framed it, to
indicate an intention on his part to confer upon his widow the
authority to accept his property, and at the same time to refuse
to use it according to his request? Undoubtedly he gives to
her some discretion on the subject; the gift and provision
which he requests for his mother and sister is to be such as in
her judgment will be best. It is to be such as will be best for
them, having regard to all the circumstances, both of their
necessities and the amount and sufficiency of the estate; and
this proportion, which is to constitute what shall be best, is

-

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

to be determined by the widow in the exercise of her judgment. It is her judgment that is to be called into exercise,
and this excludes caprice, whim, and every merely arbitrary
award; but whatever the judgment may be, and whatever
discretion is involved in its exercise, it operates only upon the
nature, form, character, and amount of the gift and provision
intended for them. The fact of 'agift and provision is presupposed, and stands on its own ground. Her judgment is
not invoked as to that. The only ambiguity, in respect to
whether there shall be a gift and provision or not, resides in
the single word "request." Does that mean a wish of the
testator which he intended to be fulfilled out of the means
which he had furnished to make it effectual, or does it mean
a posthumous petition which the testator understood himself
as addressing to the favor and good will of his sole legatee?
The situation of the testator at the time he framed these
provisions is to be considered. He made his will October 8,
1878; he died the next day. It may be assumed that it was
made in view of impending dissolution, in the very shadow of
approaching death. There is room enough for the supposition
that by this necessity the contents of his will were required to
be brief ; the conception of the general idea to give everything
to his wife was simple and easily expressed, and capable of
covering all other intended dispositions. The time and the
circumstances, perhaps, disabled him from specifying satisfactory details concerning a provision for his mother and his
sister, but he did not forget that he owed them care and
protection. That care and protection, therefore, he recommended to his wife as his legatee; but he was not satisfied
with that; he wished that care and protection to be embodied
in a gift and provision for them out of the estate which he
was to leave to her. He therefore requested her to make
it, and that request he addressed to his legatee and principal
beneficiary as expressive of his will that a gift and provision
for his mother and sister should come out of it. His legacy
to them was part of his legacy to her. All other particulars,
as to its form and amount, he was willing to leave, and did
leave, to be determined by his widow in her judgment of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1887. '
Opinion of the Court.

what would be best for his beneficiaries, so as to insure them
that care and protection for which he was providing.
The substance of the bequest was his own; the form of it,
shaped only. by the declared purpose of his bounty, he was
willing to leave to the judgment of his wife. The alternative
that such discretion should assume the power to disappoint his
dispositions evidently was n6t present in his thoughts, as it is
not implied in his words.
The language of the testator immediately succeeding that
under consideration throws some light on the meaning of the
words in dispute. He says: "I also request my dear wife to
make such provision for my daughter Helen, wife of Crittenden Thornton, and Carrie, as she may in her love for them
choose to exercise." These were the daughters of the wife as
well as of the testator, as it is to be inferred from the fact
that he refers the whole subject of any provision for them
to her love, and the provision which he requests in their behalf
is to be not such "as in her judgment will be best," but only
such "as she may in her love for them choose to exercise,"
leaving the whole question of a provision subject to the exercise
of the legatee's choice, which the testator was quite willing
to adopt as the dictate of the love of a mother for her children.
It is also to be assumed that the circumstances and situation
of his mother and sister were remembered by the testator in
the act of making his will; that they were separated from his
personal care by a wide distance; that his mother was a
widow, and had nearly attained the age of three score years
and ten; that even before the death of his father her health
was feeble, and that since, she had been an invalid, enduring
much sickness and suffering, requiring constant medical attendance, and the nursing and care of her daughter, who had
always resided with her; that except the lot in Greenwood
cemetery, where her husband was buried, she owned no real
estate, and had no income except the interest on '$15,000,
which had been advanced to the testator himself by his father
as a loan many years previously, and on the income from
which the mother and daughter were obliged, with great
economy and self-denial, to maintain themselves in very strait-

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ened circumstances.

A recollection of their necessities, as

well as natural love and affection, must have inspired that
sentence of his will by which the testator recommended to his
widow the care and protection of his mother and sister, giving
commanding weight and solemnity to the accompanying request "to make such gift and provision for them as in her
judgment will be best;" for he also well knew that such a
provision, sufficient for their comfort and independence, would
not sens.ibly diminish the abundance of the legacy to his wife
out of which it must issue.
It is an error to suppose that the word "request" necessarily imports an option to refuse, and excludes the idea of
obedience as corresponding duty. If a testator requests his
executor to pay a given sum to a particular person, the legacy
would be complete and recoverable. According to its context
and manifest use, an expression of desire or wish will often be
equivalent to a positive direction, where that is the evident
purpose and meaning of the testator; as where a testator
desired that all of his just debts, and those of a firm for which
he was not liable, should be paid as soon as convenient after
his decease, it was construed to operate as a legacy in favor of
the creditors of the latter. Burt v. Helron, 66 Penn. St. (16
P. F. Smith), 400. And in such a case as the present, it would
be but natural for the testator to suppose that a request,
which, in its terms, implied no alternative, addressed to his
widow and principal legatee, would be understood and obeyed
as strictly as though it were couched in the language of direction and command. In such a case, according to the phrase
of Lord Loughborough in .7alim v. Heigley, 2 Ves. Jr. 333,
529, "the mode is only civility."
But it is also argued that the trust sought to be established
under this will in favor of the complainants is incapable of
execution by reason of the uncertainty as to the form and
extent of the provision intended, and because it involves the
exercise of discretionary power on the part of the trustee
which a court of equity has no rightful authority to control.
We have seen that whatever discretion is given by the will to
the testator's widow does not affect the existence of the trust.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

That discretion does not involve the right to choose whether a
provision shall be made or not; nor is there anything personal
or arbitrary implied in it. It is to be the exercise of judgment
directed to the care and protection of the beneficiaries by
making such a provision as will best secure that end. There
is nothing in this left so vague and indefinite that it cannot,
by the usual processes of the law, be reduced to certainty.
Courts of common law constantly determine the reasonable
value of property sold, where there is no agreement as to
price, and the judge and jury are frequently called upon to
adjudge what are necessaries for an infant or reasonable maintenance for a deserted wife. The principles of equity and the
machinery of its courts are still better adapted to such inquiries. In the exercise of their discretion over trusts and
trustees, it is a fundamental maxim that no trust shall fail for
want of a trustee, and where the trustee appointed neglects,
refuses, or becomes incapable of executing the trust, the court
itself in many cases will act as trustee. In Tho7y v. Owen, 2
Hare, 607, 610, Wigram, V. C., said: "Whatever difficulties
might originally have been supposed to exist in the way of a
court of equity enforcing a trust, the extent of which was
unascertained, the cases appear clearly to decide that a court
of equity can measure the extent of interest which an adult,
as well as an infant, takes under a trust for his support, maintenance and advancement, provision, or other like indefinite
expression, applicable to a fund larger confessedly than the
party entitled to the support, maintenance, or advancement
can claim, and some interest in which is given to another
person." And in Foley v. Pary, 2 Myl. & K. 138, where
the words of a will were "and it is my particular wish and
request that my dear wife and A. will superintend and take
care of the education of D. so as to fit him for any respectable profession or employment," it was held that a charge
was created on the interest taken by the testator's widow
which could be made effectual by a court of equity.
It is quite true that where the manner of executing a trust
is left to the discretion of trustees, and they are willing to act,
and there is no maZafldes, the court will not ordinarily control

COLTON v. COLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

their discretion as to the way in which they exercise the
power, so that if a fund be applicable to the maintenance of
children at the discretion of trustees, the court will not take
upon itself, in the first instance, to regulate the maintenance,
but will leave it to the trustees. But the court will interfere
wherever the exercise of the discretion by the trustees is
infected with fraud or misbehavior, or they decline to undertake the duty of exercising the discretion, or generally where
the discretion is mischievously and erroneously exercised, as
if a trustee be authorized to lay out money upon government,
or real, or personal security, and the trust fund is outstanding
upon any hazardous security. Lewin on Trusts, c. 20, § 2,
402, 403, 4th Eng. ed.
In the case of (Jostabadie v. Costabadie, 6 Hare, 410, 414,
Vice Chancellor Sir James Wigram said: "If the gift be subject to the discretion of another person, so long as that person
exercises a sound and honest discretion, I am not aware of any
principle or any authority upon which the court should deprive the party of that discretionary power. Where a proper
and honest discretion is exercised, the legatee takes all that
the testator gave or intended that he should have -that is,
so much as in the honest and reasonable exercise of that discretion he is entitled to. That is the measure of the legacy."
But it is always for the court eventually to say, when called
upon, whether the discretion has been either exercised at all,
or exercised honestly, and in good faith. In re IRodge, Davey
v. Ward, L. R. 7 Oh. Div. 754. Plainly, if the trustee refuses
altogether to exercise the'discretion with which he is invested,
the trust must not on that account be defeated, unless by its
terms it is made dependent upon the will of the trustee
himself.
On the whole, therefore, our conclusion is that each of the
complainants in these bills is entitled to take a beneficial interest under the will of David D. Colton, to the extent, out of
the estate given by him to his wife, of a permanent provision
for them during their respective lives, suitable and sufficient
for their care and protection, having regard to their condition
and necessities, and the amount and value of the fund from
VOL. cxxviu-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

which it must come. It will be the duty of the court to ascertain after proper inquiry, and thereupon to determine and
declare, what provision will be suitable and best under the
circumstances, and all particulars and details for securing and
paying it.
The decrees of the Circuit Cburt are accordingly reversed,
and the causes remanded with directions to overrule the
demurrers to the several bills, and to take furtherproceedings therein not inconsistent with this opinion; and it is
so ordered.

CAMERON v. HTODGES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIE WESTERN DISTRIOT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 208. Argued April 5, 1888.-

Decided April 30, 18M5.

A petition by defendant for removal of a cause from a state court, on the
ground of citizenship, which alleges that he is a citizen of another
named State of which none of the complainants are citizens, is insufficient unless the record discloses that they are citizens of other named
States of which the defendant is not a citizen, or are aliens.
This court of its own motion uniformly takes the objection of want of
jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, especially as regards citizenship.
A want of jurisdiction of a Circuit Court arising out of a defect in the
allegations of citizenship in a cause removed from a state court, on the
ground of citizenship, cannot be cured by affidavits here.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee.
The suit was originally brought in the Chancery Court of
Shelby County, held in the city of Memphis in that State, in
regard to a controversy which arose concerning the title to
certain real estate situated in the State of Arkansas. The
principal defendant. Asa Hodges, was a citizen of Arkansas,
and upon that ground procured an order in the Chancery
Court to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee. The allegations upon which this removal was made were as follows:

