OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

case cost over 40 and under 60 cents a pound. Thus, as a
matter of law, in the present case, the plaintiffs' goods, of
such inferior value and material, were compared with costly
mohair goods, and the duty assessed on them was held to
have been properly charged.
We are of opinion that the question of the similitude was
one of fact, which should have been submitted to the jury,
under proper instructions. As there was error in the particular mentioned, we do not deem it proper to consider any of
the other questions raised and discussed by counsel
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court with a directi n to awarda new trial.

KENDY v. GOLDEN STATE AND MIN-ERS' IRON
WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CRnCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTICT OF CALIFoRNIA.
No. 278.

Submitted May 3, 1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

Claim 1 of letters patent No. 140,250 granted to James D. Cusenbary and
James A. Mars, June 24, 1873, for an "improvement in ore-stamp feeders," namely, "The feeding cylinder I, molinted upon the movable timber H H, substantially as and for the purpose above described," is a claim
only for making the timbers movable, by mounting them upon rollers,
and does not involve a patentable invention.
The defence of non-patentability can be availed of without setting it up in
an answer.
There is no patentable combination, but merely an aggregation of the rollers
and the feeding cylinder.
The specification requires the feeding cylinder to have chambers or depressions, and claim 1 does not cover a cylinder with a smooth surface not
formed into chambers.

Tis was a suit in equity, brought by Toshua Hendy against
the Golden State and Miners' Iron Works, a corporation, and
six individual defendants, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California, for the infringement of

HENDY v. MINERS' IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case.

letters patent No. 140,250, granted June 24, 1873, to James
D. Cusenbary and James A. Mars, for an "improvement in
ore-stamp feeders." The specification, claims, and drawings
of the patent were as follows:
"Our invention relates to improvements in that class of orefeeders for quartz mills in which a pawl and ratchet are employed to operate the feeder automatically by the drop of the
stamp. Our improvements consist, first, in mounting a feedcylinder upon a movable frame or truck, so that it can be
readily shifted from place to place when it is desired to repair
the mill; and, lastly, of an improved arrangement for operating the pawl-rod by the drop of the stamp without the use of
springs. In order to more fully illustrate and explain our invention, reference is had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which Fig. 1 is a vertical
section; Fig. 2 is a back view; Fig. 3 is a transverse section.
A represents the frame of a stamp mill; B is the stamp; 0
is the stamp-stem, with its tappet D; F is the cam-shaft, and
C the cam which lifts the stamp, all of which are arranged in
the ordinary manner of constructing a stamp battery. H H
are the foundation timbers upon which the feeding cylinder is
mounted. These timbers are mounted upon rollers, so that
the cylinder and frame can be moved about as desired. The
cylinder I is made of cast metal, and has its outer surface
formed into chambers or depressions, J J, which are separated
from each other by longitudinal partitions, K. The cylinder
and its carriage, when in working position, are placed below
the hopper L, so that the ore from the hopper will fall into
the chambers upon an inclined apron, IM,which directs it beneath the stamp. This feeding cylinder, being made of cast
metal, will not wear out like the endless belts heretofore used
in this class of machines, and, as it turns upon journals, like
any common roller or cylinder, it cannot become clogged, as
the endless belt is liable to do. To one end of the cylinder or
ratchet-wheel N is secured, and this ratchet-wheel is operated
by, a pawl-bar, C, to revolve the cylinder. In order to operate the pawl-bar from the tappet, a horizontal shaft, p, has its
opposite ends supported in boxes, which are secured to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887
"*

Statement of the Case.

sides of the upright timbers of the frame, so that the shaft
will pass across directly in front of the tappet, transversely
to the movement of the stamp-stem. A fixed arm, q, extends
backwards from the shaft p, so that its extremity will terminate below the tappet, in position to receive a blow from it
when the stamp falls. Another fixed arm, P, extends forward from the shaft directly over the ratchet-wheel, and to
the extremity of this arm the upper end of the pawl-bar, o, is
attached by means of a trunnion block, t. This bar extends
down to the middle of the periphery of the ratchet-wheel, and
has one or more upward projecting teeth on its lower end,
which serve to engage with the teeth of the ratchet when the
awl is lifted by the rock-shaft, and thus rotate the feeding
cylinder. It will, therefore, be evident, that, at each drop of
the stamp, the tappet will strike the arm q and carry it
dvnward, thus giving the shaft p a rocking motion, the
Weight of the pawl and its arm r serving to rotate the shaft
in an opposite direction, thus feeding the ore automatically
when it is needed. When there is a sufficient quantity of ore
1&eneath the stamp the drop will not be sufficient to operate
te cylinder; but when the quantity of ore beneath the stamp
is reduced the drop is greater, and consequently the tappet
strikes the arm q and operates the cylinder.
"Having thus described our invention, what we claim and
secure by letters patent is desire
; "1. to
The feeding cylinder I, mounted upon the movable
timlers '11 H, substantially as and for the purpose above described.
"2. The rock-shaft p, with its fixed arms q P, in combination with the pawl-bar o, ratchet-wheel N, and feeding cylinder I, when arranged to be operated by the tappet D, substantially as and for the purpose described."

HENDY v. MINERS' IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case.

373

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

The answer denied infringement, and set up two patents on
the question of novelty, and denied the utility of the invention. After replication, proofs were taken on both sides, and
the Circuit Court, on a hearing, dismissed the bill
.M. John H. Xiller and Mr. J P. Langho'ne for appellants.
M . M11.
A. Whkeatn for appellee.
Mm. JusTioE

BLATCHFORD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Infringement is alleged of only.the first claim, namely,
"The feeding cylinder I, mounted upon the movable timbers
H H, substantially as and for the purpose above described."
The specification states, in regard to the subject "of the first
claim, that the improvement consists "in mounting a feed
cylinder upon a movable frame or truck, so that it can be
readily shifted from place to place when it is desired to repair
the mill." The specification speaks of the timbers H H as
being the foundation timbers upon which the feeding cylinder
is mounted, and it says that those timbers "are mounted upon
rollers, so that the cylinder and frame can be moved about as
desired." Therefore, "the movable timbers H H" of the
claim are timbers made movable by being mounted upon rollers. The specification also states, that "the cylinder I is made
of cast metal, and has its outer surface formed into chambers
or depressions, J J, which are separated from each other by
longitudinal partitions, K."
It is contended, in defence, that claim 1 of the patent is
really a claim only for making the timbers movable, by mounting them upon rollers, so as to be able to move the cylinder
and frame about as desired, and that this required no exercise
of any inventive faculty. This seems to be the purport of the
invention, as stated in the specification. It is the movable
character of the frame on which the feed cylinder is mounted,
so that the cylinder and frame may be readily shifted from
place to place, when repairs are desired, that is designated as

HENDY v. MINERS' IRON WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

the invention. When the mill is in operation, the movable
feature is not brought into play. It is only when the mill is
out of operation that the movable feature is to be used. The
first claim does not appear to cover the functions or operation
of the feeding cylinder I, as a part of the mill when in operation ; and, interpreting it by its own language as well as by
that of the description in the specification, it covers only the
mounting upon rollers of the timbers which carry the feeding
cylinder. Mferely putting rollers under an article, so as to
make it movable, when, without the rollers, it would not be
movable, does not involve the inventive faculty, and is not
patentable. Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200;
Thom2son v. Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1, 12, and cases there cited;
Yale Zook XAfg. Co. v. Greenleaf, 111 U. S. 554, 559 ; Pomace
Holder Co. v. Ferguson, 119 U. S. 335, 338, and cases there
cited.
This defence is one which can be availed of without setting
it up in an answer. Dunbar v. . yers, 94: U. S. 187; Slawson,
v. Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649; Xahn v. Earwood, 112 U. S. 354, 358.
Mforeover, there is no patentable combination between the
rollers which make the timbers movable and the feeding cylinder I, mounted upon the timbers. The union of parts is
merely an aggregation. The feeding cylinder, mounted upon
timbers which have rollers, operates no differently from what
it does when mounted upon timbers which have no rollers.
iailes v. 'Fan Wormer, 20 Wall. 353, 368; Beckendoifer v.
Faler,92 U. S. 347, 357; Pickeringv. fe Cullough, 104 U. S.
310, 318; Bussey v. EJxceleior -Afg. Co., 110 U. S. 131, 146.
There is nothing patentable in the aggregation.
The defendants' machine has a smooth cylinder, and not a
cylinder with chambers or depressions. The specification of
the patent describes the cylinder I as having its outer surface
formed into chambers or depressions, separated from each
other by longitudinal partitions. The cylinder of claim I is
"the feeding cylinder I," and, to be such cylinder, must be a
cylinder substantially as described, and it is described specifically as having chambers or depressions. The claim cannot

OCTOBER TERM, -1887.
Opinion of the Court.

be construed to cover a cylinder with a smooth surface, not
formed into chambers. Fay v. CordesmanA, 109 U. S. 408,420,
421; Sargent v. Hall Safe & Lock Co., 114 U. S. 63, 86; S epard v. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593, 597, 598; White v. Dunbar,
119 U. S. 47, 51, 52 Crawford v. Keysinger, 123 U. S. 589,
606, 607
The decree of the Cir~uit Court is aftmed.

ST. PAUL PLOUGH WORKS v. STARLING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINN-ESOTA.
No. 1367.

Submitted May 4,1888.-Decided May 14,1888.

An action in the Circuit Court by a patentee for breach of an agreement of
a licensee to make and sell the patented article and to pay royalties, in
which the validity and the infringement of the patent are controverted,
is a "case touching patent rights," of which this court has appellate
jurisdiction, under ยง 699 of the Revised Statutes, without regard to the
sum or value in dispute.

MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion.

The case is

Xr. Chres S. Careins and XrA. D. S. Fracelton,for the
motion.
-Yr. John B. Sanborn and .21k. ". H. Sanborn, opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The original action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of :Minnesota by a citizen of
Nebraska against a corporation of Minnesota, for breach of an
agreement in writing, dated December 17, 1877, by which the
plaintiff granted to the defendant the right to make and sell
within a defined territory a certain kind of plough, under letters patent granted August 18, 1874, to the plaintiff for an

