OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

CALHOUN v. LAWAUX.
:ERROR TO

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
No. 239. Submitted April 19, 1888. -Decided

STATE OF LOUISIANA.
May 14, 1888.

The appointment by a Circuit Court of the United States of a receiver of
a corporation organized under the laws of a State does not deprive a
court of the State of jurisdiction to hear and determine an application for
a mandamus directing a recorder of mortgages in the State to cancel and
erase from the books of his office an inscription against property of the
petitioner in favor of the corporation, the petition describing it as a
mortgage on real estate, and setting forth the interest of the corporation.
This court questions the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana that
the Circuit Court of the United States would have no authority to
order the erasure of an incumbrance from a mortgage book within the
State.
'The copies of orders made in this cause by the Circuit Court of the State
after the entry of the final judgment to which the writ of error from
the Supreme Court of the State was directed, although annexed to the
petition for that writ, were too late in the cause to constitute a ground
for importing a federal question into it.

THIS was a petition for a mandamus, addressed to a state
court of the State of Louisiana. The Supreme Court of the
State, to which the case was brought by writ of error, ordered
the writ to issue. The federal question is stated in the opinion.
Abr. Joseph P.

-Hornor and Air. Francis F Baker for

plaintiffs in error.
)rI. B. -F. Jonas for defendant in error.
MR. JusTiE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arose upon a petition filed in the Civil District
Court for the parish of Orleans, January 23d, 1884, by Lanaux, the defendant in error, praying for a mandamus against
Eugene May, the recorder of mortgages for the same parish,
commanding him to cancel and erase from the books of his

CALHOUN v. LANAUX.
Opinion of the Court.

office all inscriptions against certain property of the petitioner
in favor of The Consolidated Association of the Planters of
Louisiana, particularly certain inscriptions designated in the
petition as being those of a mortgage on three certain lots in
New Orleans, dated June 6th, 1843, given to secure the payment of a subscription for fifteen shares of the capital stock
of the company, of $500 each. The State of Louisiana,
through its Attorney General, the Consolidated Associatioh
of the Planters of Louisiana, through its liquidators, and
Henry Denis and others, holders of bonds of the State,
secured by pledge of the mortgage above mentioned, were
made parties to the proceeding. The interest of the collateral
parties arose in this way: The mortgage was originally given
by one Lebau to secure the payment of his subscription for
the fifteen shares of stock, and, with the like mortgages of
other subscribers, and the other assets of the corporation, was
pledged by the company to the State, as security for paying
certain bonds, issued by the State in favor and aid of the company. Hence the interest of the State. The other parties
were holders of these bonds of the State, and claimed to be
subrogated to its rights. The petitioner alleged that by an act
of the Legislature of Louisiana, passed in 184'7, and by the
action of the liquidators of the company, (which had become
insolvent,) the stockholders were called upon to contribute
$102 per share, as a fund to meet the obligations of the State,
payable in yearly instalments of $6 each for the period of
seventeen years; and that all these instalments had been paid
on the fifteen shares secured by the mortgage in question.
The petitioner further stated that in the case of The Association v. Io,'d, one of the stockholders in consimili casu, 35 La.
Ann. 425, the Supreme Court of Louisiana had decided that
the payment of the said instalments discharged the obligations of the stockholders both as to the subscription and mortgage. He further stated that the mortgage kept his lots out
of commerce, and that he had no adequate relief except by
mandamus to the recorder.
Prior to the filing of this petition, the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana had

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

appointed receivers of the said Consolidated Association of
Planters, and a copy of the petition was served on them.
The Attorney General of Louisiana appeared and filed an
exception to the proceeding by mandamus, claiming that the
petitioner could only have relief by a plenary suit, via ordinaria;and that it was, in fact, a suit against the State, which
could not lie without its consent, and that the State declined
to be made a party to the proceeding.
The recorder of mortgages appeared, and contended that he
could not be required to cancel the inscription of the mortgages until it had been judicially declared that they were not
valid and existing securities by proceedings via ordina)tiaby
way of citation contradictorily had with the parties claiming
the benefit of the mortgages.
The holders of the state bonds, Denis and others, appeared,
and denied the allegations of the petition, and pleaded that
the court had no jurisdiction of the demand of the relator,
because receivers had been appointed to the Consolidated
Association of Planters by the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that court only could entertain jurisdiction of the
matter.
The receivers of the association, appointed by the Circuit
Court, did not appear, and offered no objection to the proceeding.
The cause was tried and the Civil District Court, for some
reason not shown, dismissed the petition. The case was then
appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which, on the
first hearing, affirmed the judgment; but, on a rehearing, reversed it and granted a mandamus as prayed.
On the question of jurisdiction raised by the plea of the
bondholders, the court said: "The point made that this court
is without jurisdiction because receivers have been appointed
for the Consolidated Association by the United States Circuit
Court is untenable, when the object of the proceeding is to
erase from the mortgage book of the State an incumbrance
created by the law, and which the Circuit Court of the United
States would have no authority to order."
As this presents the only federal question raised in the case,

CALHOUN v. LANAUX.
Opinion of the Court.

we have no occasion to consider any other. If the state court
had jurisdiction of the proceedings, its judgment cannot be
impeached on the present writ of error, for that is the only
objection made to it on federal grounds. The objection is that
the court has no jurisdiction because the United States court
had appointed receivers of the association. The simple fact
that the said court had appointed such receivers is the only
fact disclosed in the record, so far as the proceedings in the
Circuit Court of the United States are concerned, until after
final judgment had been rendered in the Supreme Court of
Louisiana; and this fact 'nly appeared by the statement of
the defendants Forstall and Denis in their answer. After final
judgment of the Supreme Court was rendered, John Calhoun,
who had become sole receiver, together with Denis, one of the
state bondholders, presented to the Supreme Court a petition
for an order to call on the other defendants to join, them in an
application for a writ of error in this court, and if they refused,
then that such writ be allowed to the petitioners alone. To
this petition was annexed a copy of an order of the Circuit
Court, made December 29th, 1883, in a cause in which William
Cressey was complainant and The Consolidated Association of
Planters were defendants, for an injunction and the appointment of receivers, enjoining the defendants from disposing of
the association's assets or property; and appointing John Calhoun, T. J. Burke and George W. iNott as receivers in the
cause, and directing them forthwith to take possession of all
the property and assets of the said association and proceed to
administer the same under the direction of the court; and collect all accounts due said association, and all parties having
possession of assets, securities, books, papers, vouchers or effects
of said association be ordered to deliver up the same to said
receivers, and that said receivers be vested with all the rights
and powers of receivers in equity in this cause.
A subsequent order, a copy of which was also annexed to
the petition for writ of error, continued Calhoun and Burke as
receivers, and specified more minutely their powers and duties,
not materially differing from the above. By another order,
made in June, .1884, a copy of which was also annexed to the

638'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

petition, Burke was relieved and Calhoun was continued as
a
sole receiver.
The other defendants having declined to join in the writ of

error, the court made the following order on the application
for writ of error:
" Ord+Y
"The exceptions filed by Forstall's Sons and Denis to the
jurisdiction of the District Court were filed after the general
issue had been pleaded. They do not appear to have been
urged in the lower court, as no evidence was offered to show
jurisdiction in the Fifth Circuit Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana, and were not passed upon, as the judgment of the
lower court dismissed the application on a question of proceeding. On appeal no allusion was made to them, nd no
action of the appellate court was asked on them.
"The exceptors have taken a chance for a decision in their
fayor on the merits. After getting one against them they
cannot be allowed the relief now sought. JXays v. -Fritlon,20
Wall. 414.
"The application for the writ is refused.
"New Orleans, March 26th5 1885.
"E. BERmUDEZ, Chie Juwtiee."
We think that copies of the orders made by the Circuit
Court, which were annexed to the petition for a writ of error,
were produced in the case altogether too late to constitute
any ground for importing a federal question into the cause,
although we do not perceive that it would have made any
difference in the result if they had been presented regularly in
the court of first instance.
Taking the case, then, as it stood when the final decision
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana was made, we have simply
to decide whether the single fact that the Circuit Court had
appointed receivers of the association deprived the state court
of all jurisdiction of the petition for mandamus. We have
seen that the Supreme Court of Louisiana decided that it did
not, and we have seen the reason why they supposed it did

CALHOUN v. LANAUX.
Opinion of the Court.

not, namely, that the Circuit Court had no authority to order
an erasure of a mortgage on the records of the State.
We should hesitate to concur with the state, court in the
opinion that the Circuit Court of the United States would
have no authority to order the erasure of an incumbrance
from the mortgage book of the State. The courts of the
United States, in cases over which they have jurisdiction, have
just as much power to effectuate justice between the parties
as the state courts have. But we do not suppose that the
jurisdiction of the state court in the present case depends on
the incapacity of the Circuit Court to afford relief; but on
its own inherent powers, and the fact that such jurisdiction
has not been taken away by the proceedings in the federal
court. We held in a number of cases, that the jurisdiction
of .the state courts over controversies between parties, one of
whom was proceeded against under the late national bankrupt
law, was not taken away by the bankruptcy proceedings;
although a suit against the bankrupt might be suspended by
order of the bankruptcy court until he obtained or was refused
a discharge. See Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. 5. 521; Clafih v.
Housemana, 93 U. S. 130; -Mays v. 17 'itton, 20 Wall. 414;
Mcllenry v. La Soci9 Fraoncaise &c., 95 U. S. 58. In the
case of Bank of Bethel v. PahquioqueBank, 14 Wall. 383, we
decided that suit might be brought in a state court against
a national bank, although it had made default in paying its
circulating notes, and a receiver of a bank had been appointed
by the Comptrollcr of the Currency. A fortiori,a company
may be sued whose assets have been placed in the hands of
a receiver in an ordinary suit in chancery.
It is objected, however, that no action can be commenced
against receivers without permission of the court which
appointed them; and reference is made to Barton v. Barbour,
104: U. S. 126, 128, and Davis v. Gr'ay, 16 Wall. 203. This
is not an action against the receivers, but against the Consolidated Association and the recorder of mortgages. The
receivers were notified of the proceeding by being served with
a copy of the petition, so as to give them an opportunity of
objecting if they saw fit to do so. They did not appear, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

made no objections. The state bondholders were made -parties,
and they did appear. We are not concerned, however, with
the proceedings, or the merits of the case, but only with the
question of the jurisdiction of the court. Of this we have
no doubt. Perhaps the Circuit Court, on application of the
receivers, might have interfered to prevent the petitioner from
proceeding in the state court, had they thought proper to
make such an application; but they did nothing of the kind.
This was not the case of a proceeding in the state court to
deprive the receivers of property in their possession as such.
That would have been a different thing, and the state court
would not have had jurisdiction for such a purpose. This was
only a case for enforcing the right of the petitioner to have
cancelled on the books of the recorder a mortgage which had
been satisfied and paid, -not interfering in any way with
the possession of the receiver.
We are satisfied that the state court had jurisdiction of the
case, and
The judgment of the &,reme Court is af med.

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE."
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
"o. 274. Submitted May 2, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

Where a telegraph company is doing the business of transliitting messages
between different States, and has accepted and is acting under the telegraph law passed by Congress July 24th, 1866, no State within which it
sees fit to establish an office can impose upon it a license tax, or require
it to take out a license for the transaction of such business.
Telegraphic communications are commerce, as well as in tle nature of postal service, and if carried on between different States, they are interstate
commerce, and within the power of regulation conferred upon Congress,
free from the control of state regulations, except such as are strictly of
a police character; and any state regulations by way of tax on the occupation or business, or requiring a license to transact such business, are
unconstitutional and void.

