FALK v. MOEBS.
Statement of the Case.

FALK v. MOEBS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MfICHIGAN.
No. 243.

Argued April 20, 1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

A promissory note which reads: "Four months after date we promise to
pay to the order of George Moebs, Sec. & Treas., ten hundred sixty-one &
&d dollars, at Merchants' & Manufacturers' National Bank, value received," signed: "Peninsular Cigar Co., Geo. Moebs, Sec. & Treas.," and indorsed: "Geo. Moebs, Sec. & Treas.," is a note drawn by, payable to, and
indorsed by the corporation, and without ambiguity in the indorsement;
and evidence is not admissible to show that it was the intention of the
indorser in making the indorsement to bind himself personally.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The plaintiffs in error, Gustav Falk and Arnold Falk, who
are citizens of the State of New York, brought suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern. District of
Michigan against the defendant in error, George Moebs, upon
nine certain promissory notes made by the Peninsular Cigar
Company of Deiroit, upon which they sought to charge Moebs
personally as indorser. All of the notes were in form like the
following, differing only as to amounts and the time of
payment:

"$1061.24.
DETROIT, iMioIn., Aug. 4th, 1880.
"Four (4) months after date we promise to pay to the order
of Geo. Moebs, See. & Treas., ten hundred sixty-one & 2 dollars, at Merchants' & Manufacturers' National Bank, value
received.
"PENINSULAR

CIGAR Co.,

" GEo. M[OEBs, Sec. & Treas.
"Indorsed: 'Geo. Moebs, Sec. & Treas.'"
The first count of plaintiffs' declaration was special, and
alleged 'in substance that on July 6, 1880, defendant. was the
secretary and treasurer of a body corporate known as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
I

Statement of the Case.

Peninsular Cigar Company, then engaged in the business of
manufacturing, buying and selling cigars and tobacco in the
city of Detroit; that plaintiffs were then doing business as
tobacco merchants in New York City; that the defendant, as
secretary and treasurer of said Peninsular Cigar Company,
applied to plaintiffs for the purchase of certain merchandise,
and offered in payment therefor the notes of said Peninsular
Cigar Company, and it was then agreed between the plaintiffs
and defendant that plaintiffs were thereafter to sell and deliver the merchandise so applied for, and any other goods
which defendant, in behalf of said company, might thereafter
apply for, and that in payment therefor the defendant should
execute and deliver to the plaintiffs the notes of the said
Peninsular Cigar Company, payable to the order of the said
defendant, and by him personally indorsed to said plaintiffs;
that said defendant thereafter ordered from the plaintiffs certain merchandise of the value of $7449, and' in accordance
with said agreement and in payment for said merchandise, the
defendant, upon the several dates indicated and specified in
the several promissory notes heretofore mentioned, and with
the intent and design of binding, charging, and obligating
himself as an indorser upon said notes with the liability of an
indorser as defined by the law merchant, made, executed,
and delivered to the plaintiffs said nine promissory notes.
To this special count were added the common counts in
assumpsit, with a notice thereunder written that the plaintiffs
would, under the money counts, give in evidence nine certain
promissory notes, copies of which were set out, and in which
notice it was stated that said notes would constitute the sole
bill of particulars of the plaintiffs' demand.
To the special count in the declaration the defendant demurred, and to the common counts he pleaded the general
issue. The demurrer to the special count was sustained, and
the plaintiffs at the next term of said court brought the cause
on for trial upon the issue framed upon the common counts in
the declaration. Upon the trial, which was had before said
court and a jury, the plaintiffs offered in evidence the notes
referred to, and also the deposition of Arnold Falk, one of

FALK v. MOEBS.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

said plaintiffs, which it was claimed tended to show that it
was the intention of the defendant to bind himself personally
in making the said indorsement upon said notes; but this evidence was excluded on the ground that it was not evidence of
the personal liability of the defendant. Upon the ruling of
the court excluding this evidence error is alleged.
r. Carlos E. Warner for plaintiffs in error. A&. Levi
T. Griffln signed the brief which was filed for same.
I. The indorsement does not, in law, import a corporate
obligation, but, upon the contrary, imports an individual obligation of Moebs, the indorser. C'arpenterv. Farnsworth, 106
Mass. 561; Slawson v. Loring, 5 Allen, 340; /. C. 81 Am.
Dec. '750; Chadsey v. XcoCreery, 27 Illinois, 253; Robinson
v. Kanawha Yaley Bank, 44 Ohio St. 441; Tucker .anufacturing Co. v. -Fairbanks,98 Mass. 101; -Moss v. Livingston,
4 Comstock (N. Y.), 208; Toledo Agricultural Works v. Reis.ser, 51 Missouri, 128; Hitchcock v. Buchanan,105 U. S. 416.
II. If we be not sustained in the foregoing contention, then
we submit that the written evidence leading up to the indorsement and showing the intention of the parties in respect
to it, and explaining the sense in which they regarded it, was
admissible, and that the court therefore erred in excluding the
notes and the accompanying testimony.
We do not understand, as between the immediate parties
to this contract, that any different rule applies from that
which applies to the construction of any other contract. It
seems to us in any event, that the court cannot say absolutely
as matter of law, that the indorsement in question imports
absolutely the indorsement of the corporation. It does not in
terms refer to the corporation. The notes were not made
payable to the corporation. The utmost that can be claimed
for the indorsement is, that it fails to show absolutely whether
it was intended to bind the corporation or the individual; in
other words, that the indorsement was ambiguous, and if ambiguous, there can be no question but that written evidence
leading to and contemporaneous with it, may be resorted to for
the purpose of giving proper construction to that indorsement.

OCTOBER TERM.

1887.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

As between immediate parties, a contemporaneous writing,
or a subsequent written agreement, may control the effect of a
bill, subject to the same conditions that would be requisite in
the case of an ordinary contract. Brown v. Langley, 4 Mann.
& Gr. 466; Samnon v. Webb, 3 H. L. Gas. 510; J.aillardv.
Page, 5 L. R. Ex. 312; Davis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 423; Wade
v Wade, 36 Texas, 529; Detroit v. Robinson, 38 Michigan,
108; Singer _Manqfacturing Co. v. taines, 36 Michigan, 385;
Iee v. Dick, 10 Pet. 482; Richmond, Fredricksburgdc. Railroadv. Snead, 19 Grattan, 354; Smith v. Alexander, 31 Missouri.
193; Mechamnics Bank v. Bank of Coluwmia, 5 Wheat. 336;
McClellan v. Reynold, 49 Missouri, 312; Shuete v. Bailey,
40 Missouri, 69; Xusser v. Johnson, 42 Missouri, 74; 8. C.
97 Am. Dec. 316; Pratt v. Beaupe, 13 Minnesota, 187;
Hean v. Davis, 1 Zabriskie (21 N. J. Law), 683; . C. 47
Am. Dec. 182; Hood v. Hallenbeck, 7 Hun (N. Y.), 362:
Martin v. Cole, 104 U. S. 30; Brawley v. United States, 9(;
U. S. 168, 173; Baldwin v. Bank of Newbury, 1 Wall. 234.
We submit: (1) That the notes themselves primafacie imported a personal and individual liability of the defendant, and
that they should have been received in evidence; (2) That in
any event, evidence should have been received showing the
facts and circumstances under which said notes were executed
and delivered by Mloebs and received by the plaintiffs, and to
whom the credit was actually given upon the indorsement,
and that the court erred in excluding such testimony, and
in directing a verdict for the defendant.
iMr. Eliott G. Stevenson for defendant in error.
X.
1Dickinson was with him on the brief.

-r. Don

MR. JUSTICE LAmAR-, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Error is not assigned in regard to the judgment of the court
sustaining the demurrer to the special count of plaintiffs' declaration in the original assignment of errors annexed to and
accompanying the writ of error. It is, however, assigned for
error in the brief filed in this court by plaintiffs in error

FALK v. MOEBS.
Opinion of the Court.

that such judgment is erroneous, and oral argument has been
addressed to us on that point.
For the purposes of this decision we do not deem it necessary to review ser atim, all the errors assigned. In our opinion
the first question to be considered is: Does the indorsement
on the notes involved in this case, in terms, purport to be that
of the Peninsular Cigar Company, or does it purport to be the
personal indorsement of Moebs? In other words, can it be
clearly ascertained from these instruments themselves who is,
in law, the indorser of them? Is the indorsement plain and
clear, or is it ambiguous?
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiffs in error that the
indorsement, in terms, is that of Moebs personally; or, at most,
that it is ambiguous and may be construed to be either that of
the Peninsular Cigar Company, or the personal indorsement
of Mfoebs. They, therefore, contend that the correspondence
leading up to the making of these notes (and which is embraced
in the deposition of Arnold Falk, before mentioned) should be
considered and read with the notes and the indorsement upon
them, not so much for the purpose of varying the terms of the
contract embraced in the notes, as for the purpose of elucidating that contract, and for the purpose of showing who was in
fact the indorser; -not for the purpose of showing what is
the true construction of the language of the contracting party,
but who is the contracting party. On the other hand, it is
insisted with equal earnestness by the defendant in error, that
the indorsement is unambiguous, and is in plain terms that of
the Peninsular Cigar Company, and is not the personal indorsement of Moebs. He, therefore, contends that the evidence
contained in the said deposition of Arnold Falk was rightfully
rejected; and that to have admitted it as legal evidence would
have been in effect to allow a contract in writing to be changed
and modified, in an action at law, by extrinsic evidence, contrary to the rule of law which forbids such change or modification.
Upon this question it may be said that the authorities are
not entirely harmonious. Indeed, there is much conflict
among them. We do not find it essential, or even useful,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to discuss minutely every authority cited by the respective
parties to this controversy, some of which are believed to
have little relevancy to the subject under consideration. A
discussion of a few of the leading ones which are believed to
embody all the principles involved in this case, and to control
it, will perhaps be sufficient.
Hitchcock v. Buchanan, 105 U. S. 416, is a case much in
point on this subject. Indeed, it was considered by the learned
District Judge below (who, nevertheless, disapproved of the
ruling therein and dissented from the opinion of the court
below) as practically controlling this case adversely to the
plaintiffs in error. In that case a bill of exchange, as follows:

$54V7.13.

CO.,
Belleville, Ills., Dec. 15th, 1875.
"Four months after date, pay to the order of John Stevens,
Jr., cashier, fifty-four hundred and seventy-seven 13 dollars,
value received, and. charge same to account of Belleville Nail
Mill Co.
" Wm. C. BucnAi
, Pres't.
" JAmlER C. WA-uGH, Sec's,.
"To J. H. Pieper, Treas., Belleville, Illinois."
OFFICE OF BELLEvrLLE NAIL MILL

was held to be the bill of the company and not that of the
individual signers; and it was also held that a declaration
thereon against the latter as drawers, setting forth the instrument, and alleging it to be their bill of exchange, was bad on
demurrer.
In Carpenter v. Farnsworth,106 Mass. 561, a check drawn
on the Boston National Bank, a copy of which is as follows:

"$19.20.
"iEA

MILLS.

BOsToN NATIONAL. BAxx,
Boston, September 9, 1869.

"Pay to L. W. Chamberlain or J. E. Carpenter or order nineteen -

dollars.

"I. D. FANswonTn, Treawurer."
was held to be the check of the !Etna Mills, and therefore
binding upon the corporation, and not the treasurer, Farnsworth, personally.

FALK v. MIOEBS.
Opinion of the Court.

In Sayre v. Nichols, 7 California, 535, a draft, of which the
following is a copy:
No. 2123.
BA mG HousE,
Mormon Island, Feb. 21, 1855.
"Pay to A. G. Sayre, or order, three thousand dollars,
value received, and charge same to account of this office.
"C. P. NicHolS, Agts.
"per G. W. COREY,
"To Messrs. Adams & Co., Sacramento.
"Indorsed: ' A. G. Sayre, G. W. C.'"
"$3000.

"AD.ms & Co.'s ExPREss

AfD

was held to be the draft' of Adams & Co., and not the personal draft of the persons who signed it as agents in this case.
In Garton v. Union City Bank, 34: Michigan, 279, it was
said: "A -promissory note made payable to 0. T. Allen, cashier, or order, indicates that it was made to him not as an individual, but as a bank officer, and that it was a contract with
the bank; and in a suit upon it by the bank no indorsement
by such cashier is necessary to the admission of the note in
evidence."
To the same effect see AfXott v. Hicks, 1 Cowen, 513, and
cases there cited; Bank of Genesee v. Pathin Bank, 19 N. Y.
312, and authorities cited in Story on Agency, § 154.
In 1 Parsons on Notes and Bills, 92, it is said: "If the
agent sign the note with his own name alone, and there is
nothing on the face of the note to show that he was acting as
agent, he will be personally liable on the note, and the principal will not be liable. And although it could be proved that
the agency was disclosed to the payee when the note was
made, and that it was the understanding of all parties that
the principal, and not the agent, should be held, this will not
generally be sufficient, either to discharge the agent or to
render the principal liable on the note," citing Stackpole v.
Arnold, 11 Mass. 27. That case was an action against the
defendant as maker of three promissory notes. The notes
were signed by another person in his own name, and there

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was nothing on the face of them to indicate any agency, or
that the defendant had any connection with them. At the
trial the person who signed the notes testified that they were
given for premiums upon policies of insurance procured by
him in the office kept by the plaintiff, at the request and for
the use of the defendant, on property belonging to him, and
that the witness acted merely as the factor of the defendant,
and intended to bind him by the premium notes. The judge
instructed the jury that, "if they believed the notes to have
been made and signed for and in behalf of the defendant, the
verdict ought to be for the plaintiff." It was held that the
evidence was improperly admitted, and the instruction was
erroneous.
The converse of the rule laid down in the last two cases
cited would seem to be identical with that contended for on
behalf of the defendant in error.
On the other hand, authorities to sustain the view of the
case contended for on behalf of the plaintiffs in error are not
wanting, either in number or in pertinence.
In Kean v. Davis, 1 Zabriskie (21 N. J. L.), 683, a bill of exchange of the following purport, addressed to William Thomson, Esq., Somerville, New -Jersey, and indorsed - " The
Elizabethtown and Somerville Railroad Company, by John
Kean, President:"
ELIZABETHTOWN,
ept., 1841.
"$500.00.
"Six months after date, please pay to the order of the Elizabethtown and Somerville Railroad Company, five hundred
dollars, value received, and charge as ordered.

"Your obed't serv't,

JOHN K EN,

".President Elizabethtown and Somerville R. R. Co."
was held to be ambiguous on its face, not clearly showing
whether John Kean individually or the railroad company was
the drawer, and proof was admitted, in the language of the
court, "not to aid in the construction of the instrument, but
to prove whose instrument it is." To the same effect see
27 Illinois, 253; VFater v. .ewis, 36
Chadsey v. .'oCreery,
Indiana, 288; Hood v. Iallenbeck, 7 Hun (N. Y.), 362.

FALK v. MOEBS.

605.

Opinion of the Court.

.Mechanies' Bank v. The Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. 326,
is also claimed to be an authority in favor of the position
taken by the plaintiffs in error. This was an action of
assumpsit brought by the bank of Columbia against the
Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria on the following check:

"No. 18.

MERHANICS' BANK

OF A-ExAwD2IA,

June 25th, 1817.
"Cashier of the Bank of Columbia,
"Pay to the order of P. H. Minor, Esq., ten thousand
dollars.
4C$10,000.
WM. PATON, Jr."
It was contended by the defendants that the check on its face
was the individual check of Paton, and that evidence could
not be received to show that it was in fact the check of the
bank, and signed by Paton as cashier. On the other hand,
the plaintiffs contended that the check upon its face did not
purport to be the private check of Paton, but the check of the
bank, drawn by him as cashier, and that the presumption was,
that it was an official act. The court, however, decided that
the check was ambiguous upon its face, that the marks indicating it to be the check of the bank predominated, and that
the only ground upon which it could be contended that the
check was the private check of Paton was that it had not
below his name the initials for cashier. It was accordingly
held that in such case testimony was admissible to explain the
ambiguity and establish who was in fact the drawer of the
check. The court say:
"But the fact that this appeared on its face to be a private
check is by no means to be conceded. On the contrary, the
appearance of the corporate name of the institution on the
face of the paper at once leads to the belief that it is a corporate and not an individual transaction, to which must be added
the circumstances that the cashier is the drawer and the teller
the payee, and the form of ordinary checks deviated from by
the substitution of to order for to bearer. The evidence, therefore, on the face of the bill, predominates in favor of its being

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a bank transaction. Applying, then, the plaintiff's own principle to the case, and the restriction as to the production of
parol or extrinsic evidence could have been only applicable to
himself. But it is enough for the purposes of the defendant
to establish that there existed, on the face of the paper, circumstances from which it might reasonably be inferred that it
was either one or the other. In that case, it became indispensable to resort to extrinsic evidence to remove the doubt."
p. 336.
The reasoning of the court in this last case leads irresistibly
to the conclusion that, had the check under consideration been
signed by Paton with the word "cashier" appended, there
would have been no ambiguity in it, but it would have been
clearly and unequivocally the check of the bank. And in this
view the case seems to be not necessarily an authority in favor
of the plaintiffs in error, but rather an authority against them,
and in favor of the defendant in error.
In Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, § 415, it is said: "If
a note be payable to an individual, with the mere suffix of his
official character, such suffix will be regarded as mere descr'ptiojpersonw, and the individual is the payee," citing Chadsqy
v. _cCeety, Vater v. Lewis, supra, and Bufvm v. Cqzd'wick,
8 Mass. 103. Continuing, he says, "In New York a different
doctrine prevails," citing Babcock v. Beman, 1 Kernan (11
:N. Y.), 209. But in § 416 the rule laid down would seem to
be in favor of the contention of the defendant in error; for it
is there said: "Where a note is payable to a corporation by
its corporate name, and is then indorsed by an authorized
agent or official, with the suffix of his ministerial position, it
will be regarded that he acts for his principal, who is disclosed
on the paper as the payee, and who, therefore, is the only
person who can transfer the legal title," citing Yorthampton

Bank v. Pejoon, 11 Mass. 288, and Ewell v. -Dodge, 33 Barb.
336.
Many moreauthorities are cited and might be dwelt upon
almost ad iXfnitum. A discussion of all of them would
greatly protract this opinion, and would subserve no beneficial result. In all this vast conflict -we had almost said an-

ROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
Syllabus.

archy - of the authorities bearing on the question under
donsideration, it is not easy to lay down any general rule on
the subject which would be in harmony with all of them.
It seems to us, however, that the case of Hitchcock v. Buchanun, supra, controls the case at bar. Both involve the
same principles, and the decision in this, to be consistent with
that of the former, must sustain the contention of the defendant in error. Neither do we think that the case of -Mechanics'
Bank v. The Bank of Columnbia, suvra, when considered in
the light of the facts upon which it is based, in anywise
conflicts with this conclusion.
We conclude, therefore, that the notes involved in this controversy, upon their face, are the notes of the corporation. In
the language of the court below, they were "drawn by, payable to, and indorsed by, the corporation." There is no ambiguity in the indorsement, but, on the contrary, such indorsement is, in te rms, that of the Peninsular Cigar Company.
This being true, it follows that the court below was right
in excluding from the jury the evidence offered to explain
away and modify the terms of such indorsement. White v.
National Bank, 102 U. S. 658; Afa'rtin v. Cole, 104: U. S. 30;
-Metcalfv. Williams, 104: U. S. 93.
Entertaining these views, we find it unnecessary to consider
any of the other questions presented and argued by counsel;
as what we have said practically disposes of the case adversely
to the plaintiffs in error.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
A/firmed.

IROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 267. Argued April 27, 1888.- Decided May 14,1888.

Under Rev. Stat. § 2907, and the act of June 22, 1874, c. 391, 18 Stat. 186,
§ 14, p. 189, as construed by the Treasury Department for many years
without any attempt to change it or until now to question its correctnes,

