SEAGRIST v. CRABTREE.
Argument for the Motion.

issued out of said court, directed to the said Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, restraining and prohibiting the said court from further proceeding in
said cause."
.Mr. Lezvi T. Griffln for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER: A petition on the part of H. S. Burdett and others, asking for a mandamus against the Judge of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan, has been presented to us. The case arises out of
an action of replevin in which the Circuit Court decided that
it had no jurisdiction. A proceeding was then had to get
damages for the taking of the goods in replevin, which the
court entertained and rendered judgment for the damages.
The amount in controversy is too small to come to this court
by writ of error, and we are asked by the writ of mandamus
to direct the judge of that court to set aside the judgment
which he rendered. Whether there was error in that matter
or not, we do not think that we have any power by writ of
mandamus to compel the judge of that court to reverse his
own judgment.

SEAGRIST v. CRABTREE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MIEXICO.
No. 386. Submitted April 9, 1888.-

Decided April 16, 188.

It is not sufficient cause for dismissing a writ of error that the citation was
served and made returnable less than thirty days after the writ was
granted.

MOTION TO DISMISS "because the citation was not served in

time."
-Mr. J. G. Zaehry for the motion: The citation in this case
was made returnable on the second Monday in October, 1885.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Service was had on the attorneys for Crabtree on September
16, 1885. The time intervening between the date of service
and the return of the citation was less than thirty days, and
the notice to the defendant in error, Crabtree, was not sufficient. Rev. Stat. ยง 999.
.r. 0. . Bar'ett opposing: The facts stated in the motion
show that plaintiffs in error have fully complied with the fifth
section of the eighth rule of this court, which simply provides
that the citation be served before the return day of the writ.
It was so served.
MR. JUSTICE MLER: This is a motion to dismiss, the ground
for which is that the citation was served and made returnable
less than thirty days after the writ was granted. We do not
think that is a sufficient ground to dismiss the writ of error,
whatever may be the ground for relief.

=UNT v. BLACKBURN.
APPEAT

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
ARKANSAS.
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF

STATES

FOR

No. 199. Submitted April 2, 1888. -Decided April 9, 1888. -Motion to reinstate submitted
April 26, 188. - Ordered continued April 30, 1888.

A cause under submission having been dismissed by the court of its own
motion for want of jurisdictional amount, the appellant moves to reinstate and submits affidavits. The court orders the motion continued,
with leave to each party to file further affidavits.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.

. . B. lasTkell for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER: After an examination of the record
in this case, which was submitted on printed arguments, we

