ANGARICA v. BAYARD.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES ex rel. ANGARICA_ v. BAYARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF, THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1241. Argued January 5, 1888.-Decided April 30, 1888.

On a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of State to compel
him to pay to the petitioner the interest or income derived from the
investment of a sum of money received by a predecessor of his, in office,
as part of an award made by the Spanish-American Claims Commission,
which sum of money had been eventually plid to the petitioner: Held,
that the Secretary was not liable to pay such interest or income, because
(1) The award was to be paid by the Spanish government to the government of the United States.
(2) It was paid by the Spanish government to the Secretary of State of
the United States, representing the government of the United
States.
(3) The money withheld-was withheld by the United States, and the
petitioner's claim, based on the withholding, was a claim against
the United States.
(4) The case fell within the well-settled principle that interest is not
allowed on claims against the United States, unless the government
has stipulated to pay interest, or it is given by express statutory
provision.
(5) No claim for the allowance of interest could be predicated on the
language of any notification, or circular or letter which issued from
the Department of State, during the administration of a predecessor
of the Secretary; no binding contract for the payment of interest
was thereby created; and the present Secretary was at liberty to
act on his own judgment, irrespective of anything contained in any
such notification, circular or letter.

THIS was a petition for a mandamus. The writ was refused,
and the relator sued out this writ of error. The case is stated
in the opinion.
.Mr. Edward Z Jones for plaintiff in error.
Coudert was with hini on the brief.

.A. F. R.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General _MJaury for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLATcHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, Lutzarda Angarica de la IRua, executrix of the
estate of Joaquin Garcia de Angarica, deceased, presented a
petition to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
praying for a writ of mandamus to be issued to Thomas F.
Bayard, Secretary of State of the United States, to pay the
petitioner the amount of the interest or income derived from
a certain investment of money. The case was heard in the
first instance by the general term of that court, which rendered
a judgment, on the 7th of December, 1885, dismissing the
petition, with cofts, on -the ground that mandamus was not
the remedy applicable to the case stated in the petition. 4
Mackey, 310. The petitioner has brought a writ of error in
the name of the United States, on her relation, to reverse that
judgment.
The following are the material facts of the case: On the
12th of February, 1871, an agreement was concluded between
the United States and Spain, for the settlement of certain
claims of citizens of the United States, 17.Stat. 839, of which
a copy is set forth in the margin.'
" Memorandum of an arbitration for the settlement of the claims of
citizens of the United States, or of their heirs, against the government of
Spain for wrongs and injuries committed against their persons and property, or against the persons and property of citizens of whom the said heirs
are the legal representatives, by the authorities of Spain, in the Island of
Cuba, or within the maritime jurisdiction thereof, since the commencement
of the present insurrection.
"1. It is agreed that all such claims shall be submitted to arbitrators,
one to be appointed by the Secretary of State of the United States, another
by the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Spain at
Washington, and these two to name an umpire who shall decide all questions upon which they shall be unable to agree; and in case the place of
either arbitrator or of the umpire shall from any cause become vacant, such
vacancy shall be filled forthwith in the manner herein provided for the
original appointment.
"2. The arbitrators and umpire so named shall meet at Washington
within one month from the date of their appointment, and shall, before
proceeding to business, make and subscribe a solemn declaration that they
will impartially hear and determine, to the best of their judgment, and
according to public law and the treaties in force betveen the two countries

ANGARICA v. BAYARD.
Opinion of the Court.

Pursuant to the agreement, the arbitrators and the umpire
were appointed, and a commission thus composed, generally
and these present stipulations, all such claims as shall, in conformity with
this agreement. be laid before them on the part of the government of the
United States; and such declaration shall be entered upon the record of
their proceedings.
"3. Each government may name an advocate to appear before the arbitrators or the umpire, to represent the interests of the parties respectively.
"4. The arbitrators shall have full power, subject to these stipulations,
and it shall be their'duty, before proceeding with the hearing and decision
of any case, to make and publish convenient rules prescribing the time and
manner of the presentation of claims and of the proof thereof; and any
disagreement with reference to the said rules of proceeding shall be decided
by the umpire. It is understood that a reasonable period shall be allowed
for the presentation of the proofs; that all claims, and the testimony in
favor of them, shall be presented only through the government of the
United States; that the award made in each case shall be in writing, and,
if indemnity be given, the suni to be paid shall be expressed in the gold
coin of the United States.
"5. The arbitrators shall have jurisdiction of all claims presented to
them by the government of the United States for injuries done to citizens
of the United States by the authorities of Spain, inCuba, since the first day
of October, 1868. Adjudications of the tribunals in Cuba concerning citizens
of the United States, made in the absence of the parties interested, or in
violation of international law or of the guarantees and forms provided for
in the treaty of October 27, 1795, between the United States and Spain,
may be reviewed by the arbitrators, who shall make such award in any
such case as they shall deem just. No judgment of a Spanish tribunal, disallowing the affirmation of a party that he is a citizen of the United States,
shall prevent the arbitrators from hearing a reclamation presented in behalf
of said party by the United States Government; nevertheless, in any case
heard by the arbitrators, the Spanish Government may traverse the allegation of American citizenship, and thereupon competent and sufficient proof
thereof will be required. The commission having recognized the quality
of American citizens in the claimants, they will acquire the rights accorded
to them by the present stipulations as such citizens. And it is further
agreed that the arbitrators shall not have jurisdiction of any reclamation
made in behalf of a native-born Spanish subject, naturalized in the United
States, if it shall appear that the same subject-matter having been adjudicated by a competent tribunal in Cuba, and the claimant, having appeared
therein, either in person or by his duly appointed attorney, and being
required by the laws of Spain to make a declaration of his nationality,
failed to declare that he was a citizen of the United States: in such case,
and for the purposes of this arbitration, it shall be deemed and taken that
the claimant, by his own default, had renounced his allegiance to the United

1887.

OCTOBER TERMI,

Opinion of the Court.
I

known as the "Spanish-American Claims Commission," was
established. Angarica filed a claim before the commission,
and it decided that he had a right to recover damages to the
amount of $748,180, with interest at 6 per cent per annum
thereon from November 1, 1875, to the day of payment. The
full amount of the award was paid to the Secretary of State
of the United States in two instalments, namely, March 27,
1877, $406,894.96, and, October 8, 1877, $415,699.M5, making
a total of $822,594.71. The whole amount was paid over by
the Secretary, except $41,129.74, being 5 per cent of the
amount received, which sum the Secretary retained until the
government of Spain should make provision for paying
the expenses of the commission. Of the $41,129.74 so retained,
so much as could be utilized for the purpose was invested in
securities of the United States, and thereafter the surplus, with
the interest which accrued on the first investment, was similarly invested, and so were subsequent accumulations of interest.
In a circular letter addressed by the then Secretary of State
to Angarica, when the 5 per cent was withheld, it was said:
"Five per centum of the amount due in each case will be
reserved for the present, to meet the expenses of the commission, until a payment to cover such expenses shall have been
made by Spain in conformity with the provision in that regard of said agreement of February 12th, 1871, between the
United States and Spain."
In a report made by Mr. Evarts, Secretary of State, to the
President, dated February 16, 1880, and transmitted by him
States. And it is further agreed that the arbitrators shall not have jurisdictiofi of any demands growing out of contracts.
"6. The expenses of the arbitration will be defrayed by a percentage
to be added to the amount awarded. The compensation of the arbitrators
and umpire shall not exceed three thousand dollars each; the same allowance shall be made to each of the two advocates representing respectively
the twvo governments; and the arbitrators may employ a secretary at a
compensation not exceeding the sum of five dollars a day for every day
actually and necessarily given to the business of the arbitration.
"7. The two governments will accept the awards made in the several
cases submitted to the said arbitration as final and conclusive, and will give
full effect to the same in good faith and as soon as possible."

ANGARICA v. BAYARD.
Opinion of the Court.

to the Senate, the Secretary stated that "this retention of 5
per centum may be regarded as provisional only, the commission not having yet taken the final step of adding a percentage
to the amount of its awards in order to meet the expenses of
the commission." The then Secretary of State also notified
Angarica that "it is hoped that no great delay will occur in
receiving the payment from Spain, which will liberate this
reserve for expenses, and the Department will expect to keep.
this reserve invested in interest-bearing securities of the United
States, to cover the delay in its distribution to the claimants."
On the 12th of February, 1885, Mr. Frelinghuysen, then
Secretary of State, paid to the petitioner the $41,129.74, but.
did not pay any interest or income which had been earned by
its investment. Correspondence thereupon ensued between
the attorneys for the petitioner and Mr. Frelinghuysen, in
regard to the payment of such interest, in which such attorneys referred to a letter written to them on the 13th of September, 1880, by Mr. Evarts, then Secretary of State, in
which they alleged that he had officially promised to pay the
interest earned on the money; but no copy of such letter is.
found in the record. Mr. Frelinghuysen declined to pay any
interest. The attorneys renewed the correspondence with Mr.
Bayard, in October, 1885, but he refused to pay the interest,
on the ground that the matter had been decided by his predecessor, and that his decision was in accordance with the almost
unbroken rulings of the executive and judicial departments.
of the government, citing the opinion of Attorney General
Cushing, 7 Opinions Attorneys General, 523, and the case of
Gordon v. United States, 7. Wall. 188. Further correspondence ensued, and, in one letter, Mr. Bayard stated that the
investment of the retained moneys was in pursuance of thegeneral system founded on ยง 2 of the act of September 11,
184:1, c. 25, 5 Stat. 465, now ยง 3659 of the Revised Statutes,.
by which it is prescribed that "all funds held in trust by
the United States, and the annual interest accruing thereon
when not otherwise required by treaty, shall be invested in
stocks of the United States, bearing a rate of interest not less
than five per centuin per annum;" that, the enactment being

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

silent as to the beneficiary by such a transaction, "the sole
competence of Congress, which prescribed the mode of investment, to direct the disposition of the proceeds, is beyond dispute ; " that Congress exercised its discretion in regard to the
payment of interest in the case of the Japanese indemnity fund
and in the case of the Alabama Claims fund; that it is res adjudicatathat the Secretary of State has no discretionary power
to dispose of the accumulations resulting from investments
made in pursuance of the act of September 11, 1841; and
that, therefore, he cannot be bound by what he deems to have
been the improvident intimation contained in Mr. Evarts's
letter of September 13, 1880. In reply to a further letter
from the attorneys, Nr. Bayard, while furnishing them with a
statement of the amount of the original award and its date,
and of the amount received from Spain and the date of its
receipt, and of the amount paid to the estate of Angarica, less
the 5 per cent previously retained, and of the date of such
payment, and of the amount of the 5 per cent retained, declined to state whether such 5 per cent was invested in government or other securities, and, if so, the date of the investment, and what part of it was so invested, and from what date
it earned interest, or any other particulars in regard to any
investment, except to state "that, of the 5 per cent retained
by the Department of State, so much as could be utilized for
the purpose was invested in securities of the United States,
and that thereafter the surplus, with the interest which
accrued on the first investment, was similarly invested, and so
were subsequent accumulations of interest;" and thatto give
the further detailed information asked for, would be in effect
conceding to private parties an accountability which he owed
to Congress alone.
The petition, after setting forth the foregoing facts, alleges
that, as matter of law, the said interest or income is an incident to the principal fund and follows the same; that the
fund due and payable to the petitioner is a liquidated and
fixed sum of money, involving no accounting, and which it is
the ministerial duty of the Secretary to pay to the petitioner;
and that such payment does not involve the exercise of .any

ANGARICA v. BAYARD.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion, nor concern any international matter connected
with the foreign relations of the United States. It also alleges
that the sum of $41,129.74, retained by the Secretary from
the award in favor of Angarica, formed part of a general
fund, composed of various sums similarly retained by the
Secretary from awards made in favor of other claimants, and
received in instalments at different times, the total of such
reserves amounting to $77,887.04; that these amounts were
from time to time invested in such sums and in such manner
as was practicable, without reference to the separate and individual interests involved; that the income on these investments resulted in part from the sale of gold coin, in part from
premiums on United States bonds sold and exchanged without
reference to the shares of the several claimants, and in part
from interest on such bonds, and amounted in all to $14,485.50;
that such increment is not traceable, in separate or respective
amounts, to any particular percentages of individual claimants;
and that no apportionment of such increment has been made
by the Secretary among the respective claimants. The prayer
of the petition is for a writ of mandamus commanding the
Secretary to apportion and pay to the petitioner her proportion of the increment attributable to the sum of $41,129.74,
so reserved from the award made in favor of her testator.
The Secretary answered the petition as follows: "This
respondent, admitting the matters and things set forth and
averred in the said petition, except as hereinafter excepted,
answering, saith, that it is not true, as stated in the third
paragraph of the said petition, that the Spanish-American
Claims Commission 'duly awarded a judgment in favor of
said Joaquin Garcia de Angarica and against the said Kingdom of Spain for the sum of $748,180, with interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum from the 1st day of
November, 1875, until paid;' but this respondent saith, that
an award or judgment for a like sum of money and for like
interest was made and rendered by the said commission in
favor of the United States of America, and that the said
Joaquin Garcia de Angarica was no party to any proceedings
at any time pending before the said Spanish-American Claims
VOL. O=XV -17

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Commission; and, as a consequence, this respondent doth also
deny that the said sum of money, with the interest thereon,
was paid unto the Secretary of State of the United States to
the use of, or to be paid to, the said Joaquin Garcia de
Angarica, as is averred in the fourth paragraph of the said
petition, or that, upon the said payment, it became the duty
of the Secretary of State to pay the same to the said petitioner's testator in satisfaction of any judgment or award, for
this respondent doth aver, that, when the said money was
received by the then Secretary of State, it came to his hands
coupled with duties to the United States and possible duties
to the Kingdom of Spain, which duties were in the one case,
and would have been in the other case, paramount and superior to any duty in the premises to the said petitioner or her
testator. And this respondent, further answering, saith, that
the said petition pioceeds upon a ground which wholly ignores
certain grave international elements and considerations that
entered into the claim of the petitioner's testator so soon as
the government of the United States began and assumed to
urge and prosecute the same, and that thenceforth the said
claim became, in contemplation of law, subject to the will of
the government of the United States and entirely beyond the
control of the said petitioner's testator. And this respondent,
further answering, saith, that the interest money demanded
in the said petition as the accretion of a part of the said sum
of money adjudged and awarded as aforesaid, is the fruit of
an investment of the said principal money by the Secretary
of State, made in obedience to law and in the performance of
a general statutory duty, and not for the use and behoof of
the said petitioner's testator. And this respondent, protesting
that no agreement to pay the said petitioner or her testator
the said interest money was made by the Secretary of State,
as is averred in the said petition, doth deny that the Secretary
of State could have made a valid agreement in that behalf.
And this respondent, further answering, saith, that to place
him under the stress of the writ of mandamus, as touching
the said interest money, would be subversive of the established
principle, that the government of the United States does not

ANGARICA v. BAYARD.
Opinion of the Court.

pay interest to its citizens, as damages for the detention of
money. And this respondent, further answering, saith, with
all deference and respect, that, as the representative of the
President of the United States in carrying out a treaty, he
cannot hold the relation of trustee toward any citizen, saving
in the larger sense that every public functionary is clothed
with a trust, and that he cannot be controlled or directed in
the performance of any such duty at the suit of any citizen."
We are of the opinion that the judgment of the court below
must be affirmed. Under the agreement for arbitration, the
claim of Angarica was to be laid before the arbitrators and
umpire "on the part of the government of the United States."
The claim and the testimony in its favor were to be presented "only through the government of the United States."
In another place the claim is spoken of as one presented to
the arbitrators "by the government of the United States."
In the sixth clause, the two advocates are spoken of as
"representing respectively the two governments," and in the
seventh clause it is said that "the two governments will accept
the awards." Thus, by the plain terms of the agreement, the
amount of the award in the case of Angarica was to be paid
by the Spanish Government to the government of the United
States. It was paid by the Spanish Government to the Secretary of State of the United States, representing the government of the United States.
If there was any unlawful withholding from the petitioner
of the $41,129.[4, the money was withheld by the government
of the United States, acting through the Secretary of State,
and any-claim of the petitioner, based upon an unlawful withholding, was a claim against the government of the United
States. That claim, in the present controversy, assumes the
shape of a claim for the increment or income alleged to have
been actually received by the United States from the investment of the money for the time it was withheld; but the claim
in that respect is not different in character from what it would
have been if, instead of being a claim for increment or income
actually received by the United States, it were a claim for interest generally, or for increment or income which the United

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

States would or might have received by the exercise of proper
care in the investment of the money.
The case, therefore, falls within the well-settled principle,
that the United States are not liable to pay interest on claims
against them, in the absence of express statutory provision to
that effect. It has been established, as a general rule, in the
practice of the government, that interest is not allowed on
claims against it, whether such claims originate in contract or
in tort, and whether they arise in the ordinary business of administration or under private acts of relief, passed by Congress
on special application. The only recognized exceptions are,
where the government stipulates to pay interest and where
interest is given expressly by an act of Congress, either by the
"name of interest or by that of damages.
This appears from a succession of the opinions of the Attorneys General of the United States, given by Attorneys General
Wirt, Crittenden, Legar6, Nelson, Xohnson, Cushing and Black,
and appearing in the following volumes and pages of those
opinions, as published: 1, 268; 1, 550; 1, 554; 3, 635; 4, 14;
4, 136; 4, 286 ; 5, 105; 7, 523; 9, 57 ; and 9, 449.
Not only is this the general principle and settled rule of the
executive department of the government, but it has been the
rule of the legislative department, because Congress, though
.well knowing the rule observed at the Treasury, and frequently
invited to change it, has refused to pass any general law for
the allowance and payment of interest on claims against the
government. Such statutes for the payment of interest as
have been passed, apply to specific cases enumerated in the
several statutes, and do not cover the present case.
The principle abovb stated is recognized by this court. In
Tillsoa v. United States, 100 U. S. 43, 41, this court, speaking
of the rule that interest is recoverable between citizens if a
payment of money is unreasonably delayed, says that with the
government the rule is different, and that the practice has long
prevailed in the departments of not allowing interest on claims
presented, except it is in some way specially provided for.
See*also Gordon v. United States, ' Wall. 188, and Harvey v.
"United States, 113 U. S. 243, 248, 249.

CORNELL v. WEIDNER.
Opinion of the Court.

No claim for the allowance of interest can be predicated
in this case upon the language of any notification or circular
or letter which issued from the Department of State. No
binding contract for the payment of interest was thereby
created, and the present Secretary was at liberty to act on his
own judgment in the premises, irrespective of anything contained in any such notification, circular, or letter.
Upon these considerations,
The judgment of the court below in generaZterm is tafmed.

CORNELL v. WEIDN ER.
APPEAT

FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT
TEE EASTERN
No. 240.

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.

Argued April 19, 1888. -Decided

April 30, 1888.

A patent for a bushing, or tapering ring of metal, for the bungs of casks,
with a screw-thread on its outer surface, and with a notched flange at
the edge, so as to enable the bushing to be forced into place by a wrench
having a projection to fit the notch, was reissued, nearly seven years
afterwards, for a bushing without any notch. Held, that the reissue was
void.

B TLn EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. -lerriam for appellant.
was with him on *thebrief.

Mir. John HI. W-hk'ple

-Mr. George H. Lothrop for appellee.
Mm. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This
reissue
case is
The

was a bill in equity for the infringement of a second
of letters patent. When the facts are understood, the
clear.
original patent, issued August 29, 1871, No. 118,517,

