OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Syllabus.

merce within the State, but which were returned and assessed
in gross and without separation or apportionment, is not
wholly invalid, but is invalid only in proportion to the extent
that such receipts were derived from interstate commerce.
Concurring, therefore, with the circuit judge in his action,
enjoining the collection of the taxes on that portion of the
receipts derived from interstate commerce, and permitting the
treasurer to collect the other tax upon property of the company and upon receipts derived from commerce entirely
within the limits of the State, this decree is

Afi~'mec.

UMITED STATES v. McLAUG-LIIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
To. 1027.

Argued December 8, 9, 12, 1887. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

The boundaries of the MIexican grant, called the Moquelamos grant, considered, - the same being described as "bounded on the east by the
adjacent sierra:" held, as the result of the evidence adduced, that its
eastern limit was at the point where the foot hills of the sierra begin to
rise above the plain, near the range line between ranges 7 and 8.
Mexican grants were of three kinds; 1, graut6 by specific boundaries, where
the donee is entitled to the entire tract; 2, grants of quantity within a
larger tract described by outside boundaries, where the donee is entitled
to the quantity specified and no more; 3, grants of a certain place or
rancho by name, where the donee is entitled to the whole place or rancho.
The second kind, grants of quantity in a larger tract, are, properly,
floats, and do not attach to any specific land until located by authority
of the government. The Mloquelamos grant was of this kind.
In the case of floating grants, as above described, it was only the quantity
actually granted which was reserved during the examination of the
validity of the grant; the remainder was at the disposal of the government as part of the public domain. If within the boundaries of a landgrant made in aid of a railroad, such land-grant would take effect, except
as to the quantity of land, or float, actually granted in the Mexican
grant, If that quantity lying together was left to satisfy the grant, the
railroad company would be entitled to patents for the odd sections of
the remainder.

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Citations for Appellant.
In the case of a floating Mexican grant the government retained the right
of locating the quantity granted in such part of the larger tract described
as it saw fit; and the government of the United States succeeded to the
same right: hence, the government might dispose of any specific tracts
within the exterior limits of the grant, leaving a sufficient quantity to
satisfy the float.
Patents issued to the Central Pacific Railroad Company under its land-grant,
for any sections lying easterly of range 6 east within the outside boundaries of the Mloquelamos grant, are valid,-there being enough land
lying west of range 7 to satisfy the floating grant of eleven square
leagues.
The bill in this case was filed by the Attorney General on behalf of the
United States to vacate a patent granted to the Central Pacific Railroad
Company for lands lying east of range 6 within the claimed limits of the
Moquelamos grant- the ground of relief being, that all the lands within
the exterior limits of that grant were reserved lands: held, that the
lands in question were not reserved lands, and that the bill should be
dismissed.

BILL IN QuiTY to cancel a patent of public land issued to
the Central ?acific Railroad Company of California. Decree
dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is
stated in the opinion.

Xr. -Michzel .ullany, with whom was Mr. Attorney General and X1fr. -D. X. -Delmason the brief, for appellant cited:
United States v. .ossat, 1 Hoffman, 211, 376; S. C. 20 How.
413; 21 How. 445; Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44;
_fissouri &c. Railway Co. v. Eansas Pacific Railway, 91
U. S. 491; 'an TVyc v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360; Wright v.
Rosberry, 121 U. S. 488; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103
U. S. 426; Leavenworth &c. Railroad Co. v. United States,
92 U. S. 743; Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761; United
States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525; Dubuque and Pacific Railroad
Co. v. Litchfeld, 23 How. 66; Railroad Co. v. Fremont
County, 9 Wall. 89; Reichartv. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; Best v.
Polk, 18 Wall. 112; &erman v. Buick, 93 U. S. 209; Stoddard v. Chamers, 2 How. 284; Pattersonv. Win, 11 Wheat.
380; Boaory v. Gamble, 3 How. 32; 3fills v. Stoddard, 8 How.
345; Walden v. Jfnevals, 114 U. S. 373; Kansas Pacic Railway Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; Knevals v. Eyde, 5

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Dillon, 469; Grinnell v. Raiload Company, 103 U. S. 739;
United States v. Burlington & Missouri Railroad Co., 4
Dillon, 297, 305; Morris and Essex Railroad Co. v. Blair, 9
N. J. Eq. 653; Carr v. Quigley, 57 Cal. 394; 31elaughlinv.
Powell, 50 Cal. 64, 67.
H'. A. L. Rhoads and Mr. L. W. Elliott for appelleeg
cited: lVewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761; Pico v. United
States, 2 Wall. 279; United States v. 3linor, 114 U. S. 233;
United States v. White, 9 Sawyer, 131; The Siren, 7 Wall.
152; United States v. Flint, 4 Sawyer, 42, 58; Badger v.
Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Stearns v. Page, 7 How. 819; Sullivan
v. Portland &e. Railroad, 94 U. S. 806 ; Twin Lick Co. v.
.Marbury,91 U. S. 587; United States v. Tichenor, 8 Sawyer,
142; Manning v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 7 Sawyer, 418 ; Mo fat
v. United States, 112 U. S. 24; United States v. Central
Pacifo Railroad Co., 8 Sawyer, 81; Walden v. Enevals, 114
U. S. 373; -ansas Paci.#c Railway v. 1)unmeyer, 113 U. S.
629; 'an Wyc v. Enevals, 106 U. S. 360; Wood v. Railroad Co., 104 U. S. 329; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S.
426; Barney v. Winona Railroad,117 U. S. 228; United
States v. Phelan, 4 Sawyer, 58; Pratt v. Cal. X Co., 9 Sawyer, 354, 363; 7ohnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Maxwell
Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106
U. S. 447; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; Ehrhardtv.
JHogaboom, 115 U. S. 67.
MR. JusrT.E BR.DLny delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Attorney General on
behalf of the United States against The Central Pacific Railroad Company, Kate D. McLaughlin, as executrix of Charles
McLaughlin, deceased, and others, to cancel and annul a certain patent of the United States, issued on the 23d day of
November, 1875, to the Central Pacific Railroad Company
from the General Land Office, for certain sections and fractional sections of land in San Joaquin and Calaveras counties
in California. The ground of relief stated in the bill is, that

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

the patent was issued without authority of law, for the reason
that all of said lands were within the boundaries of a certain
Mexican grant claim, called the Moquelamos grant, and were
held and reserved for adjustment and satisfaction of said claim
at the time when the line of railroad belonging to said company was definitely fixed, and when, by virtue of that fact,
the government grant on which the patent was based accrued.
The patent was granted to the railroad company for the lands
in question as portions of its land grant under the Pacific
Railroad acts passed by Congress in 1862 and 1864. This
grant was originally made to the Central Pacific Railroad
Company of California; was assigned, at the place in question,
by said company, to the Western Pacific Railroad Company
on the 31st day of October, 1864, which assignment was
approved by act of Congress of March 3d, 1865; and the two
companies named were consolidated together and constituted
the present Central Pacific Railroad Company in August,
1870, upon which last company devolved all the franchises,
rights, privileges, and property of the said two first named
companies.
The bill sets forth the alleged Mexican grant, called the
Moquelamos grant, and the proceedings in relation thereto
upon the claim made for its confirmation, before the Commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in California,
and the District and Supreme Courts of the United States, resulting in the final rejection of said claim by the adjudication
of the Supreme Court on the 13th of February, 1865. The
bill also states that the lands included within the boundaries
of said claim were held and reserved during said proceedings,
to await final adjudication, until said last mentioned date;
that said lands lie in the counties of San Joaquin and Calaveras, on each side of the road of the said railroad company
between the cities of Sacramento and San Jos6. It recites
those parts of the acts of Congress passed in 1862 and 1864,
which granted to the Central Pacific Railroad Company of
California the right to construct a railroad and telegraph line
from the Pacific Coast, at or near San Francisco, to the eastern boundary of the State; and states the fact that under and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by virtue of said acts there were granted, for the purpose of
aiding in the construction of said road and telegraph line, ten
alternate sections of the public lands on each side of and
within twenty miles of the road, designated by odd numbers,
not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and to which a homestead or preemption claim might
not have attached at the time the line of the road of said company should be definitely fixed.
The bill then alleges that on the 5th day of October, 1864,
the line of said road from the city of Sacramento to its western terminus at the city of San Francisco, including that portion opposite to the M~oquelamos grant, was definitely fixed,
and a map of said definite location of said road was fied by
the said Central Pacific Railroad Company of California with
the Secretary of the Interior on the 8th of December, 1864;
and that on the 31st of January, 1865, the Secretary of the
Interior ordered all of the public lands not then sold, reserved
or otherwise disposed of within the limits of twenty-five miles
on each side of said road to be withdrawn from preemption,
.private entry and sale.
The bill then states the assignment on the 31st of October,
1864, by the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California
to the Western Pacific Railroad Company of the right to construct the road from Sacramento to San Jos6, with all privileges and benefits, etc., and the confirmation of said assignment by act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1865. It
further states that notwithstanding the lands within the
boundaries of the Moquelamos grant claim were held and
reserved for the satisfaction of said claim from the acquisition
of California until the final rejection of the claim on the 13th
day of February, 1865, embracing the time when the line of
said road was definitely fixed, yet the said patent was issued
as aforesaid to the said Central Pacific Railroad Company, as
the successor in interest of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, for the lands in question, which it is alleged were embraced within the boundaries of said Moquelamos grant claim.
The defendants, in their answer, deny that the line of the
railroad from Sacramento to its western terminus was defi-

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.

433

Opinion of the Court.

nitely fixed in October, 1864, or at any time prior to 1868; or
that a map of the definite location of the said line. or of the
portions thereof opposite the AMoquelamos grant was filed
with the Secretary of the Interior, or in the General Land
Office, in December, 1864, or at any time prior to the first of
February,, 1870. They admit that on the 5th of October,
1864, the Central Pacific Railroad of California designated
the general route of its said road between San Francisco and
Sacramento; and on the 8th of December, 1864, filed a map
of the general route of its said railroad in the Department of
the Interior. They admit that the lands in question are within
twenty miles of the railroad as definitely located and fixed.
They allege that the Western Pacific Railroad Company, in
the year 1868, definitely and finally located and fixed that
portion or section of the line and route of said railroad and
telegraph extending from a point at or near the city of Stockton to a point at or near Sacramento, and, on the first of February, 1870, fied in the Department of the Interior a map of
said portion or section of said line; and that after the consolidation and the formation of the present Central Pacific Railroad Company, to wit, on the 27th day of February, 1873, the
said company filed in the Department of, the Interior a mapof the line and route of said railroad as definitely and finally
located and fixed from the end of the first twenty-mile section
from San Jos6 to a point at the end of the 13 3 -f% miles from
San Jos&, at or near Sacramento; and that said line and route
so definitely and finally located and fixed are opposite to the
lands in question, and include the line or section definitely
located by the Western Pacific, and shown on the map filed
in February, 1870.
The defendants further allege that the lands in question
were public lands, and were not reserved, or disposed of in
any manner, at the time of the passage of the acts of July 1st,
1862, and July 2d, 1864, respectively, and at the time of filing
the general route of the railroad in December, 1864, and of
the withdrawal of the lands by the Secretary of the Interior
in January, 1865, and of the definite and final location- in
1868, and of filing the map of the road in February, 1870,'
VOL. Cxxvui-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and the map in February, 1873. They deny that said lands
were included in any Mexican grant, or that they were reserved or held under the laws of the United States for the
satisfaction of any claim under such grant; and they aver
that said lands, during all the times mentioned in the bill,
up to and until the issuing of the patent, were public lands of
the United States; that said patent was issued to said railroad
company under and in accordance with the provisions of said
Pacific Railroad acts, and was and is legal and valid; that on
the 12th of January, 1876, the Central Pacific Railroad Company conveyed to Charles McLaughlin, in fee simple, the
lands in question, for which he paid a full and adequate consideration. The defendants append schedules to their answer
showing the particular parcels for which they severally defend.
To this answer several exceptions were taken, and being overruled, the general replication was filed. Thereupon the parties
joined in a written admission of certain facts agreed to be
true, which, omitting those relating to the status of the parties
and the organization of the corporations mentioned in the
pleadings, is as follows, to wit:
"8. That on, to wit, the 22d day of September, A.D. 1852,
one Andres Pico, since deceased, presented and filed his petition to and with the Board of Land Commissioners appointed
under the provisions of 'the act of Congress approved March
3d, 1851, entitled ' An act. to ascertain and settle private land
claims in the State of California,' in which petition he claimed
in fee, as a grant by the Mexican Government, a certain tract
of land situated in the said State and district of California,
and known by the name of 'Moquelamos,' for eleven square
leagues of land, which he alleged in his petition was granted
to him within the boundaries as described in the grant made
June 6th, A.D. 1846, by Pio Pico, the then Mexican governor
of -California, by virtue of the authority in him vested; and
said petition closed with a prayer to allow and confirm to
him, the petitioner, Andres Pico, the said tract of land, as
described in the grant made by the aforesaid governor, Pio
P ico, with the boundaries as therein set forth, to wit: once
sitios de ganado mayor en el rio de ]N[oquelumnes que linda al

UNITED STATES v. aMcLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

norte con la orilla sur de dicho rio; al oriente con la sierra i'mmediata al sur con el terreno del Sefior Gulnak; y al poniente
con los esteros de la plaza; and the translation thereof presented to said board with said petition is as follows, to wit :
, Eleven square leagues on the river Moquelamos, bordering on
the north upon the southern shore of said river; on the east
upon the adjacent ridge of mountains ; on the south upon the
lands of Mr. Gulnak; and on the west upon the estuaries of
the shore.' That said petition was in the usual form of petitions to the Board of Land Commissioners, for the confirmation of claims to land in California, founded upon grants made
by the Mexican Government.
"9. That said Board of Land Commissioners proceeded
to consider and determine the said petition and claim of the
said Andres Pico, and on the 3d day of October, 1851, rendered a decree denying the application of said petitioner for a.
confirmation of his said grant of land, and rejecting his claini
therefor.
" 10. That afterwards, to wit, on the 11th day of June,
1855, the said claimant and petitioner, Andres Pico, appealed
to and petitioned the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California for a reversal of the proceedings and decision of the said Board of Land Commissioners,
and prayed that the decree of rejection by said board be reversed, and that the petitioner's claim to the said tract of land
above described be declared valid, and that a decree be entered
confirming the same to the petitioner, Andres Pico, in accordance with said alleged grant to him by the Mexican Government, as aforesaid; and the said District Court thereupon,
proceeded to hear, consider, and review the said decision and.
decree of said' Board of Land Commissioners'and the petition
of said Andres Pico, and at a stated term of said court, held
on the 24th day of April, 1857, made and entered a decree reversing the decree of rejection of said claim by the said Board oE
Land Commissioners, and adjudged and decreed that the claint
of petitioner was valid, and confirmed the Moquelamos grant
above described to the petitioner, Andres Pico, and defined
the boundaries thereof as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"The land of which confirmation is hereby made is of the
extent of eleven square leagues, and no more, and is known
by the name of 'Moquelamos,' and is situate on the river
Moquelamos, bordering upon the north upon the southern
shore of said river; on the east on the adjacent ridge of said
mountains; on the south on the land of Mr. Gulnak, and upon
the west upon the estuaries of the shore, as described in the
original decree and grant of the same by the governor of
California on the 6th day of June, 1846, a copy of which is on
file in the transcript in this case."
"11. That thereafter the United States appealed from said
decree of confirmation to the Supreme Court of the United
States, and at the December term, 1859, of said court the
aforesaid decree of confirmation of said District Court was,
by, the Supreme Court of the United States, reversed, and the
case remanded, with directions to have further evidence taken
in the cause and claim of said Andres Pico, for said 'Mexican
grant Moquelamos. That thereafter the said District Court
proceeded to take further evidence in said case, and after such
further evidence was taken, the case was again brought before
said District Court for hearing, and by that court a decree
was entered on the 4th day of June, 1862, adjudging the claim
of the petitioner to be invalid, and rejecting the same.
."12. That thereafter, on, to wit, the 15th day of October,
1862, the petitioner, Andres Pico, appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United States from said decree of said District
Court rejecting his claim as invalid. That a final hearing of
said cause was had before said Supreme Court, and on the
13th day of February, A.D. 1865, a judgment was made and
entered by said United States Supreme Court affirming said
decree of the United States District Court, rejecting the claim
of said Pico, and adjudging the same to be invalid.
"13. That all of the lands included within the boundaries
of said alleged Moquelamos grant above described lie in said
State and lie on each side of the road of said The Western
Pacific Railroad Company, and opposite thereto in its course
from said city.of Sacramento to said city of San Jos6.
"14. That under and by virtue of the act of Congress,

UNITED STATES v. M1cLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

approved July 1, 1862, entitled, ' An act to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri
River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the government
the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes,'
and the act amendatory thereof, approved July 2d, 1864,
commonly known as the Pacific Railroad acts, The Central
Pacific Railroad Company of California was authorized to
construct a railroad and telegraph line from the Pacific Coast,
at or near San Francisco, to the eastern boundary of said
State of California, and under and by virtue of said acts of
Congress there were granted for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of the road and telegraph line of said The Central Pacific Railroad Company of California ten alternate
sections of the public lands of the United States, on each side
and within twenty miles of the road of said company, designated by odd numbers, not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a homestead or
preemption claim might not have attached at the time the
line of the road of said company should be definitely fixed.
"15. That the said railroad company filed its assent to said
Central Pacific Railroad'acts at the time and in the manner
in said acts provided.
"16. That on, to wit, the 23d day of December, 1864, the
Secretary of the Interior of the United States ordered all of
the public lands not then sold, reserved or otherwise disposed
of, within the limits of twenty-five miles on each side of the
route or line of the road of said railroad company, to be withdrawn from preemption, private entry, and sale in accordance
with the provisions of said acts of Congress, for said railroad
company; and said order was thereupon transmitted to the
register and receiver of the United States land offices at
Stockton, San Francisco, and Sacramento, State of California,
and received by them on the 31st day of January, 1865.
"17. On the 29th day of September, 1866, the president
of the Western Pacific Railroad Company made and filed
with the United States Surveyor General of the State of California the varied statement provided for by § 4 of said act of
July 1,1862, and § 6 of said act of July 2,1864, showing the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

struction, completion, and equipment by said Western Pacific
Railroad Company of the most westerly twenty miles, viz.,
the twenty miles next northeasterly from the city of San
Jos6, of the railroad and telegraph line of said Western Pa.cific Railroad Company, in compliance with and conformity
to the requirements and provisions of said sections of said acts
of Congress; and said Surveyor General thereupon, at the
request of said railroad company, notified the commissioners
designated and provided for by said acts to examine said
twenty miles of said road and telegraph line and report thereon, in accordance with the provisions of said acts of Congress;
and on the 5th day of October, 1866, said commissioners made
their report and certificate to the effect that said twenty miles
of road and telegraph line mentioned in said verified state-ment had been constructed, completed, and equipped by said
railroad company, as provided and prescribed in and by said
acts of Congress.
"Similar verified statements were made by the president of
,said Western Pacific Railroad Company as follows: On April
28, 1869, for a section of the road beginning at the junction
thereof with the road of the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California, at the American River Bridge near Sacramento City, and extending thence southwesterly twenty (20)
miles; also, on October 12, 1869, for a section of said road
beginning at the westerly end of the last mentioned section,
and extending thence southwesterly sixty-three (63) miles;
also, on December 29, 1869, for a section of said road beginning at the westerly end of the last mentioned section, and
extending thence twenty and two-tenths (2 0 A) miles to the
easterly end of the first mentioned section, of twenty miles,
beginning at San Jos6.
"That all those statements were, upon their being made,
filed with said Surveyor General, and he did forthwith, upon
tne filing of each statement respectively, and at the request
of said company, notify said commissioners. That said commissioners did thereupon examine said sections of said road,
and made their respective reports thereon, to the same effect
as upon the first section of said road, as aforesaid, said reports

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

being made, respectively, on the 29th day of April, 1869, and
the 13th of October, 1869, and the 6th day of January, 1870.
"That each of the four reports of said commissioners was
thereupon filed with the Secretary of the Interior, and he
thereupon recommended the acceptance of the same, and the
issue of the bonds and patents for lands due on account of
said sections of road, agreeably to the provisions of said Pacific Railroad acts; and thereupon the President of the United
States approved the same, and ordered the Secretary of the
Interior and the Secretary of the Treasury to carry the said
recommendation into effect, the first of which approvals by
the President of the United States was made on the 4th day
of December, 1866, and the last on the 21st day of January,
1870. That the four sections above mentioned comprise the
whole of said road, from the city of San Jos6 to the city of
Sacramento. That said road has been in full operation and
has been operated for the transportation of passengers and
freight since the 9th day of June, A.D. 1869.
"18. That thereafter there was issued, on the 23d day of
November, 1875, to said Central Pacific Railroad Company (?),
under the signature of the President of the United States,
.attested by the recorder of the General Land Office, and under
the seal of the General Land Office, what purported to be, and
in form was, a patent.
"That the patent was in the usual form of the patents
issued by the United States to the several railroad companies,
under and in pursuance of said Pacific Railroad acts of Con°gress.
"19. That said patent described and purported to convey
to said railroad company the several tracts of land mentioned
and described in said bill of complaint.
"20. That all of said lands described in the bill of complaint herein are opposite to, and within the 25-mile limits on
each side of, the route or line of said railroad company's road,
as laid down on the map filed by said Central Pacific IRailroad
Company of California in the Department of the Interior on
-the 8th day of December, 1864."
Besides these admissions a large amount of evidence was

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

taken in the case, and a final hearing was had before the court
below in November term, 1886, and a decree was made dismissing the bill of complaint.
The court, in its opinion, held, amongst other things:
1. That the map of the route of the Western Division of
the Central Pacific Railroad of California, filed with the Secretary of the Interior December 8, 1864, is the map of the general route, and not of the line as "definitely fixed," within the
meaning of the land-grant act of 1862.
2. That the map of the route of said road as finally located
and constructed, filed with the Secretary of the Interior February 1, 1870, and accepted as such by that officer, is the map
of definite location.
3. That the Moquelamos grant was finally rejected February 13, 1865, after which the lands within the exterior boundaries of the grant ceased to be sub judice and became publicr
lands, to the odd sections of which, within twenty miles of the
line of the road, the right of the railroad company attached,
and became indefeasible, immediately upon the filing of the
map of definite location of the road, and the acceptance
thereof as such by the Secretary of the Interior.
4. That as, from the year 1855, the land between the Moquelamos and Calaveras rivers, east of the range (or meridian)
line between ranges 7 and 8, was treated by the government
as lying outside of the Moquelamos grant claim, and as being
public land, by running the section lines and filing plats of
survey, and selling some of the lands, and opening the others
to private entry, etc., the government should be held in a
court of equity to be estopped as against the grantees of the
patentee from now alleging that those lands are within the
boundaries of the claim.
5. That the withdrawal of the lands upon filing the map
of the general route of the road, for twenty-five miles on each
side of the line indicated, protected the lands against the attaching of any other right as against the railroad company
until the filing of the map of definite location.
Without expressing, at present, any opinion on the conclusions thus reached by the Circuit Court, we will proceed to

UNITED STATES v. 11cLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

examine, 1st, Whether the land in question was actually within
the outside limits of the pretended Mloquelamos grant? If it
was, and if the title of the railroad company accrued whilst
the grant was under judicial examination, we will inquire,
2dly, Whether, -for that reason, the railroad grant was prevented from taking effect within the said outside limits?
The defendants adduced evidence to show that the greater
part of the lands in question were not embraced within the
limits of the grant. Those Jimits are fairly well defined on
three sides; the northern boundary being the Moquelamos or
Moquelumne River; the southern the lands of Mr. Guinak,
(being the "Campo de los Franceses;") and the western beingthe "estuaries of the shore," or the marshes bordering on the
San Joaquin River, not very clearly defined in outline, but
sufficiently so to serve as a boundary. On the east side, the
supposed grant is bounded "con la sier~v immediata ; " - "by
the adjacent ridge of mountains" or "by the adjacent sierra."
This is interpreted as meaning to exclude the sierra itself ; in
other words the grant extends, according to its terms, to the
commencement of the mountain or sierra.
One of the witnesses, R. C. Hopkins, who had been employed by the government for more than thirty years in the
Surveyor General's office in California, in connection with the
Spanish land grants, making translations and testifying in the
courts, was asked to translate the descriptive portion of the
Moquelamos grant, which he did as follows: "Eleven square
leagues on the Moquelamos River, which bounds on the north
with the southern shore of the said river, on the east with the
contiguous sierras, on the south with the lands of Mr. Gulnak,
and on the west with the estuaries of the beach." He further
testified that when "sierra immediata" is called for as a.
boundary, the "sierras" are excluded.
Now, if there were any mountain ridge or sierra in the neighborhood of the other boundaries called for, lying to the eastward, and in the vicinity of the Gulnak track, the solution
would be easy. But the Sierra Nevada is the only mountain
in that direction, and that is sixty or seventy miles east of
the line of the railroad, and still farther from the marshes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the beach forming the western boundary of the grant, -an
extent which would give a total area of over eighty square
leagues. The defendants contend that such an extension of
the outside boundaries of the grant (supposing it to have been
-a real grant) cannot be presumed to have been in the minds
,of the parties; and they produce evidence to show that, starting from the marshes on the west, and proceeding eastwardly
between the Gulnak tract and the Moquelumne :River, the land
is level valley land as far as the "Jack Tone road," (which
runs north and south on the range line between ranges 7 and
8 east, -about
seven miles east of the railroad;) and that
beyond this road the lands are hilly, covered with timber and
brush, and gradually increase in altitude above the sea-level
up to the Sierra Nevada itself, becoming more broken and
precipitous as we proceed.
As an example of this evidence, the testimony of Edward
E. Tucker, an experienced surveyor in that country, and official surveyor of San Jbaquin County, may be referred to.
Amongst other things he says:
"I will say that from a line east of what is called the Jack
Tone road an irregular line about, well, I suppose, averaging
say two miles east of the road, some places it comes within
three-quarters of a mile of the Jack Tone road, and at other
places it is two or three miles from it-the ground becomes
more or less broken and hilly, and in some places there are
well-defined hills, and in other places it is what would be designated, I suppose, rolling land; but the general character of
the country from the point I have designated, east, between
the Moquelumne and Calaveras rivers, is irregular. It is up
and down and generally rising; that is to say, the farther
east a person goes the higher the hills become and the more
irregular they are until the county line is reached. There are
a number of places where there are quite high hills, and some
deep elevations, and other places where perhaps a whole section would be what we call rolling land. There are no very
steep hills or very high hills in a particular section, but it
is what I would call, generally speaking, hilly land, the
whole of it, and a rising tendency going towards the east.

UNITED STATES v. MoLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

There are a great many sections and quarter sections that I
could locate from memoranda that I have in my book, hills, I
could designate particularly, quarter sections, if required, but
generally from that line indicated, east, the country is hilly.
Q. 50. What can you say generally with reference
to the elevation of the country going east from the line indicated by you as marking the division line between the plane
land and the well-defined hills near the Jack Tone road, and
between the Moquelumne and Calaveras rivers? A. The
country as I described it before- some of it is rolling, some
rough, hilly and broken; but it is all gradually, and some very
rapidly ascending. It is constantly ascending; that is, the
hills, as you go east, are higher than-they keep getting
higher as you go east.

.

.

.

Q. 54. In your opinion as a

surveyor and civil engineer where, with reference to the tract
of country between the Calaveras and :Moquelumne rivers,
does the Sierra Nevada iange of mountains begin as a range
or system? A. In my opinion a range of mountains begins
- what you rftight properly call the base of the mountains, .on the plains where the land commences to go up regularly,
and the hills are well defined- what are generally called
foot-hills of the mountains; and in this instance I think the
mountains begin where I have drawn that heavy red line on
this diagram, Exhibit 18. I, of course, want it understood
that I am not stating that those are mountains down there.
I do not claim that they are mountains. I claim that they
are well-defined hills, and that they are regular from there
east. They run right into the mountains and there is no
way of drawing a line from them mountains east without
going over hills; that is, a north and south line."
The witness further testified on cross-examination, as follows:
"Q. 1. Did you hear, or come to know from anybody, that
the rolling lands in range 9 east, any part of it, was ever desighiated as any part of the Sierra Nevada Mountains ? A. No,
sir. Q. 2. Did you ever know or hear of the rolling land in
range 10 east being ever designated as part of the Sierra Nevada Mountains? A. A great deal of*land in both those ranges

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

has always been referred to by myself and others in speaking
of it, as foot-hills. We never call it the Sierra Nevada
Mountains; we speak of it as foot-hills- going up to the
mountains. Q. 3. Did you ever hear of rolling hills, if any
there be, in range 8, designated as Sierra Nevada Mountains?
A. No, sir. I have heard that spoken of in the same manner- as foot-hills, but not as mountains."
This seems to us to be a fair exhibit of the general evidence
on the subject. The complainant produced a number of witnesses to show that there is a mountain, called Bear Mountain,
east of range 11, commencing at the eastern side of said range,
which would be twenty-four miles east of the Xack Tone road,
thirty-one miles east of the railroad, and from thirty-six to
forty miles east of the marshes of the San Joaquin. But the
parties concur in considering the Moquelamos grant as comprised between the Moquelumne River on the north and the
Calaveras River on the south; and this Bear Mountain is entirely south of the Calaveras. There is north of it, and separated from it by the Calaveras River itself, a hill, called Central Hill, but it is no more of a mountain than many other of
the high and abrupt hills at that distance eastward from the
railroad. One of the most intelligent of the complainant's
witnesses referred to was a Mr. Terry, a surveyor and teacher.
The following is the material part of his examination on the
subject:
"Q. 3. State whether or not, as a surveyor, you have been
engaged at any time by the United States to survey public
Jands. A. I have.- •
"Q. 4. State what you surveyed in that neighborhood of
country as United States surveyor. A. Townships four and
five north, ranges eleven and twelve east, Mount Diablo base
and meridian.
"Q. 5. State whether you know a mountain in that locality
known as Bear Mountain. A. Yes, sir; and sometimes that
range of mountains is called Hog Back. But it is laid down
as Bear Mountain on the maps, and is generally called so by
surveyors.
"Q. 6. Please explain the general features, the condition,

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

and appearance of that mountain known as Bear Mountain.
A. Well, it is a low mountain. The north end of it is covered with chaparral or shemisel, or whatever it is called.
"Q. 7. How in regard to its extension northward? A. It
does not extend north of the Calaveras River.
"Q. 8. Do you know a mountain or high elevation known
as Central Hill? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. 9. State what connection there is, if any, between Central Hill and Bear Mountain. A. There is no connection that
I know of. The Calaveras River runs between them."
"Q. 11. State whether you know the locality north and
south from and including Bear Mountain, to and including
Central Hill, and for a few miles north of that. A. Yes, sir;
that was in my contract. I travelled all over that range of
hills in surveying.
"Q. 12. Did you survey all that country? A. Yes, sir;
that was in my contract.
"Q. 13. Please give a general description, and as particular
a description as you can, of that country north and south from
and including Bear Mountain, to and including a few miles
north -- say five miles north - of Central Hill. A. There is
a low range of hills running from the Calaveras River northerly
- perhaps a little bit east or west of north - that is pretty

hilly. That is from the west boundary, bluff, or bank, as you
may call it, of the Calaveras River and of Chili Gulch. That
is in townships four and five north, range eleven east.
"Q. 14. Describe the character of that land. A. It is hilly
land; some of it is agricultural. I have surveyed several
mines in there about Central Hill and further up. Ido not
know as I can tell exactly how those mines are located. The
hilly lands of which I have been speaking are those north of
the Calaveras River.
"Q. 15. State what the general character and appearance
of Bear Mountain is. A. It is a low mountain, and there is
considerable oak and pine timber on it; but on the north end
there is chaparral. Perhaps a mile up, running south, is covered with this brush.
"Q. 16. Does not Bear Mountain appear conspicuous and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

in full view for, say, ten or twelve miles west of it? A. Yes,
sir; from most points on the west it does. Ordinarily, this
Bear Mountain is within sight for several miles down here to
the west. I used to travel over that country to the west of
Bear Mountain and between the rivers Moquelumne and Calaveras a good deal."
We do not perceive that this evidence shows the existence
of a sierra at this point, especially between the two rivers.
But even if it did, it is still nearly forty miles east of the San
Joaquin marshes, and the contents of the entire territory
within the granted limits would be over fifty square leagues;
an extent of country which, compared with the quantity of
lands granted (eleven leagues), cannot, any more than can the
eighty square leagues embraced within the limits of the Sierra
Nevada, be presumed to have been within the intention of the
parties. It would require clear and positive evidence to establish such a result.
The defendants contend that the commencement of the
hilly land at or near the Jack Tone road is the true commencement of the "adjacent sierra" named in the grant; and that
the hilly and broken land east of that road is all comprehended
in the foot-hills of the mountainj and excluded from the
grant. In confirmation of this view they not only rely on
the topographical evidence which has been noticed, but on the
fact that when the claim to the Moquelamos grant was first.
presented to the Board of Land Commissioners in 1852, and
for some time afterwards, the petitioner, Andres Pico, did not
pretend or claim that the grant &xtended farther east than
the Jack Tone road; and on the further fact, that the Surveyor General for California, in surveying the public lands
and delimiting the boundaries of unconfirmed grants, under
the authority conferred upon him by the appropriation act of'
August 31st, 1852 (10 Stat. 91), assumed the range line
between ranges 7 and 8 (or the Jack Tone road) to be the
utmost eastern boundary of the Moquelamos grant, and made
his surveys up to that line, and no farther. And in September, 1861, when further surveys were proposed, the attorneys
of Pico gave notice to the Surveyor General that the lands,

UNITED STATES v. McLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

in townships 2, 3, and 4, south of the Moquelumne River, in
ranges 5, 6, and 7 east, (that is, the ranges immediately west
of the Jack Tone road,) were claimed by Pico under the
]Moquelamos grant, and that the said claim had been appealed'
to the Supreme Court of the United States, and was then
pending; and requested the Surveyor General to suspend proceedings for preempting said land, or any part thereof. The
quantity of land thus claimed to be within the said grant was.
more than twice the amount required to satisfy the grant,
showing that the limits named in the notice did not refer to a
specific' location of the eleven leagues, but to the outside
limits of the grant. This evidence, it is true, might not of
itself be binding as against the government; but, taken in
connection with the acts of the government itself, and the
conduct of its officials, from high to low, acquiescing in this
view, it shows a state of things, a concord of words and acts
between the parties interested, which, on a question of boundary, is not only admissible, but entitled to much weight.
especially after so long a period elapsed before this suit was.
instituted.
Another circumstance relied on to show that the limits of
the grant did not extend, at most, farther east than the commencement of the hills near the Jack Tone road, is, that the
southern boundary called for is the land of Gulnak. Thisland is conceded to be the French Camp Grant, or Rancho
Campo de los Franceses. And this grant was so determinately located by the accurate d-isego annexed to it, that its
position was established without difficulty, and has never been
seriously questioned. As thus located, its northern line coincides in part with the Calaveras River, being situated a little
to the north of the river towards the west, and the whole
tract lies altogether west of the Jack Tone road, and does not.
at the nearest point, approach it within less than half a mile.
So that, if the Moquelamos grant (as required by its description) is to be bounded on the south by the Gulnak tract, it
cannot itself extend to the east of said road without being
forced to do so by the call of some distinct natural object.
On the whole, we are satisfied that the outside boundarv

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

limits of the Moquelamos grant, as called for in the grant
itself, do not extend east of the Jack Tone road, or the edge
of the hills commencing near the same. This result would
dispose of the present case with regard to nearly all the land
in question therein. But as some of it lies west of said road,
in range 7, and as the railroad land-grant extends to the west
of said road, it will be necessary to examine the other question referred to, namely: If the lands in controversy did lie
within the exterior limits of the Moquelamos grant, and if the
title of the railroad company did accrue whilst that grant was
under consideration in the courts, did those facts prevent the
railroad land-grant from taking effect?
The Moquelamos grant belongs to that class of grants which
may properly be called floats; that is, grants of a certain quantity of land to be located within the limits of a larger area.
Mexican grants were of three kinds: (1) gorants by specific
boundaries, where the donee is entitled to the entire tract,
whether it be more or less; (2) grants of quantity, as of one
-or more leagues within a larger tract described by what are
called outside boundaries, where the donee is entitled to the
quantity specified, and no more; (3) grants of a certain place
or rancho by name, where the donee is entitled to the whole
tract according to the boundaries given, or if not given, according to its extent as shown by previous possession. fuigueras v. United States, 5 Wall. 827, 834. In the first and third
kinds, the claim of the grantee extends to the full limits of
the boundaries designated in the grant or defined by occupation ; but in the second kind, a grant of quantity only, within
a larger tract, the grant is really a float, to be located by the
consent of the government before it can attach to any specific
land, like the land warrants of the United States. A float
may be entitled to location either on any public lands in the
United States, or only in a particular State or Territory, or
within a more circumscribed region or district. Its character
remains the same. The present grant is one of this kind. If
it only extends to the Jack Tone road, as we suppose, it ia still
largely in excess of the quantity granted. If it extends, as
the complainant insists, to the Bear Mountain or the Sierra

UNITED

STATES v.

MIcLAUGHLIN.

Opinion of the Court.

Nevada, the region embraced would be immensely enlarged,
comprising over fifty square leagues in the one case, and over
eighty in the other. Can it be that such an extensive region
was under interdict, as reserved land, absolutely exempt from
disposition, even by Congress, during the whole period covered by the litigation respecting the validity of the grant,
which, in the end, even if found valid, was only for the quantity of eleven square leagues? The investigation continued
thirteen years. The grant was found to be a wretched fraud.
Even if signed by Pico, it was got up after the Mexican authority had ceased, and was never confirmed by the Departmental Assembly, as no such assembly then existed; and at
the date on which it purports to have been confirmed, the
Departmental Assembly was not in session. It was, therefore,
for good cause that it was rejected by the courts.
Laying all this aside, however, and looking at the claim as
one fairly sub judice, we may repeat our question, whether it
can be possible that so great a region of country was to be
regarded as reserved from alienation for so small a cause -an
ordinary elfeven-league grant? It is contended that the case
of 3ewhaZl v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 61, has concluded this question by an answer in the affirmative. This case will be examined hereafter. Meantime let us look at the nature of the
supposed case. A grant of eleven square leagues is made out
of a country seventy or eighty miles in length, and from six
to ten in width, containing over eighty square leagues; and
this whole eighty leagues is supposed to be retired from the
disposable public domain for a period of years, no one knows
how long. Does this look reasonable?
One or two observations may be made calculated to show
the precise question in a still stronger light. _First. It is in
the option of the government, not of the grantee, to locate
the quantity granted; and, of course, a grant by the government of any part of the territory contained within the outside limits of the grant only reduces by so much the area
within which the original grantee's proper quantity may be
located. If the government has the right to say where it
shall be located, it certainly has the right to say where it
VOL. cxxvn-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not be located; and if it sells land to a third person at a
place within the general territory of the original grant, it is
equivalent to saying that the quantity due to the original
grantee is not to be located there. In other words, if the territory comprehended in the outside limits and bounds of a
Mfexican grant contains eighty leagues, and the quantity
granted is only ten leagues, the government may dispose of
seventy leagues without doing any wrong to the original
grantee. This was the Mexican law, and of course it is our
law. United States v. Arrnijo, 5 Wall. 444, 449. In practice, it is true, our authorities, in administering the publio
lands, have generally allowed the original grantee to make
his own selection of the point where he will have his quantity
located, provided he has it all located together in one tract.
But this is a matter of favor, and not a matter of right. If
this were not so, the right of way granted for the railroads by
Congress would be subject to question and litigation. There
cannot be any doubt, however, of the validity of these grants.
The cases which show the law on this subject are numerous;
it is only necessary to refer to a few of them. The following
may be consulted: Fremont v. Un~ited States, 17 How. 542, 558,
565; United States v. Armijo, 5 Wail. 444; Hornsby v. United
States, 10 Wall. 224, 234-5; Renshaw v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 255,
2664-7; .Xiller v. Dae, 92 U. S. 473, 4764; *Fan Peynegan v.
Bolton, 95 U. S. 33, 36.
According to this rule of law, though the Moquelamos grant
had been unquestionably genuine and valid, the government
would have had a right to dispose of the whole territory east
of range 6 without infringing in the slightest degree the
rights of Pico, who would still have had his eleven leagues at
the western extremity of the territory. Any construction of
the laws which would tend to trammel and obstruct this right
of the government, and render its acts in making alienations
void, should be made with great caution and a careful consideration of the necessary import of the terms of such laws. An
illustration of the absurdity which may be involved in extending the supposed reservation from sale and alienation to this
kind of grants is showii in the large extent of country which

UNITED STATES v, McLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

has been covered by some of them known to the records of
this court. In 1822 a grant of twenty leagues square, or four
hundred square leagues of land, was made by the Supreme
Government of Mexico to President Yturbide, to be located in
Texas. In 1835 the MNexican congress authorized his heirs to
locate the land in New Mexico or in Upper or Lower California. In 1841 it was decreed that it should be located in Upper
California- that is, the present State of California. This
claim was actually presented to the Board of Land Commissioners, and appealed to the.District Court and thence to this
court. Now, according to the contention of the complainant
in the present case, all California was interdicted territory
during the pendency of that claim before the board and in
the courts. The case is reported in 22 Howard, 290, Ytrbide's .reeutors v. United States. This case arose under the
same law as that upon which the case of Newhall v. Sanger
was based -the act of March 3d, 1851. If a reservation of
an entire territory is to be implied from a floating grant of
quantity within it, then, logically, every float, or land warrant
issued by the government, should, until actually located, operate as a reservation of the entire body of public lands.
We can well understand that Indian reservations and reservations for military and other public purposes of the government should be considered as absolutely reserved and withdrawn from that portion of the public lands which are disposable to purchasers and settlers - for, in those cases, the use to
which they are devoted, and for which they are deemed to be
reserved, extends to every foot of the reservation. The same
reason applies to Mexican grants of specific tracts, such as a
grant for all the land within certain definite boundaries
named, or all the land comprised in a certain rancho or estate.
But this reason does not apply to grants of a certain quantity
of land, within a territory named or described, containing a
much larger area than the amount granted, and where, as in
the present case, the right of location within the larger territory is in the government, and not in the grantee. In such
case, the use does not attach to the whole territory, but only
to a part of it, and to such part as the government chooses to
designate, provided the requisite qvantity be appropriated.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of the -Leavenworth&c. Railroad Co. v. The United
State8, 92 U. S. 733, preceded the case of NSewhall v. San ger,
and was relied on in the latter case. But the Leavenworth
case related to an Indian reservation, and the legislative grant
upon which it depended, 12 Stat. 772, entitled, "An act for a
grant of lands to the State of Kansas, in alternate sections,
to aid in the construction of certain railroads and telegraphs
in said State," had an express proviso, "that any and all lands
heretofore reserved to the United States, by any act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority, for the
purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or
for any other purpose whatsoever, be, and the same are
hereby, reserved to the United States from the operations of
this act, except so far as it may be found necessary to locate
the routes of said road and branches through such reserved
lands, in which case the right of way only shall be granted."
The land grant in that case was construed as taking effect immediately, and as vesting a present title in the State of Kansas, though a survey of the lands and a location of the road
were held to be necessary to give precision to it, and attach it
to any particular tract. The treaty with the Great and Little
Osage tribe of Indians, made June 2d, 1825, which contained
a cession to the United States of certain land, contained this
clause, to wit: "Within the limits of the country above ceded
and relinquished there shall be reserved to and for the Great
and Little Osage tribe or nation aforesaid, so long as they
shall choose to occupy the same, the following described tract
of land." The described tract embraced the land in question
in the cause, and the court held that it was no part of the public lands of the United States, and that no part of it passed to
the State of Kansas under the grant, though the railroad
passed through it. In our judgment that case differed materially from the one now before us. The whole reservation
was appropriated to the use of the Osage nation as long as
they chose to occupy it.
The case of 2Newkall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, on which the
complainant confidently relies, was argued and decided shortly
after the Leavenworth case. It arose upon a bill to quiet title

UNITED STATES v. XcLAUGHLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

to a quarter section of land situated in township 3 N., range
7 E., and therefore west of the Jack Tone road, and within
the then admitted limits of the M]oquelamos grant now under
discussion. We have taken the pains to examine the original
record. The bill is comprised in a page and a half, and the
whole record in six pages. Sanger, the complainant below,
claimed title through the Western Pacific Railroad Company,
to whom a patent had been issued in April, 1870, in professed
compliance with the requirements of the acts of Congress of
1862 and 1864-. The bill alleges that N~ewhall claimed title to
the same land under a subsequent patent, which recited that
the first patent had issued by mistake to the Western Pacific
Railroad Company, because the land was within the exterior
limits of a IMexican grant called Moquelamos.
The bill
alleged that this grant was rejected by the final decision of
this court in December term, 1864, before the reservation of
lands for the railroad was made; but that the President, in
making the second grant, pretended that the Aroquelamos
grant was not rejected until the 13th day of February, 1865,
after the reservation for railroad purposes, claiming the right
to look into the minutes of this court to ascertain the precise
day when the claim was rejected, and thereby disregarding
the mandate; whereas the complainant contended that the
rejection took effect from the first day of the term.
This was the substance of the bill. The only issue it raised
was as to the time when the rejection of the grant legally
took effect, whether at the beginning of the term (December
5th, 1864), or on the actual day of rendering the judgment
(February 13th, 1865); one date being before and the other
after the withdrawal of the lands from sale for the benefit of
the railroad company; and such withdrawal being assumed
to be the act by virtue of which the railroad title accrued.
There was nothing in the bill to show that the boundaries
named in the grant contained any more than eleven square
leagues of land, the quantity granted.
The bill was demurred to, the cause was submitted without
argument, and the demurrer was overruled. The defendant
adhering to his demurrer, a decree was entered for the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

plainant. An appeal was then taken to this court, the cause
was submitted on printed briefs, and the decree of the Circuit
Court was reversed. The opinion took no notice of the fact
(which did not appear in the record) that the grant was one
of that class in which the quantity granted was but a small
part of the territory embraced within the boundaries named.
It proceeded throughout as it would have done on the supposition that the grant covered and filled up the whole territory
described. It simply dealt with and affirmed the general
proposition that a Mexican grant while under judicial investigation was not public land open for disposal and sale, but was
reserved territory within the meaning of the law,- a proposition not seriously disputed. On the question of time when
the rejection of the grant took effect, it held with the defendant, that the records of this court could be consulted to ascertain the precise day of rendering judgment. After deciding
this point, there was no difficulty, under the admissions of the
bill, in reversing the decree of the Circuit Court. The opinion,
however, examined somewhat at large the grounds on which
it should be held that Mexican grants (whether valid or
invalid) while under judicial consideration, should be treated
as reserved lands. The principal reason was that they were
not "public lands" in the sense of congressional legislation;
those terms being habitually used to describe such lands as
are subject to sale or other disposal under general laws. The
Pacific Railroad acts of 1862 and 1864 only granted, in aid of
the railroads to be constructed under them, "every alternate
section of public land . . . not sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and to which a preemption
or homestead claim may not have attached at the time the
line of said road is definitely fixed." The lands comprised in
a Mexican grant, it was held, must be regarded not as "public
lands" but as "reserved" lands, because, by the treaty with
Mexico, all private property was to be respected. And when
the act of March ° 3d, 1851, created a board of commissioners
to examine all claims to M exican grants, the 13th section
declared "that all lands the claims to which have been finally
rejected by the commissioners in the manner herein provided,

UNITED STATES v. MeLAUGHLIN.

455,

Opinion of the Court.

or which shall be finally decided to be invalid by the District
or Supreme Court, and all lands the claims to which shall not
have been presented to the commissioners within two years
after the date of this act, shall be deemed, held, and considered,
as part of the public domain of the United States," 9 Stat. 633;
implying that until then they were not part of the public
domain. The same conclusion was thought to be inferred
from the act of March 3d, 1853, which introduced the land
system into California; the sixth section of which, amongst
other things, exempted from pregmption and sale "lands
claimed under any foreign grant or title." And this reservation, the court argued, would apply equally to grants that
were fraudulent and void, as to those that were valid; for,
until investigated, it could not be known which were valid and
which were void.
This reasoning of the court in Nfewhall v. Sanger is entirely
conclusive as to all definite grants which identified the land
granted, such as the case before it then appeared to be; but is
it fairly applicable to floats? that is to say, grants of a certain
quantity to be located within a larger tract of territory,
whether of limited extent, marked by certain bounds, or anywhere in the State, as in the case of Yturbide? Many small
grants, of only a few leagues, were susceptible of location in
large territories. The Alvarado grant, claimed by Fremont,
Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, was only for ten
square leagues within a region containing upwards of a hundred square leagues. The description in the grant was "the
tract of land known as Mariposas, to the extent of ten square
leagues, within the limits of the Sierra Nevada and the rivers
known by the names of the Chauchilles, of the Merced, and of
the San Joaquin." Did all this vast region cease to be the
public domain of the United States for the sake of the ten
leagues which constituted the actual grant? Would not such
a conclusion have been unreasonable, prejudicial to the public
interest, and entirely unnecessary for the protection of the
grantee? It may be that the Land Office might properly
suspend ordinary operations in the disposal of lands within the
territory indicated, and in that sense they might not be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered as public lands; but why should they not be regarded
as public lands disposable by Congress itself, care being taken
to preserve a sufficient quantity to satisfy the grant?
As we have already seen, there can be no doubt that a
grant made by Congress within the limits of a territory subject to a Mexican float, would take precedence of the float if
sufficient land remained to satisfy it. The only question is,
whether the surplus land so at the disposal of Congress may
be regarded as public land within the meaning of the railroad
aid grants. We are disposed to think that it may be, and
that as to grants of this character, floating grants as they
may be called, the railroad aid grants are not deprived of
effect provided a sufficient quantity lying together be left to
satisfy the grant. In this case no difficulty could occur in
carrying out this view. The territory described has sufficient
extent west of range 7 to satisfy the grant of eleven leagues,
and there seems to be no valid reason why it should not be
satisfied from this part. Of course, the satisfaction of the
grant is a fiction; for it never had any validity. But the
part referred to would be sufficient to satisfy it, if it had been
a valid grant. And as the government had the right of location, and has made a grant of its title to the railroad company,
the company may exercise the same right subject to the like
conditions. The company has made its election to take its
lands in range '7 and the ranges that lie easterly thereof; and
this option leaves the tract west of range 7-(subject to its right
of way) open to disposal in the ordinary manner of other
public lands.
There is really nothing in the decision of _Vewkall v. Sanger
in conflict with the views here expressed; because the court
did not have before it the case of a floating grant.
In a number of cases decided since the decision in iYewkall
v. Sanger, that case has been referred to with approbation;
and in some of them expressions have been used as if the
question of floating grants to be located in larger territories
had been decided therein. But we have seen that this is not
correct, and we are not aware of any case in which this class

BENSON v. McMAHON.
Syllabus.

of grants has been actually involved and has formed the subject of decision.
The decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed in this and the
other cases argued with it.

In consequence of the death

of Kate 1). 3lceaugdin, the decree wilt be entered as of
the first day of the term, nunepro tune.
No. 11, DEWITT v. MCLAuGHLiN; No. 12, FRIEND V. WISE. In
error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
California. These cases were, by the above direction of the court,
affirmed, and judgment entered nune pro tune as of October 10, 1887.
Affirmed.
Mr. W.
error.

J. Johnston and Mr.

X. D.

Brainard for plaintiffs in

Mr. A. L. Bhoads and Mr. Henry Beard for defendants in error.

BENSON v. M-6cMAIION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1420. Argued May 1, 1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

On the hearing of an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit Court, discharging a writ of habeas corpus which had been issued on the petition of a
person arrested for a crime committed in a foreign country, and held for
extradition under treaty provisions, the jurisdiction of the commissioner
and the sufficiency of the legal ground for his action are the main questions to be decided; and this court declines to consider questions respecting the introduction of evidence, or the sufficiency of the authentication of documentary proof.
When a person is held for examination before a commissioner, to determine
whether he shall be surrendered to the Mexican authorities, to be extradited for a crime committed in Mexico, the question to be determined is,
whether the commission of the crime alleged is so established as to justify the prisoner's apprehension and comdmitment for trial if the offence
had been committed in the United States; and the proceeding resembles
in its character preliminary examinations before a magistrate for the

