OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

UITED STATES v. BEEBE.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 180. Argued February 10, 13, 1888. -Decided

April 30, 1888.

The Attorney General has authority, under the Constitution, to file a bill in
equity in the name of the United States to set aside a patent of public
land alleged to have been obtained by fraud or mistake, when the government has a direct interest in the tract patented, or is under an obligation respecting the relief invoked by the bill.
The United States are not bound by any statute of limitations, nor barred
by laches of their officers in a suit brought by them, as sovereign, to
enforce a public right, or to assert a public interest; but where they are
formal parties to the suit, and the real remedy sought in their name is
the enforcement of a private right for tile benefit of a private party,
and no interest of the United States is involved, a court of equity will
not be restrained from administering the equities between the real
parties by any exemption of tile government, designed for the protection
of the rights of the United States alone.

THIS was a suit in equity brought by the Attorney General
on behalf of the United States to set aside and cancel certain
patents issued in favor of Roswell Beebe, in 1838 and 1839,
for about 480 acres of land upon which the present city of
Little Rock, Arkansas, is partly built. Roswell Beebe having
died many years ago, this suit is prosecuted against his heirs
and legal representatives. It was brought in the United
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas,
the bill having been filed on the 31st of January, 1883. The
ground upon which it was asked that said patents might be
set aside and cancelled was, that at the date of their issue,
and for a long time prior thereto, the United States did not
own the land embraced in them, but that, on the contrary,
said land was legally appropriated by other persons, and was
therefore segregated from the public domain; that said Roswell Beebe and others fraudulently conspired together for
the purpose of securing said patents, and by false representations, pretences, and undue influence persuaded and "coerced

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Statement of the Case.

the register" of the United States Land Office at Little Rock
into the belief that he (Beebe) was entitled to said patents,
etc.; and that by reason of said premises said patents were
fraudulent and void.
The bill set out at considerable length and with much regard
to details a great array of alleged facts connected with the
issue of said patents, the former appropriation of the land,
and the alleged fraudulent acts and practices of said Beebe
with reference to said Jand. In substance they were as follows: That said lands were formerly a part of the Quapaw
Indian reservation, but were ceded to the United States by
the treaty of August 24, 1818, and thereby became part of
the public domain; that afterwards, to wit, in 1819 and 1820,
they, with other lands not involved in this controversy, were
located with what is known as "New Madrid Certificates"
issued by the recorder of land titles at St. Louis in November,
1815, under and in accordance with the provisions of the act
of Congress approved February 17, 1815, entitled "An act
for the relief of the inhabitants of the late county of New
Madrid, in the Missouri Territory, who suffered by earthquakes," 3 Stat. 211, c. 45; that by virtue of said locations all of said lands were surveyed, and the surveys were
returned to the recorder on the 17th of October, 1820, whereby
said lands became legally appropriated by the holders and
owners of said certificates, and thus severed from the mass of
the public domain; that the equitable title to said lands thus
became vested in the locators of said certificates and their
assigns, and was afterwards, by proper assignments and conveyances, transferred to and became vested in one W. M.
O'Hara, who subsequently conveyed the lands in undivided
moieties to Nathaniel Philbrook and Chester Ashley; that in
1824 said Philbrook died intestate, seized and possessed of an
undivided half interest in said lands held under the title aforesaid, and the same descended to his father, Eliphalet Philbrook, a citizen of New Hampshire, and his sole heir at law,
who, dying in 1828, by last will and testament devised all of
his interest in and to said lands to Thomas HI. Ellison and six.
of his other children and grandchildren; that said devisees

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

and heirs of such as are deceased have, by proper deeds, conveyed said lands to George V. Dietrich, Jabez 0. Hurst, citizens of Galesburg, Illinois, and John F. Calder, a citizen of
Troy, New York, in trust to apply for and obtain patents'
thereto from the United States; that said trustees applied to
the United States recorder of land titles at St. Louis, Missouri,
for patent certificates in support of said original "New Madrid" locations, and, on the 10th day of September, 1875, that
officer issued such certificates in the. names of the original
-locators and their legal representatives for said lands, as he
was authorized to do by the said act of February 17, 1815;
that afterwards said trustees made application for patents for
said lands to the proper United States authorities, but that
such patents were refused because of the existence of the outstanding patents issued to said Beebe as aforesaid; that from
the time of said locations, surveys, and returns in 1819 and
1820, up until the issuance of the Beebe patents in 1838 and
1839, the said New Madrid locations were the only titles to
said lands, and under them the town of Little Rock was laid
out and built on said lands, was duly incorporated, and contained hundreds of inhabitants prior to and at the time when
said patents were issued; that said Beebe patents were issued
on certain predmption float claims, all located about the year
1838, under the provisions of the 2d section of the preemption act of May 29, 1830, and the amendatory act of July 14,
1832; 4 Stat. 420, c. 208; 603, c. 216; but that such preemption locations were fraudulent and void, because the lands had
alreddy been appropriated by the New Madrid certificates,
were at that time occupied and improved by actual settlers,
and were consequently not subject to preemption; that said
Beebe never procured the consent of said settlers to the location of said preemption floats, and the issue of said patents,
as required and provided by the said preemption acts and the
regulations of the General Land Office, but on the contrary
imposed upon the officers of the Land Department, and induced them to believe that he had complied with the law and
the regulations in every respect, when in fact his every act in
procuring said patents was done in violation of law and was

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

part of a conspiracy to defraud the United States and the
holders under said New Madrid locations, and that in furtherance of said conspiracy said Beebe entered into a so-called
bond to convey to the original holders and claimants of said
lands the title which he was to and did acquire by the issue of
said patents on said float claims, which he afterwards fraudulently failed and refused to do, all of which was a fraud on
the United States, and other claimants to, and settlers upon,
said lands; that all defects of the said New Madrid act and of
the locations thereunder had been cured by subsequent acts of
Congress and the opinions of the Attorney General, and decisions of the Department, and by decisions of the Supreme
Court of the United States construing the same, and that said
locations of said floats and the issuance of said Beebe patents
were allowed under a misconception of the law, procured by
undue means and in violation of the law, and the same were
null and void, and ought in equity and good conscience to be
cancelled.
The defences relied on in the court below, by way of
demurrers and pleas, were (1) the want of authority in the
Attorney General to file a bill for the annulment of a patent
in a case like the present; (2) that the claim is barred by the
statute of limitations; (3) that the claim sued upon is stale;
(4) that the plaintiff has no equity to maintain this suit; and
that all this appears upon the face of the bill itself. The
demurrer to the bill was sustained and the bill dismissed, from
which decree of dismissal an appeal on behalf of the United
States brought the case here.
.M'. Henry X. Baker for appellant.
.Afn. U. X. Rose for appellee.
with him on the brief.

-Y. S. A. Williams was

MRi. JusTIcE LAMAR, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The points involved in the pleadings and made before the
court below have been presented and urged with much earnestness, both in the brief and in the oral argument of counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

First. As to the right of the Attorney General to bring this
suit.
The authority of the Attorney General under the Constitution and laws of the United States to institute a suit in the
name of the United States to set aside a patent alleged to
have been obtained by fraud or other mistake, whenever
denied by a specific pleading before this court, has been uniformly maintained. And it may now be accepted as settled
that the United States can properly proceed by bill in equity
to have a judicial decree of nullity and an order of cancellation of a patent issued in mistake, or obtained by fraud, where
the Government has a direct interest, or is under an obligation
respecting the relief invoked. (See the opinion of the court
delivered by Mr. Justice Miller in San Jacinto Tin Company
v. The United States, 125 U. S. 273, decided this term of the
court.)
Even if it had not been thus authoritatively settled, it would
have been difficult, upon principle, to reach any other conclusion. The public domain is held by the Government as part
of its trust. The Government is charged with the duty and
clothed with the power to protect it from trespass and unlawful appropriation, and under certain circumstances, to invest
the individual citizen with the sole possession of the title
which had till then been common to all the people as the
beneficiaries of the trust. If a patent is wrongfully issued to
one individual which should have been issued to another, or if
two patents for the same land have been issued to two different individuals, it may properly be left to the individuals to
settle, by personal litigation, the question of right in which
they alone are interested. But if it should come to the knowledge of the Government that a patent has been fraudulently
obtained, and that such fraudulent patent, if allowed to stand,
would work prejudice to the interests or rights of the United
States, or would prevent the Government from fulfilling an
obligation incurred by it, either to the public or to an individual, which personal litigation could not remedy, there would
be an occasion which would make it the duty of the Governiment to institute judicial proceedings to vacate such patent.

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case before us the bill avers that the patents whose
cancellation is asked for were obtained by fraud and imposition on the part of the patentee, Beebe. It asserts that there
exists, on the part of the United States, an obligation to issue
patents to the rightful owners of the lands described in the
bill; that they cannot perform this obligation until these
fraudulent patents are annulled, and that they therefore bring
this suit to annul these fraudulent instruments whose existence renders the United States incapable of fulfilling their
said prior obligation.
The court below held that the bill in this case having been
filed on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior,
for the declared purpose of having the questions which were
being pressed upon the Land Department, in connection with
the claims of the Philbrook heirs against the Government,
determined by the judicial department, which claims were
unsettled and important, the appeal to the court was proper.
In this we think the learned judge is in full accord with the
principle laid down by Mr. Justice Miller in the San Jacinto
case, and within the following language of the court in
Hughes v. The United States, 4 Wall. 232, 236, which was a
suit brought in the name of the United States to set aside a
patent for the benefit of a private citizen entitled to the land
covered by said patent. Mr. Justice Field, who delivered the
opinion of the court, speaking of the patent to Hughes, said:
"Whether regarded in that aspect or as a void instrument,
issued without authority, it Fpim6 facie passed the title, and
therefore it was the plain duty of the United States to seek to
vacate and annul the instrument to the end that their previous
engagement be fulfilled by the transfer of a clear title, the
one intended for the purchaser by the act of Congress."
Unless, therefore, it appears on the face of the bill that the
claim set up has no equity, or that there are valid defences to
the suit, the jurisdiction of the court to entertain it cannot be
denied.
Next, as to the defence of the statute of limitations, laches,
and lapse of time. The grounds on which the court below
sustained the demurrer were, (1) that distinct from and inde-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

pendent of the statute of limitations and the laches of the
public officers of the Government, the lapse of time constitutes
a good defence to this suit, upon those principles of equity
which would be administered as between two citizens litigating in this tribunal; and (2) that the United States is bound
by the same law.
The counsel for the complainant maintain that this conclusion, upon which the decree of dismissal rests, is erroneous
and contrary to the decisicins of this court and of every Circuit
and District Court in the United States.
The principle that the United States are not bound by any
statute of limitations, nor barred by any laches of their officers, however gross, in a suit brought by them as a sovereign
Government to enforce a public right, or to assert a public
interest, is established past all controversy or doubt. United
Stcites v. _Yashvile &c. Raiway Company, 118 U. S. 120, 125,
and cases there cited. But this case stands upon a different
footing, and presents a different question. The question is,
Are these defences available to the defendant in a case where
the Government, although a nominal complainant party, has
no real interest in the litigation, but has allowed its name to
be used therein for the sole benefit of a private person?
It has been not unusual for this court, for the purposes of
justice, to determine the real parties to a suit by reference, not
merely to the names in which it is brought, but to the facts of
the case as they appear on the record. Thus, in the case
decided at this term, In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 492, 493, the
court held that the State of Virginia, though not named as a
party defendant, was the actual party in the controversy. Mr.
Justice Matthews, who delivered the opinion, said: "It is,
therefore, not conclusive of the principal question in this case,
that the State of Virginia is not named as a party defendant.
Whether it is the actual party . . . must be determined
by a consideration of the nature of the case as presented on
the whole record."
So in the cases of _ew Hampshire v.
Louisiana and 2iNew York v. -ouisiana, 108 U. S. 76, 80, the
court looked behind and through the nominal parties on the
record to ascertain who were the real parties to the suit. Chief

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice Waite, in delivering the opinion of the court, used the
following language: "No one can look at the pleadings and
testimony in these cases without being satisfied, beyond all
doubt, that they were in legal effect commenced, and are now
prosecuted, solely by the owners of the bonds and coupons.
The bill, although signed by the Attorney General, is
also signed, and was evidently drawn, by the same counsel
who prosecuted the suits for the bondholders in Louisiana, and
it is manifested in many ways that both the State and the
Attorney General are only nominal actors in the proceeding.
The bond-owner, whoever he may be, was the promoter and
is the manager of the suit.

.

.

.

And while the suits are

in the names of the States, they are under the actual control
of individual citizens, and are prosecuted and carried on altogether by and for them."
In the case of The United States v. -Yashville &c. Railway
Company, supra, in which it was decided that the statute of
limitations of the State of Tennessee was no defence to an
action of the United States upon certain negotiable bonds held
by them for public use, Mr. Justice Gray is careful to say,
"This case does not present the question, what effect the
statute of limitations may have in an action on a contract in
which the United States have nothing but the formal title,
and the whole interest belongs to others;" and cites -Maryland
v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490; Miller v. State, 38 Alabama, 600.
In the former case it was held that a suit in the name of a
State for the benefit of parties interested is to be regarded as
a suit in the name of the party for whose benefit it is brought.
Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"The name of the State is used from necessity when a suit on
the bond is prosecuted for the benefit of a person interested,
and, in such cases, the real controversy is between him and
the obligors on the bond;" and the case was decided upon a
consideration of the merits as if the party interested was alone
named as plaintiff. And he cited, approvingly, the following
language in fo.LVutt v. Bland, 2 How.9: "As the instrument
of the state law his (the Governor's) name is in the bond and
to the suit upon it, but in no just view .

.

.

can he be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered as a litigant party. Both look to things, not names
to the actors in controversies and suits, not to the mere forms
or inactive instruments used in conducting them in virtue of
some positive law."
In Miller v. The State, the other case cited by Mr. Justice
Gray, the court said: "As laches is not to be imputed to the
Government, the statute of limitations does not apply to the
State, unless it be clear from the act that it was intended to
include the State.

.

.

In our opinion, the rule that the

statute of limitations does not run against the State, has no
application to a case like the present, when the State, though
a nominal party on the record, has no real interest in the litigation, but its name is used as a means of enforcing the rights
of a third party who alone will enjoy the benefits of a recovery."
In 3foody v. fleming, 4 Georgia, 115, 118, which was a case
where a party was applying for a mandamus in the name of
the State, the court said: "It is insisted, that here the State
is a party, moving the contest, and setting up a right to have
this survey certified, and that the tenant will not be protected
by his possession, because the statute of limitations does not
run against the State. We have decided, and the decision is
sustained by unbroken masses of authority, that the statute of
limitations does not run against the State. The answer, however, to this argument is this: The State of Georgia is not the
reaZ party to the proceeding . . . The process is in the
name of the State, but the right asserted is a private right;
the issue is between two of the citizens of the State."
Applying these principles to this case, an inspection of the
record shows that the Government, though in name the complainant, is not the*real contestant party to the title or property in the land in controversy. It has no interest in the suit,
and has nothing to gain from the relief prayed for, and nothing to lose if the relief is denied. The bill itself was filed in
the name of the United States, and signed by the Attorney
General on the petition of private individuals, and the right
asserted is a private right, which might have been asserted
without the intervention of the United States at all.

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

In his letter to the United States District Attorney upon
the subject the Attorney General directs that that officer shall
sign his (the Attorney General's) name to the bill, when the
attorneys for the petitioners shall present such a bill, and file
the same in the proper court, and that after the suit is commenced these attorneys for the petitioners will have the management of the case. Accordingly the subsequent proceedings in the case have been conducted exclusively by these
attorneys, who, in the pleadings, describe themselves as attorneys for the petitioners and beneficiaries of the suit.
* We are of the opinion that when the Government is a mere
formal complainant in a suit, not for the purpose of asserting
any public right or protecting any public interest, title, or
property, but merely to form a conduit through which one
private person can conduct litigation against another private
person, a court of equity will not be restrained from administering the equities existing between the real parties by any
exemption of the Government designed for the protection of
the rights of the United States alone. The mere use of its
name in a suit for the benefit of a private suitor cannot extend its immunity as a sovereign government to said private
suitor, whereby he can avoid and escape the scrutiny of a
court of equity into the matters pleaded against him by the
other party; nor stop the court from examining into and deciding the case according to the principles governing courts of
equity in like cases between private litigants.
These principles, so far as they relate to general statutes of
limitation, the laches of a party, and the lapse of time, have
been rendered familiar to the legal mind by the oft-repeated
enunciation and enforcement of them in the decisions of this
court. According to these decisions, courts of equity in general recognize and give effect to the statute of limitations as a
defence to an equitable right, when at law it would have been
properly pleaded as a bar to a legal right. They refuse to
interfere to give relief when there has been gross negligence
in prosecuting a claim, or where the lapse of time has been so
long as to afford a clear presumption that the witnesses to the
original transaction are dead, and the other means of proof
have disappeared.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

We think the court below justly and wisely applied the
principle to the case under consideration in sustaining the
demurrer and dismissing the bill. The rights of the Philbrook heirs, the real parties to this case, which are set up in
this bill, originated in 1815. The acts of Beebe perpetrating
the alleged fraud were prior to 1838. The alleged illegal
action of the Land Department occurred in 1839. More than
forty-five years ago, the complainants in this bill could have instituted their action. The death of the parties charged with
the fraud, and also of most, if not all, of the witnesses having
personal knowledge of the transaction, the fact that a city
has been built upon the land in question, the occupation of
large portions of it by hundreds of innocent purchasers, the
homesteads of many families covering other portions of it,
the uninterrupted possession maintained for more than a
generation, all resting upon faith in the patent issued by the
United States Government, constitute reasons more than sufficient for the refusal of the court to set aside such patent at
the suit of a party who has so long slept upon his alleged
rights. For the reasons herein stated, the decree of the court
below is
_________

4ffimed.

NOYES v. MANTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 242.

Argued and Submitted April 19, 1888. - Decided April 30, 1888.

When the location of a mineral lode or vein, properly made, is perfected
under the law, the lode or vein becomes the property of the locators or
their assigns, and the government holds the title in trust for them.
Where a location of a vein or lode of mineral or other deposits has been
made under the law, and its boundaries have been specifically marked
on the surface, so as to be readily traced, and notice of the location has
been recorded in the usual books of record within the district, that vein
or lode is "known to exist" within the meaning of that phrase as used
in Rev. Stat. ยง 2333, although personal knowledge of the fact may not
be possessed by the applicant for a patent for a placer claim.

