OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

We think the court below justly and wisely applied the
principle to the case under consideration in sustaining the
demurrer and dismissing the bill. The rights of the Philbrook heirs, the real parties to this case, which are set up in
this bill, originated in 1815. The acts of Beebe perpetrating
the alleged fraud were prior to 1838. The alleged illegal
action of the Land Department occurred in 1839. More than
forty-five years ago, the complainants in this bill could have instituted their action. The death of the parties charged with
the fraud, and also of most, if not all, of the witnesses having
personal knowledge of the transaction, the fact that a city
has been built upon the land in question, the occupation of
large portions of it by hundreds of innocent purchasers, the
homesteads of many families covering other portions of it,
the uninterrupted possession maintained for more than a
generation, all resting upon faith in the patent issued by the
United States Government, constitute reasons more than sufficient for the refusal of the court to set aside such patent at
the suit of a party who has so long slept upon his alleged
rights. For the reasons herein stated, the decree of the court
below is
_________

4ffimed.

NOYES v. MANTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 242.

Argued and Submitted April 19, 1888. - Decided April 30, 1888.

When the location of a mineral lode or vein, properly made, is perfected
under the law, the lode or vein becomes the property of the locators or
their assigns, and the government holds the title in trust for them.
Where a location of a vein or lode of mineral or other deposits has been
made under the law, and its boundaries have been specifically marked
on the surface, so as to be readily traced, and notice of the location has
been recorded in the usual books of record within the district, that vein
or lode is "known to exist" within the meaning of that phrase as used
in Rev. Stat. ยง 2333, although personal knowledge of the fact may not
be possessed by the applicant for a patent for a placer claim.

NOYES v. MANTLE.
Opinion of the Court.
BILL nT EQUITY, to quiet title.
Decree of perpetual injunction against defendants, from which they appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory. The decree and judgment
being affirmed there, they appealed to this c6urt. The case is
stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Toma. L. .Arapton, for appellant, submitted on his

brief.
AMr. S. S. Burdett for appellees.
MR.

Jus

E FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity to determine the adverse claims of
the defendant below, appellant here, to a certain quartz lode
mining claim, known as the Pay Streak lode in Summit Valley Mining District, in the county of Silver Bow, in the Territory of Montana. The plaintiffs below assert title to the claim
as grantees of Daniel Zinn and John 0. McEwan, who discovered and. located it on the 23d of April, 1878, under the
provisions of the act of Congress of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91,
c. 152, which are regnacted in the Revised Statutes, Title 32,
c. 6.
The defendant below asserts title to the lode claim under a
patent of the United States issued to him on the 23d day of
April, 1880, for a placer mining claim, which includes that
lode within its boundaries. The application for the patent
was made December 14, 1878.
Several interrogatories touching matters in issue were submitted to a jury called by the court, though sitting in the
exercise of its equity jurisdiction. Their findings in answer to
the interrogatories were, with one exception, adopted by the
court. The excepted finding gave an erroneous date to the
application of the defendant for the patent, and was therefore
set aside. The court thereupon found the fact as to the date
as it appeared from the evidence. Upon the facts thus established the court rendered its decree. They were substantially
these: That on and prior to December 14, 1878, a vein or lode
of quartz, bearing gold and silver, was known to exist in the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ground in controversy; that its existence could have been
readily ascertained by any person examining the ground with
an honest purpose to inform himself of the fact; that in the
month of April, 1878, Zinn and McEwan, the grantors and
predecessors in interest of the plaintiffs, discovered in the
ground a vein or lode of quartz bearing gold and silver, and
they posted a notice claiming the ground, and the vein or lode
which it included; that at the same time they marked off the
ground by stakes so that its boundaries could be readily
traced; that they named the claim in their notice of location
as th Pay Streak lode, and within twenty days after its discovery filed in the proper office of the county a notice of their
claim, and of its location, such as was usual where lode claims
were located in that mining district; that in July, 1881, they
conveyed to the plaintiffs all their interest in the claim; that
in August, 1881, before the commencement of this suit, the
plaintiffs caused a survey of the claim to be made, and its
boundaries marked so as to be readily traced; that they then
re-located the claim, of which notice within .twenty days
thereafter was filed in the recorder's office of the county; and
that they were in its possession at the commencement of this
suit.
The jury did not find that the existence of a vein or lode in
the ground in controversy was known to the defendant at the
time of his application for a patent; and reported that they
were unable to agree on this point. The District Court, in
which the suit was brought, did not consider that this want of
a finding on the question of knowledge by the defendant
affected the position of the plaintiffs, and it rendered a decree
adjudging that the right of possession to the lode claim was in
them, and that the defendant had no title, estate, or interest
therein, and that he be enjoined from asserting or claiming
any as against them. The Supreme Court of the Territory
affirmed the decree, holding that the title to the lode mining
claim had passed to the grantors of the plaintiffs by their discovery and location under the statute, and that the subsequent
patent to the defendant of a placer claim did not affect their
title to the lode claim, for that title was not then subject to

NOYES v. MANTLE.
Opinion of the Court.

the disposition of the government. The court also held that
the lode claim was known to exist within the meaning of the
statute when it had been located pursuant to its requirements,
whether knowledge of its existence was possessed or not by
the defendant at the time he made his application for a patent.
These rulings constitute the only matters meriting consideration in this court.
Section 2322 of the Revised Statutes, reenacting provisions
of the act of Congress of MNay 10, 1872, (17 Stat. 91,) declares
that the locators of mining locations previously made or which
should thereafter be made, on any mineral vein, lode, or ledge
on the public domain, their heirs and assigns, where no adverse
claim existed on the 10th of May, 1872, shall have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within the lines of their locations, so long as they
comply with the laws of the United States, and with state,
territorial, and local regulations, not in conflict with those
laws governing their possessory title. There is no pretence in
this case that the original locators did not comply with all the
requirements of the law in making the location of the Pay
Streak lode mining claim, or that the claim was ever abandoned or forfeited. They were the discoverers of the claim.
They marked its boundaries by stakes, so that they could be
readily traced. They posted the required notice, which was
duly recorded in compliance with the regulations of the district. They had thus done all that was necessary under the
law for the acquisition of an exclusive right to the possession
and enjoyment of the ground. The claim was thenceforth
their property. They needed only a patent of the United
States to render their title perfect, and that they could obtain
at any time upon proof of what they had done in locating the
claim, and of subsequent expenditures to a specified 'amount
in developing it. Until the patent issued the government held
the title in trust for the locators or their vendees. The ground
itself was not afterwards open to sale. The location having
become completed in April, 1878, antedates by some months
the application of the defendant for a patent for his placer
claim. That patent was subject to the conditions of ยง 2333 of
the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"Where the same person, association, or corporation is in
possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode included
within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for a
patent for the placer claim, with the statement that it includes
such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue for the
placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter, including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per acre
for such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on
each side thereof. The remainder of the placer claim, or any
placer claim not embracing any vein or lode claim, shall be
paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per acre,
together with all costs of proceedings; and where a vein or
lode, such as is described in section twenty-three hundred and
twenty, is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer
claim, an application for a patent for such placer claim which
does not include an application for the vein or lode claim shall
be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of
the placer claim has no right of possession of the vein or lode
claim; but where the existence.of a vein or lode in a placer
claim is not known, a patent for the placer claim shall convey
all valuable mineral and other deposits within the boundaries
thereof."
. This section was before us for consideration in ieynolds v.
ion Silver .ining Co. at October term, 1885, 116 U. S. 687;
and also at the present term, 124 U. S. 374. As stated by the
court at both times, it makes provision for three classes of cases:
1. When one applies for a placer patent, who is at the time
in the possession of a vein or lode included within its boundaries, he must state the fact, and then, on payment of the. sum
required for a vein claim and twenty-five feet on each side of
it at $5.00 an acre, and $2.50 an acre for the placer claim, a
patent will issue to him covering both claim and lode.
2. Where a vein or lode', such as is described in a previous
section, is known to exist at the time within the boundaries of
the placer claim, the application for a patent therefor, which
does not also include an application for the vein or lode, will
be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of
the placer claim has no right of possession to the vein or lode.

NOYES v. MANTLE.
Opinion of the Court.

3. Where the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim is
not known at the time of the application for a patent, that
instrument will convey all valuable mineral and other deposits
within its boundaries.
The section can have no application to lodes or veins within
the boundaries of a placer claim which have been previously
located under the laws of the United States, and are in possession of the locators or their assigns; for, as already said,
such locations, when perfected under the law, are the property
of the locators, or parties to whom the locators have conveyed
their interest. As said in Belk v. _M'1agher, 104: UT. S. 279,
283: "A mining claim perfected under the law is property in
the highest sense of that term, which may be bought, sold,
and conveyed, and will pass by descent." It is not, therefore,
subject to the disposal of the government. The section can
apply only to lodes or veins not taken up and located so as to
become the property of others. If any are not thus owned,
and are known to exist, the applicant for the patent must
include them in his application, or he will be deemed to have
declared that he had no right to them. Sullvan, v. Aon Silver linilg Co., 109 U. S. 550, 554.
When can it be said that a vein or lode is "known to exist"
within the meaning of the section? In Reynolds v. -ron Silver f.ining Company, when first here, the court said that it
might not be easy to define the words "known to exist," and
as it was not necessary to determine whether the knowledge
must be traced to the applicant for the patent, or whether it
was sufficient that it was generally known, and what kind of
evidence was necessary to prove this knowledge, it was better
that the questions should be decided as they arise. When the
case was here a second time the court said that the language
of the section appeared to be sufficiently intelligible in a general sense, and yet it became difficult of interpretation, when
applied to the determination of rights asserted to such veins
or lodes, from the possession or absence of knowledge at the
time application is made for a patent, and that if a general
knowledge of their existence were held sufficient, the inquiry
would follow as to what would constitute such knowledge, so
VOL. cxxvi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

as to create an exception to the grant, notwithstanding the
ignorance of the patentee. These suggestions indicated the
difficulties of some of the questions which might arise in
the application of the statute; but in the present case we
think that difficulty does not exist. Where a location of a
vein or lode has been made under the law, and its boundaries
have been specifically marked on the surface, so as to be readily traced, and notice of the location is recorded in the usual
books of record within the district, we think it may safely be
said that the vein or lode is known to exist, although personal
knowledge of the fact may not be possessed by the applicant
for a patent of a placer claim. The information which the
law requires the locator to give to the public must be deemed
sufficient to acquaint the applicant with the existence of the
vein or lode.
A copy of the patent is not in the record, so we cannot
speak positively as to its contents; but it will be presumed to
contain reservations of all veins or lodes known to exist, pursuant to the statute. At any rate, as already stated, it could
not convey property which had already passed to others. A
patent of the government cannot, any more than a deed of an
individual, transfer what the grantor does not possess.
Judgment iafflrmed.

MOSLER SAFE AND LOOK COMPANY v. MOSLER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 248. Argued April 24, 25, 188. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

Claims 1 and 2 of letters patent No. 281,640 granted to Moses Mosler, July
17, 1883, for an improvement in fire-proof safes, namely, " 1. An angle
bar for safe-frames, consisting substantially as before set forth, of a
right-angled iron bar, one of *the sides of which is cut away, leaving a
curve facing the uncut side, whereby said uncut side may be bent to bear
upon said curve to form a rounded corner. 2. An angle bar for safeframes, consisting, substantially as before set forth, of a right-angled

