HOSFORD v. GERMANIA FIRE INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

HOSFORD

'.

GERMANIA FIRE INSURANCE COMPA.NY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 263. Argued April 26, 27,1888. -Decided May 14,1888.
A provision in a policy of fire insurance, that if the interest of the assured
in the property is "any other than the entire, unconditional and sole
ownership for the use and benefit of the assured," or is " incumbered by
any lien, whether by deed of trust, mortgage or otherwise," it must be
so represented in the policy, does not, if it is stated that the property is
incumbered, require a statement of the nature or amount of the incumbrances.
An application for fire insurance, expressly made a part of the policy and a
warranty by the assured, contained these questions and answers: "Is
there any incumbrance on the property? Yes. If mortgaged, state the
amount. $3000." Held, that an omission to state that the property was
incumbered otherwise than by mortgage was no breach of the warranty.
A warranty, in a contract of fire insurance, that "smoking is not allowed
on the premises," is not, if smoking is then forbidden on the premises,
broken by the assured or others afterwards smoking there.

Tns was an action by Hosford and Gagnon on a policy
of insurance, dated May 14, 1883, by which the Germania
Fire Insurance Company and the Hanover Fire Insurance
Company, severally and not jointly, and as if by separate
policies, insured the plaintiffs, against loss by fire for a year
from that date, each one half of the sum of $8000, payable in
sixty days after notice and proof of loss, upon their flour-mill,
elevator and machinery in the town of Rulo and State of
Nebraska; "special reference being had to assured application
No. 20,157, which is hereby made a part of this policy and a
warranty on the part of the assured;" "loss, if any, payable
to Israel May, mortgagee, as his interest may appear." The
policy contained these.provisions:
"The application, survey, plan or description of the property herein insured shall be considered a part of the contract
and a warranty by the assured; and any false representation

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case

by the assured of the condition, situation or occupancy of the
property, or any omission to make known every fact material
to the risk, or any overvaluation, or any misrepresentation
whatever, either in a written application or otherwise," shall
render the .policy void.
"If the interest of the assured in the property be any other
than the entire, unconditional and sole ownership of the property for the use and benefit of the assured, or be incumbered
by any lien, whether by deed of trust, mortgage or otherwise,
or if the building insured stands on leased ground, it must be
so represented to the companies and so expressed in the written part of this policy; otherwise, this policy shall be void."
The application was of the same date as the policy, and was
signed by the assured, and contained a. great number of
printed questions and written answers, and so much of it as is
material to be stated was as follows:
"The applicant will answer particularly the following questions, and sign the same, as descriptive of the premises and
forming a part of the contract of insurance and a warranty
on his part:"
"What material is used for lubricating or oiling the bearings and machinery? Tallow, lard and machine oils.
" Will you agree to use only lard and tallow, or sperm and
lard oils for lubricating? Lard and tallow, or lard and machine oils.
"Is the machinery regularly oiled, and by whom? Yes, by
regular attendant.
" Will you agree to keep all the bearings and machinery
properly supplied with oil? Yes."
"Is smoking or drinking of spirituous liquors allowed on
the premises? No."
"Is there any incumbrance on the property? Yes.
"If mortgaged, state the amount. $3000."
"The subscriber hereby covenants and agrees to and with
the said companies that the same is a just, full and true exposition of all the facts and circumstances in regard to the condition, situation, value and risks of the property to be insured,
and said answers are considered the basis on which insurance

HOSFORD v. GERMANIA FIRE INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

is to be effected, and the same is understood as incorporated
in and forming a part and parcel of the policy; and further
covenants and agrees that if the situation or circumstances
affecting the risk shall be so altered or changed during the
time of any policy of insurance which may be fixed upon the
application, or any renewal of said policy, as to render the risk
more hazardous, [he] will notify the officers of said companies,
or their general agent, forthwith of such alteration."
The case was tried by a jury, who returned a special verdict,
finding the value of the property insured and its loss by fire
on August 1, 1883, and so much of the rest of, which as is
material to be stated was as follows:
"The plaintiffs forbade smoking to go on in the mill, but
smoking was done on the grinding floor." "One of them
himself smoked upon and in the mill."
"At the time of the application, there was due Israel May on
his notes and mortgage on said premises the sum of $3079.45."
"There were taxes of the county and State on said premises
for several years prior to the issue of the policy, which were
delinquent and unpaid, and still remain unpaid, amounti, g to
the sum of $329.40 on May 14, 1883."
On July 2, 1885, the Circuit Court gave judgment for the
defendants. The plaintiffs brought the case to this court by
writ of error, with a certificate of division of opinion between
the Circuit Judge and the District Judge upon the following
questions:
"1st. Whether the plaintiffs or the defendants, insurance
companies, are entitled in law to recover judgment on said
verdict and special findings of the jury returned in said cause.
"2d. Whether the fact that delinquent taxes on the mill,
to the amount of $329.40, were due and unpaid at the time
the application for insurance on the property destroyed was
made, and that fact was not disclosed by the applicants to the
insurers, will defeat the plaintiffs' right to recover.
"3d. Whether the fact that smoking was done in the mill,
the proprietor of the mill being one that smoked, notwithstanding the plaintiffs had stated in their application for
insurance that smoking was forbid therein, will defeat their
VOL. cxxvni-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

right to recover, the fire that destroyed the property not
having originated from that cause."
Mr&. T. X
in error.

Marquett and .21r. Isham Reavis for plaintiffs

-M. Samuel Shellarger (with whom was -Mr.J. -M. WRison.
on the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE GAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

If this policy is valid, each of the defendants was severally
liable for no more than the sum of $4000, and interest thereon
to the date of the judgment in the Circuit Court. The whole
amount recoverable against either defendant in that court being less than $5000, this court has no jurisdiction of the case,
except by reason of the certificate of division of opinion. Era
parte Phoeni Ins. Co., 117 U. S. 367; Dow v. Johnson, 10&
U. S. 158; Wiliamsport Bank v. KZapp, 119 U. S. 357. The
first question certified is too general to be answered, because
it undertakes to refer the whole case to the .decision of this
court. Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S. 426. Nothing is open for
consideration, therefore, but the second and third questions
upon which the opinions of the judges of the Circuit Court
were opposed.
The whole scope of that clause of the policy, which requires
the interest of the assured, if "other than the entire, unconditional and sole ownership of the property for the use and benefit of the assured," or if "incumbered by any lien, whether
by deed of trust, mortgage or otherwise," to be so represented
by the assured and so expressed in the policy, is to ascertain
whether his interest comes within either of these two descriptions, and not to call for information as to the nature or
amount of any incumbrances. It is therefore fully satisfied
by the statements in the application that there is an incumbrance on the property, and what the amount of mortgage is,
and by the expression in the policy making the insurance pay-

HOSFORD v. GERMANIA FIRE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

able to a mortgagee. Williams v. Roger Williams Ins. Co.,
107 Mass. 377.
By the terms of this policy, and of the application made
part thereof, the answers to the questions in the application
are doubtless warranties, to be strictly complied with. But
this court is unanimously of opinion that, so far as regards
either of the matters presented for its decision in the present
case, these answers are direct, full and true.
The only questions put as to incumbrances are, first, the
general one, "Is there any incumbrance on the property?"
which is truly answered, "Yes;" and, second, the particular
one, "If mortgaged, state the amount," in answer to which
the assured states the principal sum due on the mortgage.
The effect of omitting to include the additional sum due for
less than half a year's interest is not presented by the certificate of division. The insurers having put no question as to
the nature or the amount of incumbrances, otherwise than by
mortgage, cannot object that no information was given upon
that subject. Phknix Ins. Co. v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183.
There was, therefore, no breach of warranty in not disclosing
the lien for unpaid taxes, independently of the question whether
such a lien was an incumbrance, within the meaning of this
contract; and this case does not require a decision of that
question.
As to smoking, the only question put in the application,
and answered in the negative, is whether smoking is "allowed
on the premises "--which looks only to the rule established
upon the subject at the time of the application, and not to
the question whether that rule may be kept or broken in the
future. • This appears by the language of the question, as well
as by the circumstance that it is not, as other interrogatories as
to existing precautions against fire are, followed up by compelling the assured to agree that they will continue to observe
the same precautions. The jury having found that the assured
forbade smoking in the mill, the mere fact that other persons,
or even one of the assured, did aftervards smoke there, was
not sufficient to avoid the policy.
The two cases, cited by the defendants from the Illinois

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Reports, contain no adjudication to the contrary. The point
decided in each was that smoking by workmen in the mill did
not avoid the policy, and the remark of the judge delivering
the opinion, that in such a case the assured undertakes that
he will not himself do the act, was obiter diotuw,. Ins. Co. of
.V'orth America v. McDowell, 50 Illinois, 120, 131; Aurora
Ins. Co. v. Eddy, 55 Illinois, 213, 219.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
'with directions to render judgment for the plaintifs upon
the special verdict.

HOSFORD v. HARTFORD FIRE INSURACE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE oCIRIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 264. Argued April 26, 27, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.
An application for fire insurance, warranted to be "a just, full and true
exposition of all the facts and circumstances in regard to the condition,
situation, value, ownership, title, incumbrances of all kinds, insurance
and hazard of the property to be insured," contained these questions:
"Is there a mortgage, deed of trust, lien, or incumbrance of any kind,
on property? Amount, and in whose favor?" Held, that the questions
related only to incumbrances created by the act or with the consent of
the applicant, and that an omission to disclose an existing lien created
by statute for unpaid taxes was no breach of the warranty.

THIs case was substantially like that of Hosford v. Germania Ins. Co., ante, except that no question arose as to
smoking on the premises, that the policy itself contained no
provision on the subject of incumbrances, and that so much
of the application as related to that subject was in this form:
"13. Incumbrance.- Is there a mortgage, trust deed, lien,
or incumbrance of any kind, on property? Yes. Amount,
and in whose favor? $3000; I. IMay. What is the entire
value of property incumbered? $21,000."

