ROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
Syllabus.

archy - of the authorities bearing on the question under
donsideration, it is not easy to lay down any general rule on
the subject which would be in harmony with all of them.
It seems to us, however, that the case of Hitchcock v. Buchanun, supra, controls the case at bar. Both involve the
same principles, and the decision in this, to be consistent with
that of the former, must sustain the contention of the defendant in error. Neither do we think that the case of -Mechanics'
Bank v. The Bank of Columnbia, suvra, when considered in
the light of the facts upon which it is based, in anywise
conflicts with this conclusion.
We conclude, therefore, that the notes involved in this controversy, upon their face, are the notes of the corporation. In
the language of the court below, they were "drawn by, payable to, and indorsed by, the corporation." There is no ambiguity in the indorsement, but, on the contrary, such indorsement is, in te rms, that of the Peninsular Cigar Company.
This being true, it follows that the court below was right
in excluding from the jury the evidence offered to explain
away and modify the terms of such indorsement. White v.
National Bank, 102 U. S. 658; Afa'rtin v. Cole, 104: U. S. 30;
-Metcalfv. Williams, 104: U. S. 93.
Entertaining these views, we find it unnecessary to consider
any of the other questions presented and argued by counsel;
as what we have said practically disposes of the case adversely
to the plaintiffs in error.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
A/firmed.

IROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 267. Argued April 27, 1888.- Decided May 14,1888.

Under Rev. Stat. ยง 2907, and the act of June 22, 1874, c. 391, 18 Stat. 186,
ยง 14, p. 189, as construed by the Treasury Department for many years
without any attempt to change it or until now to question its correctnes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

goods imported into the United States from one country which, in transportation to the port of shipment pass through another country, are not
subject to have the transportation charges in passing through that other
country added to their original cost in order to determine their dutiable
value.
When there has been a long acquiescence in a Department Regulation, and
by it rights of parties for many years have been determined and adjusted,
it is not to be disregarded without the most cogent and persuasive reasons.
When after duties have been liquidated a reliquidation takes place, the date
of the reliquidation is the final liquidation for the purpose of protest.
Letters from the Secretary of the Treasury to a collector of customs, affirming an assessment of duty, and to an importer acknowledging the receipt
of his appeal from the collector's assessment, are admissible in evidence
to show that an appeal was taken.
The Treasury Department not having objected that an appeal was too early,
this court must assume that there was good reason for its action.

T~is was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
illegally assessed. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
_1r. "SolicitorGeneral for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE

FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs below, the defendants in error here, in March,
1882, imported into the United States at the port of New York
5179 packages of steel rods from Mulheim, in Germany. They
were shipped at the port of Antwerp, in Belgium, to which
place they were brought by rail from Mulheim, where they
were made. Antwerp is distant from the frontier of Germany
between'forty-and fifty miles, and from.IMulheim two hundred
miles. The appraisers added to the invoice price of the articles at Mulheim eleven marks per ton to make the dutiable
value of the articles, and four marks per ton for the charges
incurred in their transportation to Antwerp. Upon their appraised value, including these charges, the defendant, who was
at the time collector of the port of New York, on the 5th of
May, 1882, ascertained and liquidated the duties. Subsequently, a reliquidation was made, by which two and one-half

ROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
Opinion of the Court.

per cent was deducted from the eleven marks. This reliquidation was completed on the 24th of May, 1882. Two days afterwards the plaintiffs made a formal protest against including in
the dutiable value of the goods any sum for charges or otherwise in addition to the value stated in the invoice; but adding
that they should pay the amount exacted, in order to get the
goods, and then claim to have it refunded.
On the trial the plaintiffs put in evidence letters from the
Acting Secretary of the Treasury, against the objection of the
government, to show that an appeal was taken to the Secretary from the decision of the collector, and that it was
affirmed. The counsel of the government excepted to their
admission. The following are the letters:

TREsuny D1PAnTmExT,
RAY
OFFICE oF THE SEOI

,

"Washington,-D. C., August 14th, 1882.
"Collector of Custorm, Nfew IYork,
"Sir: The department is in receipt of your letter of the 27th
ultimo, submitting the appeal (1996, 2050 U) of Messrs. Downing, Sheldon & Co., from your assessment of duty on additions
made by the appraiser to the invoice and entered value of certain steel wire rods imported by them per Hermann, March
9th, 1882.

1

"The appraiser reports that an addition was made by him
for charges under the Department's decision of July 20th,
1880, (S. S. H=461'7,) for the reason that the invoice did not
state that the price of the merchandise was ' free on board,'
and that an addition for value was also made by him to make
the usual market value of the merchandise.
"Your assessment of duty thereon is hereby affirmed.
H. F. FRENiCH,
"Very respectfully,
-Acting Secretary."
voL. cxxvn-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
"TREASURY

DEPARTmENT,

OFFICE OF SECRETARY,

Washington, D. C., August 12, 1882.
"MEssRs. Downwe, SHELDON & CO. (care of Kausche & Downing, P. 0. box 3550, N. Y.):
"Gentlemen: This department is in receipt of your appeal,
(No. 2050 H,) dated May 25, 1882, from the decision of the
collector of the port of New York, assessing duty on certain
merchandise, imported per Hermann, March 9, 1882.
"In reply, you are informed that the case has been disposed
of by instructions this day addressed to the collector of customs at the port mentioned, to whom you are referred for
particulars.
H. F. FRENcH,
":Respectfully,
Acting Seeretam-y."
The decision of the Secretary was made August 12, 1882.
The plaintiffs paid the amount of duties exacted, and in
October following brought the present action. The jury
found in their favor for $130.96. The court, by consent of
parties, reduced this sum to $47.64, and judgment for that
amount, besides costs, was entered. This reduction was made,
as we infer from the record, so as to cover only the increased
duties exacted by reason of the addition for charges on transportation to Antwerp.
The question of importance presented is whether, under the
statute, charges for transportation of goods imported from one
country, which on their passage may pass through another
country, should be added to the invoice value of the articles to
make their dutiable value under ยง 2907 of the Revised Statutes, and ยง 14 of the act of June 22, 1874. Section 2907
provides that "in determining the dutiable value of merchandise, there shall be added to the cost, or to the actual wholesale price or general market value at the time of exportation
in the principal markets of the country from whence the same
has been imported into the United States, the cost of transportation, shipment, and transshipment, with all the expenses

ROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
Opinion, of the Court.

included, from the place of growth, production, or manufacture, whether by land or water, to the vessel in which shipment is made to the United States; the value of the sack,
box, or covering of any kind in which such merchandise is
contained; commission at the usual rates, but in no case less
than two and a half per centum; and brokerage, export duty,
and all other actual or usual charges for putting up, preparing
and packing for transportation or shipment."
Section 14 of the act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 189, provides
"that wherever any statute requires that, to the cost or market value of any goods, wares, and merchandise imported into
the United States, there shall be added to the invoice thereof,
or, upon the entry of such goods, wares and merchandise,
charges for inland transportation, commissions, port duties,
expenses of shipment, export duties, cost of packages, boxes,
or other articles containing such goods, wares, and merchandise, or any other incidental expenses attending the packing,
shipping, or exportation thereof from the country or place
where purchased or manufactured, the omission, without intent
thereby to defraud the revenue, to add and state the same on
such invoice or entry shall not be cause of a forfeiture of such
goods, wares, and merchandise, or of the value thereof; but
in all cases where the same, or any part thereof, are omitted,
it shall be the duty of the collector or appraiser to add the
same, for the purposes of duty, to such invoice or entry, either
in items or in gross, at such price or amount as he shall deem
just and reasonable, (which price or amount shall, in the
absence of protest, be conclusive,) and to impose and add
thereto the further sum of one hundred per centum of the
price or amount so added; which addition shall constitute a
part of the dutiable value of such goods, wares, and merchandise, and shall be collectible as provided by law in respect to
duties on imports."
In the execution of these statutes the Treasury Department
has heretofore uniformly construed them to apply, so far as
inland transportation is concerned, only to such transportation
where the place of the growth, production, or manufacture
of the article is in the same country as the port from which

OCTOBER TERM, .1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the vessel sails on which the shipment is made, and not where
such transportation is through other countries to reach a place
of shipment. Thus, in a decision rendered September 12, 1882,
where goods were forwarded from Brodenbach, in Austria, to
Hamburg, transshipped to Hull, and then placed on the import vessel, the journey to the United States being continuous,
the appellants claimed that no charges accruing after the goods
left Austria should be added to make dutiable value, and
the Treasury Department sustained the claim, observing as
follows:
"This claim seems to be well founded, in view of the long
established practice in such cases, and of articles 434-444 of
the Regulations of 1874, which provide in substance that in
the case of merchandise imported from an interior country
through the ports of another country, or from the country of
its production, manufacture, or procurement via another country, no charges shall be added for transportation accruing
after the departure of the merchandise from the country of
production, if the collector shall be satisfied that the merchandise was exported from such country with a bon ftde intention
of having it transported to the United States."
A decision by the department, made some years before, also
illustrates the construction when the two places, that of production and that of shipment, though separated from each other
by water, belong to the same country. The charges for railroad and steamboat transportation of goods from Dundee, in
Scotland, to Liverpool, in England, were added to the invoice
price to make the dutiable value of the articles imported into
this country. The importers objected to these charges, and
cited article 441 of the Regulations of 1874, referred to in the
above decision, in support of their claim; but the Treasury
Department held that the regulation was applicable only
where the goods were transported to some port of another
country from the country of production for shipment to theUnited States, by a practically continuous voyage, and was
not applicable to shipments from Scotland through England,
which are, to all intents and purposes, the same country.
This construction of the Treasury Department we -think a

ROBERTSON v. DOWNING.
Opinion of the Court.

sound one. It places articles which are the growth, product,
or manufacture of countries whose ports of easy shipment are
found in other countries through which the goods must be
carried, on a basis of equality with the products of those countries which have convenient ports of shipment. To preserve
this equality the shippers are not obliged to confine their shipments to their own ports, when ports of other countries would
be equally or more convenient to them. This construction of
the department has been followed for many years, without
any attempt of Congress to change it, and without any attempt, as far as we are advised, of any other department of
the government to question its correctness, except in the
present instance. The regulation of a department of the government is not of course to control the construction of an act
of Congress when its meaning is plain. But when there has
been a long acquiescence in a regulation, and by it rights of
parties for many years have been determined and adjusted,
it is not to be disregarded without the most cogent and persuasive reasons. United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169, 182;
United States v. PAilbric, 120 U. S. 52, 59; Brown v. United
States, 113 'U. S. 568, 5,71.
The technical objections taken by the government counsel
we do not think tenable. The duties were not finally liquidated until the 24th of May, 1882. The time to protest did
not begin to run until then. The previous liquidation on the
5th of May was necessarily abandoned by the corrections subsequently made. The letters of the Acting Secretary were
sufficient evidence of the appeal from the decision of the collector. The question was not as to the contents of the appeal,
but whether any appeal was taken. The acknowledgment of
the Acting Secretary, who decided the matter appealed, was
sufficient for that purpose, and also of the affirmance of the
decision of the collector. The bill of exceptions also states
when the decision of the Secretary was made. Of course that
presupposes the receipt by him of the appeal. The date of
"May 25th," in the letter of August 12, 1882, was evidently a
misprint for "May 27th." But, if it were not so, the Treasury
Department not having seen fit to place its decision upon the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ground that the appeal was too early, we must assume that
there was good reason for its action.
Judgment affirmed.

ST. ROMES v. LEVEE STEAM COTTON PRESS
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 139.

Argued January 20,1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

If, after transfer by the plaintiff of the subject of controversy in a litigation
in Louisiana, the court, on being informed of the transfer, refuses to
permit the suit to be discontinued by the plaintiff, a judgment does not
make it res judicataas to the assignee.
Dismissal of a suit for want of parties does not make the subject of it res
judicata.
If a corporation by negligence cancels a person's stock, and issues certificates therefor to a third party, the true owner may proceed against the
corporation to obtain the replacement of his stock, or its value, without
pursuing the purchaser or those who hold under him.
In a suit in Louisiana against a corporation for damages for refusal to permit a transfer of shares on its books, the prescription of ten years applies:
but that prescription is not available in this case.

IN

Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

EQUITY.

pealed.

Complainant ap-

XAr. Charles Louque for appellant.
.Mr. Assistant .Attorney General faury for appellee.
MR. JusTicE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity instituted in the court below on the
9th of December, 1882, by the appellant, as heir of her
mother and brothers, against the appellee, to compel the
latter to issue to the appellant a certificate for sixty-six shares
of its capital stock, which are charged to have been unlawfully cancelled and transferred to other parties without

