PAGE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

term, to procure such a reformation of the judgment as would
have been proper. Instead of pursuing that course, they
preferred to claim - contrary to what, it seems to us, was the
manifest purpose of the court - that there was a general finding, without qualification, in their behalf, which should have
been followed by a judgment for the whole land. As, however, the finding was in fact and in legal effect, for only a.
part of the premises in dispute, and as we are bound to assume,
from the record, that that part is embraced in the description
given in the complaint, the judgment must be

PAGE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIDS.
No. 1387. Submitted April 2, 1888.

Decided April 16, 1888.

Under § 51 of the Revised Statutes, a person elected a representative i
Congress, to fill a vacancy, caused by a resolution of the House that the
sitting member was not elected and that the seat was vacant, the sitting
member having received the proper credentials, and been placed on the
roll, and been sworn in, and taken his seat, and voted, and served on
committees and drawn his salary and mileage, is entitled to compensation only from the time the compensation of such sitting member
ceased.

TIE case is stated in the opinion.
fr. Allan Rutherford for claimant.
-Yr. Attaney General and _Y. Heber
Mr. JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

-May for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the claimant from a judgment of the
Court of Claims, dismissing his petition, on the following facts
found by that court: An election was held on the 4th of
November, 1884, in the Second Congressional District of
Rhode Island, for the purpose of electing by the people a,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Representative in the 49th Congress, for that district. William A. Pirce was declared by the proper authority to have
been elected, received a certificate of election from the governor of the State, and was sworn in and took his seat in the
Congress of the United States on the 4th of March, 1885.
His election was contested by Charles H. Page. On the 25th
of January, 1887, the House of Representatives of the 49th
Congress agreed to the following resolution, to wit: "Resolved, That William A. Pirce was not elected a member of
the House of Representatives of the Forty-ninth Congress
from the Second Congressional District of Rhode Island, and
that the seat be declared vacant." An election was thereafter
held in Rhode Island to fill such vacancy, and, on the 25th of
February, 1887, Charles H. Page presented to the House of
Representatives a certificate from the governor of Rhode
Island, setting forth that he was, on the 21st of February,
1887, regularly elected a Representative from that State in
the 49th Congress, to fill the vacancy caused by the action of
the House of Representatives in declaring the seat of William
A. Pirce vacant. Thereupon, Page was sworn in and took
his seat. Pirce occupied the seat from March 4, 1885, to January 25, 1887, was recognized as the sitting member, voted,
served on committees, and drew the salary fol that time,
amounting to $9468.18, and also received mileage in the sum
of $344. Page occupied the seat from February 25, 1887, to
March 3, 1887, was recognized as the sitting member for that
time, voted, served on committees, and drew the salary from
January 25, 1887, to March 3, 1887, amounting to $531.82,
and also received mileage in the sum of $175.20.
Page, by his petition to the Court of Claims, claimed that
he was entitled to the full pay of $5000 a year for the two
years from March 3, 1885, to March 3, 1887, and that, therefore, he was entitled to the further payment of $9468.18.
The contention of Page is that, on the facts found, Pirce, not
having been elected a member of the 49th Congress, was
never such member; that, therefore, he was not the predecessor of Page, within the meaning of § 51 of the Revised Statutes; and that the member of the House of Representatives

PAGE v.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

from the Second Congressional District of Rhode Island in
the 48th Congress was such predecessor.
Section 51 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"Whenever a vacancy occurs in either House of Congress, by
death or otherwise, of any member or delegate elected or appointed thereto, after the commencement of the Congress to
which he has been elected or appointed, the person elected or
appointed to fill it shall be compensated and paid from the
time that the compensation of his predecessor ceased." The
argumept made is that, under this section, no person could
have been the predecessor of Page, unless he was a member
elected for the 49th Congress; and that Pirce was declared by
the House of Representatives not to have been elected such
member. But, although Pirce may not have been so elected,
it does not follow that he was not the predecessor of Page,
within the meaning of § 51, or that the Representative in the
48th Congress was such predecessor.
The proper construction of § 51 is that the predecessor of
the person elected to fill a vacancy must be a person who was
the predecessor in the same Congress. If no such person is to
be found, because no such person was duly elected, Page had
no predecessor in the sense of § 51, and that section does not
apply to his case. But we think that, under the proper construction of § 51, Pirce was the predecessor of Page, as to
compensation or salary. His credentials showed that he was
regularly elected; he must have been placed on the roll of
IRepresentatives-elect, under § 31 of the Revised Statutes; he
was sworn in, took his seat, voted, served on committees, and
drew the salary and the mileage. Under §§ 38 and 39, he was
entitled to his salary, because his credentials, in due form of
law, had been duly filed with the clerk, under § 31, and because he took the required oath. Section 51 refers only to a
vacancy occurring after the commencement of a particular
Congress, and in the membership of that Congress; and the
reference to a " predecessor" is plainly intended to apply only
to a predecessor in that Congress. If there was any such
predecessor of Page it was Pirce. If there was no predecessor of Page in that Congress, § 51 does not apply to that case.
J~Te
Pjdgment of the Court of Claims is abrmed.

