OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to a law of Kansas, which on the point here involved is not
essentially different from the law of Iowa, namely, in imposing liabilities upon railroad companies for injuries to employ~s
in its service, though caused by the negligence or incompetency of a fellow-servant, and we held that the law was not
in conflict with the clauses referred to in the Fourteenth
Amendment. On the authority of that case the judgment in
the present one must be

UNITED STATES v. BROADHEAD.
UNITED STATES v. BIROADHEAD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
-os. 233, 234.

Argued April 18, 1888.-Decided April 30, 1888.

On the authority of United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681, it is held, that au
action against sureties to recover on a bail bond conditioned for the
appearance of the principal to answer to an indictment for making and
forging checks against an assistant treasurer is not a case for the
enforcement of a revenue law, within the intent of Rev. Stat. ยง 699.
No interest can be recovered in an action by the United States upon a bail
bond conditioned for the appearance of a person to answer to an indictment for forgery.

THnESE were actions against sureties on bail bonds. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. Awistant Attorney General 2Maury for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are suits brought upon two bonds given by
John F. Broadhead and his sureties, conditioned for his appearance in the District Court of the United States for the

JONES v. CRAIG.
Syllabus.

District of California, to answer two separate indictments for
making and forging checks on the Assistant Treasurer of the
United States at San Francisco. The penalty of each of these
bonds was $5000, and, according to well settled principles, no
interest can be recovered in such a suit as this, nor can any
recovery be had beyond the amount prescribed in these instruments, except for costs.
Section 3 of the "act to facilitate the disposition of cases
in the Supreme Court of the United States, and for other purposes," approved February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, ยง 3,
fixing the amount necessary to give jurisdiction to this court
of writs of error from the Circuit Courts at a sum in excess of
five thousand dollars, applies to the United States as well as
to other parties, except in the cases enumerated in ยง 699 of
the Revised Statutes. None of these exceptions apply to the
present cases.
It was attempted in United States v. Iill, 123 U. S. 681,
to establish the proposition that that case was for the enforcement of a revenue law, and, therefore, came within the
exceptions specified. It was, however, overruled by this court,
and the opinion in that case forbids the idea that these cases
can be treated as an exception to the general rule.
As the act of 1875, above cited, requires that there shall be
an amount in controversy, exclusive of costs, exceeding five
thousand dollars, and as no such recovery can be had in the
cases now under consideration,
The 'writs are dismissed.

JOIES'S ADMINISTRATOR v. CRAIG.
.APEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 235. Submitted April 18, 1888. -Decided

April 30,1888.

A brought ejectment against B. B thereupon filed a bill in equity, (which
was subsequently amended,) to remove a cloud from the title, setting
up that the deed under which A claimed was a mortgage, with a written

