OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Reports, contain no adjudication to the contrary. The point
decided in each was that smoking by workmen in the mill did
not avoid the policy, and the remark of the judge delivering
the opinion, that in such a case the assured undertakes that
he will not himself do the act, was obiter diotuw,. Ins. Co. of
.V'orth America v. McDowell, 50 Illinois, 120, 131; Aurora
Ins. Co. v. Eddy, 55 Illinois, 213, 219.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
'with directions to render judgment for the plaintifs upon
the special verdict.

HOSFORD v. HARTFORD FIRE INSURACE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE oCIRIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 264. Argued April 26, 27, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.
An application for fire insurance, warranted to be "a just, full and true
exposition of all the facts and circumstances in regard to the condition,
situation, value, ownership, title, incumbrances of all kinds, insurance
and hazard of the property to be insured," contained these questions:
"Is there a mortgage, deed of trust, lien, or incumbrance of any kind,
on property? Amount, and in whose favor?" Held, that the questions
related only to incumbrances created by the act or with the consent of
the applicant, and that an omission to disclose an existing lien created
by statute for unpaid taxes was no breach of the warranty.

THIs case was substantially like that of Hosford v. Germania Ins. Co., ante, except that no question arose as to
smoking on the premises, that the policy itself contained no
provision on the subject of incumbrances, and that so much
of the application as related to that subject was in this form:
"13. Incumbrance.- Is there a mortgage, trust deed, lien,
or incumbrance of any kind, on property? Yes. Amount,
and in whose favor? $3000; I. IMay. What is the entire
value of property incumbered? $21,000."

HOSFORD v. HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"And the said applicant hereby covenants and agrees to
and with said company that the foregoing and diagram
annexed hereto is a just, full and true exposition of all the
facts and circumstances in regard to the condition, situation,
value, ownership, title, incumbrance of all kinds, insurance and
hazard of the property to be insured; and the same is hereby
made a condition of the insurance, a part of the contract, and
a continuing warranty on the part of assured, for term of
policy, or any renewal thereof of which this survey and application form a part."
-Mr. T. ff. Marquett and -Mr. IshaTh Reavis for plaintiffs
in error, cited Baley v. Homestead Ins. Co., 80 N. Y. 21;
Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 77, §§-'70, 4, 138.
No counsel appeared for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE GR y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case, I am instructed by the majority of the court to
announce its opinion that the warranty concerning incumbrances includes only incumbrances created by the act or with
the consent of the assured, and not those created by the law;
and therefore the policy was not avoided by the omission to
disclose the fact that "delinquent taxes" on the premises for
previous years were due and unpaid, although by the statutes
of Nebraska taxes are made a lien on the real estate taxed.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to renderjudgmentfor the plaintif's upon
the special verdict.

