OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

words, even if death was caused wholly by intentional injuries inflicted upon the insured by another person, the means
used were "accidental" as to him, and therefore the company
was liable. This was error.
Upon the whole case, the court is of opinion that, by the
terms of the contract, the burden of proof was upon the plaintiff, under the limitations we have stated, to show, from all
the evidence, that the death of the insured was caused by external violence and accidental means; also, that no valid claim
can be made under the policy, if the insured, either intentionally' or when insane, inflicted upon himself the injuries which
caused his death, or if his death was caused by intentional
injuries inflicted upon him by some other person.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to grant a new trial and for
Jfuther proceedings consistent with this opinion.

NICKERSON v.
AIPEAL FROM THE sUPRE'm
No. 881.

ICKERSON.

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM

Submitted January 6, 1888. -Decided

IA.

May 14, 1888.

On the proof in this case the court holds that the plaintiff has failed to
show such an agreement as can be made the basis of a decree in her
behalf.

IN EQUITY.

pealed.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainant ap-

The case is stated in the opinion.

.fr. J. J Johnson and Mr. F. F. Wilshire for appellant.
21r. Enoch Totten for Azor H. Nickerson, appellee.
fr. Henry Wise Garnett and ffr. Cok'way Roblinson, J.,
for appellants Carter and M[atthews.
MR. JusTIcn

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

NICKERSON v. NICKERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The substantial relief which the appellant, who was the
plaintiff below, seeks in this suit is a decree (1) declaring void
a conveyance executed May 31, 1883, by William B. Matthews,
trustee, to the appellee, Lena D. Carter, by the name of Lena
D. Nickerson, of lot two, in square one hundred and fourteen,
in the city of Washingon; (2) establishing, in behalf of the
plaintiff, certain trusts in respect to said real estate; (3) and
requiring Matthews and said Lena to convey the same to the
plaintiff, or to trustees for the benefit of herself and the child
of her marriage with the defendant, Azor H. Nickerson. Her
bill asking such relief was dismissed with costs.
The case made by the bill is as follows:
The plaintiff, while on a visit to Portland, Oregon, in the
year 1870, engaged herself to be married to the defendant
Nickerson, then on duty in that city as an officer of the army
of the United States. Prior to such engagement, he pointed
out to her blocks 145 and 146 in Couch's Addition to Portland
as his property, and "promised and agreed" that after marriage he would convey them to her as a marriage portion or
settlement for the benefit of herself and any children of their
marriage, and erect thereon a dwelling house for their use; or,
if she so elected, they would sell the blocks and invest the proceeds in other property in Portland, to be held upon like trusts,
and, after having advanced in value, sold and the proceeds applied exclusively to the purchase of a house for the plaintiff
and her children.
The plaintiff's mother, who resided in San Francisco, having
been informed of this engagement, objected to the marriage
upon the gound that the defendant was an officer of the army,
without settled place of abode, or other means of support than
his pay as such officer. But her objections, the bill states, were
overcome by the defendant's verbal assurance to her to the
following effect: That the question of support had been considered by the plaintiff and himself; that he was the owner of
certain blocks of ground in the city of Portland, and that he
had promised and agreed with the plaintiff that if she would
marry him, he would, immediately after marriage, convey
them to the complainant as a marriage settlement, or would

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

hold them as trustee for her separate benefit, and if at any
time sold, the proceeds should be invested in other property,
to be held in like manner for the sole and separate benefit of
the plaintiff and her children. Upon. the strength of these
promises and representations, and relying upon the good faith
of the respondent Nickerson, and in consideration thereof, and
for no other reason or consideration whatever, the plaintiff's
mother, it is alleged, withdrew her objection, and consented to
the marriage, which occurred on the 13th day of August, 1870.
Without her mother's consent, the plaintiff avers, the marriage
would not have taken place.
It is also alleged that the plaintiff, relying upon the love
and affection of her husband; having confidence that he
would, in good faith, keep and perform his agreement; and
preferring that the property should be managed by him, without the complications necessarily arising from the interposition of third parties, did not require the lots to be conveyed
to trustees for her benefit, but permitted the title to remain in
the defendant, "subject to her equitable interests under said
agreement."
About a month after the marriage the plaintiff and the
defendant united in selling said blocks of ground, the proceeds being invested jointly with one John S. Walker in
certain lots in Portland. Walker having died, a division of
these lots was effected by judicial proceedings, which were
concluded in. 1878. In respect to the lots assigned in this
division t6 the defendant, the bill alleges that they were held
by him-although there were no writings between them on
the subject - "fo r the sole and separate benefit of the complainant," and "as her trustee under the agreement, promise
and consideration" hereinbefore stated.
While the plaintiff was temporarily residing in Europe,
under circumstances to be presently stated, the defendant sold
the lots last described and transmitted deeds therefor to be
executed by her. The bill states that, not doubting the affection of her husband or his good faith in keeping his agreement, and perceiving from the consideration mentioned in the
deeds ($12,000) that the lots had sufficiently increased in value

NICKERSON v. NICKERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

to enable him to carry out his promise to purchase a home for
her and her child, the plaintiff executed the deeds - bearing
the dates, respectively, of November 26, 1881, December 2,
1881, and January 10, 1882- and returned them to the
defendant, with a letter "imploring him to be extremely
cautious as to handling said money and in making proper
reinvestments."
Instead of investing the moneys received for the lots in a
house for the plaintiff and her child, the defendant, the bill
charges, in execution of a purpose to deprive her of all benefit
of said ante-nuptial agreement, invested $8380 of the $12,000
in lot two in square one hundred and fourteen in Washington,
which he caused to be conveyed to the defendant Matthews,
as trustee, with power to make title to the premises as the
defendant Nickerson might direct, and without the necessity
of plaintiff's uniting in any conveyance that said trustee might
make.
This purchase and arrangement, the bill alleges, was one
step in a conspiracy formed by her husband with the defendant, Miss Carter, some time in the year 1880-and to which
conspiracy the defendant Matthews subsequently became a
the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff of her
party -for
interest in the proceeds of the sale of the Portland property,
for the benefit of said Carter, to whom he was to be married
after being divorced from the plaintiff; that as the initial step
in that conspiracy, her husband represented to her in July,
1880, that he was much in debt, and that it would be in the
line of economy if she would reside for a. time in Europe,
where the cost of living was slight, and the facilities for
educating their daughter abundant; that, although unwilling
to be separated from her husband, she assented to his wishes,
and, with her daughter, sailed for Europe on the 9th of July,
1880, her husband accompanying them to the steamer, and
parting from her with every manifestation of love and affection; that, immediately after her departure for Europe, the
defendant went to Philadelphia, and there rented rooms for
the purpose of acquiring a pretended residence as a basis of
proceedings for divorce in one of the courts of that city; that,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

after the expiration of the statutory period, to wit,'on the 2d
of May, 1882, while the plaintiff was still in Europe, he filed
a libel for divorce, and, by means of false and perjured testimony, and without her knowledge or consent, obtained, March
31, 1883, a decree of divorce from her; that of the institution
of said suit and of said pretended decree the defendants Carter
and Matthews had knowledge; and that, as soon as plaintiff
was informed of those proceedings she returned to this country, and, in a suit brought for that purpose, she obtained, on:
the 9th of June, 1883, a judgment annulling the decree of
divorce as having been procured by fraud and perjury.
The bill further charges that on the 2d of April, 1883, two;
days after said pretended divorce, her husband and Miss Carter went to the city of Baltimore, and were there married;
that, on the 31st of May, 1883, he directed Matthews to convey and he did convey to said Carter, by the name of Nickerson, his title and interest in lot two in square one hundred
and fourteen, said Matthews and Carter, as well as her husband, being aware, at the time, of the pendency of the suit
in Philadelphia to set aside the fraudulent decree of divorce;
and that on the day last named her husband executed to said
Lena a bill of sale of all his personal property in the city
of Washington, including the household furniture which the
plaintiff and her husband used in common prior to her going
to Europe.
All of these acts, the bill charges, were in execution of a
conspiracy between her husband and the defendants Matthews
and Carter for the following purposes: 1. To get the plaintiff
out of the country, beyond the reach and knowledge of what
was going on; 2. To have the plaintiff divorced from her
husband, so that he could marry the defendant Carter; 3. To
defeat the trusts upon which her husband held the Portland
property and the proceeds of its sale, and to place the right
and title to the same in the defendant Carter.
The defendants Nickerson, Matthews, and Carter, in separate answers, deny every material allegation in the bill relat*ing to them respectively; except, that the marriage of the
latter with Major Nickerson, at the time and place stated in

NICKERSON v. NICKERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the bill, is admitted. They also severally plead, in bar of the
relief sought, the statute of frauds of both the State of Oregon
and the District of Columbia.
The statutes of Oregon provide:
"§ 771. No estate or interest in real property other than
a lease for a term not exceeding one year, nor any trust or
power concerning such property, can be created, transferred,
or declared otherwise than by operation of law or by a conveyance or other instrument in writing subscribed by the
party creating, transferring, or declaring the same, or by his
lawful agent, under written authority, and executed with such
formalities as are required by law."
"§ 75. In the following cases the agreement is void unless
the same, or some note or memorandum thereof, expressing
the considefation, be in writing and subscribed by the party
to be charged, or by his lawfully authorized agent; evidence,
therefore, of the agreement shall not be received other than
the writing, or secondary evidence of its contents in the cases
prescribed by law:
"1. An agreement that, by its terms, is not to be performed
within a year from the making thereof."
"4. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage,
other than a mutual promise to marry."
"6. An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than
one year, or for the sale, of real property or of an interest
therein.
"7. An agreement concerning real property made by an
agent of the party sought to be charged, unless the authority
of the agent be in writing." Oregon Code of Procedure, 1862
(1863), pp. 190 and 191, Title VIII, §§ 771 and 775; General
Laws of Oregon (1845-1864), pp. 341 and 342, Title VIII,
§§ 771 and 775; General Laws of Oregon (1843-1872), pp. 264
and 265, Title VIII, §§ 771 and 775.
The statutes upon which the defendants rely as being in force
in the District of Columbia, and as applicable to the case, 29
Charles II. c. 3, § 4, 7, [the English Statute of Frauds], provide as follows:
"§ 4. No action shall be brought whereby to charge
.

VOL.

exxvu-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

any person upon any agreement made upon consideration of
marriage, or upon any contract or sale of lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, or any interest in or concerning them, or upon
any agreement that is not to be performed within the space of
one year from the making thereof, unless the agreement upon
which such action shall be brought, or some memorandum or
note thereof, shall be in writing and signed by the party to be
charged therewith, or some other person thereunto by him lawfully authorized."
"§ 7. And

.

.

.

all declarations or creations of trusts

or confidences, of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments shall
be manifested and proved by some writing, signed by the party
who is by law enabled to declare such trust, or by his last will
in writing, or else they shall be utterly void and of none effect."'
Alexander's British Statutes in force in Maryland, 509.
We are not permitted by the evidence in this cause to doubt
that the appellee Nickerson induced his wife to go to Europe,
with her child, in order that he might, in her absence and without her knowledge, procure a decree of divorce from a court
having no jurisdiction to grant it ; or that, without her knowledge, he obtained such decree from the court in Philadelphia
which city he"acquired a merely fictitious residence -in
by making it appear that his wife had deserted him, and taken
up her residence in Europe against his wishes, when, in fact,
he induced her to go abroad, substantially directed all of her
movements while away, and, in frequent letters, covering the
entire period from the date of her departure up to the institution of the suit for divorce, expressed warm affection for his
absent wife. Indeed, a few weeks after he commenced his
suit for divorce, he inclosed to his wife a draft for one thousand
marks to cover her future expenses; his letter, transmitting
the .draft, being couched in such language as a faithful husband would use when communicating with his wife by lefter.
Nor can it be.doubted that before the rendition of the decree
for .divorce, an understanding was reached between him and
-Miss Carter that they would intermarry as soon as he obtained
a decree divorcing him from his wife. It is difficult to conceive of a clearer case of wrong and perjury than is disclosed

NICKERSON v. NICKERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

in the record upon the part of Major Nickerson towards his
wife in reference to the proceedings instituted by him for
divorce. If our decision depended upon the facts just stated,
we should have no hesitation in granting the relief the appellant seeks. But the court would be unmindful of its duty to,
administer justice according to the settled rules of law, if it
permitted the feelings naturally excited by the conduct of the
husband in relation to that divorce, to control its investigation
of the primary question, whether there was between him and
his wife, prior to and at the time of their marriage, and as the
consideration of the marriage, such an agreement as that set
out in the bill; and if so, whether the agreement is of such
nature, or has been so clearly established, as to authorize a
court of equity to give the relief asked. It is entirely consistent with the perfidy practised by the husband towards the
wife, in the matter of the fraudulent divorce, that no such
agreement as that alleged was ever made, as the consideration
of their marriage. If such an agreement was not made, or,
supposing it to have been made, if it cannot, under the circumstances and the proof, be propierly made the basis of a decree
affecting the ownership of the lot conveyed by.Matthews to
the appellee Garter, the legal result cannot be changed by the
fact that 'the husband, many years after the marriage, and by
means of false evidence, obtained a divorce from his wife.
Even if the statutes of Oregon, where the agreement is
alleged to have been made, or the statutes of Maryland, in
force in this District, do not prevent relief being given in cases
of fraud practised by a defendant pleading the statute of frauds,
or when part performance is relied upon to take the-case out
of the statute, we are constrained to hold, upon a careful scrutiny of all the evidence, that the proof of the existence of the
agreement is not of that satisfactory character required by the
recognized principles of equity. Whether specific performance
shall be decreed in any case depends upon the circumstances
of that case, and rests in the discretion of the court. iing v.
Harmilton, 4 Pet. 311, 328; Willard v. Taylor, 8 Wall. 557,
564; Waters v. Howard, 1 Maryland Oh. 112; .Duvall v.
Myers, 2 Maryland Oh. 401. " Not, indeed," Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Story says, "of arbitrary or capricious discretion, dependent
upon the mere pleasure of the judge, but of that sound and
reasonable discretion which governs itself as far as it may by
general rules and principles; but at the same time which withholds or grants relief, according to the circumstances of each
particular case, when these rules and principles will not furnish
any exact measure of justice between the parties." 1 Story
Eq. Jur. § '742. One of these rules is, that in cases of this
character relief should not be granted, after an unreasonable
delay, or unless the proof is clear and satisfactory, both as to
the existence of the agreement and as to its terms.
In our judgment the proof fails to show such an agreement
between Nickerson and wife as could be made the basis of a
decree in her behalf. The allegations of the bill are expressly
denied by the answer; and the statements of the wife in her
deposition are flatly contradicted by the husband in his deposition. The only' other witness in the cause in behalf f the
plaintiff is her mother, and the deposition of the latter was not
taken until nearly fifteen years'after her daughter married the
defendant. It contains a detailed account of an interview with
him at the time she visited Portland, in the spring of 1870, for
the purpose of personally expressing her opposition to the marriage of her daughter to Major Nickerson. In recalling what
then passed between herself and him, she was not aided by
any contemporaneous memorandum of what occurred. It is
true that in her deposition, as well as in that of the appellant,
are to be found such words and phrases as "agreement,"
"promised," "promised and agreed," "promise and agreementi" "understood and agreed," "in consideration of marriage," and "marriage settlement and gift." But there is
strong internal evidence in the depositions that these words
and phrases -if
not suggested by others familiar with their
import - were not used or understood by the witnesses in their.
technical legal sense. Their evidence, in connection with all
the circumstances of the case, especially the lapse of time,
should be regarded as establishing, at most, only an honest
belief and expectation upon the part of the appellant and her
mother, before and at the time of the marriage, superinduced

NICKERSON v. NICKERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

by the general conduct or loose expressions of the defendant,
that he intended, at some time after marriage, to provide his
wife with a permanent home out of the proceeds of the sale
of the Portland property. It is the case of a husband, who,
prior to marriage, induced in the mind of his intended wife
expectations in reference to real property which, after marriage, he failed to meet, but in respect to which property he
did not enter- and, perhaps, intentionally refrained from entering - into any distinct and binding agreement.
She purposely forebore, as her bill shows, from having the
Portland property conveyed to trustees for her benefit, and
permitted the title to remain in the husband, in order that it
might be easily handled, and in the belief that he would act
in good faith toward her. She relied upon his honor, and has
been deceived. But those facts, however strongly they appeal
to our sympathy, cannot justify the court in finding, upon the
meagre evidence in this cause, that there was an agreement
upon his part, in consideration of marriage, to settle upon her
either the property in Portland or the property purchased
with the proceeds of its sale.
There is another serious obstacle in the way of granting to
the appellant the relief she seeks. It is not proved, with sufficient certainty, that any part of the proceeds of the Portland
property was, in fact, applied to the purchase of the lot in
square one hundred and fourteen. If it did not, there is no
ground, in any view of the case, upon which a trust could be
fastened upon that lot for the benefit of the appellant.
In view of what has been said it is unnecessary to consider
the question, so fully discussed by counsel, and so elaborately
examined in the adjudged cases, as to whether marriage itself,
standing alone, can be deemed part performance of an agreement as to lands, which otherwise could not be enforced with
due regard to the letter and spirit of the statute of frauds.
Upon the whole case, we feel bound to hold that the appellant has not established sufficient grounds for the relief asked,
and the decree must be
Afflrmed.

