TAYLOR v. HOLMES.
Syllabus.

sought by the cross-bill.

It was strictly new matter arising

after the filing of the bill, properly set up by way of supplemental bill, in support of the relief originally prayed for. It
can in no sense be considered as a new cause of action. It
was not a bill to enforce the decree, nor was the complainant
obliged to rely upon it as the sole ground of recovery, on the
ground that the original cause of action had become merged
in it. If the notes were mergedoin the decree, it was simply
a change in the nature of the evidence to support the complainant's title to relief; the indebtedness remained the same,
and the equity of the complainant to a foreclosure and sale of
the securities remained unchanged. The statute of limitations, therefore, invoked by the plaintiff in error has no application.
This being the only federal question arising upon the record,
and having, in our opinion, been decided correctly by the Supreme Court of Illinois, it is not within our province to consider any other question in the case.

The judgment of the Suprerm Court of Bllinois is, therefore,
afalirned.

TA YLOR v. HOIMES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

N'ITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 209.

Argued April 5, 6, 1888.-

Decided May 14, 1888.

A bill in equity fied in the Circuit Court of the United States in 1882 by a
stockholder in a New York corporation, whose corporate term expired
in 1878, to correct a deed of land in North Carolina made to the corporation in 1853, is barred by the statute of limitations in North Carolina, and
by the general principles of courts of equity with regard to laches,
unless a better reason for not instituting the suit earlier is given than
the one given in this suit.
A stockholder in a corporation which has passed the term of its corporate
existence, and has long ceased to exercise its corporate franchises, who
desires to obtain equitable relief for it, must, in order to maintain an
action therefor in his own name, show that he has endeavored in vain to

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
secure action on the part of the directors, if there are any, or to have
the stockholders elect a new board of directors, and must disclose when
he acquired his interest in the corporation.

BILL

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.lb. Clarence 1R. Conger for appellants.
.A&. Samuel F. Phillips for appellees.
M . JusTicE NLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of North Carolina.
A bill in chancery was brought in that court by Isaac Taylor, a citizen of the State of Massachusetts, and Sallie A.
Howes, a citizen of the State of lew Jersey, as they declare,
"for themselves individually, each as a holder and owner of
shares of the capital stock of the Gold Hill Mining Company,
as well as for and in behalf of all other stockholders of the
said company who may desire hereafter to unite with them,"
against Moses L. Holmes, Reuben J. Holmes, Ephraim Manney and Valentine Manney, all citizens of the State of INorth
Carolina. To this there was a demurrer, which was sustained,
and a decree rendered dismissing the bill.
The Gold Hill Mining Company, according to the bill, was
duly incorporated under the laws of the State of New York,
August 30, 1853; its capital stock fixed at $1,000,000 and its
shares at the par value of five dollars each. Its term of existence was to be twenty-five years. It also appears from the
bill, that shortly after its organization, to wit, September 1,
1853, this corporation bought of Moses L. Holmes, one of the
defendants, the Gold Hill mines and mining property, consisting of twelve lots and tracts of land lying in the counties of
Rowan and Cabarrus, in the State of North Carolina; that
the company expended large sums of money in the pursuit of
mining and in making improvements upon the lands of which
it had possession, and that $20,000 or thereabouts was raised
by assessments upon its stock. It would appear that this was

TAYLOR v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

the condition of affairs before the outbreak of the war, in
1860, when the enterprise seemed to be a failure, and practical
mining was abandoned. The bill also set up a foreclosure sale
under a mortgage at which the property was purchased in by
Moses L. Holmes and Reuben J. Holmes who have had undisturbed possession thereof ever since.
It is also alleged in the bill, that about July, 1861, the officers of the corporation, which had been in possession of the
property, were driven off by the defendants, and that tJbereafter, by the death and resignation of its officers and directors
or the greater part thereof, it became utterly disorganized and
never held any meetings of its directors or stockholders since
the year 1862, so that at the time of the filing of the bill
there was but one director of the corporation living and surviying, within the knowledge of complainants; and it is
alleged that he, by his acts and doing and connections with
the defendants in and touching pretended claim or claims
adversely to the interest of said corporation and its stockholders and creditors, has rendered himself incompetent to
assert and protect the rights of said corporation and of complainants, and has refused and neglected and still refuses and
neglects so to assert and protect the same.
One of the objects of the bill is to correct an alleged mistake in the original conveyance made by Moses L. Holmes, of
the lands on which the mining operations were conducted, to
this corporation; the allegation being that it was intended to
convey to it a perfect title in fee simple, whereas, wanting the
words of limitation to heirs or assigns, and other defects, it
did not convey such a title. These matters are set forth with
much particularity and at great extent in the bill of the complainant, but as the decision of the court does not turn upon
them nor upon another question which has been raised connected therewith, as to whether or not one of the deeds was
delivered as an escrow or absolutely, we need not here consider them further.
The court below sustained the demurrer to the bill upon
two principal grounds: First, that the suit was barred by the
statute of limitations and by the general doctrine of laches as

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

applicable in courts of chancery. Second, that no sufficient
reason is shown why the suit should be brought by two stockholders instead of by the corporation itself, in its own name.
We think both of these grounds or either of them sufficient to
sustain the position taken by the court below.
It is, however, alleged that the corporation itself is extinct
by reason of the limitation placed upon its existence, nuder the
articles of incorporation, by which it expired on the 30th day
of August, 1878. But, under the laws of New York, the existence of such a corporation was continued after the period
for which it was limited for the purpose of winding up its
business, and for the purpose of collecting and distributing its
assets and paying its debts. Although the allegation of the
bill is that many of the directors of the company are dead,
still it is shown that one of them survives, and no assertion is
made that there was any application to this surviving director
on the part of the defendants for the purpose of instituting
any proceedings looking to the rectification of this deed or for
the recovery of the real estate in North Carolina; nor does it
appear that there was any request made to him to bring any
suit either at law or in chancery for that purpose. No effort
was made to call together the stockholders to take any action
on the part of the company, or to elect other directors, or to
obtain any united action in the assertion of the claims now
set up.
Although there is in the bill a declaration that the two complainants are owners of a majority of the stock of the Gold
Hill Mining Company, there is no statement as to when or
how they became such, or whether they were such stockholders during the times that injuries were inflicted, of which they
now complain, in regard to the taking possession of the property by the defendants, or whether they became stockholders
afterwards. In short, there is no such averment of their relation to the corporation or of their interest in the matter,
about which they now seek relief, as brings this action within
the principle of the decisions of this court upon the subject.
Htawes v. Oakand, 104 U. S. 450.
Under the statute of limitations of the State of North Caro-

TAYLOR v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

lina, or upon the general principles of courts of equity with
regard to laches, the complainants are barred of relief in the
present case.
The mistake sought to be corrected, Which is made the
foundation of the present suit, occurred in 1853. This suit
was brought in 1882, after the lapse of nearly thirty years,
during all of which time the action might have been brought,
so far as relates to the correction of the alleged mistake in the
deed. During seven or eight years of this time the corporation was in full existence and operation; it had the means to
prosecute this suit and had an opportunity of knowing, or at
least its principal members must have known, all the facts
which are now brought to the consideration of the court, and
even up to the time when this suit was commenced there was
a director surviving who had never been discharged or resigned. There was no reason, if stockholders were proper
persons to bring this action, why proceeding should not have
been begun by them upon the practical dissolution of the company in 1862, after which time, as the complainants allege, no
corporate organization was kept up, no work or business done,
and no attempt made by any of the directors to act upon any
of the rights of the corporation or to exercise their authority
in the conduct of its affairs. If we allow some deduction for
the period of the war, which closed in 1865, there still remains
the long delay between that time and the bringing of this suit
in 1882, a period of about seventeen years. This lapse of
time requires some better account in regard to the reasons why
this suit was not earlier instituted than is given in the present
bill. It is obvious that during all this time, and, indeed, from
the year 1861, when, as the bill declares, the defendants took
possession of the property, it has been held by them adversely
to the claim of the Gold Hill Mining Company, and to the
claim of the complainants. No sufficient reason is given why
relief was not sought earlier. During all this period the
shares of the corporation seem to have been of no value, so
that the complainants may have bought them in the market for
a very inconsiderable sum and may now be prosecuting a suit
for relief which, if sustainable at all, ought to inure to the
benefit of other parties. Clarke v. Boorman, 18 Wall. 493.

I OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

These questions have been too frequently discussed in this
court to need further comment. We concur with the Circuit
Court that the bill is without merit, and believe that it was
rightfully dismissed. The decree is, therefore,
-Aff 'med.

FREEDMAN'S SAVING AND TRUST COMPANY
v. SHEPHERD.
SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COUIRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
Nos. 230, 256.

Argued April 17, 18, 1888. -Decided

April 30, 1888.

When a mortgage contains no provision for the payment of rents and
profits to the mortgagee while the mortgagor remains in possession, the
mortgagee is not entitled,-as against the owner of the equity of
redemption, -to the rents and profits of the mortgaged premises until
he takes actual possession, or until possession is taken in his behalf;
even though the income may be expressly pledged as security for the
mortgage debt, with the right in the mortgagee to take possession upon
failure by the mortgagor to perform the conditions of the mortgage.
Section 3737 of the Revised Statutes respecting the transfer of contracts
with the United States does not embrace a lease of real estate, to be
- used for public purposes, under which the lessor is not required to perform any service for the government, and has nothing to do, in respect
of the lease, but to receive from time to time the rent agreed to be paid.
When the government, as lessee of real estate occupied by it, recognizes
through its proper officers a transfer of the property and an assignment
of the lease, and an assignment of rent under it, and pays the rent, there
is nothing in ยง 3477 Rev. Stat. respecting transfers and assignments of
claims against the United States which invalidates that transaction for
the benefit of a third party.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

These consolidated causes involve the conflicting claims of
the parties: frst, to the proceeds of two drafts, one for $1800,
and the other for $34:5, issued by the United States Treasury
in payment of the rent of lot four, square three hundred and
seventy-seven, with the improvements thereon, in the city of

