ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Syllabus.

It only remains to say a word in reference to that part of
the decree giving to Shepherd's trustees the rent which Bradley, as receiver, collected.
We have already shown that
Bradley, not having pledged the income of the property to the
Trust Company, could pledge it as security for debts held
against him by other creditors. After executing the deed of
1873, he conveyed the premises to Shepherd, and also assigned
to him the benefit of the lease made to the government.
Shepherd included the premises in his deed to Taylor and
others of November 15, 1876, and expressly agreed that the
rents, issues, and profits therefrom should be applied in payment of the debts named in that deed. The right of those
trustees to the rents, issues, and profits which accrued before
any sale under Bradley's deed to the Trust Company, and
prior to actual possession being taken under such sale, was,
consequently, superior to any that company had. That right
could not be defeated by anything the company did, whether
by means of a receiver or otherwise. Whether the money in
the hands of tht receiver belonged to Thompson rather than
to Shepherd's trustees is a question not before us, since
Thompson has not appealed from the decree.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no
error in the decree to the prejudice of either of the appellants,
and it is, in all respects,
Afflrmed.

ROBERTSON v. SICOEL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 269.

Argued and Submitted May 1, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

A collector of customs is not personally liable for a tort committed by his
subordinates, in negligently keeping the trunk of an arriving passenger
on a pier, instead of sending it to the public store, so that it was destroyed by fire; where there is no evidence to connect the collector personally with the wrong, or that the subordinates were not competent, or
-were not properly selected for their positions.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

THis was an action at law, brought in the city court of the
city of New York, by Emilie Sichel, an infant, by Joseph
Sichel, her guardian ad litem, against William H. lRobertson,
collector of customs for the port and collection district of New
York, and removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
The object of the suit was to recover damages for the loss
of the contents of a trunk belonging to the plaintiff, who was
a passenger by the steamship Egypt of the Inman line, from
Liverpool, and arrived at New York, at the pier of the ship,
on the 31st of January, 1883. She was sixteen years of age,
and wa§ a first-cabin passenger. She made a baggage declaration, under oath, which stated that she had two trunks and
two bags, containing "wearing apparel in actual use and
personal effects not merchandise."
She declared "nothing
new or dutiable." Her baggage was examined on the dock,
and one trunk was detained by the customs officers, who gave
her a receipt therefor, signed by an inspector, which stated
that the inspector had sent the one trunk, for appraisement,
to the public store, under a baggage permit. She was directed by the officers to call, the next day, at the public store
to receive the trunk. This trunk contained her personal
effects, which cost her $400. The only thing in the trunk
not wholly intended for her own use was ten pounds of chocolate, valued at about $2.50, part of which she ate, and she
intended to eat the balance in company with some of her
young friends. This was her first visit to America. She was
a native of Germany, and at the time of her arrival was
unfamiliar with our language aild customs. She did not
know and could nbt understand the nature and effect of the
baggage declaration which she was asked to sign, and it was
not explained to her. In the trunk, with her clothing and
wearing apparel, were some paper boxes containing some
brass ornamental jewelry on cards, given to her abroad, of the
value in all of about one dollar, some of which she had worn,
some old lace curtains, six table-cloths and twelve napkins, a
gift from her mother, the ten pounds of chocolate, and three
corsets, one of which she had worn. On the next day. the

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Statement of the Case.

usual order was made, on an application signed by the plaintiff, for an appraisement of the contents of the trunk. The
plaintiff demanded the trunk at the public store, but did not
receive it, because it had been destroyed by fire, on the pier of
the ship, on the night of January 31, 1883. It was proved on
the trial that, on the morning after the arrival of the ship, the
deputy.collector issued an order to the clerk in the collector's
department at the custom house for the appraisal of the trunk,
and that there could be no appraisal without a permit from the
collector.
At the close of the plaintiff's case, the defendant asked the
court to direct a verdict for him, on the ground that, the
action being one for personal negligence, the plaintiff had not
brought home to the collector personally any connection with
the trunk at the time it was destroyed, and that, if any negligence was to be imputed to the subordinate officers of the customs, such negligence could not be imputed to the collector.
The court refused to grant the motion, and the defendant
excepted.
Evidence was then introduced on the part of the defendant
tending to show that the inspector on the dock who examined
the trunk discovered what, in the exercise of his discretion, he
determined to be dutiable articles; that he reported to his
superior officer that he thought the trunk contained dutiable
articles and that officer told him to see what else he could
find; that he found other dutiable articles; that he attempted
to find an appraiser to appraise and assess duties upon those
articles, but did not find one; that he reported to the staff
officer having charge of the passengers and their baggage
from that steamer, and under his advice marked the trunk for
the public store, to be examined by the proper examiner and
have the duties assessed, under a seption of the regulations for
the government of officers of the customs under the superintendence and direction of the surveyor of the port of New
York, which was admitted in evidence, and was as follows:
"In the absence of the entry clerks or appraiser, dutiable
articles taken from passengers' baggage will be sent by the
inspector as soon as possible to the public store, and the pas-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

senger will be furnished by the inspector with the usual baggage certificate;" that, the trunk having been thus marked
for the public store, and a receipt given to the plaintiff, it was
put into the charge of the discharging officers of the vessel;
that the inspectors were allowed to send goods to the public
store for appraisement, only through a custom-house cartman ;
that the discharging officer who received the plaintiff's trunk
did not send it to the storehouse, because there was no cartman on the pier to take it away, and none came to do so,
though an effort was made to procure one; that the trunk
remained on the pier, under his custody, and was totally consumed by fire on the night of the 31st of January, the officers
who were there being driven away by the flames; and that
the fire occurred between 2 and 3 o'clock A.M. of the day
following that of the arrival of the steamer.
It also appeared in evidence that, under article 431 of the
customs regulations, it was the duty of the collector, on the
arrival of any steamer of a regular line from a foreign port,
to detail an experienced entry clerk, who, with a similar clerk
to be designated by the naval officer and an assistant appraiser or examiner to be detailed by the appraiser, should,
together with the inspector on board, examine all the passengers' baggage, place the dutiable value upon the same, and,
if dutiable articles were found, appraise the same and assess
the duty thereon. It also appeared that all those officers
were on the dock on that day.
The following regulations were then put in evidence:
"The Laws and Regulations for the Government of Officers
of Customs under the superintendence of Surveyors of Ports.
87.",

"Article 104. Whenever any trunk or package brought by
a passenger as baggage contains articles subject to duty and
the value thereof exceeds $500, or if the quantity or variety.
of the dutiable articles is such that a proper examination, classification, or appraisement thereof cannot be made at the vessel, the trunk or package will be sent to the public store for
appraisement."
"Article 117. In the absence of the entry clerk or ap-

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Statement of the Case.

praiser, dutiable articles taken from passengers' baggage will
be sent by the inspector, as soon as possible, to the appraiser's
store and the passenger will be furnished by the inspector
with the usual 'baggage certificate,' which will be in the following form:
"Inspeetor's ce'tifcate of goods sent to public store under
baggagepermit.
"PORT OF

-,

18-,

On board skip.
"I have sent to public- store under 'baggage permit' the
following articles said to belong to
"(Describe the articles.)
Inspector."
By the government's report in this case the value of the
property in Miss Sichel's trunk was alleged to be $100 only,
while the plaintiff did not claim the value to be over $400.
Peterson, the government inspector, did not make a written
report of the case to the government until about two months
after the arrival of the steamer. He did this at the request
of the surveyor, and it was no part of his duty to make it as.
requested. The same inspector Peterson had signed and issued
the certificate on the baggage declaration. There was an
appraiser on the pier in question some time on that day. The
trunk in question was the only seizure or detention of passengers' baggage made on that dock on the day in question.
The defendant himself being put upon the stand and duly
sworn, testified that he was the collector of the port of New
York; that he had in the neighborhood of twelve hundred
subordinates under him; that, approximately, the average
annual importations into the port of INew York, passed
through the custom house, were of the value of five hundred
millions of dollars; that he knew nothing about the trunk
imported by Emilie Sichel by the Egypt on January 31st, at
the time of its importation; that he was not on the dock at
the time; that it was no part of his duty to pay any attention to the actual arrival of the passengers' baggage, or pass-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ing it through the custom house, or ordering it to the public
store, or examining it to see if there were any dutiable goods,
or to have anything to do with it; that, as a matter of fact,
he had nothing to do with it; and that the first time his attention was called to the matter of this trunk was long after
the fire, some time in September, 1883.
The evidence being closed, the defendant moved the court
to direct a verdict in his favor upon the same grounds on
which the motion was made at the close of the plaintiff's case,
that is to say, that there was no evidence in the case to connect the defendant with the destruction of the trunk; that in
the case of a public officer, the doctrine of law 're&ondeat _perior did not apply; and that, before there could be any recovery from the public officer it must be shown that he was
personally responsible himself, and that the negligence was
his own act. The court refused to grant this motion, and the
defendant excepted.
The defendant then requested the court to charge as follows:
"1. That a public officer is not responsible for the negligence of his subordinates.
"2. That the defendant is liable only for the neglect of
some duty devolved upon him personally and not for the
neglect of duty of any other person.
"3. That unless the jury find that the loss of this trunk was
the direct result of some personal carelessness or negligence
on the part of the defendant there can be no recovery.
"4. That it is not sufficient to show that the loss may have
been the result of negligence on the part of the collector. It
is necessary to show that it was.
"5. That the jury cannot find a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff if they find that the loss of this trunk was due to the
personal negligence or vi6lation of statutes or regulations on
the part of the customs officers other than the defendant
personally.
"6. That the inspector who examined plaintiff's trunk,
having found therein what he believed to be dutiable articles,
was obliged to turn said trunk over to others of the officers of
the customs for appraisement and assessment of duty, and

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Statement of the Case.

until such appraisement and assessment of duty and the payment of the duty as assessed the plaintiff was not entitled to
the possession of the trunk.
"7'. That the defendant is not responsible in this action for
the withholding the plaintiff's trunk and its contents.
"8. That if the customs officials at the vessel misinterpreted
their duty, and did an act which was in law a trespass or conversion, the defendant is not responsible, he not having been
present and not having been a party to the wrong interpretation of duty acted on by the customs officers at the vessel.
"9. That the defendant is not responsible for the trespasses,
conversion, or other faults of his subordinates committed by
them even in the line of their duty, unless he was personally
a party to the same.
"10. That the law, as provided in -§ 2652 of the Revised
Statutes, made it the duty of the customs officers at the
vessel by which the plaintiff's trunk was imported, to execute
and carry into effect all instructions of the Secretary of the
Treasury relative to the execution of the laws.
"11. That it appears by the evidence in this case that one
of the instructions by the Secretary for the guidance of the
officers at the vessel in which the plaintiff's trunk came was a
provision that, whenever any trunk or package brought by a
passenger as baggage contains articles subject to duty, the
value whereof exceeds five hundred dollars, or, if the quantity
or variety of dutiable articles is such that the proper classification and examination for appraisement thereof cannot be
made, the trunk or package will be sent to the public store for
appraisement.
"12. That this instruction of the Secretary had and has the
force of law for the facts in this case.
"13. That the instructions devolved upon the customs officials at the vessel a discretion to determine whether the quantity and variety of the dutiable articles was such that the
proper classification and examination for appraisement thereof
could not be made at the vessel, and, if they determined it
could not be, to send the trunk and its contents to the public
store for appraisement.
VOL. Cxx- v-33

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"14. That in the exercise of this discretion those officers,
and the collector as their superior, are not responsible for any
error of judgment in making the determination whether the
quantity or variety of the dutiable articles was such, prior to
sending the trunk to the public store.
"15. That the officers at the vessel, and the collector as
their superior, can, if at all, only be held responsible for bad
faith in the exercise of the discretion thus devolved upon them
by the regulation established by the Secretary, under the law."
The court charged the jury, that if one of the subordinate
officers of the customs, in the course of the performance of
his duty, did an absolute wrong to the plaintiff, such as to
take her trunk from her and keep it from her when she wanted
it and was by law entitled to it, the defendant would be liable.
The defendant excepted to this charge. The court gave further instructions, which bore upon the matters set forth in the
defendant's request to charge, but which, in the view we take
of the case, it is not important to notice. The bill of exceptions states, that the court did not comply with the defendant's
requests to charge further than as appears by the charge as
stated, and that the defendant excepted to the refusal to
charge as to each request separately, so far as the court did
refuse.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff for $459. The
court ordered that a certificate of probable cause be entered,
and on the verdict, with costs added, a judgment was entered
for the plaintiff for $502.96, to review which the defendant
brought a writ of error.
XrM.Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.X. Edward Jacobs for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE BLATcHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that there was error in the charge of the
court, and that the defendant was not liable for the wrong, if
any, committed by his subordinates, on the facts of this case.

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in the evidence to connect the defendant personally with any such wrong. iNo evidence was given that
the officers in question were not competent, or were not properly selected for their respective positions. The subordinate
who was guilty of the wrong, if any, would undoubtedly be
liable personally for the tort, but to permit a recovery against
the collector, on the facts of this case, would be to establish a
principle which would paralyze the public service. Competent
persons could not be found to fill positions of the kind, if they
knew they would be held liable for all the torts and wrongs
committed by a large body of subordinates, in the discharge
of duties which it would be utterly impossible for the superior
officer to discharge in person.
This principle is well established by authority. It is not
affected by the fact that a statutory action is given to an
importer, to recover back, in certain cases, an excess of duties
paid under protest; nor by the fact that a superior officer may
be held liable for unlawful fees exacted by his subordinate,
where lawful fees are prescribed by statute, and where such
fees are given by law to the superior, or for the act of a
deputy performed in the ordinary line of his official duty as
prescribed by law. The government itself is not responsible
for the misfeasances, or wrongs, or negligences, or omissions
of duty of the subordinate officers or agents employed in the
public service; for it does not undertake to guarantee to any
person the fidelity of any of the offirers or agents whom it
employs; since that would involve it, in all its operations, in
endless embarrassments, and difficulties, and losses, which
would be subversive of the public interests. Story on Agency,
§ 319 ; Seymour v. Van Slycl. 8 Wend. 403, 422; United States
v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, 735; Gibbons v. Urnited States,
8 Wall. 269; FiVteside v. United States, 93 U. S. 247, 257;
Hart v. Uvnited States, 95 U. S. 316, 318; loffat v. United
States, 112 U. S. 24, 31; Schmalz's Case, 4 C. C1. 142.
The head of a department, or other superior functionary, is
not in a different position. A public officer or agent is not
responsible for the misfeasances or positive wrongs, or for the
nonfeasances, or negligenees, or omissions of duty, of the sub-

516.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887. .

Opinion of the Court.

agents or. servants or other persons properly employed by or
under him, in the discharge of his official duties. Story on
Agency, § 319.
In .Keenan v. Southworth, 110 Mass. 4,74, it was held, that
a postmaster was not liable for the loss of a letter, occasioned
by the negligence or wrongful conduct of his clerk. The court
said: "The law is well settled, in England' and America, that
the postmaster general, the deputy postmasters, and their assistants and clerks, appointed and sworn as required by law,
are public officers, each of whom is responsible for his own
negligence only, and not for that of any of the others, although
selected by him and subject to his orders." The court cited,
to sustain this view, Lane v. Cotton, 1 Ld. Raym. 646; S. 'C.
12 Mod. 4172; WhiflZd v. Ze De pencer, Cowp. 754; .Dunlop
-v. M[un'oe, 7 Cranch, 24:2; Schroyer v. Lynch, 8 Watts, 453;
JBis4op v. Villiamnson, 2 Fairf. (Maine), 495; Butchins v.
.Brckett,2 Foster (22 N. HI.), 252.
To the same purport are Bailey v. The .3[ayor, 3 Hill, 531;
Conwell v. 7oorhees, 13 Ohio, 523, 543; Story on Bailments,
§§ 462, 463; 1 Bell Com. 468, 5th ed.; 2 Kent Com., 4th ed.,
610, 611.
The very question here involved came before the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, in the case of Brissac v. Lawrence, 2 Blatchford, 121,
in June, 1850. The defendant was the collector of the port of
New York. Imported goods belonging to the plaintiff had
been deposited in a custom-house warehouse, and' were either
lost or mislaid there, or were delivered to some person not entitled to them. At the trial it was sought to show carelessness
on the part of the defendant, as the head of the custom-house
department., in the manner in which the books of the warehouse were kept, and also that the book-keeper was a person
of intemperate habits and unfit for the situation. On the
other hand, it was proved that the books were kept in conformity with the mode usually adopted at the time for keeping books of that kind; that the intemperate book-keeper had
been discharged; and that, during a period of nineteen months,
out of two hundred thousand packages of goods which bad

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

been received at the warehouse in question, only two packages
had been lost. Mr. Justice Nelson, in charging the jury, submitted to them the question whether the collector had been
guilty of personal negligence in respect to the goods. In the
course of the charge, the court said: "The collector is not personally responsible for the negligence of his subordinates in
the custom-house department, and, therefore, he is not responsible for the negligence of persons employed in the warehouse
department.

.

.

.

In order to charge the defendant with

the loss, it is necessary that the plaintiffs should satisfy
you, by affirmative and responsible testimony, that the collector was personally guilty of negligence in the discharge of his
duty, either by misdeed or by omission.

.

.

.

This is

a suit against the collector, who did not have charge of the
goods; and, in order to render him liable, you must find him
to have betn guilty of personal neglect, misfeasance, or wrong.
• In view of the fact that the collector of New York
has charge of all the business from which two-thirds of the
entire revenue of the United States is collected, and has thousands of subordinates, and upon the evidence that only one
package out of every one hundred thousand which passed
through the hands of those subordinates has been lost, it is
strange that this case has been so urgently pressed, with the
idea that, upon any principle of equity, much less of law, there
could be any liability on the part of the collector." The jury
found a verdict for the defendant. (See, also, United 8tates v.
.Brodhead,3 Law Reporter, 95; Wharton on Agency, § 550.)
The judgment of the Circuit Court is 'reversed,and the case
is 'renanedto that court with a direction,to grant a new
triaZ.

