GLEASON v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

tiff, and the loss which happened was the immediate and
necessary consequence of the coercion which compelled him
to accompany the troops. It is true the plaintiff remained
with his goods, and took care of them so far as he could during
the march, but whatever he did in that respect was by the
orders or permission of the military authorities. Ie had no
independent control over them."
As it appears from the findings of the Court of Claims that
"plaintiffs' animals were often used to aid in hauling government trains, and thus did extra work on insufficient food,"
there is perhaps ground for a recovery to some extent under
the terms of the act for property taken and impressed into the
service of the United States; but we are unable from the
findings to determine the amount properly allowable on that
account. It becomes necessary, therefore, to reverse the judgments in both cases, and remand them to the Court of Claims
for more definite and specific findings; and inasmuch as we
have determined that the facts as found by the Court of Claims
in the present record do not enable us to determine what property of the plaintiffs was taken and impressed into the service
of the United States by Colonel Johnston, the cases may be
opened for further proofs on that point.
The judgments are therefore reversed, and the causes remanded to the Court of Claimsfor further poceedings in
accordancewith this opinion.

GLEASON v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 216. Argued April 10, 1888.-Decided April 23, 18S8.

G. performed work for the District of Columbia, and received therefor in
January, 1874, certificates of indebtedness of the Board of Public
Works of the District. He pledged these certificates as collateral for a
60-days note for an amount much less than their face, and made a general transfer of them to the pledgee. Before the maturity of the note

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
his creditor absconded. He then notified the President and the Treasurer
of the Board verbally of the transfer, and verbally protested to the
Board against payment of the certificates to the persons who had become
holders of them. In June, 1874, the Board was abolished, and a Board
of Audit was created to examine and audit for settlement the outstanding certificates of indebtedness issued by it. In October, 1874, G. flied a
bill in equity for the purpose, among other things, of restraining the
Board of Audit from allowing these certificates to their holders. On
demurrer a restraining order, which had been made under this bill, was
dissolved. The Board of Audit then allowed the certificates to their
holders, and 3.65 bonds of the District were issued for them. G. then
commenced this action against the District. Held, that he had been
guilty of gross negligence in the matter, which prevented him from
recovering against the District.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Yr. EppaiHunton and .Mr. 7. B. Edward for appellant.
XM.

F. P. Dewees for appellee.

Mm. JusTioE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims by the claimant,
Andrew Gleason, who brought suit in that court against the
District of Columbia, founding his demand upon certain certificates of the.Board of Public Works, which were delivered
to him, showing an indebtedness due on account of work done
for the defendant, the District of Columbia.
It appears that Gleason borrowed money from one Rudolph
Blumenburgh, to whom he gave his note for $30,000, due in
sixty days, on the 13th of January, 1874, depositing as collateral security the certificates already mentioned, which he indorsed in blank. Before the maturity of that note Blumenburgh absconded. These certificates afterwards turned up,
were presented to the Board of Audit for adjudication, and
were allowed by it to the full amount expressed on their face,
certificates of the Board of Audit being issued for them to the
parties presenting them, while the original certificates of the
Board of Public Works were cancelled. The holders of these
certificates of the Board of Audit afterwards received bonds

GLEASON v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

of the District of Columbia, called 3.65 bonds, in exchange
therefor.
The Court of Claims finds that when Gleason discovered
that Blumenburgh had absconded' with his certificates of the
.Board of Public Works he saw Magruder, treasurer of that
Board, and notified him that Blumenburgh had these certificates, protested against the payment of them, and also notified M r. Shepherd, who was president of the Board of Public
Works. It is a fair inference from this finding that this notification was given in a conversation, and was not in writing.
The opinion of the Court of Claims speaks of it as a verbal
notification.
On the 20th of June, 18'14, Congress passed an act, 18 Stat.
116, c. 337, abolishing the Board of Public Works and creating a commission to exercise all the power and authority
theretofore lawfully vested in the Governor or Board of Public Works of the District, with certain limitations. By the
6th section of that act the First and Secouid Comptrollers of
the Treasury of the United States wore constituted a Board of
Audit "to examine and audit for settlement," among other
things, "the debt purporting to be evidenced and .ascertained
by certificates of the auditor of the Board of Public Works."
In this class of debts were, of course, included the certificates
issued to Gleason and by him indorsed to Blumenburgh. The
character of this Board and its functions are commented on in
the case of -Laughlinv. Distr.ictof Columbia, 116 U. S. 485.
On the 13th day of October, 1874, four months after the
passage of this bill, after the creation of the Board of Audit
and after the powers of government in the District of Columbia had been transferred to the Commissioners, Gleason filed
his bill in equity in the Supreme Court of the District against
the Commissioners, the Board of Audit, the Comptroller of
the District of Columbia and the Sinking Fund Commissioners
of the District, alleging that he was the owner of the certificates now the subject of controversy. A restraining order
was made enjoining the issuing of certificates and Blumenburgh from receiving them, but on the 5th day of November
afterwards this restraining order was, at the instance of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

members of the Board of Audit, and on general demurrer, dissolved so far as it affected the members of that Board. There
is no finding, nor any evidence in the record, as to what became of that suit, so far as it related to the Commissioners
and Comptroller of the District, the Sinking Fund Commissioners, and Blumenburgh.
. As the finding shows that 3.65 bonds, negotiable on their
face, were issued for the entire amount of the certificates of
the Board of Audit, it is clear that if Gleason recovers in this
action, the District of Columbia will have to pay twice the
amount of his recovery. We think it equally clear, under the
facts of the case, that the fault in the matter lies with Mr.
Gleason. He placed his original certificates, which were issued
by the Board of Public Works, in the hands of Blumenburgh
with an unlimited indorsement, when he might have made a
statement that they were held as security for the sum which
he had borrowed. ' He knew, as the Court of Claims finds to
be the fact, that this class of securities was bought and sold
in the open market by tae moneyed men of the District of
Columbia, and that they were treated and considered as negotiable instruments. Although this court has decided that
they were not in the full sense of that term negotiable as
commercial paper, yet Gleason must have known that he was
placing them in the hands of Blumenburgh in a manner and
in a condition which would enable him to perpetrate a fraud;
either upon Gleason himself, or upon some other person to
whom he might sell them. When he discovered that Blumenburgh had absconded, and that his certificates could not be
found, the steps which he took to protect himself, or the District of Columbia, were very inefficient as compared with
what he might have taken, since he merely gave a verbal
notice of the facts to Shepherd and Magruder, the president
and treasurer respectively of the Board of Public Works. He
made no representations in writing, giving an accurate and
full description of the certificates, as he might have done.
He might, also, while the Board of Public Works was an existing body, have brought his suit against them of the same
character as the one he afterwards brought against the Con-

GLEASON v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

missioners and the Board of Audit. This he did not do, but
on the contrary when he finally initiated legal proceedings
the parties to whom he had given the notice were no longer
officers of the District of Columbia, nor is there any evidence
that the statement .or warning which he gave to Shepherd
and Magruder ever came to the knowledge of the Commissioners, or was brought to the attention of the other proper
officers of the District, who might have been bound in a decree in the case.
As to the Board of Audit, it is very clear that the Supreme
Court of the District could not rightfully, at the instance of
Gleason, enjoin it from proceeding to perform the very duty
which was appropriate to that condition of affairs then existing, namely, to audit the claims represented by these certificates, to determine whether the District of Columbia was'
responsible for them, and if so, to whom it was responsible.
The Board of Audit, in accordance with the statute under
which it was created, gave public notice that it would hear
and examine into all these claims. Mr. Gleason seems to have
contented himself with the very imperfect notice which he
had given to the persons representing the District government.
He did not appear before the Board of Audit at any time; he
does not seem to have inquired whether these certificates were
presented before them, or to have made any effort to ascertain
whether they would consider them, or when their examination
would be undertaken. He offered no evidence of his interest
in or his right to the certificates. They came before that
board, as it is fair to presume, with the indorsements and
transfers upon them, so that p?,ima facie a case was made out
entitling the parties who presented them to receive the certificates of the board for their amount.
In thus standing aloof, and supposing, if he did so suppose,
that the Board of Audit would hunt up the evidence of the
fact that he had an interest in these certificates and take upon
itself the business of presenting a case against the certificates
as they came before it, of which claim it knew nothing and
had no evidence, and which Gleason himself did not come
forward to establish, he was guilty of the grossest negligence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a negligence which must now prevent him from recovering
against the District of Columbia the amount of those certificates, or any part of them. Throughout the whole transaction
he has shown a want of diligence and care; First, by placing
in the possession of Blumenburgh, with an unlimited indorsement, these instruments for which be received an advance of
the amount of money agreed upon between them; and, second, by the imperfect notices that he gave when he found
that Blumenburgh had absconded with his certificates. The
efforts he then made to protect himself, or the Distridt of
Columbia., were wholly inefficient and not such as the case
required of him. Verbal notice in a conversation with the
president and treasurer of the Board of Public Works, even if
that body had continued in existence, was not such notice as
*the case demanded. His entire neglect also to make any
appearance before the Board of Audit, or to assert any claim
before that body, established especially for the purpose of adjudicating upon such claims as his against the Board of Public
Works, and his knowledge of the fact that he had himself
placed in the hands of others the means of asserting the claim
which he now brings against the District of Columbia, are all
evidence of such laches and neglect as in our judgment precludes his right to recover in this action.
The principle on which this case was decided in the Court
of Claims was, we think, established by the judgment of this
court in -Laughlin v. Distriet of Columbia, already cited.
There the court said: "The statute authorizing the Board [of
Audit] gave notice to Laughlin [who was in a similar condition
to Gleason] that he must himself appear before that tribunal
to assert his rights as against the holder of his certificates, or
take some other steps to prevent their payment, and, if he did
not, that his claim against the District might be lost. The
board, even if his letter had been brought to its attention,
would not have been compelled to give him any other notice
to appear than that which he already had. As he failed to
appear at all there was nothing for the board to do but to act
upon the evidence which was before it, and decide accordingly." pp. 490, 491.

KELLEY v. MILAN.
Statement of the Case.

That is precisely what was done in the present case. We
think the judgment of the Court of Claims in the matter was
correct, and it is accordingly
Affrmed.

KELLEY v. MILAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 206.

Argued April 4, 5, 1888.-

Decided April 23, 1888.

In this case certain negotiable bonds, issued by the town of Milan, Tennessee, were held to have been issued without lawful authority.
A municipal corporation, in order to exercise the power of becoming a
stockholder in a railroad corporation, must have such power expressly
conferred by a grant from the legislature; and even such power does
not carry with it the power to issue negotiable bonds in payment of the
subscription, unless the latter power is expressly, or by reasonable implication, conferred by statute.
Certain provisions of the statutes of Tennessee considered and held not to
confer power on the town of Milan to issue the bonds in question.
In a suit in chancery, brought by the town authorities to have the bonds
declared invalid, a decree had been entered declaring them valid, on a
consent to that effect signed by the mayor of the town: Held, that the
consent of the mayor could give no greater validity to the bonds than
they before had, and that the decree was not an adjudication of the
question of such validity.

THIS was an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee, by
Albert Kelley and Lawrence D. Alexander, co-partners under
the firm name of Kelley & Alexander, citizens of New York,
against the mayor and aldermen of Milan, a municipal corporation organized under the laws of Tennessee, to recover the
sum of $5040, being the amount of 144 coupons, for $35 each,
cut from twelve bonds purporting to have been issued by the
defendant, bearing date July 1, 1873, each for the payment of
the sum of $1000, payable to or bearer, on the 1st of
July, 1893, 24 of which coupons matured on the 1st of July,
1876, 24 on the 1st of July, 1877, 24: on the 1st of July, 1878,

