540

0.

,.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

CALLAN

v. WILSON.

AIPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLOMBIA.
No. 1318.

.rgued January 16, 1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

The provision in article 3 of the Constitution of the United States that
"the trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
jury," is to be construed in the light of the principles which, at common
law, determined whether ox not a person accused of crime was entitled
to be tried by a jury; and thus construed, it embraces not only felonies
punishable by confinement in the penitentiary, but also some classes
of misdemeanors the punishment of which may involve the deprivation
of the liberty of the citizen.
The provisions in the Constitution of the United States relating to trial by
jury are in force in the District of Columbia.
A person accused of a conspiracy to prevent another person from pursuing
a lawful avocation, and, by intimidation and molestation, to reduce him
to beggary and want, is entitled, under the provisions of the Constitution
of the United States, to a trial by jury.
The Police Court of the District of -Columbia is without constitutional
power to try, convict, and sentence to punishment a person accused of a
conspiracy to prevent another person from pursuing his calling and trade
anywhere in the United States and to boycott, injure, molest, oppress,
intimidate and reduce him to beggary and want, although the Revised
Statutes relating to the District of Columbia provide that "any party
deeming himself aggrieved by the judgment of the Police Court may
appeal to the Supreme Court" of the District.

T.H court stated the case as follows:
This was an appeal from a judgment refusing, upon writ of
habeas cous, to discharge the appellant from the custody of
the appellee as Marshal of the District of Columbia. It appears that by. aVn information filed by the United States in the
Police Court of the District, the petitioner, with others, was
charged with the crime of conspiracy, and having been found
guilty by the court was sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five
dollars, and upon default in its payment to suffer imprisonment in jail for the period of thirty days. He perfected an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the District, but having subsequently withdrawn it, and having refused to pay the fine im-

-

CALLAN v. WILSON.,'
Statement of the Case.

posed upon him, he was committed to the custody of the
Marshal, to the end that the sentence might be carried into
effect.
The contention of the petitioner was that he is restrained
of his liberty in violation of the Constitution. The various
grounds of this contention will be considered, so far as it is
necessary to do so, after we shall have ascertained the precise nature of the offence of which the petitioner was found
guilty.
The information showed that one Franz Krause, Louis
Naecker, August Naecker, Charles Arndt, Louis Naecker, Jr.,
Herman Feige, Gustav A. Bruder, Fritz Boetcher, Herman
Arndt, Julius Schultz, Louis Brandt, Caspar Windus, Ernest
Arndt, and Christian Feige were, during the months of July
and August, 1887, residents of this District, each pursuing the
calling of a musician;
That, during those months, there was in the District an
association or organization of musicians, by the name of "The
Washington Musical Assembly, No. 4308, K. of L.," containing
one hundred and fifty members, and a branch of a larger association known as "The Knights of Labor of America," extending throughout the United States, and having a membership
of five hundred thousand persons, of which ten thousand were
residents of this District;
That, during the period named, Edward C. Linden, Louis P.
Wild, John N. Pistorio, James C. Callan (the appellant), Joseph B. Caldwell, George N. Sloan, John Fallon, Anton
Fischer and Frank Pistorio were members of the said local
assembly, each pursuing the calling of a musician;
That, on the 17th of July, 1887, said local association imposed upon Franz Krause, one of its members, two fines, one
of $25 and the other of $50, which he refused to pay upon the
ground that they were illegal; and
That said Linden, Wild, Pistorio, Callan, Caldwell, Sloan,
Fallon, Fischer, with sundry other persons, whose names were
unknown, did, on the 7th day of August, 1887, unlawfully and
maliciously combine, conspire, and confederate together to extort from Krause the sum of $75 on account of said fines; to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

prevent the parties first above named -Krause, Naecker, and
others -and each of them, from pursuing their calling and
trade anywhere in the United States; and to "boycott," injure,
molest, oppress, intimidate, and reduce to beggary and want,
not only said persons and each of them, but any person who
should work with or for them, or should employ them or
either of them.
The information charged that the manner in which the defendants, so conspiring, proposed to effect said result, was to
refuse to work as musicians, or in any other capacity, with or
for the persons first above named, or with or for any person,
firm, or corporation, working with or employing them; to request and procure all other members of said organizations, and
all other workmen and tradesmen, not to work as musicians,
or in any capacity, with or for them or either of them, or for
any person, firm, or corporation that employed or worked with
them or either of them, and to warn and threaten every person, firm, or corporation that employed or proposed to employ
the said persons, or either of them, that if they did not forthwith cease to so employ them and refuse to employ them, and
each of them, such person, firm, or corporation, so warned and
threatened, would be deprived of any custom or patronage, as
well from the persons so combining and conspiring as from
all other members of said organization in and out of the District.
The information further charged that, on the 8th day of
August, 1887, the said persons, among whom was the appellant. in execution of the purpose of said conspiracy, combination, and confederacy, sent and delivered to each member
of "The Washington Musical Assembly, No. 4308, K. of L.,"
and to divers other persons in the District whose names are
unknown, a certain printed circular of the tenor following:
"SAcru&RyWASHINGTON MusIcAL AssEmBLY, 4308, K. OF L.,
" WASHINGTON, D. C., August 8th, 1887.

"Dear Sir and Brother: In accordance with a resolution of
this assembly and in compliance with the constitution and bylaws of the order, you are hereby notified that the following-

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Argument for Appellee.

named members of this assembly are hereby suspended for
having performed with F. Krause, in direct violation of the
official notice of said Krause's suspension from this assembly.
You will, therefore, not engage or perform, directly or indirectly, with any of them -Louis Naecker, August Naecker,
Charles Arndt, Louis Naecker, Jr., Herman Feige, Gus. A.
Bruder, Fritz Boetcher, Herman Arndt, Julius Schultz, Louis
Brandt, Caspar Windus, Ernest Arndt, Christian Feige.
"By order of the assembly.
"[sEAT.]
E. C. LINDEN, JP,
" Recording Seo'y."
To this information the defendants interposed a demurrer,
which was overruled. They united in requesting a trial by
jury. That request was denied, and a trial was had before
the court, without the intervention of a jury, and with the
result already stated.
Mrlh. J. H. Ralston for appellant.

XI!r. ChaZes S. iloore

was with him on the brief.
M]fr. Assistant Attorney General faury for appellee.
The conspiracy laid in the information is not an "infamous
crime," within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution, the punishment of the offence not being by confinement in a penitentiary, and the offence itself not being
crimen falsi. Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417: -Mackin v.
United States, 117 U. S. 348.
It would seem that the Constitution does not require that
the right of trial by jury shall be secured to the people of'this
District. Article 3, § 2, does not appear to contain such a
requirement, when attentively considered, in the light of contemporaneous construction.
Mr. Madison in the first Congress moved the appointment
of a select committee on the subject of amending the Constitution. 1 Debates in Congress, 0. S. 448. This and the
amendments proposed by the several States were referred to a
committee. Ib.690

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Appellee.

The articles of the committee's report covering, inter alia,
the third paragraph of the second section of the third article
of the Constitution are the thirteenth and fourteenth, and are
as follows:
11THITEENTH. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial; to be informed
of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted
with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process
for obtaining witnesses in his favor; and to have the assistance of counsel for his defence.
"FOURTENTH. The trial of all crimes (except in cases of
impeachment, and in cases arising in the land or naval forces,
or in the militia when in actual service in time of war or public danger) shall be by an impartial jury of the vicinage, with
the requisite of unanimity for conviction, the right of challenge, and other accustomed requisites; and no person shall
be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment by a grand jury; but
if a crime be committed in a }lace in the possession of an
enemy, or in which an insurrectionmay _prevail, the indictment
and trialmay by law be authdrized in some other place WITHfl
THE SAME STATE."

Now it was evidently upon the idea that what was contained in these two articles was more than the full equivalent
of the third paragraph of the second section of the third
article of the Constitution, that the committee recommended
that that paragraph should be stricken out and article 13 of
the report inserted in its room. 1 Debates, 0. S. 784.
It is manifest that the sole purpose of the committee was
to provide for the, trial by jury of crimes committed within
the States, and nowhere else, and this intention is carried out
by the provision of the Sixth Amendment securing the right
to trial by jury "in the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed."
But to complete the history of this Sixth Amendment, it is
necessary to lay before the court the amendment recommended
by M9r. Madison for insertion in the Constitution in place of
the third clause or paragraph of the second section of the

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Argument for Appellee.

third article, which was to be stricken out.
lows :

It is as fol-

"1Seventhly,That in article 3, section 2, the third clause be
struck out, and in its place be inserted the clauses following,
to wit:
"The trial of all crimes (except in cases of impeachments,
and cases arising in the land or naval forces, or the militia
when on actual service in time of war or public danger), shall
be by an impartial jury of freeholders of the vicinage, with
the requisite of unanimity for conviction, of the right of challenge, and other accustomed requisites; and in all crimes
punishable with loss of life or member, presentment or indictment by a grand jury shall be an essential preliminary, provided that in cases of crimes committed within any county
which may be in possession of an enemy, or in which a general insurrection may prevail, the trial may by law be authorized in some other county of the same State, as near as may
be to the seat of the offence.
"In cases of crimes committed not within any county, the
trial may by law be in such county as the laws shall have
prescribed. In suits at common law, between man and man,
the trial by jury as one of the best securities to the rights of
the people, ought to remain inviolate."
It would seem from the context that the reference to
"crimes committed not within any county" is, as in the previous paragraph, to crimes committed within the jurisdiction of
a State, although without the limits of a county, as, for example, crimes committed on the high seas within the limit up
to which the state law is allowed to have effect. The subsequent words that in such cases "the trial may by law be in
sud county as the laws shall have prescribed" would seem to
call for that meaning.
But, supposing a constitutional guaranty of trial by jury to
exist, it has not been denied.
The language of the Sixth Amendment is "shall enjoy the
9.ight" to a trial by jury. The original language of the Constitution was that "the trial of all crimes except in: cases of impeachment shall be by jury."
VOL. cxxvu-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellee.

This marked change of phraseology could not have been
adopted without an intention to convey in the amendment a
sense different from that of the third article. We know from
the debates in the House (the Senate sat at that time with
closed doors) that the disposition among the friends of the
Constitution was to make no changes in it that could possibly
be avoided, which is an additional argument strongly in favor
of our position.
We submit, then, that it is clear that the requirement of the
Sixth Amendment that the accused shall enjoy the right of trial
by jury is a lexyro se introduct which is largely subject to
the will of the accused, and not a mode of trial forced upon
him as it was by the provision of the Constitution which was
supplanted by the Amendment.
This being established, we have made a great stride towards
the solution of the question in hand.
The legislation complained of is not a novelty, but has its
exemplar in many of the States.
The offences to which the jurisdiction of the police court
extends are "simple assaults and batteries and all other misdemeanors not punishable by imprisonment in the-penitentiary; and of all offences against the laws and ordinances of
the District in force therein." § 1049, Rev. Stat. District
of Columbia.
Any person who feels aggrieved by the judgment of the
police court may appeal to the Supreme Court of the District,
§ 1073, where his appeal shall be tried by a jury "as th.ugh
the ease had originated therein, and the judgment of the

Supreme Court shall be final in the case." Section 773.
Mr. Dillon in his work on Municipal Corporations, Vol. 1,
§ 367, thus states the law with reference to this kind of legislation after a survey of the authorities. He says: "It is,
however, the prevailing doctrine that although the charge or
matter in the municipal or local courts be one in respect of
which the party is entitled to a trial by jury, yet if by an
appeal, clogged with no unreasonable restrictions, he can have
-such a trial as a matter of right in the appellate court, this is
sufficient, and his constitutional right to a jury trial is not
invaded by the summary proceeding in the first instance.

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

See, also, City of Empori v. 17olmer, 12 Kansas, 622;
Byers v. Commonwealth, 42 Penn. St. 89; X1c Gear v. Foodruf, 33 N. J.Law (4 Vroom), 213; State v. Young, 3 Kansas, 445; Jones v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 329; Commonwealth v.
Whitney, 108 Mass. 5; .Dillingham v. State, 5 Ohio St. 280;
Cooley's Const. Lim. [4:10] note 5, and 507, 5th ed.
The only case opposed to the view contended for by us is
Exparte Dana,7 Ben. 1, where it was held that the very legislation now in question was uncqnstitutional on the ground
that the guaranty of jury trial cannot lie satisfied, at least in
criminal cases, by the mere privilege to have a trial by jury on
condition of first submitting to a trial without it, and then, in
case of conviction, taking an appeal.
It is proper to call the attention of the court to the view,
supported by authority, that the guaranty of trial by jury has
never been understood to embrace petty offences. Byers v.
Commonwealth, 42 Penn. St. 89, per Strong J.; .MGearv.
Woodruf 33 N. J. Law (4 Yroom), 213.
Mn. JusTicE HARLAN, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended by the appellant that the Constitution of the
United States secured to him the right to be tried by a jury,
and, that right having been denied, the police court was without jurisdiction to impose a fine upon him, or to order him to
be imprisoned until such fine was paid. This precise question
is now, for the first time, presentcd for determination by this
court. If the appellant's position be sustained, it will follow
that the statute, (Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. § 1064,) dispensing with
a petit jury, in prosecutions by information in the police court,
is inapplicable to cases like the present one.
The third article of the Constitution provides that "the
trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
jury, and such trial shall be held in the State where the said
crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed
within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places as
the Congress may by law have directed." The Fifth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment provides that no person shall "be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law." By the
Sixth Amendment it is declared that "in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and publi6
trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein
the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have
been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the
nature and cause of. the accusation; to be confronted with the
witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for his defence."
The contention of the appellant is, that the offence with
which he is charged is a '' crime" within the meaning of the
third article of the Constitution, and that he was entitled to
be tried by a jury; that his trial by the police court, without
a jury, was not "due process of law" within the meaning of
the Fifth Amendment; and that, in any event, the prosecution
against him was a "criminal prosecution," in which he was
entitled, by the Sixth Amendment, to a speedy and public trial
by an impartial jury.
The contention of the government is, that the Constitution
does not require that the right of trial by jury shall be secured
to the people of the District of Columbia; that the original
provision, that-when a crime was not committed within any
State "the trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed," had, probably, reference only
to offences committed on the high seas; that, in adopting the
Sixth Amendment, the people of the States were solicitous
about trial by jury in the States and nowhere else, leaving it
entirely to Congress to declare in what way persons should be
tried who might be accused of crime on the high seas, and in
the District of Columbia and in places to be thereafter ceded
for the purposes, respectively, of a seat of government, forts,
magazines, arsenals, and dock-yards; and, consequently, that
that Amendment should be deemed to have superseded so
much of the third article of the Constitution as relates to the
trial of crimes by a jury.
Upon a careful examination of this position we are of opin-

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ion that it cannot be sustained without violence to the letter
and spirit of the Constitution.
The third article of the Constitution provides for a jury in
the trial of "all crimes, except in cases of impeachment."
The word "crime," in its more extended sense, comprehends
every violation of public law; in a limited sense, it embraces
offences of a serious or atrocious character. In our opinion,
the provision is to be interpreted in the light of the principles
which, at common law, determined whether the accused, in a
given class of cases, was entitled to be tried by a jury. It is
not to be construed as relating only to felonies, or offences
punishable by confinement in the penitentiary. It embraces
as well some classes of misdemeanors, the punishment of
which involves or may involve the deprivation of the liberty
of the citizen. It would be a narrow construction of the Constitution to hold that no prosecution for a misdemeanor is a
prosecution for a "crime" within the meaning of the third
article, or a "criminal prosecution" within the meaning of
the Sixth Amendment. And we do not think that the amendment was intended to supplant that part of the third article
which relates to trial by jury. There is no necessary conflict
between them. Mr. Justice Story says that the amendment,
"in declaring that the accused shall enjoy the right to a
speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State or
district wherein the crime shall have been committed, (which
district shall be previously ascertained by law,) and to be
informed of the nature and cause of the accusation, and to be
confronted with the witnesses against him, does but follow out
the established course of the common law in all trials for
crimes." Story on the Constitution, § 1791. And as the guarantee of a trial by jury, in the third article, implied a trial in
that mode and according to the settled rules of the common
law, the enumeration, in the Sixth Amendment, of the rights
of the accused in criminal prosecutions, is to be taken as a declaration of what those rules were, and is to be referred to the
anxiety of the people of the States to have in the supreme law
of the land, and so far as the agencies of the General Government were concerned, a full and distinct recognition of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

rules, as involving the fundamental rights of life, liberty, and
property. This recognition was demanded and secured for the
benefit of all the people of the United States, as well those
permanently or temporarily residing in the District of Columbia, as those residing or being in the several States. There is
nothing in the history of the Constitution or of the original
amendments to justify the assertion that the people of this
District may be lawfully deprived of the benefit of any of the
constitutional guarantees of life, liberty, and property - especially of the privilege of trial by jury in criminal cases. In
the Draft of a Constitution reported by the Committee of
Five on the 6th of August, 1787, in the convention which
framed the Constitution, the 4th section of article XI read
that "the trial of all criminal offences (except in cases of impeachment) shall be in the States where they shall be committed; and shall be by jury." 1 Elliott's Deb., 2d ed., 229.
But that article was, by unanimous vote, amended so as to
read: "The trial of all crimes (except in cases of impeachment) shall 'be by jury; and such trial shall be held in the
State where the said crimes shall have been committed; but
when not committed within any State, then the trial shall be
at such place or places as the legislature may direct." Id.
270. The object of thus amending the section, Mr. Madison
says, was "to provide for trial by jury of offences committed
out of any State." 3 Madison Papers, 144. In Reynolds v.
United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154, it was taken for granted that
the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution secured to the people of the Territories the right of trial by jury in criminal
prosecutions; and it had been previously held in Webster v.
Reid, 11 How. 437,460, that the Seventh Amendment secured
to them a like right in civil actions at common law. We cannot think that the people of this District have, in that regard,
less rights than those accorded to the people of the Territories
of the United States.
It is next insisted that the constitutional guarantee of trial
by jury in all criminal prosecutions- even supposing it to
exist for the people of the District-has not been denied.
Passing by so much of the argument as rests upon the slight

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

difference in phraseology between the third article and the
Sixth Amendment-the former declaring that the trial of all
crimes "shall be" by jury, and the latter that the accused
shall "enjoy the right" to trial in that mode - we come to
the consideration of the main proposition advanced, on behalf
of the government, upon this branch of the case. It is this:
That the requirements of the Constitution are fully met,
where the accused is accorded, at some stage of the prosecution against him, the right of trial by jury. Such right, it is
argued, is sufficiently recognized in the following sections of
the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia, defining and
regulating the power and jurisdiction of the police court:
"SEc. 1073. Any party deeming himself aggrieved by the
judgment of the police court may appeal to the Supreme
Court.
"SEc. 1074. In all appeals the party applying for appeal
shall enter into recognizance, with sufficient surety to be approved by the judge, for his appearance at the criminal term
of the Supreme Court then in session, or at the next term
thereof if the criminal term be not then in session, there to
prosecute the appeal and to abide by the judgment of the
Supreme Court.
"SEc. 1075. Upon such recognizance being given all further
proceedings in police court shall be stayed."
"SEc. 1077. Upon the failure of any party appealing from
the judgment of the police court to the Supreme Court to enter
into recognizance, as provided for in section ten hundred and
seventy-four, he shall be committed to jail to await his trial
upon his appeal, and the trial shall be had in the Supreme
Court as though such recognizance had been entered into."
"SEc. 773. Appeals from the police court shall be tried on
the information filed in the court below, certified to Supreme
Court, by a jury in attendance thereat, as though the case had
originated therein, and the judgment in the Supreme Court
shall be final in the case."
These provisions, undoubtedly, secure the right of appeal
from the police court to the Supreme Court of the District,
and a trial by jury in the latter court. But the fact remains

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that the accused may, under the statute, be tried in the court
of original jurisdiction, upon the issue of guilt or innocence;
and by its judgment, unless he gives security for his appearance in another court, he may be deprived of his liberty. The
police court is not, in such cases, an examining court merely,
but a trial court, in the fullest sense of those words.
According to many adjudged cases, arising under constitutions which declare, generally, that the right of trial by jury
shall remain inviolate, there are certain minor or petty offences
that may be proceeded against summarily, and without a jury;
and, in respect to other offences, the constitutional requirement is satisfied if the right to a trial by jury in an appellate
court is accorded to the accused. Byers v. Commonwealth, 42
Penn. St. 89, 94, affords an illustration of the first of the
above classes. It was there held that while the founders of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania brought with them to
their new abode the right of trial by jury, and while that
mode of *trial was considered the right of every Englishman,
too sacred to be surrendered or taken away, "summary convictions for petty offences against statutes were always sustained, and they were never supposed to be in conflict with the
common-law right to a trial by jury." So, in State v. Glenn,
54 Maryland, 572, 600, 605, it was said that "in England,
notwithstanding the provision in the Miagna Charta of King
John, art. 46, and in that of 9 Hen. 3, c. 29, which declares
that no freeman shall be taken, imprisoned, or condemned,
' but by lawful judgment of his peers, or by the law of the
land,' it has been the constant course of legislation in that
kingdom, for centuries past, to confer summary jurisdiction
upon justices of the peace for the trial and conviction of parties
for minor and statutory police offences. . . . And when it
is declared that the party is entitled to a speedy trial by an
impartial jury, that must be understood as referring to such
crimes and accusations as have, by the regular course of the
law and the established modes of procedure, as theretofore:
practised, been the subjects of jury trial. It could never have
been intended to embrace every species of accusation involving either criminal or penal consequences." So, also, in New

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Jersey, where the constitution guaranteed that "the right of
trial by jury shall remain inviolate," the court said: "Extensive and summary police powers are constantly exercised in all
the States of the Union for the repression of breaches of the
peace and petty offences, and these statutes are not supposed
to conflict with the constitutional provisions securing to the
citizen a trial by jury.

.

.

This constitutional provision

does not prevent the enforcement of the by-laws of a municipal corporation without a jury trial."
lcGea'r v. TFoodruf,
4 Vroom, 213, 217. In State v. Conlin, 27 Vermont, 318, 323,
the court sustains the right of the legislature to provide for
the punishment of minor offences, having reference to the
internal police of the State, "with fine only, or imprisonment
in the county jail for a brief and limited period." See, also,
TRIliarn v. Augusta, 4 Georgia, 509.
The doctrines of many of the cases are thus summarized by
Mr. Dillon in his work on Municipal Corporations (Vol. I, §
433): "1Violation s of municipal by-laws proper, such as fall
within the description of municipal police regulations, as, for
example, those concerning markets, streets, water-works, city
officers, etc., and which relate to acts and omissions that are
not embraced in the general criminal legislation of the State,
the legislature may authorize to be prosecuted in a summary
manner, by and in the name of the corporation, and need not
provide for a trial by jury. Such acts and omissions are not
crimes or misdemeanors to which the constitutional right of
trial by jury extends."
The same author says, in respect to the other class of cases
above referred to: "It is, however, the prevailing doctrine,
that although the charge or matter in the municipal or local
courts be one in respect of which the party is entitled to a
trial by jury, yet if by an appeal, clogged with no unreasonable restrictions, he can have such a trial as a matter of right
in the appellate court, this is sufficient, and his constitutional
right to a jury trial is not invaded by the summary proceedings in the first instance." Vol. I, § 439. See also City of
Emporiav. TFolmer, 12 Kansas, 622, 630. Perhaps the strongest expressions, in this direction, are to be found in Jones

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 329, 341, in which it was said, on behalf
of the majority of the Supreme Judicial Court of Mlassachusetts: "And we believe it has been generally understood and
practised here and in Maine, and perhaps in other States having a similar provision, that as the object of the clause*is to
secure a benefit to the accused, which he may avail himself of
or waive, at his own election; and as, the purpose of the
provision is to secure the right, without directing the mode
in which it shall be enjoyed; it is not violated by an act of
legislation, which authorizes a single magistrate to try and
pass sentence, provided the act contains a provision that the
party shall have an unqualified and unfettered right of appeal,
and a trial by jury in the appellate court, subject only to the
common liability to give bail, or to be committed to jail, to
insure his appearance and to abide the judgment of the court
appealed to."
Somewhat different views have been expressed by the District Cdurt of the United States for the Southern District of
New York. Charles A. Dana having been charged by information in the Police Court of the District of Columbia with
having published a libel, and having been arrested in New
York, the warrant to authorize his being brought here was
refused and he was discharged, upon the ground that, if
brought to this District, he would be tried in a manner forbidden by the Constitution. Mr. Justice Blatchford said In re
.Dana,7 :Benedict, 14: "Even if it were to be conceded that
notwithstanding the provision in the Constitution, that 'the
trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be
by jury,' Congress has the right to provide for the trial, in the
District of Columbia, by a court without a jury, of such
offences as were, by the laws and usages in force at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution, triable without a jury, it
is a matter of history, that the offence of libel was always triable, and tried, by a jury. It is, therefore, one of the crimes
which must, under the Constitution, be tried by a jury. The
act of 1870 provides that the information in this case shall not
be tried by a jury, but shall be tried by a court. It is true that
it gives to the defendant, after judgment, if he deems himself

CALLAN v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

aggrieved thereby, the right to appeal to another court, where
the information must be tried by a jury. Bat this does not
remove the objection. If Congress has the power to deprive
the defendant of his right to a trial by jury, for one trial, and
to put him, if convicted, to an appeal to another court, to
secure a trial by jury, it is difficult to see why it may not also
have the power to provide for several trials by a court, without a jury, on several successive convictions, before allowing a
trial by a jury. In my judgment, the accused is entitled, not
to be first convicted by a court and then to be acquitted by a
jury, but to be convicted or acquitted in the first instance by
a jury."
Without further reference to the authorities, and conceding,
that there is a class of petty or minor offences, not usually
embraced in public criminal statutes, and not of the class or
grade triable at -common law by a jury, and which, if committed inthis District, may, under the authority of Congress,
be tried by the court and without a jury, we are of opinion
that the offence with which the appellant is charged does not
belong to that class. A conspiracy such as is charged'against
him and his codefendants i& by no -means a petty or trivial
offence. "1The general rule of the common law," the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts said in Commonwealth
v. Runt, 4 Met. 111, 121, "is, that it is a criminal and indictable offence, for two or more to confederate and combine
together, by concerted means, to do that which is unlawful or
criminal, to the injury of the public, or portions or classes of
the community, or even to the rights of an individual." In
State v. Burnham,15 N. H. 396, 401, it was held that "combinations against law or against individuals are always dangerous to the public peace and to public security. To guard
against the union of individuals to effect an unlawful design
is not easy, and to detect and punish them is often extremely
difficult." Hawkins, in discussing the nature of conspiracies
as offences against public justice, and referring especially to
the statute of 21 Edw. I, relating to confederacies to procure
the indictment of an innocent person, says that "notwithstanding the injury intended to the party against whom such

OCTOBER, TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

a confederaoy is formed may perhaps be inconsiderable, yet
the association to pervert the law, in order to procure it, seems
to be a crime of a very high nature, and justly to deserve the
resentment of the law." 1 Hawk. P. C. c. 72, § 3. So in
Regina v. Parnell, 14 Cox C. C. 508, 514, it was observed
that an "agreement to effect an injury or wrong to another
by two or more persons is constituted an offence, because the
wrong to be effected by a combination assumes a formidable
character. When done by one alone it is but a civil injury,
but it assumes a formidable or aggravated character when it
is to be effected by the powers of the combination." Tomlin
says that "the word conspiracy was formerly used almost
exclusively for an agreement of two or more persons falsely
to indict one, or to procure him to be indicted, of felony," but
that "now it is no less commonly used for the unlawful combinations of journeymen to raise their wages, or to refuse
working, except on certain stipulated conditions." Toml. Law
Dict., Title Conspiracy. See, also, Commonwealth v. Carlisle,
Brightly (Penn.), 40; 3 Whart. Crim. Law, § 1337 et seq., 8th
ed.; 2 Archibold's Cr. Pr. & P1. (Pomeroy's ed.) 1830, note.
These authorities are sufficient to show the nature of the
crime of conspiracy at common law. It is an offence of a
grave character, affecting the public at large, and we are
unable to, hold that a person charged with having committed
it in this District is not entitled to a jury, when put upon his
trial. The jurisdiction of the Police Court, as defined by
existing statutes, does not extend to the trial of infamous
crimes or offences punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary. But the argument, made in behalf of the government,
implies that if Congress should provide the Police Court with
a grand jury, and authorize that court to try, without a petit
jury, all persons indicted -even for crimes punishable by confinement in the penitentiary -such legislation would not be
an invasion of the constitutional right of trial by jury, provided the accused, after being tried and sentenced in the Police
Court, is given an unobstructed right of appeal to, and trial
by jury in, another court to which the case may be taken.
We cannot assent to that interpretation qf the Constitution.

JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
Syllabus.

Except in that class or grade of offences called petty offences,
which, according to the common law, may be proceeded
against summarily in any tribunal legally constituted for that
purpose, the guarantee of an impartial jury to the accused in
a criminal prosecution, conducted either in the name, or by or
under the authority of, the United States, secures to him the
right to enjoy that mode of trial from the first moment, and
in whatever court, he is put on trial for the offence charged.
In such cases a judgment of conviction, not based upon a verdict of guilty by a jury, is void. To accord to the accused a
right to be tried by a jury, in an appellate court, after he has
been once fully tried otherwise than by a jury, in the court of
original jurisdiction, and sentenced to pay a fine or be imprisoned for not paying it, does not satisfy the requirements of
the Constitution. When, therefore, the appellant was brought
before the Supreme Court of the District, and the fact was
disclosed that he had been adjudged guilty of the crime of
conspiracy charged in the information in this case, without
ever having been tried by a jury, he should have been restored
to his liberty.
For the reasons stated,
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded with di'ections to discharge the apeYlantfrom custody.

JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
APPEAL FROM THE

IROUIT

COURT

THE SOUTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 149. Argued January 26,1888. -Decided

May 14,1888.

Claim I of letters patent No.154,989, granted to Jacob 0. Joyce, September 15, 1874, for an improvement in lifting-jacks, namely, " A pawl for
lever-jack with two or more teeth, and adapted to move in inclined slots,
grooves, or guides formed in the frame, substantially as described,"
must be construed as limited to a pawl which acts wholly by gravity, and
not at all by a spring, to press it against the teeth of the ratchet-bar.

