JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
Syllabus.

Except in that class or grade of offences called petty offences,
which, according to the common law, may be proceeded
against summarily in any tribunal legally constituted for that
purpose, the guarantee of an impartial jury to the accused in
a criminal prosecution, conducted either in the name, or by or
under the authority of, the United States, secures to him the
right to enjoy that mode of trial from the first moment, and
in whatever court, he is put on trial for the offence charged.
In such cases a judgment of conviction, not based upon a verdict of guilty by a jury, is void. To accord to the accused a
right to be tried by a jury, in an appellate court, after he has
been once fully tried otherwise than by a jury, in the court of
original jurisdiction, and sentenced to pay a fine or be imprisoned for not paying it, does not satisfy the requirements of
the Constitution. When, therefore, the appellant was brought
before the Supreme Court of the District, and the fact was
disclosed that he had been adjudged guilty of the crime of
conspiracy charged in the information in this case, without
ever having been tried by a jury, he should have been restored
to his liberty.
For the reasons stated,
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded with di'ections to discharge the apeYlantfrom custody.

JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
APPEAL FROM THE

IROUIT

COURT

THE SOUTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 149. Argued January 26,1888. -Decided

May 14,1888.

Claim I of letters patent No.154,989, granted to Jacob 0. Joyce, September 15, 1874, for an improvement in lifting-jacks, namely, " A pawl for
lever-jack with two or more teeth, and adapted to move in inclined slots,
grooves, or guides formed in the frame, substantially as described,"
must be construed as limited to a pawl which acts wholly by gravity, and
not at all by a spring, to press it against the teeth of the ratchet-bar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
Such claim is not infringed by a jack in which a spring is used to press the
pawl against the teeth of the ratchet-bar, and in which there are no
slots, guides or grooves formed in the frame, to guide the pawl.

SEQUITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

Mr. .E.E. Wood for appellant. 21r. Edward Boyd was
with him on the brief.
No appearance for appellees.
MR.JusTicE

BLATCHFOED

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, by Jacob
0. Joyce against the Chillicothe Foundry and Machine Works
Company and F. M. De Weese, to recover for the infringement of letters patent of the United States, No. 154,989,
granted to Jacob 0. Joyce, September 15, 1874, for an improvement in lifting-jacks, on an application filed March 16,
1874.
The specification, claims, and drawings of the patent are as
follows:
"Be it known that I, Jacob 0. Joyce, of Carlisle Station,
Warren County, Ohio, have invented certain improvements in
lever-jacks, of which the following is a specification:
"My invention relates to the pawl of such jacks; and its
objects are, first, to substitute the weight of the pawl, sliding
in inclined slots, grooves, or guides, for the elastic spring usually employed to press it against the teeth of the ratchet-bar;
and, second, to obtain greater strength by dividing the load
among several teeth of the pawl and ratchet-bar, instead of
supporting it all on one tooth, as is commonly done.
"Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings [see next page]
is a vertical section of so much of a jack as is necessary to
show my improvements; and Fig. 2 is a modification of the
same, in which the pins and slots of Fig. 1 are exchanged for
the tongue and groove in Fig. 2.

JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
Opinion of the Court.

_,ro.li

"Referring to Fig. 1, A is the pawl, having teeth that
engage with the teeth of the ratchet-bar B. D D' are slots in
the frame of the jack, inclined to the axis of the ratchet-bar
at the angle of about forty-five degrees, in which slots move
the pins C 0' of the pawl A.
"The operation is seen at a glance. When the ratchet-bar
is raised its teeth crowd or slide the pawl up the inclined slots

OCTOBER TERML 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

out of the way, so as to allow it to pass, until it has travelled
the length of a tooth, when the weight of the pawl causes it
to fall back into the next tooth below, ready to hold the ratchetbar at the point gained, ready for another lift, and so on.
"In Fig. 2, instead of slots D D', there is a tongue, D, on
each side of the pawl, with corresponding grooves in the frame
of the jack, in which the said tongues move; or the tongues
may be on the frame, with the grooves in the pawl; the
tongues and grooves performing the same office that the pins
and slots do in the form of construction shown in Fig. 1.
"Other modifications, involving the same principle of operation, may be possible; but I prefer the construction represented in -Fig.1, at the same time not limiting myself strictly
to that, but claiming any equivalent arrangement by which
the same objects are accomplished in substantially the same
manner.
"I claim as my invention"1. A pawl for lever-jack with two or more teeth, and
adapted to move in inclined slots, grooves, or guides formed in
the frame, substantially as described.
"2. The combination of the pawl A with its pins 0 0', slots
D D', and ratchet-bar B, substantially as described."
Each defendant put in a separate answer, alleging want of
novelty, and setting forth sundry prior patents in which, it
was averred, the invention was contained, and also giving the
names of sundry prior inventors. Each answer denied infringement. The answer of the company averred that it had made
for its codefendant parts of lifting-jacks in accordance with
letters patent of the United States granted to Samuel Mosler,
INo. 168,663, dated October 11, 1875; No.172,471, dated January 18, 1876; and No. 194,711, dated August 28, 1877. Issue
was joined and proofs were taken on both sides, and the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, with costs. Its decision is reported in 15 Fed. Rep. 260.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court it is said: "The specification describes, and the drawings show, a frame with parallel
sides, between which a pawl moves in parallel slots in the
frame, forming guidewavs inclined toward the vertically mov-

JOYCE v. CHILLICOTHE FOUNDRY.
Opinion of the Court.

ing ratchet-bar. The pawl is provided with a series of teeth
on the face adjacent to the ratchet-bar, and, at opposite sides,
with projections or lugs engaging in the inclined slots of the
frame. The guide-slots are inclined at an angle of 45 degrees
or thereabouts, and the pawl is actuated slowly by gravity to
move down the inclines, and engage its teeth with those of
the ratchet-bar; and the patentee states, in his specification,
as one of the objects of the invention, his purpose to utilize
the gravity of the pawl itself, thus arranged, as a substitute
for a spring."
The clear statement of the specification in this respect is,
that the first object of the invention is "to substitute the
weight of the pawl,sliding in inclined slots, grooves, or guides,
for the elastic spring usually employed to press it against the
teeth of the ratchet-bar." The specification also says, that,
"when the ratchet-bar is raised, its teeth crowd or slide the
pawl up the inclined slots out of the way, so as to allow it to
pass, until it has travelled the length of a tooth, when the
weight of the pawl causes it to fall back into the next tooth
below, ready to hold the ratchet-bar at the point gained, ready
for another lift, and so on." These are plain statements, that
the weight of the pawl, unaided by any spring, is to be used
to cause the pawl to fall back into the next tooth below, after
the ratchet-bar has travelled the length of a tooth, such weight
of the pawl being employed to press it against the teeth of
the ratchet-bar, in place of the use of an elastic spring for
that purpose. The inclined slots, grooves, or guides formed in
the frame in which the pawl moves, are the slots D D', made
in the frame of the jack, and "inclined to the axis of the
ratchet-bar at the angle of about forty-five degrees," in which
slots the pins 0 C'of the pawl move. The specification states
that, instead of such slots in the frame of the jack, there may
be grooves in such frame, one on each side of the pawl, in
which a tongue on each side of the pawl moves; or there may
be tongues on the frame and grooves in the pawl; the tongues
and grooves performing the same office that the pins and slots
do in the first form of construction.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court the following statement
36
voL. C-1 -vn--

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

is made as to the defendants' jack, which we deem to be correct: "The defendants manufacture a jack having a manytoothed pawl resting at its bottom upon a seat slightly inclined toward the rack-bar, and actuated by a spring placed
behind it within the frame. The inclination of the seat is
not sufficient to actuate the pawl by gravity, nor are there
any slots or other means of guiding the pawl in the sides of
the frame; the function of the inclined seat being rather to
assist the spring in preventing a backward slip of the pawl
when under pressure, than to facilitate the forward movement
of the pawl, although to the latter result it may contribute in
a slight degree."
The plaintiff claims that the defendants use their spring to
start the movement of the pawl upon an incline having a less
angle than that mentioned in the specification of the patent,
and employ an inclined seat for the pawl to effect the holding
of the load; and that they thus infringe the first claim of the
patent. iBut we are of opinion, upon the whole evidence, that
in the defendants' jack the spring is used to press the pawl
against the teeth of the ratchet-bar, within the meaning of
the specification of the patent; that the jack made by the
defendants would not be and is not, as constructed by them,
and put upon the market, a practically operative instrument
without the use of the spring; that the pawl in it will not
operate by gravity alone so as to make it an efficient or safe
machine; and that there are no slots, grooves, or guides
formed in the frame, to guide the pawl, in the sense of the
first claim of the plaintiff's patent.
We concur with the court below in holding that the first
claim of the patent must be limited to a pawl moving by
gravity alone in inclined slots, grooves, or guides formed in
the frame, and that, therefore, there has been no infringement
of the first claim.
It is not alleged that the second claim has been infringed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

