TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. McCONKEY.
Statement of the Case.

ing or cancelling the deed made by the master to the
purchaser.
To the extent indicated the decree is reversed and the cause
is rerlandedfor further proceedings consistent with this
gipnion.

TRAVELLERS' INSURANCE COMPAN'Y v.
iMcCON-KEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 273.

Argued M~ay 2,1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

In an action upon a policy of insurance by which the insurer agreed to pay
the sum insured to the beneficiary within ninety days after sufficient proof
that the insured within the continuance of the policy had sustained bodily injuries, effected through external, violent and accidental means, and
that such injuries alone occasioned death within ninety days from their happening, but that no claim should be made when the death or injury was
the result of suicide (felonious or otherwise, sane or insane) the burden
of proof is on the plaintiff, (subject to the limitation that it is not to
be presumed as matter of law that the deceased took his own life or was
murdered,) to show that the death was caused by external violence, and
by accidental means; and no valid claim can be made under the policy if
the insured, either intentionally, or when insane, inflicted upon himself
the injuries which caused his death, or if his death was caused by intentional injuries inflicted upon him by some other person.

THE cpise, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This is a suit upon what is commonly called an accident
policy of insurance. There was a verdict and judgment
against the insurance company for the sum of $5600 and costs.
The case is here upon alleged errors of law committed at the
trial to the prejudice of the defendant.
The policy, by its terms, insures the life of George P. MvfcConkey, in the sum of five thousand dollars, for the term of
twelve months, commencing at noon on the Ith of November,
1882; "the said sum insured to be paid to his wife, Sadie P.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

McConkey, if surviving, (in event of her prior death, said sum
shall be paid to the legal representatives of the insured,) within
ninety days after sufficient proof that the insured, at any time
within the continuance of this policy, shall have sustained
bodily injuries, effected through external, violent, and accidental means, within the intent and meaning of this contract
and the conditions hereunto annexed, and such injuries alone
shall have occasioned death within ninety days from the happening thereof; or if the insured shall sustain bodily injuries,
by means as aforesaid, which shall, independently of all other
causes, immediately and wholly disable and prevent him from
the prosecution of any and every kind of business pertaining
to the occupation under which he is insured, then, on satisfactory proof of such injuries, he shall be indemnified against loss
of time thereby, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars per
week, for such period of continuous total disability as shall
immediately follow the accident and injuries as aforesaid, not
exceeding, however, twenty-six consecutive weeks from the
time of the happening of such accident."
The policy also contained these provisions:
"Provided always, that this insurance shall not extend to
hernia, nor to any bodily injury of which there shall be no external and visible sign, nor to any bodily injury happening
directly or indirectly in consequence of disease, nor to any
death or disability which may have been caused wholly, in part,
or jointly, by bodily infirmities or disease existing prior or
subsequent to the date of this contract, or by the taking of
poison or contact with poisonous substances, or by any surgical
operation or medical or mechanical treatment; nor to any case
except where the injury is the proximate and sole cause of the
disability or death; and no claim shall be made under this
policy when the death or injury may have been caused by
duelling, fighting, wrestling, lifting, or by over-exertion, or by
suicide (felonious or otherwise, sane or insane), or by sunstroke,
freezing, or intentional injuries inflicted by the insured or any
,other person, or when the death or injury may have happened
in consequence of war, riot, or invasion, or of riding or driving
xaces, or of voluntary exposure to unnecessary danger, hazard,

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO.

v. McCONKEY.

Statement of the Case.

or perilous adventure, or of violating the rules of any company
or corporation, or when the death or injury may have happened while the insured was, or in consequence of his having
been, under the influence of intoxicating drinks, or while employed in mining, blasting, or wrecking, or in the manufacture,
transportation, or use of gunpowder or other explosive substances (unless insured to cover such occupation), or while
engaged in or in consequence of any unlawful act; and this
insurance shall not be held to extend to disappearances, nor
to any case of death or personal injury, unless the claimant
under this policy shall establish by direct and positive proof
that the said death or personal injury was caused by external
violence and accidental means."
The petition setting out the plaintiff's cause of action alleged
that the insured, on or about January 2, 1882, "was accidentally
shot through the heart by a pistol or gun, loaded with powder
and ball, by a person or persons unknown to plaintiff, by reason of which accidental injury said George P. McConkey then
and there instantly died, of which accident and death said defendant was duly and legally notified," etc.
The answer denies that the death of the insured was occasioned by bodily injuries effected through external, violent, and
accidental means, (or effected through external violence and
accidental means,) within the meaning of the contract of insurance. It alleges: 1. That his death was caused by suicide;
2. That it was caused by intentional injuries inflicted either
by the insured or by some other person.
As the argument addressed to this court had special reference to the charge to the jury, the following extract from it is
given, as showing the general grounds upon which the court
below proceeded:
"The plaintiff exhibits the policy in evidence, and gives
evidence of the fact that the insured was found dead within
the life of the policy, from a pistol shot through the heart.
This evidence satisfies the terms of the policy with respect to
the fact that the assured came to his death by ' external and
violent means,' and the only question is whether the means by
which he came to his death were also ' accidental.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"It is manifest that self-destruction cannot be presumed.
So strong is the instinctive love of life in the human breast
and so uniform the efforts of men to preserve their existence
that suicide cannot be presumed. The plaintiff is therefore
entitled to recover unless the defendant has by competent evidence overcome this presumption and satisfied the jury by a
preponderance of evidence that the injuries which caused the
death of the insured were intentional on his part.
"Neither is murder to be presumed by the jury; crime is
never to be presumed; but if the jury find from the evidence
that the insured was in fact murdered, the death was an accident as to him the same as if he had been killed by the falling
of a house or the derailment of a railway car in which he was
a passenger. If the jury find that the injuries of the insured
resulting in his death were not intentional on his part the
plaintiff has a right to recover.
"But if the jury find that the injuries inflicted upon the
assured causing his death, whether by the assured himself or
any other person, were intentional on the part of the assured,
the plaintiff cannot recover in this action.
"The inquiry, therefore, before the jury is resolved into a
question of suicide, because if the insured was murdered the
destruction of his life was not intentional on his part.
"The defendant, in its answer, alleges that the death of the
insured was caused by suicide.
"The burden of proving this allegation by a preponderance
of evidence rests on the defendant. The presumption is that
the death was not voluntary; and the defendant, in order to
sustain the issue of suicide on his part, must overcome this
presumption and satisfy the jury that the death was voluntary."
The court also said: "In order, therefore, to sustain the
plea of suicide, the defendant must have given to the jury
evidence sufficient to overcome the presumption to which I
have referred, and to convince the jury that the injury from
which the insured died was voluntary or intentional on his
part."
As further illustrating the views of the learned judge who

TRAVELLERS'

INS. CO. v. McCONKEY.

Counsel for Parties.

presided at the trial, it may also be stated that the defendant
asked the court to instruct the jury as follows: "The burden
of proof is upon the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance
of credible testimony, that the deceased came to his death
from injuries (or an injury) effected through external, violent,
and accidental means within the intent and meaning of the
contract and conditions expressed in the policy." That instruction was given with the following explanation or qualification : "That it does clearly appear from the evidence that
the insured came to his death from injuries or an injury
effected through violent and external means, and that the presumption is that the means were unintentional on the part of
the insured, which the court holds satisfies the contract. This
presumed fact is not conclusive, and may be overcome by evidence, if such there is in the case that the injuries were voluntary or intentional."
The defendant also asked the following instructions: ":Plaintiff must establish by direct and positive proof that the death
was caused by external violence and accidental means, and,
failing in this, she will not be entitled to a verdict." "Plaintiff's case must not rest upon mere conjecture, but her proof
must be such as to lead directly to the conclusion that the
death was effected by accidental means within the meaning
of the policy, and unless she have adduced proof of that character your verdict should be for the defendant." These instructions were given with the following qualifications: "The
external violence appearing in the fact that the death ensued
from a pistol shotthrough the heart, the presumption is that
it was accidental - not intentional - on the part of the assured, which facts, proved and presumed, make out the plaintiff's case, unless the defendant has satisfied the jury by
affirmative proof that the means of death were intentional
on the part of the insured."
MrJ. B. D. Zee for plaintiff in error.
was with him on the brief.

X&. John P. Ellis

r. FI.G. Thompson for defendant in error.
T'oue was with him on the brief.

-Mr. H. B.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
MNR.

JUSTICE H:A LAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There is no escape from the conclusion that, under the issue
presented by the general denial in the answer, it was incumbent upon the plaintiff to show, from all the evidence, that
the death of the insured was the result, not only of external
and violent, but of accidental means. The policy provides
that the insurance shall not extend to any case of death or
personal injury, unless the claimant under the policy establishes, by direct and positive proof, that such death or personal injury was caused by external violence and accidental
means. Such being the contract, the court must give effect to
its provisions according to the fair meaning of the words used,
leaning, however,- where the words do not clearly indicate
the intention of the parties,- to that interpretation which is
most favorable to the insured. lVational Bank v. Ins. Co.,
95 U. S. 673; Westernr Ins. Co. v. Cropper, 32 Penn. St. 351,
355; Reynolds v. Commerce Fire Ins. Co., 47 N. Y. 597, 604;
Anderson v. Fitzgerald,4 I. L. Cas. 484, 498, 507; Fowkes v.
.Manckfester &c. Zife Assurance Ass'%, 3 B. & S. 917, 925.
The requirement, however, of direct and positive proof, as
to certain matters, did not make it necessary to establish the
fact and attendant circumstances of death by persons who
were actually present when the insured received the injuries
which caused his death. The two principal facts to be established were external violence and accidental means, producing
death. The first was established when it appeared that death
ensued from a pistol shot through the heart of the insured.
The evidence on that point was direct and positive; as much
so, within the meaning of the policy, as if it had come from
one who saw the pistol fired; and the proof, on this point, is
none the less direct and positive, because supplemented or
strengthened by evidence of a circumstantial character.
Were the means by which the insured came to his death
also ac6idental? If he committed suicide, then the law was
for the company, because the policy by its terms did not
extend to or cover self-destruction, whether the insured was

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. McCONKEY.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time sane or insane. In respect to the issue as to suicide, the court instructed the jury that self-destruction was not
to be presumed. In -allory v. TYavellers' Ins. Co., 47 N .Y.
52, 5, which was a suit upon an accident policy, it appeared
that the death was caused either by accidental injury or by
the suicidal act of the deceased. "But," the court properly
said, "the presumption is against the latter. It is contrary to
the general conduct of mankind; it shows gross moral turpitude in a sane person." Did the court err in saying to the
jury that, upon the issue as to suicide, the law was for the
plaintiff, unless that presumption was overcome by cbmpetent
evidence ? This question must be answered in the negative.
The condition that direct and positive proof must be made of
death having been caused by external, violent, and accidental
means, did not deprive the plaintiff, when making such proof,
of the benefit of the rules of law established for the guidance
of courts and juries in the investigation and determination of
0
facts.
Upon like grounds, we sustain the ruling to the effect that
the jury should not presume, from the mere fact of death, that
the insured was murdered. The facts were all before the
jury as to the movements of the-insured on the evening of his
death, and as to the condition of his body and clothes when
he was found dead, at a late hour of the night, upon the floor
of his office. While it was not to be presumed, as a matter of
law, that the deceased took his own life, or that he was murdered, the jury were at liberty to draw such inferences in respect to the cause of death as, under the settled rules of evidence, the facts and circumstances justified.
We are, however, of opinion that the instructions to the
jury were radically wrong in one particular. The policy 6xpressly provides that no claim shall be made under it where
the death of the insured was caused by "intentional injuries,
inflicted by the insured or any other erson." If he was murdered, then his death was caused by intentional injuries inflicted by another person. Nevertheless, the instructions to the
jury were so worded as to convey the idea that if the insured
was murdered, the plaintiff was entitled to recover; in other

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

words, even if death was caused wholly by intentional injuries inflicted upon the insured by another person, the means
used were "accidental" as to him, and therefore the company
was liable. This was error.
Upon the whole case, the court is of opinion that, by the
terms of the contract, the burden of proof was upon the plaintiff, under the limitations we have stated, to show, from all
the evidence, that the death of the insured was caused by external violence and accidental means; also, that no valid claim
can be made under the policy, if the insured, either intentionally' or when insane, inflicted upon himself the injuries which
caused his death, or if his death was caused by intentional
injuries inflicted upon him by some other person.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to grant a new trial and for
Jfuther proceedings consistent with this opinion.

NICKERSON v.
AIPEAL FROM THE sUPRE'm
No. 881.

ICKERSON.

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM

Submitted January 6, 1888. -Decided

IA.

May 14, 1888.

On the proof in this case the court holds that the plaintiff has failed to
show such an agreement as can be made the basis of a decree in her
behalf.

IN EQUITY.

pealed.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainant ap-

The case is stated in the opinion.

.fr. J. J Johnson and Mr. F. F. Wilshire for appellant.
21r. Enoch Totten for Azor H. Nickerson, appellee.
fr. Henry Wise Garnett and ffr. Cok'way Roblinson, J.,
for appellants Carter and M[atthews.
MR. JusTIcn

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

