OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
384 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. CATTO

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 535.

Argued March 22-23, 1966.-Decided April 26, 1966.

Respondents are ranchers who raise livestock for sale and maintain
herds for breeding purposes. They sold animals from the breeding
herds and reported the capital gains therefrom on their federal
tax returns in accord with the "unit-livestock-price" variant of the
accrual method of accoufiting they had selected for their overall
iranching operations. They filed refund claims with the Comnissioner of Internal Revenue on the ground that they were entitled
to use the more advantageous cash method of accounting in computing gain from-sales of breeding stock. Respondents challenged
the validity of Treas. Reg. § 1.471-6 (f) which requires that a taxpayer who elects to use the "unit-livestock-price". method must
.apply it to all livestock raised, whether for sale or. breeding purposes. The Commissioner rejected their claims but was overruled
by the District Court. and the Court of Appeals. Held: Taxpayers employing an accrual method of accounting for their overall
ranching operation may not use a cash method of accounting for
their breeding livestock. Pp. 109-117.
(a) Legislative and administrative history, which are consonant
with accounting logic, demonstrate that the expenses of raising
breeding stock were intended to be deferred by accrual-method
taxpayers. Pp. 109-112.
(b) Congress resolved the controversy over the treatment of
gains on sales of breeding stock in 1951 by amending § 117 (j)
of .the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 to make clear that such
gains were entitled to capital gain treatment. P. 112.
(c) The "unit-livestock-price" method is sound accounting practice and its uniform application to respondents' entire livestock
operations is a reasonable exercise of the Commissioner's discretion.

Pp. 113-114.
(d) The application of the cash method of accounting solely to
sales of breeding animals while retaining the accrual rtethod for
animals raised for sale would create a hybrid and distorted system
which would defeat the Commissioner's goal of providing a unitary

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

103

Opinion of the Court.

accounting method for all taxpayers, and it was within his discretion to reject such hybrid system. Pp. 116-117.
344 F. 2d 225, 227, reversed and remanded.

Jack S. Levin argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Marshall,
Acting Assistant Attorneys General Featherston anc"
Roberts, and Melva M. Graney.
Gordon. G. Hawn argued the cause for respondents
Catto et al. With him on the brief was Ben F. Foster.
Claiborne B. Gregory argued the cause for respondents
Wardlaw et al. With him on the brief was Elwood
Cluck.
MR. JUSTmC

STEWART delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented in. this case is whether taxpayers engaged in the livestock -business who use an
accrual method'of accounting for animals raised for sale
may employ a cash method of accounting for animals
raised for breeding purposes, in order to take advantage
of a federal income tax benefit available to cash-method
taxpayers when breeding animals are sold.
The respondents are ranchers engaged in -the business
of raising livestock for sale. As an important element of
their business, the respondents maintain herds of livestock used for breeding purposes. During the taxable
years in question: the respondents sold animals from their
breeding herds and reported the gains from the sales in
accord with the accrual method of accounting they had
elected for their overall ranching operations. Subsequently, they filed claims with the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue for partial tax refunds, on the ground
that they were entitled to use the more advantageous
cash method of accounting in calculating the gain from
sales of their breeding livestock. The Commissioner re-

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

jected the claims, and the respondents brought suit to
obtain the refunds. Their claims were sustained by the
District Court,' and the judgments were affirmed by the
2
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. We granted
3
certiorari to resolve-a conflict among the Circuits. We
now reverse the judgments of the Court. of Appeals.
Section 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
26 U. S. C. § 1231 (1964 ed.), provides that in certain circumstances gains from the sale of property used by a taxpayer ih his trade or business may be treated for federal
income tax purposes as long-term capital gains. Section
1231 (b) (3) makes the section specifically applicable to
4
sales of livestock held for breeding purposes. No chal1 Wardlaw v. United States, 223 F. Supp. 631 (D. C. W. D. Tex.);
Catto v. United States, 223 F. Supp. 663 (D. C. W. D. Tex.).
2 United States v. Wardlaw, 344 F. 2d 225; United States v. Catto,
344 F. 2d 227.
' The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgments of the District
Court on the authority of its prior decision in Scofield v. Lewis,
251 F. 2d 128. But see Carter v. Commissioner, 257 F. 2d 595,
600-601 (C. A. 5th Cir.). The Eighth and Ninth Circuits have
taken a contrary position and have refused to permit taxpayers
using an accrual method of accounting for their overall ranching
operation to enmploy a cash method of accounting for breeding livestock. United States v. Ekberg, 291 F. 2d 913 (C. A. 8th Cir.);
Little v. Commissioner, 294 F. 2d 661 (C. A. 9th Cir.).
4 Section 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U. S. C.
§ 1231, provides in relevant part:
"§ 1231. Property used in the trade or business and involuntary
conversions.
"(a) General rule.
"If, during the taxable year, the recognized gains on sales or exchanges of property used in the trade or business, plus the recognized
gains from the compulsory or involuntary conversion (as a result of
destruction in whole or in part, theft or seizure, or an exercise of the
power of requisition or condemnation or the threat or imminence
thereof) of property used in the trade or business and capital assets
held for more than 6 months into other property or money, exceed
the recognized losses from such sales, exchanges, and conversions,

. UNITED, STATES v. CATTO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

lenge is raised here to the classification of the animals
sold by the respondents as livestock held for breeding
purposes within the meaning of that provision. Our sole
concern is with the measure of the respondents' capital

gain.
Each of the respondents elected the "unit-livestockprice" variant of the accrual method of accounting for
his overall ranching operation.5 Under that method, the
such gains and losses shall be considered as gains and losses from

sales or exchanges of capital assets held for more than 6 months.
If such gains do not exceed such losses, such gains and losses shall
not be considered as gains and losses from sales: or exchanges of
capital assets....
"(b) Definition of property used in the trade or business.
"'For purposes of this section"(3) Livestock.
-Such term also includes livestock, regardless of age, held by the
taxpayer for draft, breeding, or dairy purposes, and held by. him
for 12 months or more from the date of acquisition. Such term
does not include poultry."
- The unit-livestock-price method is described in Treas. Reg.
(hereafter Ileg.) § 1.471-6, which provides in relevant part: '
"§ 1.471-6. Inventories of livestock raisers and other farmers.
"(c) Because of the difficulty of ascertaining actual cost of livestock and' other f:um products . . .farmers raising livestock may
value their inventories of animals according to .. . the 'unitlivestock-price method.'
"(e) The 'unit-livestock-price method' provides for the valuation
of the different classes of animals in the invent6ry at a standard
unit price for each animal within a class. A livestock raiser electing this method of valuing his animals must adopt a reasonable
classification of the ahimals in his inventory with respect to the age
and kind included so that the unit prices assigned to the several
classes will reasonably account for the normal costs incurred in producing the .animals within such classes. Thus, if a cattle raiser
determines that it costs approximately $15 to produce a calf, and
'$7.50 each year to raise the calf to maturity, his classifications and

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

respondents classified their livestock inventory by age
and kind and assigned a standard unit price to the animals in each class. Both breeding animals and animals
raised for sale were lumped together in the respondents'
inventories, and the same unit prices were employed for
both types of livestock. By multiplying the number of
animals in each class by the unit price for the class, the
opening and closing inventory valuations were readily
calculated for each taxable year.
The applicable Treasury Regulations grant a current
deduction for the expenses incurred in raising livestock,
without regard either for the purpose for which the animals are raised or for the method of accounting-employed
by the taxpayer.' For ranchers who have elected the
cash method of accounting, the current deduction is of
course taken against ordinary income in the year the expense is paid. Since, as a result, the adjusted basis of
the breeding animals at the time of sale is zero, the entire
proceeds of the sales are reported as capital gains.
unit prices would be as follows: Calves, $15; yearlings, $22.50;
2-year olds, $30; mature animals, $37.50 ...
"(f) A taxpayer who elects to use the 'unit-livestock-price method'
must apply it to all livestock raised, whether for sale or for draft,
breeding, or dairy purposes. Once established, the unit prices and
classifications selected by the taxpayer must be consistently applied
in all subsequent taxable years in the valuatioi of livestock inventories. No changes in the classification of animals or unit prices
will be made without the approval of the Commissioner."
The values suggested in Reg. § 1A71-6 (e) have remained unchanged since they were first introduced into the Regulations in
1944. T. D. 5423, 1945 Cum. Bull. 70. Appropriate classifications
and unit prices currently recognized by the Internal Revenue Service
are: Calves, $40; yearlings, $55; 2-year olds, $70; mature animals, 185. See Faimer's Tax Guide, Internal Revenue Service
Publication No. 225, p. 33 (1966 ed.).
6 Reg. § 1.162-12: "'. . . The purchase of feed and other costs
connected with raising livestock may be treated as expense deductions insofar as such costs represent actual outlay . . . ."

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

Opinion of lhe Court.

Because of the mechanics of the accrual method of
accounting used by the respondents, however, their current deductions for the expenses of raising their livestock
were offset by the annual increments in the unit inventory values of the animals not sold during the taxable
year.7 The adjusted basis of the animals sold was therefore equal to the accumulated increments in their unit
values. and only the proceeds of sale in excess of that
basis were reported by the resl)ondents as capital gain.8
Although the respondents' capital gain was lower than the
gain they would have reported had they used the cash
method of accounting, the reduction was achieved at the
cost of annulling the current deduction from ordinary income of the expenses of raising their breeding livestock.
As a result, the respondents' overall tax on their gains
from the sale of breeding livestock was larger than it
would have been had they used the cash method of accounting with respect to those animals." The Court of
Under Reg. § 1.61-4 (1), the gross income- of accrual-method

ranchers is nmeasured by the sum of sales income during the taxable
year and closing inventory, less the sum of expenses incurred
in
raising the animals during the year and opening inventory. See also
Reg. § 1.162-12. The mechanies of that computation ac('omplish
the bookkeeping operation of subt racinz the cost of govds sold from
sales iiicome. The effect of tile use by tle resIoidents of their invenory method of accounting is simulaneously to add to ordinary incoMie 'ie aminual increments in the unit 'alites of their unsold breeding
livestock and to mi-l)traet the annual cost.s of raimimg ile animals.
" Under tlhe theory of the unit-livestock-price method, the cciimulated increments in the unit values of the liviestock should equal the
total expenses incurred in raising the animals. In effect, therefore,
the expenses incurred by the respondents in raising their breeding
livestock were deferred until the year of sale.
"In other words, under both the cash and acerual mehioti,. of
accounting, the expenses incurred ill raising brceding 1ive.ock are
currently deductible, and the proeed- of sale in excu,-s ,f lh,,.v
expenses are taxed as capital gain.. The essence of Ow,ddi'rn
,.
between the two accouming methods it the vcI !.st:m(,, o "i
ease lies in the lax tleatnlint of the portion of the sales provp'c-!,

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

Appeals held in the present case that the respondents
were not required to use the accrual method of accounting for their breeding livestock, and that they were therefore entitled to report the gains from the sales of those
animals in accordance with the more eadvantageous cash
method.'" We think the Court of Appeals was in error.
The respondents' principal contention is that breeding
livestock are simply not the type of asset that is prop" that represents the recovery of the expenses incurred in raising the
animals. That portion of the proceeds is taxed to cash-method
ranchers at rates applicable to capital gains, whereas it is taxed to
accrual-method ranchers at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Thus, with respect to sales of breeding livestock, the cash method
of accounting offers ranchers a route by which ordinary income can
be transmuted into capital gain. See Mertens, Law of Federal Income Taxation § 22.130, p. 569; Jamison, Tax Planning with Livestock and Farming Operations, 1961 So. Calif. Tax Inst. 583, 599-607.
To the extent, of course, that the expenses actually incurred in
raising their breeding livestock exceed the estimated unit valuations,
accrual-method ranchers are themselves able to transmute ordinary
income into capital gain. It is therefore-to the advantage.of accrualmethod ranchers to place- low unit valuations on their breeding
livestock.
10 The respondents proposed to accomplish their shift in accounting procedure in two steps: First, by deducting from ordinary income the adjusted basis of the breeding livestock actually sold during
the taxable years and to treat the entire proceeds of the sales as
capital gain in the year of sale; second, by eliminating from their
inventories all remaining livestock held, for breeding purposes and
achieving a zero basis for those animals by deducting from ordinary
income their existing unit valuations, which represent the accumulated costs of raising the animals. Even though the Court of Appeals
sustained the claims of the respondents, the court noted that the
correction would result in an inordinate deduction against ordinary
income in the year the adjustment was made, since expenses properly
allocable to prior. years would be bunched in the year of the correction. 344 F. 2d 227, 229. In the District Court, some of the respondents had suggested that, in the alternative, the inventory
correction for breeding livestock not yet sold might be accomplished
by allowing reduction of the accrued unit values to a zero basis
over a five-year period.

UNITED STATES v. CATTO
102

Opinion of the Court.

erly includible in inventory. Just as manufacturers do
not put capital equipment in inventory, so, respondents
claim, they need not place their breeding livestock in
inventory. Therefore, they say, the method of deferral
of expenses worked for inventory-type assets by the.
mechanics of accrual accounting under Treas. Reg. (hereafter Reg.) § 1.61-4 (b) t is completely inapplicable to
such livestock, because the animals should never have
been placed in inventory in the first place. The result
of freeing breeding livestock from the accounting procedure of Reg. § 1.61-4 (b) would be to enable the
respondents to obtain the benefits of the cash method,
since the current deduction under Reg. § 1.162-12 would
no longer be offset by the annual increments in the unit
values of their breeding livestock.
Although the contention of the respondents is not without force, we believe that the evolution of the statute and
regulations here in question demonstrates that the, expenses of raising breeding livestock were intended to be
deferred by accrual-method taxpayers. That interpretation of the'legislative and administrative history is fully
consonant with accounting logic, and we therefore conclude that the Commissioner should prevail.
The general and long-standing rule for all taxpayers,
whether they use the cash or accrual method of accountin. is that costs incurred in the acquisition. production.
or development of capital assets, inventory, and other
property used in the trade or business may not be currently deducted, but must be deferred until the year
of sale, when the accumulated costs may be set off against
the proceeds of the sale.2 Under general principles of
See notes 7 and 8, supra.
Internal Revenue' Code of 1954, §§ 263, 471, 1011-1013, 1016
(a) (1); Reg. §§ 1.263 (a)-2 (a), 1.471-1, 1.1016-2. Cf. I. T. 1309,
I-I Cum. Bull. 196 (1922). See Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co.. 247
"I
2

U. S. 179, 183-187; Spring City Co. v. Commisswner. 292 U. S. 182,

185; Snyder v. Commissioner, 295 U. S. 134, 141, n. 4.

CL Moen,

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.'

384 U. S.

accounting, therefore, it would be expecied that expenses
incurred by ranchers in raising breeding livestock should
be charged to capital account, even though the ranchers
employed the cash method of accounting.
As early as 1919, however, in response to the specific
need for a relatively more simplified method of farm
accounting- than was available even under the cash
method as it then existed, the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Commissioner of Irternal Revenue promulgated
Regulations expanding the cash method to authorize a
current deduction fof expenses incurred by farmers and
ranchers in raising crops and animals. 13 Although the
question does not appear to have, arisen, it is hardly likely
that the Commissioner would have permitted accrualmethod ranchers, for whom the new procedure was not
designed, selectively to apply the simplified cash method
to their breeding livestock or any other part of their
herds. At the time these Regulations were issued, and
for more than two decades thereafter, gains from the
Special Capital Gains Treatment for Farmers, 17 Ohio St. L. J.
32-41 (1956). Thus, a cash-method rancher who purchasds an
animal for breeding purposes must capitalize the cost of the purchase.
I. T. 3666, 1944 Cum. Bull. 270; Reg. § 1.162-12.
13 Reg. 45, Art. 110 (April 17, 1919 ed.) (Revenue Act of 1918)
The cost of feeding and raising live stock
provided in part: "...
-... Reg. § 1.162-12,
" "See
may be treated as an expense deduction .
30, 404-405 (Revenue
note 6, supra. Cf. Reg. 33 (Revised),
Act of 1916, as amended by Revenue Act of 1917). At the time
the Regulations under the Revenue Act of 1918 were promulgated,
it appears that the Bureau of Internal Revene did not recognize
specialized techniques of accrual accounting for approximating and
deferring the costs of raising an animal to maturity. See Special
Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to- the Chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, June 27, 1952, 98 Cong, Rec. 8307, i952
CCII Fed. Tax Rep. 6239. At least by 1922, however, the accrual
method of accounting had been explicitly adapted to the complexity
of farm operations. Iteg. 62, Arts. 38, 1586 (2) (1922 ed.) (Revenue
Act, of 1921). See also note 21, infra.

-

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

111

Opinion of the Court.

sale of breeding livestock were taxed as ordinary in-.
come.'1 4 Thus, the choice of accounting method affected
only the timing of the deduction for the expenses of
raising the animals, and no serious distortion of taxable
income was introduced when ranchers elected the cash
method for their breeding livestock.' 5 Throughout this
period, no distinction appears to have been drawn between breeding and other livestock in the inventories
maintained by ranchers- using the more sophisticaied
accrual method of accounting. Indeed, since 1922, the
Treasury Regulations have specifically contemplated
that all livestock, whether raised for breeding or other
purposes, were to be included in the inventory of accrualmethod ranchers. 6
In 1942, however, Congress added § 117 (j) to the
Internal Revenue Code of 1939.17 :That section, the
14"Favorable tax treatment for capital gains was introduced into
the income tax law in the Revenue-Act of 1921, but gains from the
sale of breeding livestock continued to be treated as ordinary income.
Cf. Wells, Legislative History of Treatment of Capital Gains under
the Federal Income Tax, 1913-1948, 2 Nat. Tax. J. 12 (1949).
15The principal utility of the simplified cash method was that
it enabled farmers and ranchers to escape the complexity of establishing and deferring the precise costs of raising their breeding animals. Compare Reg. § 1A71-6 (c), supra, note 5. In addition,
ranchers using the cash method possessed substantial flexibility in.
determining, the year in which income was realized. The defects
of th6 method were that it produced a bunching of income in the
yoar of sale and an inaccurate matching of income from the sale of
the livestock with the expenses incurred in raising the animals. The
accrual method, on the other hand, involved neither bunching of
income nor inaccurate matching of income with expenses. Moreover, under the unit-livestock-price variant of the accrual method of
accounting chosen by the respondents, the incremental amounts taken
into inventory each year as the livestock increased in value were
available as a source of income against which the expenses incurred
in raising the animals could be deducted.
16Reg. 62, Art. 1586 (1) (1922 ed.) (Revenue Act of 1921).
17 Revenue Act of 1942, c. 619, 56 Stat. 846, § 151 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

progenitor of § 1231 of the 1954 Code, established capital
gain treatment for the sale of "property used in the trade
or business" of the taxpayer. The general language of
the 1942 amendment left the tax status of breeding livestock in doubt, and the ensuing nine years found the
Commissioner and ranchers jockeying for position on the
treatment of gains from the sale of such animals.
Congress resolved the controversy in 1951 by amending
§ 117 (j) to make clear that capital gain treatment was
to be accorded to gains from the sale of livestock raised
for breeding purposes.1" Predictably, the amendment
encouraged attempts by accrual-method ranchers to
transfer to the cash method of accounting. The Commissioner, however, refused to permit the changes where
18
See I. T. 3666, 1944 Cum. Bull. 270; I. T. 3712, 1945 Cum. Bull.
176; Special Ruling by Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Aug. 4,
1947 (1948 CCH Fed. Tax Rep. 6091) (capital gain treatment available to cash-method ranchers only for extraordinary sales of breeding
livestock, ,-ueh as in reduction of herd size, not for animals culled
from the brecding herd in the normal course of business because of
age or diseae): Albright v. United States, 173 F. 2d 339 (C. A. 8th
Cir.) (capili gain treatment available to cash-basis ranchers, even
for routine -ales of breeding livestock); Faun Lake Ranch Co. v.
CominmissiNwr, 12 T. C. 1139, appeal dismissed, 180 F. 2d 749 (C. A.
8th Cir.) (tip,iial gain treatment available to accrual-method ranchers for sals of breeding livestock, even though the animals had been
included in inventory); United States v. Bennett, i86 F. 2d 407
(C. A. 5th Cir.) (breeding livestock not held primarily for sale);
Mim. 6660, 1951-2 Cum. Bull. 60 (capital gain freatment not available for breeding, livestock unless animals used as breeders for
substantially their full breeding lives).
1'Revenue Act of 1951, c.521, 65 Stat. 452, 501, § 324. The
amendment, which was carried forward without change as § 1231
(b) (3) of the 1954 Code, extended from six to 12 months the holding
period required before sale of the livestock could qualify as a capital
gain. A lingering effort by the Commissioner to impose certain
additiom,1 criteria concerning age and reproductive capacity and u:e
of breeding livestock was rejected by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. McDonald v. Commissioner. 214 F. 2d 341.

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

. it appeared that the sole motivation for the shift was to
reap the capital gain windfall available to cash-method
ranchers."
The issue raised by the respondents ultimately centers on the validity of Reg. § 1.471-6 (f), which requires
that a "taxpayer who elects to use the 'unit-livestockprice method' must apply it to all livestock raised,
whether for sale or for .. breeding . . . purposes."
That provision is neither arbitrary nor inconsistent with
the revenue statute or with other regulations under the
statute. The unit-livestock-price method is soundly
grounded in accepted principles of accounting. It has
been specifically recognized by the tax laws as a valid
approach to livestock accounting for more than 20
years. 2' Moreover, as the practice of the respondents
indicates, the .expenses incurred in the production and
development of their livestock were essentially the same,
whether the animals were raised for sale or for bteeding
purposes, and the unit-livestock-price method of accounting provided convenient and efficient annual estimates of
those expenses. There can thus be no question that the
20 Because we hold here that the Commissioner could validly
refuse to acquiesce in the respondents' proposed change in their
accounting method, we have no occasion to consider the effect
either of the respondents' failure to request his permission or of
their attempt to initiate the change after their returns for the taxable years had been filed. See Reg. § 1.471-6 (a). Compare Bureau
of Internal Revenue Release, 1953 CCH Fed. Tax Rep. 6191
(May 12, 1953), annouficing that the Bureau at that time would
no longer withhold action on requests by livestock raisers to change
their methods of accounting.
21 The unit-livestock-price method was not formally recognized in
the Treasury. Regulations until 1944. T. D. 5423, 1945 Cum. Bull.,
70, amending Reg. 111, § 29.22 (c)-6 under the 1939 Code. It
appears, however, that comparable methods of estimating livestock
values had long been informally availaZlle to ranchers. See Mina.
5790, 1945 Cum. Bull. 72.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

respondents' accounting method accurately reflected their
income.
Were we concerned, therefore, solely with the applicability to breeding livestock of the unit-livestock-price
method of accounting, we would be unable to characterize
as arbitrary the Commissioner's refusal to permit the
change the respondents seek. Congress has granted the
Commissioner broad discretion in shepherding the accounting methods used by taxpayers.2 " and the uniform
application of the unit-livestock-price method to the
respondents' entire livestock operation is a reasonable
exercise of the discretion rested by Congress in the Secretary and the Commissioner for the administration of the
tax laws. "It is not the province of the court to weigh
and determine the relative merits of systems of accounting." Brown v. Helvering, 291 U. S. 193,204-205; Lucas
v. American Code Co., 280 U. S. 445. 449; Automobile
Club of Michigan v. Commissioner, 353 U. S. 180, 189190; Commissioner v. Hansen, 360 U. S. 446, 467;
Schlude v. Commissioner, 372 T.S. 128. 133-135.
The issue in the present case, however, is complicated
by the substantial tax differential worked by the Treas"-Internal Revenue Code of 1954, §§ 7805: 446 (a)-(e), (e); 471:
Reg. §§ 1.446-1 (e) (2), 1.471-6 (f). Reg. § 1.471-6 (f) requires only
that ranchers who use the unit-livestock-price method for livestock
raised for sale must also apply the method to livestock raised for
breeding purposes. By that procedure, a unitary accounting system
is established for all livestock raised by the ranchers. The Commi.sioner does not contend that livestock raised for breeding purpo.ses
and livestock raised for sale must be maintained in the same inventory, and no question* is raised here concerning the availability -to
ranchers of a depreciation deduction on lie rieit
value (itlive.-tock
that have been raised to maturity for breeding purl)o.e.. cf. Reg.
§§ 1.61-4 kb), 1.167 (a)-6 (b). Compare I. T. 3712, 1915 Cum.
Bull. 17t,. Mir. 5790, 1945 Cum. Bull. 72. Alko, no question is rai-ed
here con crning the status of livestock thmat a rancher has purchased,
rather thzain raised, for breeding purposes. See Reg. § 1.471-6 (g).

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

ury Regulations in favor of cash-method ranchers and
against accrual-method ranchers when breeding livestock
are sold. It is the position of the Commissioner that
the Treasury Department is unable by administrative
action to require cash-method ranchefs to capitalize the
expenses incurred in raising their breeding livestock.2 3
The respondents contend that so long as the present
dichotomy is maintained, they are entitled to participate
in the benefits available under the cash method.
We need not determine whether in all cases the Commissioner may legitimately refuse to acquiesce in the
transition by ranchers from the accrual method to the
cash method of accounting. The Commissioner is not,
of course, obliged to permit taxpayers to shift their
accounting methods to accommodate every fluctuation in
the revenue laws. Helvering v. Wilshire Oil Co., 308
U. S. 90, 97; Commissioner v. South Texas Lumber Co.,
333 U. S. 496: We may assume arguendo that particular
legislative or administrative mutations in the tax laws
23 The Secretary has stated that the Treasury Department is
foreclosed by the legislative history of the 1951 amendment from
eliminating by Regulation the capital gain windfall available to cashmethod ranchers. Special Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury
to the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, supra, note 13.
Both of the Committee Reports on the Revenue Act of 1951 stated
that "gains from sales of livestock should be computed in accordance with the method of livestock accounting used by the taxpayer
and preseflitly recognized by the Bureau of Internal Revenue."
S. Rep. No. 781, 82d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 42, 1951-2 Cum. Bull. 458,
488; H. R. Rep. No. 586, 82d Cong., 1st Sess.,-p. 32, 1951-2 Cum.
Bull. 357, 380. (Emphasis added.) We need iot here determine
the correctness of the Secretary's interpretation of the legislative
history, since no question is presented in this case concerning the
vulnerability of the position of cash-method ranchers to action by
the Secretary. Similarly, because of tile grounds on which we rest
our decision, we do not pass upon the Commissioner's contention
that the legislative history established a mandate by Congress in
favor of his position in the present case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

may foster inequities so great between taxpayers similarly situated that the Commissioner could not legitimately reject a proposed change in accounting method
unless the taxpayer had exercised a meaningful choice at
the time'he selected his contemporary method. No such
substantial inequity is presented here. The respondents
have not sought to embrace the cash method of accounting for their entire ranching operation. To the contrary,
they ask that they be permitted to subject only their
breeding livestock to that method. Thus, they propose
to retain the advantages of the accrual method for their
livestock raised for sale.
It is clear that application of the cash method of
accounting to sales of breeding livestock would substantially distort the economic picture of the respondents'
rAnching operations..2 ' The sacrifice in accounting accuracy under the cash method represents an historical
concession by the Secretary and the Commissioner to
provide a unitary and expedient bookkeeping system
for farmers and ranchers in need of a simplified accounting procedure. A concomitant of the special dispensation that has been made available to cash-method
ranchers is the favorable capital gain treatment that results whenever breeding livestock are sold. The respondents, however, have demonstrated their intent to retain
the accuracies of the unit-livestockprice method of accounting for animals they,,have raised for sale. That
method was itself introduced as a special concession to
accrual-method ranchers, who were thereby enabled to
avoid the difficulties of establishing the actual costs of
raising their livestock. The respondents' desire to shift
from the unit-livestock-price accrual method to the cash
method for their breeding livestock is therefore divorced
from the sole rationale for which each of those account24

See note 15, supra.

UNITED STATES v. CATTO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

ing methods was made available. By selectively combining attributes of both methods, the respondents seek
to fashion a hybrid system that would defeat the Commissioner's goal of providing a unitary accounting method
for all taxpayers. , It clearly lay within the discretion
of the Commissioner to reject such a hybrid system of
accounting, and the Court of Appeals was in error in
accepting. the respondents' claims. See Niles Bement
Pond Co. v. United States, 281 U. S.357, 360; Commismissioner v. South Texas Lumber Co., 333 U. S.496, 503504; Commissioner v. Hansen, 360 U. S.446, 467; Little
v. Commissioner, 294 F. 2d 661, 664 (C. A. 9th Cir.);
Carter v. Commissioner, 257 F. 2d 595, 600 (C. A. 5th
Cir.); SoRelle v. Commissioner, 22 T. C. 459, 468-469.
The judgments are therefore reversed and the case is
remanded to the Court of Appeals for the. Fifth Circuit
for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

