OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
384 U. S.

Syllabus.

CARDONA v. POWER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE'COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 673.

Argued April 18, 1966.-Decided June 13, 1966.

Appellant, who has lived in New York since 1948, was born in Puerto
Rico arid educated there. Although able to read and write Spanish
she could not satisfy New York's English literacy requirement and
was therefore refused registration by the Board of Elections.
Alleging that requirement unconstitutional, she brought suit in a
.New York court seeking an order directing the Board to register
her. The trial court. denied appellant relief and the New York
Court of Appeals affirmed. Thereafter Congress enacted § 4 (e)
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. See Katzenbach v. Morgan,
ante, p. 641. Held: The judgment is vacated and the case is
remanded to the Ne* York Cburt of Appeals for whatever proceedings it may deem" appropriate. P. 674.
(a) If appellant cumpleted -the' sixth grade in a public school
or an accredited private school in Puerto Rico, this case would
be moot as § 4 (e) would provide the relief she sought. P. 674.
(b) Even- if § 4 (e) did not specifically cover appellant, the New
York courts should determine whether the New York English
literacy requirement remains valid in light of § 4 (e). P. 674.
16 N. Y. 2d 639, 708, 827, 209 N. E. 2d 119, 556, 210 N. E. 2d 458,
vacated and remanded.

Paul O'Dwyer argued the cause fo, appellant. 'With
him on the brief was W. Bernard RichIand.
Samuel A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney Geneeal of New York, argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney GeneraJ, and George C. Mantzoros, Brenda Soloff, Barry J.
Lipson andAmy Juviler, Assistant Attorneys General.
Briefs of amici curiae, urging reversal, were filed by'
Leo Pfefer and Joseph B. Robison for the American
Jewish Congress, and by Norman.S. Fink for Nathan
Straus.

CARDONA v. POWER.
672

.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICF BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was argued with Katzenbach v. Morgan,
ante, p. 641, also decided today. We there sustained the
constitutionality of §4 (e) of the Voting Rights Act of
1965, and held that, by-force of the Supremacy Clause
and as provided in § 4 (e), the State of New York's English literacy requirement cannot be enforced against persons who had successfully completed a sixth grade education in a public school in, or a private school accredited
by, the Commonwealth- of Puerto. Rico in which the language of instruction was other than English.' In this
case, which was adjudicated by the New York courts
before the enactment of § 4 (e), appellant unsuccessfully
sought a judicial determination that the New York
English literacy requirement, as applied to' deny. her
the right to vote in all elections, violated the Federal
Constitution.
Appellant was born and educated in the Commonwealth of Puerto ^Rico and has lived in -N& York City
since about 1948. On July 23, 1963, she attempted to
register to vote, presenting evidence of United States citizenship, her age and residence; and she represented that
although she was able to read and write Spanish, she
could not satisfy New York's English literacy requirez
ment. The New York City Board of Elections refused
to register her as a voter solely on the ground that she
was not literate in English. Appellant then brought this
proceeding in state court against the Board of Elections
and its members. She alleged that the New York English literacy requirement as applied was invalid under the
Federal Constitution and sought an order directing the
Board to register her as a duly qualified voter, .or, in
the alternative, directing the Board to administer a
literacy test in the Spanish language, and, if she passed
the test, to register her as a duly qualified voter. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

384 U. S.

trial court denied the relief prayed for and the New
York Court of Appeals, three judges dissenting, affirmed.
16 N. Y. 2d 639, 209 N. E. 2d 119, remittitur amended,
16 N. Y. 2d 708, 827, 209 N. E. 2d 556, 210 N. E. 2d 458.
We noted probable jurisdiction. 382 U. S. 1008.
Although appellant's complaint alleges that she attended a school in Puerto RicQ, it is not alleged thereinnor have we been clearly informed in any other way
whether, as required by § 4 (e), she successfully completed the sixth grade of a public school in, or a private
school accredited by, the Commonwealth.* If she had
completed the sixth grade in such a school, her failure to
satisfy the New York English literacy requirement would
no longer be a bar to her registration in light of our decision today in, Katzenbach v. Morgan. Thi§ case might
thereforebe moot.; appellant would not need any relief
if-§ 4 (e) in terms .accomplished .the result she sought.
Cf., e. g., Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S.
115, 119-120. Moreover, even if appellant were not specifically covered by § 4 (e), the New York courts should in
.the first instance determine whether, in light of this federal enactment, those applications of the New York Eng.
lish literacy requirement not in terms prohibited by
§ 4 (e) have continuing validity. We therefore vacate
the judgment, without costs to either party in this Court,
and remand the cause to the Court of Appeals of New
York for such further proceedings as it may deem
approPriate.
It is so ordered,

[For dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, see
anteip. 659.]
*Presumably the predominant classroom language of the school
she attended was other than Englishi and thus that element of § 4 (e)
is satisfied.' If the predominant classroom language had been Eng
lish, and if she had successfully completed the sixth grade, then s e
would be entitled to vote under § 168 of the New York Election Law.
See n'.
2, in Katzenbach v. Morgan, ante.

CARDONA v. POWER.
672

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTI.CE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE FORTAS
concurs, dissenting.
Appellant is an American of Spanish ancestry, literate
in the Spanish language but illiterate in English and
hence barred from 'voting by New York's statute.
I doubt that literacy is a wise prerequisite for exercise
of the franchise. Literacy and intelligence are not
synonymous: The experience: of nations- like India,
where illiterate persons have returned to office responsible governments over and again, emphasizes that the
ability to read and write is not necessary for an intelligent use of the ballot. Yet our problem as judges is
not to determine what is wise or unwise. The issues
of constitutional power are more confined. A State has
broad powers over elections; and I cannot say that it is
an unconstitutional exercise of that power to condition
the use of the ballot on the ability to read and write.
That is the only teaching of Lassiter v. Northampton
Election Board, 360 U. S. 45. But we are a multi-racial
and mplti-linguistic nation; and there are groups in this
country as versatile ifi Spanish, French, Japanese, and
Chinese, for example, as others are in English. Many
of them constitute communities in which there are -widespread organs of public communication in one of thoset
tongues-such as newspapers, magazines, radio, and television which regularly report and comment on matters
of political interest and public concern. Such is the case
in New York City where Spanish-language newspapers
"Puerto Rico in the last quarter century has also provided a

demonstration of the, point,'although it is fast overcoming its illiteracy problem. In 1940 31.5% of its people were illiterate. The

rate was reduced to 13.8% in 1965. Selected Indices of Social and

Economic Progress: Fiscal Years 1939-40, 1947-48 to 1964-65
(Puerto Rico Bureau of Economic and Social Analysis) 7-8. During 1.thia period the people have elected highly progressive and able

ofiadlt.

OCTOBER' TERM, 1965.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

-

384 U. S.

and -periodicals flourish and where there are Spanishlanguage radio broadcasts which appellant reads and
listens to. Before taking up residence in New York City
•she lived in Puerto Rico where she regularly voted in
gubernatorial; legislative, and municipal elections. And
our-equal protection question is whether intelligent
-use of the ballot should not be as much presumed where
-one is versatile in the Spanish language as it is where
English is the medium.
New York's law permits an English-speaking voter to
qualify either by passing an English literacy test 2 or by
presenting a certificate showing completion of the sixth
grade of an approved elementary school in which English
is the. language of instruction.1 But a Spanish-spieaking
person, such as appellant,-ia offered no 'literacy test in
Spanish. Her only recourse is to a certificate showing.
completion of the sixth grade of a public school in, or
a pri-vate school accredited by, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico; I and prior to § 4 (e) of the Voting Rights
Act ihat schdol had to be one in which E-nglish was the
language of instruction. The heavier burden which New
-Yorkhas placed on the Spanish-speaking American cannot in my view be sustained under the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We deaj here with the right to vote which over and
again we have called'a "fundaraeiital matter in a free
ahd democratic society." Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S.
533, 561-562; Harper v. Virginia Board, 383 U. S. 663,
667. Where classifications might "invade or restrain"
fundamental rights and liberties, they must be "closely
scrutinized and carefully confined." Harper v. Virginia
Board, supra, at 670. Our philosophy that removal of
-so

2

Section 168 (1), McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New York
Ann., Election Law.
.3Id., § 168 (2).
4Ibid.

CARDONA v. POWER.
672

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

unwise laws must be left to the ballot, not to the courts,
requires that recourse to the ballot not be restricted as
New York has attempted. It little profits the Spanishspeaking people of New York that this literacy test can
be changed by legislation either in Albany or in Washington, D. C., if they are barred from participating in the
process of selecting those legislatures. That is a fundamental reason why a far sterner test is required when a
law-whether state or federal-abridges a fundamental
right. 5

New York, as I have said, registers those who have
completed six years of school in a classroom where English is the medium of instruction and those who pass an
English literacy test. In my view, there is no rational
basis-considering the importance of the right at stakefor denying those with equivalent qualifications except
that the language is Spanish. Thus appellant has, quite
apart from any federal legislation, a constitutional right
to vote in New York on a parity with an English-speaking citizen-either by passing a Spanish literacy test or
through a certificate showing completion of the sixth
grade in a Puerto Rican school where Spanish. was the
classroom language. In no other way can she be placed
on a constitutional parity with English-speaking electors.

5
See Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 95-96; Thomas v.
Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 530; Ashton v. Kentucky, ante, p. 195.

