CHEFF v. SCIINACKENBERG.
Syllabus.

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG, U. S. CIRCUIT

JUDGE,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67.

Argued March 3, 1966.-Decided June 6, 1966.

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) following hearings issued a
cease-and-desist order against a company "and its officers, agents,
representatives and employees" prohibiting the continuance of
practices it found illegal. The company petitioned the Court of
Appeals to review and set aside the order. Claiming that the
company continued to violate the order, the FTC moved for a
pendente lite compliance order, which the court issued. Following opinions by the Court of Appeals upholding the FTC's jurisdiction to enter the order and affirming on the merits, the FTC
petitioned that court to enter a show cause order against the
company for contempt of the pendente lite order and, later, rules
were issued against petitioner, who had long since severed his
connections as a company official, and others to show cause why
they should not be held in criminal contempt for having aided and
abetted the company to violate the penddnte lite order. Petitioner's demand for a jury trial was denied. Following a hearing
he was found guilty of committing acts of contempt violating
the pendente lite order during the period from its entry to the
entry of final judgment and was given a six months' sentence.
This Court granted the petition for certiorari limited to review
of the question whether, after denial of a demand for a jury,
a six months' imprisonment sentence is permissible under Article
III and the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution. Held: The
judgment is affirmed. Pp. 375-384.
341 F. 2d 548, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CArK, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
JUSTICE BRENNAN , and Ma. JUSTICE FoRTAs, concluded that:
1. The Court of Appeals had the power to punish for criminal
contempt the disobedience of its interlocutory order, Pp. 377-378.
(a) Petitioner's contention that contempt proceedings stemming from administrative law enforcement proceedings are civil
rather than criminal is irrelcwant, since a jury trial is not required
in civil contempt proceedings. Shillitani v. United States, ante,
p. 364. P. 377.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1965
Syllabus.

384 U. S.

(b) The purpose of the proceedings against petitioner could
in no event have been remedial, i. e., civil in nature, in view of
his severance long before the contempt proceedings of all connections with the company, which, moreover, no longer engaged
in the business functions which the alleged contempt violations
involved. P. 377.
(c) The basis of the contempt charged against petitioner was
disobedience of the order of the court, not that of the FTC.
P. 378.
2. Even assuming, contrary to United States v. Barnett, 376
U. S. 681, that criminal contempt proceedings are criminal actions
falling within the requirements of Article III and the Sixth
Amendment of the Constitution, the right to a jury trial does not
extend to petty offenses, such as the offense involved here.
,Pp. 378-380. (a) According to 18 U. S. C. § 1 (1964 ed.), any misdemeanor, the penalty for which does not exceed six months' imprisonment, is a "petty offense." P. 379.
(b) Since petitioner received a six months' sentence and the
nature of criminal contempt does not necessarily require its being,
excluded from the category of petty offenses, petitioner's offense
can be treated as "petty." P. 380.
(c) In the exercise of the Court's supervisory power and
under the peculiar power of federal courts to revise sentences in
contempt cases, it is ruled that criminal contempt sentences exceeding six months may riot be imposed absent a jury trial or
waiver thereof, though a reviewing court may revise sentences in
contempt cases tried with or without juries. P. 380.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

joined by MR.

JUSTICE STEWART,

con-

cluded that:
1. The prosecution of criminal contempts is not subject to the
grand and petit jury requirements of Article III, § 2, of the Constitution and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. Green v. United
States, 356 U. S. 165. Pp. 381-382.
,2. The prevailing opinion's new §upervisory-power rule may
geherate difficulty for federal courts seeking to implement locally
unpopular decrees and create an administrative problem for the
trial judge, who in deciding whether to proffer a jury trial must
anticipate the sentence, which in turn depends on the evdence
revealed,.in the trial. P. 382.

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

375

Opinion of CLARK, ..

Joseph E. Casey argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was Thomas B. Scott.
Nathan Lewin argued the cause for resip jndents. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Spritzer,
Assistant Attorney General Vinson, Beatrice Rosenberg,
Sidney M. Glazer, E. K. Elkins and Miles J. Brown.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK announced the judgment of the
Court and delivered an opinion in which THE CHIEF
JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE FORTAS

join.
This is a companion case to No. 412, Shillitani v.
United States, and No. 442, Pappadio v. United States,
ante, p. 364. Unlike those cases, this is a criminal
contempt proceeding.
Upon petition of the Federal Trade Commission, Cheff
was charged, along with Holland Furnace Company and
10 other of its officers, with criminal contempt of the
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The alleged
contemnors were tried before a panel of three judges of
the Court of Appeals without a jury. The corporation
and three of its officers, including Cheff, were found
guilty of violating a previous order of that court. Cheff,
a former president and chairman of the board of Holland,
was sentenced to six months' imprisonment; the other
two officers were fined $500 each; and the corporation
was fined $100,000. The remaining eight individuals
were acquitted. 341 F. 2d 548. Cheff and Holland petitioned for certiorari. We denied Holland's petition, 381
U. S. 924, and granted Cheff's, limited to a review of the
question whether, after a denial of a demand for a jury,
a sentence of imprisonment of six months is constitutionally permissible under Article III and the Sixth
Amendment. 382 U. S. 917. We hold that Cheff was
not entitled to a jury trial and affirm the judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

CLARK, J.

384 U. S.

I.
The case had its inception in proceedings before the
Federal Trade Commission where, in 1954, complaints
were issued against Holland charging it with unfair
methods of competition and deceptive trade practices in
connection with the sale of its products. After extensive
hearings, the Commission issued a cease-and-desist order
against Holland "and its officers, agents, representatives
and employees" prohibiting the continuance of practices
the Commission found illegal. In the Matter of Holland
Furnace Co., 55 F. T. C. 55 (1958).
Holland petitioned the Court of Appeals to review
and set aside the order of the Commission. Soon thereafter the Commission, claiming that Holland was continuing to violate its order, moved the Court of Appeals
for a pendente lite order requiring compliance. On
August 5, 1959, -the court issued an order commanding
Holland to "obey and comply with the order to cease
and desist . . . unless and until said order shall be set
aside upon review by this Court or by the Supreme Court
of the .United States . . . ." This order forms the basis
of this.criminal contempt proceeding. Meanwhile, Ho1land's petition for review was decided adversely to the
corporation. In separate opinions, the Court of Appeals
upheld the jurisdiction of the Commission to enter its
cease-and-desist order, 269'F. 2d 203 (1959), and affirmed
on the merits, 295 F. 2d 302 (1961).
In March 1962 the Commission petitioned the Court,
of Appeals to enter a show cause order against Holland
for contempt of its pendente lite order. A rule was
issued and attorneys appointed to prosecute on behalf of
the court. Thereafter, in April 1963, rules were issued
against Cheff and the other officers, as individuals, to
show cause why they should not be held in criminal contempt "by reason of having knowingly, wilfully and

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

Opinion of CLARK,.J.

intentionally caused, and aided and abetted in causing,
respondent Holland Furnace Company to violate and
disobey, and fail and refuse to comply with" the order of
August 5, 1959. Cheff demanded a jury trial, which was
denied, and following a full hearing extending over a
10-day period the court found him guilty. As we have
stated, a sentence of six months was imposed. In accord6
ance with the limited grant of certiorari, there is n issue
here as to the sufficiency of the hearing, excepting the
absence of a jury.
II.
Cheff first contends that contempt proceedings in the
Court of Appeals which stem from administrative law
enforcement proceedings are civil, rather than criminal,
in nature. This may be true where the purpose of the
proceeding is remedial. Cf. Shillitani v. United States,
ante, p. 364. Within the context of the question before
us, howevtr, the contention is irrelevant, for a jury
trial is not required, in civil contempt proceedings,
as we specifically reaffirm in Shillitani, supra. In any
event, the contention is without merit. The purpose of
the proceedings against Cheff could not have been remedial for he had severed all connections with Holland
in 1962, long before the contempt proceedings were instituted against him. He had no control whatever over the
corporation and could no longer require any compliance
with the order of the Commission. Moreover, as Cheff
himself points out, the corporation "had completely withdrawn from the business of replacement of furnaces,
which is the area in which the violation is alleged."
There was, therefore, an "absence of any necessity of
assuring future compliance" which made the si,'-month
sentence "entirely punitive." Brief for Petitioner, p. 16.
There can be no doubt that. the courts of appeals have
the power to punish for contempt. 18 U. S. C. § 401

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

CLARK, J.

384 U. S.

(1964: ed.). See, e. g., cases cited in United States v.
Barnett,376 U. S. 681, 694, n. 12 (1964). .And it matters
not that the contempt arises indirectly from proceedings
of an administrative agency. Cheff was found in contempt of the Court of Appeals, not of the Commission.
The sole ground for the contempt proceedings is stated in
the initial order served on Cheff and the other parties to
show cause why they should not bp adjudged in criminal
contempt of that court, for violations of that court's
pendente lite order. . Indeed, Cheff's answer itself verified that he had not violated, disobeyed, and failed and
refused to comply with "an order of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Seventh- Circuit entered on
August .5, 19.59 . . . ." (Italics added.) In. addition,
the Court of Appeals itself was quite specific in limiting
the contempt charges to "cover the period from August 5,
1959 to the entry of the final judgment [in October 1961]
by this court." 341 F. 2d, at 550. As the court clearly
had the authority to enter its interlocutory order, Federal
Trade Commission Act, § 5, 38 Stat. 719, as amended, 15
U. S. C. § 45 (c) (1964 ed.), it follows that the court has
the power to punish for contempt aiy disobedience of
that order.
Cheff's next and chief contention is that criminal contempt proceedings are criminal actions falling within the
requirements of Article III and the Sixth Amendment
of the Constitution.* Only two Terms ago we held
to the contrary in United States v. Barnett, supra;
however, some members of the Court were of the view
there that, without regard to the seriousness of the
offense, punishment by summary trial without a jury
*The relevant portions of these provisions declare:
"The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall
be by Jury . . . ." Art. III,§ 2.
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to
a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury .... " Sixth

Amendment.

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

Opinion of CLARK, .J.

would be .constitutionally limited to that penalty provided for petty offenses. 376 U. S., at 694, n. 12. Cheff,
however, would have us hold that the right to jury trial
attaches in all criminal contempts and not merely in
those which are outside the category of "petty offenses."
Cheff's argument is unavailing, for we are constrained
to view the proceedings here as equivalent to a procedure
to prosecute a petty offense, which under our decisions
does not require a jury trial. Over 75.years ago in Callan
v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 557 (1888), this Court stated that
"in that class or grade of offences called petty offences,
which, according to the common law, may be proceeded
against summarily in- any tribunal legally constituted
for that purpose," a jury trial is not required. And as
late as 1937 the Court reiterated in District of Columbia
v. Clawans, 300 U. S. 617, 624, that: "It is settled by the
decisions of this Court . . . that the right of trial by
jury . . . does not extend to every criminal proceeding.

At the time of the adoption of the Constiiution there
were numerous offenses, comiunonly described as 'petty,'
which were tried summarily without a jury ...

."

See

also Natal v. Louisiana, 139 U. S. 621 (1891); Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 141-142 (1894); Schick y.
United States, 195 U. S. 65, 68-72 (1904); District of Columbia v. Colts, 282 U. S. 63, 72-73 (1930). Indeed,
Mr. Justice Goldberg, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, took the position in his dissenting opinion in United States v. Barnett,supra,at 751,
that "at the time of the Constitution all types of 'petty'
offenses punishable by trivial penalties were generally
triable without a jury. This history. justifies the imposition without trial by jury of no more than trivial
penalties for criminal contempts."
According to 18 U. S. C. § 1 (1964 ed.), "[a]ny misdemeanor, the penalty for which does not exceed imprisonment for a period of six months" is a "petty offense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

384 U. S.

HARLAN, J.

Since Cheff received a sentence of six months' imprisonment (see District of Columbia v. Clawans, supra, at
627-62g), and since the nature of criminal contempt, an
offense sui generis, does not, of itself, warrant treatment.
otherwise (cf. District of' Columbia. v. Colts, supra),
Cheff's offense can be treated only as "petty"' in the
eyes of the statute and our prior decisions. We conclude
therefore that Cheff was properly convicted without a
jury. At the same time, we recognize that by limiting
our opinion to those cases where a sentence not exceeding
six months is imposed we leave the federal courts at sea
in instances involving greater sentences. Effective administration compels us to express a- view on that point.
Therefore, in the exercise of the Court's supervisory
power and under the peculiar power of the federal dourts
to revise sentences in contempt cases, we rule further
that sentences exceeding six months for criminal contempt may not be imposed by federal courts absent a
jury trial or waiver thereof. Nothing we have said, however, restricts the power of a reviewing court, in appropriate circumstances, to revise sentences in contempt
cases tried with or without juries.
The-judgment in this case is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, joining Part

HARLAN'S separate opinion, concurs in

I of MR.- JSTICE

the result.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE took no part in the decision of

this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, concurring in the result in No. 67
and dissenting in Nos. 412 and 442.
By the opinions in these cases, two new limitations on
the use of the federal contempt power are inaugurated.
In Cheff, it is announced that prison sentences for crim-

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

Opinion of

HAnLAw,.

J.

.inal contempt in a federal court must be limited to six
months unless the defendant is afforded a trial by jury.
In Shillitani and Pappadio, an automatic "purge" clause
and related indicia are found to convert a criminal sentence into a civil sanction which cannot surivive the grand
jury's expiration. I believe these limitations are erroneous in reasoning and rpsult alike:
I.
The decision to extend the right to jury trial to criminal contempts ending in sentences greater than six
months is the product of the views of four Justices
who rest that conclusion on the Court's supervisory
power and those of two others who believe that jury
trials are constitutionally required in all but "petty"
criminal contempts. The four Justices who rely on the
supervisory power also find the constitutional question
a "difficult" one. Ante, at 365. However, as recently
as 1958, this Court in Green v. United States, 356 U. S.
165, unequivocally declared that the prosecution of crumnal contempts was not subject to the grand and petit
jury requirements of Art. III, § 2, of the Constitution
and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. This doctrine,
which was accepted by federal judges in the early days of
the Republic 1 and has been steadfastly, adhered to in
1

E. g., Ex parte Burr, 4 Fed. Cas. 791, 797 (No. 2,186) (C. C.
D. C. 1823) (Cranch, C. J.):
"[C]ases of contempt of court have never been c6nsidered as crimes
within the meaning and intention of the second section of the
third article of the constitution of the United States; nor have
attachments for contempt ever been considered as criminal prosecu"tions within the sixth amendment. ...

Many members of the

[constitutional] convention were members of the first congress, and
it cannot be believed that they would.have silently -acquiesced in so
palpable a violation of-the then recent constitution, as would have
been contaified in the seventeenth section of the judiciary act of
1789 (1 Stat. 73),--which authorizes all the courts of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

HARLAN, J.

384 U. S,

case after case in this Court, should be recognized now
as a definitive answer to petitioners' constitutional claims
in each of the cases before us.
The prevailing opinion's new supervisory-power rule
seems to me equally infirm.' The few sentences devoted
to this dictum give no reason why a six-month limitation
is desirable. Nor is there anything about the sentences
actually -imposed in these instances that warrants reappraisal of the present practice in contempt sentencing.
In Cheff itself the sentence was for six months. Shillitani and Pappadio involved two-year sentences but each
was moderated by a purge clause And seemingly in neither
case were there disputed facts suitable for a jury. Among
the prominent shortcomings of the new rule, which are
simply disregarded, is the difficulty it may generate for
federal courts seeking to implement locally unpopular
decrees. Another problem is in administration: to decide
whether to proffer a jury trial, the judge must now look
ahead to the sentence, which itself depends on the
precise facts the trial is to reveal.
States 'to punish by fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the
said courts, all contempts of authority in any cause or hearing before
the same,'-if their construction of the constitution had been that
which has, in this case, been contended for at the bar."
2 See Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 313 (1888) (Harlan, J.);
Savin, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 267, 278 (1889) (Harlan, J.); Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S.31, 36 (1890) (Miller, J.);
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson, 154 U. S.447, 489 (1894)
(Harlan, J.); Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S.324, 336-337
(1904) (Brewer, J.); Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U. S.418, 450 (1911) (Lamar, J.)'; Gompers v. United States, 233
U. S. 604, 610-611 (1914) (Holmes, J.); Ex parte Hudgings, 249
U. S. 378, 383 (1919) (White, C. J.); Myers v. United States,
264 U. S. 95, 104-105 (1924) (McReynolds, J.); Michaelson v.
United States, 266 U. S.42, 67 (1924) (Sutherland, J. ); Lx parte
Grossman, 267 U. S.87, 117-118 (1925) (Taft, C. J.); Fisher v.
Pace, 336 U. S. 155, 159-160 (1949) (Reed, J.); Offutt v. United
States, 348 U. S. 11, 14 (1954) (Frankfurter, J.).

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

Opinion of

383

HAHLAN, J.

In my view, before this Court improvises a rule neces-.
sarily based on pure policy that largely shrugs off history,
a far more persuasive showing can properly be expeeted.

II.
No less remarkable is the Court's upsetting of the sentences in Shillitani and Pappadio on the ground that
the jailings were really for civil contempt which cannot
endure beyond the -grand jury's term.' It can hardly
be suggested that the lower courts did not intend- to
invoke the criminal contempt power to keep the petitioners in jail after the grand jury expired; the contrary is demonstrated by the entire record.- Instead,
the Court attempts to characterize the proceedings" by
a supposed primary or essential "purpose" and then
lops off so much of the sentences as do not conform to
that purpose. What the Court fails to do is to give anyreason in policy, precedent, statute law, or the Constitution for its unspoken premise that a sentencing judge
cannot combine two purposes into a single sentence of.
the type here imposed.
Withdut arguing about which purpose was primary,
obviously a fixed sentence with a purge clause can be said'
to embody elements of both criminal and-civil r.ontempt.
However, so far as the safeguards of criminal contemp
proceedings may be superior to civil, the petitioners
have not been disadvantaged in this regard, nor do they
3

This question was never raised in Pappadio nor .encompassed by
the limited grant of certiorari in that case, see 382 U. S. 916; in
Shillitani, where the issue is properly before the Court, petitioner
filed a certiorari petition discussing the point but tendered no brief
on the merits on any phase of the case.
4For example, in each case the Judgment and Commitment states
that "the defendant is guilty of criminal contempt" and orders lin
committed "for a period of Two (2) Years, or until further order
of this Court," should the questions be answered within that period
before the grand jury expires.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
bOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

claim otherwise. Adding a purge clause to a fixed sentence is a benefit for the petitioners, not a reason
for complaint. Similarly the public interest is served
by exerting strong pressure to obtain answers while
tailoring the length of imprisonment so that it may punish the defendant only for his period of recalcitrance and
no more. I see no reason why a fixed sentence with an
automatic purge clause should be deemed impermissible.
For the foregoing reasons, .I would affirm the judgments in all three cases on the basis of Green and leave
the authority of that case unimpaired. 5
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs,

with whom MR. .JUsTICE BtACK

concurs, dissenting.
I.
I adhere to the view expressed in the dissents in Green
v. United States, 356 U. S. 165, 193, and United States
v. Barnett, 376 U. S. 681, 724, 728, that criminal contempt is a "crime". within the meaning of Art. III,§ 2;
of the Constitution and a "criminal prosecution" within
the meaning of the Sixth Amendment, both of which
guarantee the right to trial by jury in such cases;1 Punishment for contempt was largely a minor affair at the
time the Constitution was adopted, the lenfgthy penalties
of the sort imposed today being a relatively recent inno5

The two-year sentences imposed on Shillitani and Pappadio

do'not call for 'the,exercise of this Court's corrective power over
contempt sentences, see Green, 356 U. S., at 187-189; as has been
noted, both sentences carried purge clauses.
'Although the Sixth Amendment uses some*hat different language
than that of Art. III, §2, there is no rehson to believe that the Sixth
Amendkent was intended to work a change in the s9ope of the jury
trial, requirement of Article III. See Frankfurter, & Corcoran,
Petty Federal Offenses and the Constitutional Guaranty of Trial
by Jury, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 917, 968-975 (1926)-

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG..
373

DoudL.s, J., dissenting.

vation.2 I do not see how we can any longer tolerate an
"exception" to the historic guaranty of a trial
by jury
when men are sent to prison for contempt for periods of
as long as four years.
Nor do the consequences of a
contempt conviction necessarily end with the completion
of serving what may be a/substantial sentence. Indeel
the Government in other contexts regards a criminal
contempt conviction as the equivalent of a conviction of
other serious crimes.
Thus the Attorney General, iii an advisory letter dated
January 26, 1966, to Deputy Secretary of Defense Cyrus
R. Vance, concluded.that a conviction for criminal contempt could properly be applied to exclude an Army Veteran from burial in Arlington National Cemetery. Exclusion was based on a regulation (30 Fed. Reg. 8996)
which denies burial in a national cemetery to a person.
2 Green v. United 4ates, supra, at 207-208 dnd n. 21 (dissenting
opinion),; United States v. Barnett, supra, at 740-749 .(dissenting
opinion). Although Justice Goldberg's use of historical materials
in Barnett has been-subjected to some criticism (see, e. g., Tefft,
United States v. Barnett: "'Twas a Famous Victory," Supreme
Court Review 123, 132-133 (1964); Brief for the United States
27-58 and Appendix, passim, Harris v. United States, 382 U, S.
162), severe penalties in contempt cases in the early days appear,
nonetheless, to have been the exception.
3
See, e. g., Brown v. United States, 359 U. S. 41 (15 months);
Piemonte v. United States, 367 U. S. 556 (18 months); Reina v.
United States, 364 U. S. 507 (two years); Green v. United States,
supra (three years); Collins v. United States, 269 F. 2d 745 (three
years); United States v. Thompson, 214 F. 2d 545 (four years).
In the fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, a total of 21 people convicted by a federal court of contempt we e received by the federal
prison system. Of these, the average-sentence was 6.4 mon*s. Sentences of eight of thege prisoners exceeded six months; three prisoners
had sentences exceeding one- year, and of these two prisoners had
sentences of two years or more. The Federal Prison System--1964,
Hearing before the Subcommittee on National Penitentiaries of the
Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 88th Cong., 2d Sess. (Jan. 22,
1964), p. 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

"who is convicted in a Federal . . . court of a crime or
crimes., the result of which is . . . a sentence to imprisonment for 5 years or more . . . ." (Emphasis

added.) The Attorney General.stated: "Criminal contempt is regarded as a 'crime' for most purposes [citing
cases], and no reason is apparent why, for purposes of
the interment regulation, criminal contempt should be
distinguished from any other infraction of law punishable
by imprisonment."
There is in my view no longer any warrant for regarding punishment for contempt- as a minor .matter, strictly
between the court and the accused. "We take a false
and Qne-sided view of history when we ignore its dynamic
aspects. The year books can teach us how a principle or
a rule had its beginnings. They cannot teach us that,
what was the beginning shall also be the end." Cardozo,
The Growth of the Law 104-105 (1924).
II.

The prevailing opinion today suggests that a jury is
required where the sentence imposed exceeds six months
but not when it is less than that period. This distinction
was first noted in a footnote in the Barnett case, where
the Court drew an analogy to -prosecutions for "petty offenses" which need not be tried by jury.' The prevailing
opinion today seeks to buttress this distinction by reference to 18 U. S. C. § 1, which declares that an offense
the penalty for which does not exceed six months is a
4

The Court put the matter thus:
"However, our cases have indicated that, irrespective of the severity of the offense, the severity of the penalty imposed, a matter
not raised in this certification, might entitle a defendant to the
benefit of a jury trial. .

.

. In view of the impending contempt

hearing, 'effective administration of justice requires that this dictum
be added: Some members of the Court are of the view that, without
regard to the seriousness of the offense, punishment by summary
trial without a jury would be constitutionally limited to that penalty
provided for petty offenses." Supra, at 695, n. 12.

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

petty offense.

387

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

It studiously avoids embracing the view

expressed by MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

(ante, at 380), that

in no event 'does the Constitution require a.jury trial for

contempt. But I do not see any lines of constitutional
dimension that separate contempt cases where the punishment is less than six months from those where the
punishment exceeds that figure. That is a mechanical
distinction-unsupported by our cases in either the contempt field or in the field of "petty offenses,"
The difficulty with that analysis lies in attempting
to define a petty offense merely by reference to the
sentence actually imposed. This does not square with
our decisions regarding the "petty offense" exception to
the jury trial requirement. First, the determination of
whether an offense is "petty" also requires an analysis
of the nature of the offense itself; even though short
sentences are fixed for a particular offense a jury trial
will be constitutionally required if the offense is of a
serious character. Second, to the extent that the penalty is relevant in this process of characterization, it
is the maximum potential sentence, not the one actually
imposed, w'hich must be considered.
The notion that the trial of a petty offense could be
conducted without a jury was first expounded by this
Court in Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540 (1888).' The
Court, "conceding that there is a class of petty or minor
offences, not usually embraced in public criminal statutes,
and not of the class or grade triable at common law by a
jury," held that the offense charged-conspiracy-was
not among them. Id., at 555. In Natal v. Louisiana,
5The petty offense exception is treated in Frankfurter & Corcoran, Petty Federal Offenses and the Constitutional G aranty of
Trial by Jury, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 917 (1926). Their conclusion, long
accepted in the decisions of this Court, that. jury trials are not
required in such cases is challenged in Kaye, Petty Offenders Have
No Peers, 26 Chi. L. Rev. 245 (1959).
,

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

139 U. S. 621, the Court for the first time held a particular offense "petty." This was a local ordinance which
forbade the operation of a private market within six
squares of a public market. * The maximum penalty was
a $25 fine (or 30 days' impkisonment in the event the fine
was not paid).' And in Schick v. United States, 195
U. S. 65, the Court held that the- knowing purchase of
unstamped oleomargarine was a petty offense. The
maximum penalty was a $50 fine.
None of these cases provides much guidance for those
seeking to locate the line of demarcation between petty
offenses and those more serious transgressions for which
a jury trial is required. In District of Columbia v. Colts,
282 U. S. 63, the Court attempted to set out some general
considerations. The offense was reckless driving at an
excessive speed; the maximum punishment under the
statute (for a first offender) was a $100 fine and 30 days
in jail. Although the penalty was light, the Court
thought the offense too serious to- be regarded as
"petty":
"Whether a given offense is to be classed as a
crime, so as to require a jury -trial, or as a petty
offense, triable summarily without a jury, depends
primarily upon the nature of the offense. The
offense here charged is not merely malum prohibitum, but in its very nature is malum in se. It was
an indictable offenie at common law . . . when
horses, instead of gasoline, constituted the motive
power. . . ." Id., at 73.
The most recent case is District of Columbia v.
Clawans, 300 U. S. 617, where the offense charged was
This was, of course, not a case tried in the federal courts. But
the tourt did not decide the case on the ground that the Constitution does not require the States to afford jury trials in criminal
eases; it took, instead, the narrower ground that this was a petty
offense.

CHEFF
373

, SCHNACKENBERG.

-389

DouGLAS, J., di sinting.

that of engaging in a particular business without, a
license. The maximum *penaltywas $300 or 90 days in
jail. Clawans was given a $300 fine ]5ut only 60 days in
jdil. The Court held that this was a "petty offense" and
thus that no jury was required. The offense, the Court
noted, was not a crime at common law; and today it is
only an infringement of local police regulations, the
offense being "relatively inoffensive." Id., at 625. But,
the Court added, -"the severity of the penalty [is] an
element to be considered." Ibid. Looking to the maxi-'
mum penalty which might be imposed-90 days in
prison-the Court concluded that this was not so *severe
as to take the offense out of the category of "petty."
Noting that in England, and even during this country's
colonial period, sentences longer than 90 days were imposed without a jury trial, the Court assumed that penalties then thought mild "may come to be regarded as so
harsh as to call for the jury trial." Id., at- 627. The
Court added:
"[W]e may doubt whether summary trial with
punishment of more than six months' imlrisonment,
prescribed by some pre-Revolutionary statutes, is
admissible without concluding that a penalty of
ninety. days is too much Doubts must be resolved,
not subjectivelj by recourse of the judge to his own
sympathy and emotions, but by objective standards
such as may be observed i the laws and practices of
the community taken as a gauge -of its social and
ethical judgments." Id., at 627-628.
Resolution of the question of whether a prticular
offense is or is not "petty" cannot be had by coifining
the inquiry to the length of sentence actually ihposed.
That is only one of many factors. As the analysis of the
Court in Clawans demonstrates, the characti, of the
offense itself must be considered. The relevance of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
DOU-GLAS.

J., disQenting.

384 U. S.

maximum possible sentence is that it may be "taken as a
gauge of [the] social and ethical judgments" of the community. Id., at 628. Had the potential sentence in the
Clawans case been of considerable length, the Court presumably would have concluded that the legislative judgment-that long sentences were appropriate for violations of the licensing law-precluded treating the offense
as "petty." But the converse is not always true: an
offense the penalty for which is relatively light is not
necessarily "petty," as District of Columbia v. Colts,
supra, demonstrates.
The principal inquiry, then, relates to the character
and gravity of the offense itself. Was it an indictable
offense at common law? Is it malum in se or malum
prohibitum? What stigma attaches to those convicted of
committing the offense? I The Barnett dictum, though
accepting the relevance of the petty offense cases, errs
in assuming that these considerations are irrelevant.,
The dictum in Barnett errs, further, because it looks.
to the length of sentence actually imposed, rather than
the potential sentence.- The relevance ot the sentence,
as we have seen, is that it sheds light on the seriousness
with which the community and the legislature regard the
7"Broadly speaking, acts were dealt with summarily which did
not offend too deeply the moral purposes of the community, which
were not too close to society's danger, and were stigmatized by
punishment relatively light." Ffankfurter & Corcoran, supra, at
980-981.
1"Some members of the Court are of the view that, without
regard to the seriousness of the offense, punishment by summary
trial without a jury would be constitutionally limited to that penalty
provided for petty offenses." 376 U. S., at 695. (Emphasis added.)
To the extent that this merely reflects the Clawans principle that
no offense which carries a substantial penalty, can be "petty," the
Court was correct. Yet, .quite apart from the question of punishment, a jury trial is constitutionally required where the offense is
of a serious character.

-

373

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
DOUGLAs,

J., dissenting.

offense. Reference to the sentence actually imposed in
a particular case cannot serve this purpose. It is presently impossible to refer to a "maximum" sentence for
most contempts, for there is none; Congress has left such
matters to the discretion of the federal courts.9
The offense of criminal contempt is, of course, really
several diverse offenses all bearing a common name.
Some involve conduct that violates courtroom decorum.
At times the offender has insulted the court from a distance. Others are instances where an adamant witness
refuses to testify. Still others, like the present case, involve disobedience of a court order directing parties to
cease and desist from certain conduct pending an appeal.
While some contempts are fairly minor affairs, others are
seriout indeed, deserving lengthy sentence.
So long as
all contempts are lumped together, the serious nature of
some contempts and the severity of the sentences com-monly imposed in such cases control the legal character
of all contempts. None can be regarded as petty. Distinctions between contempts which, after the fact, draw
a six-month or greater sentence and those which do not
are based on constitutionally irrelevani factors and seem
irrelevant to the analysis.
III.
The Constitution, as I see it, thus requires a trial by
jury for the crime of criminal contempt, as it does for all
other crimes. Should Congress wish it, an exception
could be made for any designated class of. contempts
which, all factors considered, could truly be characterized
as "petty." ' 0 Congress has not attempted to isolate and
9 18 U. S. C. § 402 (1964 ed.).
"0Congress might, for example, determine that breaches of court
decorum are generally of so minor a nature as to render it advisable
to forgo the possibility of any except minor penalties in favor of
maintaining procedures for quick punishment (see Fed. Rule Crim.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
-

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

384 U. S.

define "petty contempts.' "Dbwe have power to .undertake the task of defining- a "class of petty contempts and
to fix maximim pufiishments whidh might be imposed?
It-would be a project more than'faintly reminiscent
of declating: 'common-law crimes," a power which has
been denied the federal judiciary since the beginning of
our republic. See United Stdt~s v. Hudson, 7 Cranch
32; United States.v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 485. It is,
of course, true that in the Hudson case itself, the Courtwhile holding the judiciary powerless to exercise a common-law criminal jurisdiction-set contempt apart from
this general restriction:
"Certain implied powers must necessarily result
to our Courts of justice from the nature of their
intitutioh.- But'jurisdiction of cfimes against the
state is not among those powers. To fine for contempt--imprison for' contumacy-inforce the observance of order, &c. are powers which cannot be
dispensed with in a Court, because they are necessary to 'the -exercise of all others: and so far our
Courts no doubt possess powers not immediately
derived from statute, but all exercise of criminal
jurisdiction in common law cases we are of opinion
is not.within their implied powers." Id,, at 34.21
Proc. 42 (a); Harrisv. United States, 382 U. S. 162) which are said
to be necessary to achieve "summary vindication of the court's dignity and authority." Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517, 534.
This might be a claa of "pe ty contempts" for which the maximum
penalty would be slight and for which trial by jury would not be
required. Quaere, whether imposition of a prison term would ever
be consistent with a "petty" offense. Cf. Kay', Petty Offenders"
Have No Peers, 26 Chi. L. Rev. 245, 275-277 (1959).
" And see 18 U. S. C. § 402, which allows "all other cases of contempt not 'specifically embraced in this section [to be] punished in
conforinity to the prevailing usages at.law."'

CHEFF v. SCHNACKENBERG.
373

DOUGLAS,

393

J., dissenting.

The prevailing opinion today does not take that course.
It does not undertake to classify differeit kinds of contempt in light of the nature and gravity of the offense.
It permits the imposition of punishment without the benefit of a trial by jury in all contempt cases where the punishment'does not exceed six months. For the reasons
stated, I believe that course is wrong-dangerously wrong.
Until the time when petty criminal contempts are properly defined and isolated from other species of contempts,
I see no-escape from the conclusion that punishment for
all manner of criminal contempts can constitutionally be
imposed only after a trial by jury,

