OTT v. MISSISSIPPI BARGE LINE.
155

169

Syllabus.

riding judgment. Since the case comes here upon the
sequence of events taken as an entirety, I do not undertake to separate one portion of the judgment from
another. Accordingly, as the case stands here, I must
take the entire sentence as infected with the fault I have
noted. It follows, in my view, that the judgment should
be reversed. Whatever the provocation, there can be no
due process in trial in the absence of calm judgment and
action, untinged with anger, from the bench.

OTT, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC FINANCE, ET
AL. v. MISSISSIPPI VALLEY BARGE LINE CO.
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 244.

Argued January 5, 1949.-Decided February 7, 1949.

1. A state and a city levied ad valorem taxes on foreign corporations
operating barge lines in interstate commerce on inland waters.
The assessments were based on the ratio between the number of
miles of line within the State and the total number of miles of
the entire line. The vessels engaged in the service were enrolled
at ports outside of the State and were only within the State for
such time as was required to load and unload cargo and to make
necessary repairs. Held: The taxes did not violate either the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment or the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 170-175.
2. The rule of tax apportionment for rolling stock of railroads in
interstate commerce, formulated in Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, is applicable here. Pp. 172-174.
3. So far as due process is concerned, the only question is whether
the tax in practical operation has relation to opportunities, benefits,
or protection conferred or afforded by the taxing State; and those
requirements are satisfied if the tax is fairly apportioned to the
commerce carried on within the State. P. 174.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

4. Claims of errors in the amount of the assessment need not here
be resolved in the absence of any suggestion that the State affords
no administrative or judicial remedy to correct them. P. 175.
166 F. 2d 509, reversed.

Appellees instituted suits in the District Court, based
on diversity of citizenship, to recover allegedly unconstitutional state taxes which they had paid under protest.
The District Court gave judgment for appellees. 68 F.
Supp. 30. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 166 F. 2d
509. On appeal to this Court, reversed, p. 175.
Howard W. Lenfant argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were Bolivar E. Kemp, Attorney
General of Louisiana, Henry G. McCall and Henry B.
Curtis.
Arthur A. Moreno argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the brief was Selim B. Lemle.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellees are foreign corporations which transport
freight in interstate commerce up and down the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Each has an office or agent in
Louisiana but its principal place of business is elsewhere.
The barges and towboats which they use in this commerce are enrolled at ports outside Louisiana; but they
are not taxed by the States of incorporation.
In the trips to Louisiana a tugboat brings a line of
barges to New Orleans where the barges are left for unloading and reloading. Then the tugboat picks up
loaded barges for return trips to ports outside that State.
There is no fixed schedule for movement of the barges.
But the turn-arounds are accomplished as quickly as pos-

OTT v. MISSISSIPPI BARGE LINE.
169

Opinion of the Court.

sible with the result that the vessels are within Louisiana
for such comparatively short periods of time as are required to discharge and take on cargo and to make necessary and temporary repairs.'
Louisiana and the City of New Orleans levied ad
valorem taxes under assessments based on the ratio between the total number of miles of appellees' lines in
Louisiana and the total number of miles of the entire
line.2 The taxes were paid under protest and various
1 The District Court found that of the total time covered by
appellees' interstate commerce operations in 1943, the amount spent
by their vessels in Louisiana or in New Orleans was approximately as
follows:
Per cent
American's tugboats .............................
3.8
Mississippi Valley's tugboats .....................
17.25
M ississippi Valley's barges .......................
12.7
Similar findings for 1944 were:
Mississippi Valley's tugboats .....................
10.2
M ississippi Valley's barges .......................
17.5
Union's tugboats ................................
2.2
Union's barges ..................................
4.3
2 The statute, 6 Dart's La. Gen. Stat. ยง 8370, provides in part as
follows:
"(a) . . . All movable and regularly moved locomotives, cars,
vehicles, craft, barges, boats and similar things, which have not the
character of immovables by their nature or by the disposition of
law, either owned or leased for a definite and specific term stated
and operated (such, illustratively but not exclusively, as the engines,
cars and all rolling stocks of railroads; the boats, barges and
other water-craft and floating equipment of water transportation
lines); ...
"(f). The 'movable personal property' of such persons, firms, or
corporations, whose line, route, or system is partly within this state
and partly within another state or states, shall be by the commission
valued for the purposes of taxation and by it assessed; and such
assessment by it fairly divided, allocated and certified to each such

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

suits, which have been consolidated, were instituted in
the District Court by reason of diversity of citizenship
for their return, the contention being that the taxes violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the Commerce Clause. The District Court
gave judgment for the appellees, holding that the taxes
violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment because the vessels had acquired no tax situs
in Louisiana. 68 F. Supp. 30. The Court of Appeals
affirmed. 166 F. 2d 509. Certiorari having been denied,
334 U. S. 859, the case was brought here by appeal.
Judicial Code ยง 240, 28 U. S. C. ยง 347 (b), now 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1254.
It is argued that the rule of tax apportionment for
rolling stock of railroads in interstate commerce which
was introduced by Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,141
U. S. 18, should be applied here. In that case a nondomiciliary State was allowed to tax an interstate rail
parish and municipality as herein defined, within this state, within,
through or under which same be operated; said division, allocation
and certification to be determined in the following manner and according to the following method; such assessment to be.there subject to
all state taxes and to all parish taxes and to all municipal taxes, as
same are herein defined and to none other.
"1. The portion of all of such property, of such person, firm or
corporation shall be assessed in the state of Louisiana, wheresoever,
in the ratio which the number of miles of the line, within the state
bears to the total number of miles of the entire line, route or system,
here and elsewhere, over which such movable personal property is so
operated or so used by such person, firm or corporation.
"(g). For the purposes of such valuation, assessment and taxation in
Louisiana such parishes and municipalities shall be hereby fixed and
declared, respectively, to be a taxable situs in this state of such
movable personal property, whether same be operated entirely within
or partly within and partly without this state and whether said
taxpayer be a resident or a nonresident of Louisiana and irrespec-

tive of whether or not here domiciled locally or otherwise."

OTT v. MISSISSIPPI BARGE LINE.
169

Opinion of the Court.

carrier by taking as the basis of assessment such proportion of its capital stock as the number of miles of railroad
over which its cars ran within the State bore to the total
number of miles in all the States.' The Court of Appeals
thought that case and its offspring inapplicable because
of our decisions in Hays v. PacificMail S. S. Co., 17 How.
596; St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202
U. S. 409; and Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S.
63. Some of these cases involved vessels which moved
on the high seas. Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., supra;
Morgan v. Parham, supra; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Kentucky, supra. Others involved vessels moving in our
inland waters, St. Louis v. Ferry Co., supra; Ayer & Lord
Tie Co. v. Kentucky, supra. In each situation the Court
evolved the rule that the vessels were taxable solely at
the domicile of the owner, save where they had acquired
an actual situs elsewhere as they did when they operated
wholly on waters within one State. Old Dominion S. S.
Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299. So far as ships of -American ownership and registry sailing the high seas are concerned, it was thought that if they were not taxable at
the domicile they might not be taxable at all. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra, at 75. But in neither
situation was the element of apportionment involved or
considered.
We do not reach the question of taxability of ocean
carriage but confine our decision to transportation on
3

And see Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S.
421; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 166 U. S. 185;
American Express Co. v. Indiana, 165 U. S. 255; Adams Express Co.
v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194; New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584; Wells,
Fargo & Co. v. Nevada, 248 U. S. 165; St. Louis & E. St. L. R. Co.
v. Hagerman, 256 U. S. 314; Southern R. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519;
Rowley v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 293 U. S. 102; Nashville, C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

inland waters. We see no practical difference so far as
either the Due Process Clause or the Commerce Clause is
concerned whether it is vessels or railroad cars that are
moving in interstate commerce. The problem under the
Commerce Clause is to determine "what portion of an
interstate organism may appropriately be attributed to
each of the various states in which it functions." Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, 365.
So far as due process is concerned the only question is
whether the tax in practical operation has relation to
opportunities, benefits, or protection conferred or afforded
by the taxing State. See Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co.,
311 U. S. 435, 444. Those requirements are satisfied if
the tax is fairly apportioned to the commerce carried on
within the State.
There is such an apportionment under the formula of
the Pullman case. Moreover, that tax, like taxes on property, taxes on activities confined solely to the taxing
State,4 or taxes on gross receipts apportioned to the business carried on there,5 has no cumulative effect caused by
the interstate character of the business. Hence there is
no risk of multiple taxation. Finally, there is no claim in
this case that Louisiana's tax discriminates against interstate commerce. It seems therefore to square with our
decisions holding that interstate commerce can be made
to pay its way by bearing a nondiscriminatory share of
the tax burden which each State may impose on the activities or property within its borders. See Western Live
Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 254-255, and cases cited.
4

New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431;
Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Coverdale v. ArkansasLouisiana Pipe L. Co., 303 U. S. 604.
5
Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Wisconsin & M. R.

Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota,
223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450;
Illinois Central R. Co. v. Minnesota, 309 U. S. 157.

OTT v. MISSISSIPPI BARGE LINE.
Opinion of the Court.

169

We can see no reason which should put water transportation on a different constitutional footing than other
interstate enterprises.
It is argued that the doctrine of the Pullman case is
inapplicable here because its basis is the continuous protection afforded by the taxing State throughout the tax
year to a portion of the commerce. See 141 U. S. at 26;
Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 206; New
York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584, 597-598;
Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292, 297.
It is said in this case that the visits of the vessels to
Louisiana were sporadic and for fractional periods of the
year only and that there was no average number of vessels in the State every day. The District Court indeed
said that there was no showing that the particular portion
of the property sought to be taxed was regularly and
habitually used and employed in Louisiana for the whole
of the taxable year.
We do not stop to resolve the question. Louisiana's
Attorney General states in his brief that the statute "was
intended to cover and actually covers here, an average
portion of property permanently within the State-and
by permanently is meant throughout the taxing year."
Appellees do not suggest an absence of any administrative or judicial remedy in Louisiana to correct errors in
the assessment. Cf. Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U. S.
620. The District Court does not sit to police them.
See Great Lakes Co. v. Huffman, 319 U. S. 293; Arkansas
Commission v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 132; Gardnerv. New
Jersey, 329 U. S. 565, 578-579.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

823978 0-49-----16

dissents.

