McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
176

187

Syllabus.

manufacturing of butter, cheese and other dairy
products, for sale on the open market as an article
of commerce, that is not subject to the tax." 17
Thus we hold that electrical energy supplied to these
dairy plants through single meters, or through more than
one but without differentiation as to use, is energy sold
for commercial consumption.
Affirmed.
McCOMB, WAGE AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR,
v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
"THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110. Argued December 14-15,1948.-Decided February 14,1949.
A decree of the District Court in a proceeding under the Fair Labor
Standards Act enjoined respondents from violating the minimum
wage, overtime, and record-keeping provisions of the Act. Respondents took no appeal. Three years later the Administrator
instituted a civil contempt proceeding alleging violations of the
decree and praying that respondents, in order to purge themselves
of contempt, be required to make payment of unpaid statutory
wages to the employees affected. Held:
1. The fact that the violations of the decree were not "willful"
does not absolve respondents from liability for civil contempt.
P. 191.
(a) The grant or withholding of relief in a civil contempt proceeding is not wholly discretionary. The private or public rights
that the decree sought to protect are an important measure of the
remedy. P. 191.
2. The fact that the unlawful plan or scheme which respondents
adopted was not specifically enjoined by the decree does not render
them immune from liability in a civil contempt proceeding. Pp.
191-193.
17

Bureau Letter, dated May 13, 1933 (symbols MT: ST: BHF)

(333 C. C. H. 6266), 4 C. C. H. Standard Federal Tax Reporter
2633G .175 (1949).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Counsel for Parties.

336 U. S.

3. The District Court had power to order respondents, in order
to purge their contempt, to pay to the affected employees amounts
of wages which were unpaid in violation of the Act. Pp. 193-195.
(a) Although the decree did not compute the weekly and
monthly amount due each employee under the correct construction of the Act, and did not contain the names of the payees, it
did provide a formula, couched in terms of the Act, whereby the
amounts could readily be ascertained. P. 194.
(b) It is immaterial that a suit could have been brought by
the employees to collect the amounts due; or that in this proceeding the Administrator is the complainant and the back wages
go to the employees. Pp. 194-195.
167 F. 2d 448, reversed.

The Wage and Hour Administrator instituted in the
District Court a civil contempt proceeding against respondents, alleging violations of a decree which enjoined
respondents from violating the minimum wage, overtime,
and record-keeping provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. The District Court held that there was no proof of
civil contempt because there was no "willful" violation of
the decree, and that it had no power on the application of
the Administrator to enforce compliance with its former
decree by ordering the payment of unpaid statutory
wages.

It considered the application of the Administra-

tor as an amended complaint seeking a broadening of the
previous decree and entered such an injunction. 69 F.
Supp. 599.

448.

The Court of Appeals affirmed.

This Court granted certiorari.

167 F. 2d

335 U. S. 809.

Reversed, p. 195.
Bessie Margolin argued the cause for petitioner. With
her on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,Robert L.
Stern and William S. Tyson.

Louis Kurz argued the cause and filed a brief for respondents.

McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
187

189

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a civil contempt proceeding arising out of
Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564, which
we decided January 18, 1943. The District Court had
held that none of respondents' employees in specified
classes were covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201. We sustained a judgment
of the United States Court of Appeals which reversed the
District Court, modifying it slightly to include a larger
class of employees than the United States Court of Appeals had held to be covered.
On remand the District Court, without a further hearing, entered a decree enjoining respondents from violating
the Act in any of the following particulars: (1) by paying
the designated classes of employees less than 300 an hour
from the date of the judgment to October 24, 1945, or
less than 400 an hour thereafter, except as permitted
by orders of the Administrator under § 8 or § 14 of the
Act; (2) by employing such employees for a workweek
longer than 40 hours unless they receive compensation
for employment in excess of 40 hours in the workweek
at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular
rate at which they are employed; and (3) by failing
to keep and preserve records as prescribed by the Administrator, particularly records of the hours worked each
workday and each workweek by each of the employees
and of the total wages paid to each for each workweek.
Respondent took no appeal from this order. This was
in 1943. In 1946 the Administrator instituted this contempt proceeding alleging that respondents had not complied with the minimum wage, overtime, and recordkeeping provisions of the judgment in many specified
respects. He prayed that respondents be required to ter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

minate their continuing violations and in order to purge
themselves of their contempts to make payment of the
amounts of unpaid wages due the affected employees.
The District Court found violations of the provisions of
the decree. It found that (1) respondents had set up
a completely false and fictitious method of computing
compensation without regard to the hours actually
worked which were unlawful under the Act; (2) respondents had adopted a plan which gave the employees a
wage increase in the guise of a bonus and yet excluded
that increase from the regular rate of pay for the purpose of computing overtime; (3) respondents had classified some employees as executive or administrative employees in plain violation of the regulations of the
Administrator adopted under § 13 (a) (1) of the Act; and
(4) one of the respondents had employed pieceworkers
in excess of the maximum workweek without paying them
overtime compensation.'
The District Court held that a civil contempt required
a "wilful" violation of a decree; and that there was in
this case no showing of any "wilful" violation of any
"specific" provision of the former decree "prohibiting the
doing of any specific thing." The District Court further
held that it had no power on the application of the Administrator to enforce compliance with its former decree
by ordering the payment of unpaid statutory wages. It
accordingly considered the application of the Administrator as an amended complaint seeking a broadening
of the previous decree and entered such an injunction.
69 F. Supp. 599.
All parties appealed. The United States Court of
Appeals affirmed the judgment. It ruled that respond' It also found violations of the record-keeping provisions of the
decree, some of which it held to be trivial and others of which had
been discontinued.

McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.

191

Opinion of the Court.

187

ents had violated the provisions of the decree couched
in terms of the Act in the respects found by the District
Court. It also held that the District Court was warranted in concluding that there was no "wilful contempt"
since neither the law nor the injunction specifically referred to or condemned the practices which were found
to violate the Act. 167 F. 2d 448.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
which we granted because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the Act.
First. The absence of wilfulness does not relieve from
civil contempt. Civil as distinguished from criminal contempt is a sanction to enforce compliance with an order of
the court or to compensate for losses or damages sustained
by reason -f noncompliance. See United States v.
United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 303-304; Penfield
Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 330 U. S. 585,
590; Maggio v. Zeitz, 333 U. S. 56, 68. Since the purpose
is remedial, it matters not with what intent the defendant
did the prohibited act.2 The decree was not fashioned so
as to grant or withhold its benefits dependent on the state
of mind of respondents. It laid on them a duty to obey
specified provisions of the statute. An act does not cease
to be a violation of a law and of a decree merely because
it may have been done innocently. The force and vitality
of judicial decrees derive from more robust sanctions.
And the grant or withholding of remedial relief is not
wholly discretionary with the judge, as Mr. Justice
Brandeis wrote for a unanimous Court in Union Tool Co.
v. Wilson, 259 U. S. 107, 111-112. The private or public
rights that the decree sought to protect are an important
measure of the remedy.
Second. As we have noted, the decree directed respondents to obey the provisions of the Act dealing with mini2

See 2 High on Injunctions (4th ed., 1905) §§ 1416 et seq.
823978 0-49-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

mum wages, overtime, and the keeping of records. There
was no appeal from it. By its terms it enjoined any practices which were violations of those statutory provisions.
Decrees of that generality are often necessary to prevent
further violations where a proclivity for unlawful conduct
has been shown. See May Stores Co. v. Labor Board, 326
U. S. 376, 390, 391; United States v. Crescent Amusement
Co., 323 U. S. 173, 186. Respondents' record of continuing and persistent violations of the Act would indicate that
that kind of a decree was wholly warranted in this case.
Yet if there were extenuating circumstances or if the decree was too burdensome in operation, there was a method
of relief apart from an appeal. Respondents could have
petitioned the District Court for a modification, clarification or construction of the order. See Regal Knitwear
Co. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S. 9, 15. But respondents did
not take that course either. They undertook to make
their own determination of what the decree meant. They
knew they acted at their peril. For they were alerted
by the decree against any violation of specified provisions of the Act.
It does not lie in their mouths to say that they have
an immunity from civil contempt because the plan or
scheme which they adopted was not specifically enjoined.
Such a rule would give tremendous impetus to the program of experimentation with disobedience of the law
which we condemned in Maggio v. Zeitz, supra, at 69.
The instant case is an excellent illustration of how it
could operate to prevent accountability for persistent contumacy. Civil contempt is avoided today by showing
that the specific plan adopted by respondents was not
enjoined. Hence a new decree is entered enjoining that
particular plan. Thereafter the defendants work out
a plan that was not specifically enjoined. Immunity is
once more obtained because the new plan was not spe-

McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
187

193

Opinion of the Court.

cifically enjoined. And so a whole series of wrongs is
perpetrated and a decree of enforcement goes for naught.
That result not only proclaims the necessity of decrees
that are not so narrow as to invite easy evasion; it also
emphasizes the danger in the attitude expressed by the
courts below that the remedial benefits of a decree will
be withheld where the precise arrangement worked out
to discharge the duty to pay which both the statute and
the decree imposed was not specifically enjoined.
We need not impeach the findings of the lower courts
that respondents had no purpose to evade the decree,
in order to hold that their violations of it warrant the
imposition of sanctions. They took a calculated risk
when under the threat of contempt they adopted measures
designed to avoid the legal consequences of the Act. Respondents are not unwitting victims of the law. Having
been caught in its toils, they were endeavoring to extricate themselves. They knew full well the risk of crossing the forbidden line. Accordingly where as here the
aim is remedial and not punitive, there can be no complaint that the burden of any uncertainty in the decree
is on respondents' shoulders.
Third. We have no doubts concerning the power of
the District Court to order respondents, in order to purge
themselves of contempt, to pay the damages caused by
their violations of the decree. We can lay to one side
the question whether the Administrator, when suing to
restrain violations of the Act, is entitled to a decree of
restitution for unpaid wages. Cf. Porter v. Warner Holding Co., 328 U. S. 395. We are dealing here with the
power of a court to grant the relief that is necessary to
effect compliance with its decree. The measure of the
court's power in civil contempt proceedings is determined
by the requirements of full remedial relief. They may
entail the doing of a variety of acts, such as the produc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

tion of books. Penfield Co. v. Securities & Exchange
Commission, supra. They may also require the payment
of money as in the alimony cases. See Gompers v. Bucks
S. & R. Co., 221 U. S. 418, 442; Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S.
358, 364-365.
The decree that was violated in the present case relates to the payment of wages and overtime pay required
by §§ 6 and 7 of the Act. It does not, however, compute
the weekly and monthly amount that is due each employee under the correct construction of the Act. Nor
does it contain the names of the payees. But it provides
the formula by which the amounts can be simply computed. If it had gone one step further and made the
computation, listing the amounts due each employee, the
case would then be on all fours with the alimony cases.
Yet the circumstance that changing payrolls and fluctuating rates of pay make that impractical in this type of
case does not mark a material difference.
The direction of the court was that respondents make
payments of wages to their employees pursuant to a prescribed formula. If the court is powerless to require the
prescribed payments to be made, it has lost the most effective sanction for its decree and a premium has been
placed on violations. The fact that another suit might be
brought to collect the payments' is, of course, immaterial.
For the court need not sit supinely by waiting for some
litigant to take the initiative. Vindication of its authority through enforcement of its decree does not depend
on such whimsical or fortuitous circumstances. The fact
that the Administrator is the complainant 4 and that the
back wages go to the employees is not material. It is
3Section

16 (b) authorizes suits by employees to recover wages

and overtime unlawfully withheld.
4 It is the Administrator who is directed and authorized by § 11 (a)
of the Act to bring actions to restrain violations of the Act of the

McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
187

FRANKFURTER,

195

J., dissenting.

the power of the court with which we are dealing-the
power of the court to enforce compliance with the injunction which the Act authorizes,5 which the court has issued,
and which respondents have long disobeyed.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

concurs

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

JACKSON

in the result.

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.

Obedience must of course be secured for the command
of a court. To secure such obedience is the function of
a proceeding for contempt. But courts should be explicit
and precise in their commands and should only then
be strict in exacting compliance. To be both strict and
indefinite is a kind of judicial tyranny.
In such a case as this, only after an administrative
order has been formulated and a court has adjudicated
that the order is within the administrator's statutory
authority does the command of a court come into existence, disobedience of which may be punished as contempt.
For violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act as such,
one may be made to suffer civil penalties or imprisonment,
but the latter only after conviction by a jury. For violation of the command of an injunction issued under the
Act, however, he may not only be exposed to more severe
civil penalties than the Act by its own terms imposes, but
made to suffer imprisonment without benefit of jury trial.
It is for such reasons that this Court has indicated
again and again that a statute cannot properly be made
the basis of contempt proceedings merely by incorporatcharacter involved here. Cf. Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306
U. S. 153, 157; United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 193-194;
Commission v. Brashear Lines, 312 U. S. 621, 628-630.
5 See § 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

ing a reference to its broad terms into a court order. See,
e. g., Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396;
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361, 404; Labor Board v. Express
Publishing Company, '312 U. S. 426, 435. These considerations become increasingly important as there is increasing use of injunctions for the enforcement of administrative orders and statutory duties.
These are general principles but their application governed the decisions of the District Court and of the Court
of Appeals; they should control the decision here. The
two lower courts found that while the practices now
complained of by the Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division of the Department of Labor constituted
violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act, they were
not on any fair consideration covered by the injunction, contempt of which is now charged. The injunction
underlying this proceeding takes eight pages of a printed
record and particularizes in great detail the violations
which were enjoined. It also contains omnibus clauses
prohibiting violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
On full consideration, the District Court treated the application for an adjudication of civil contempt "as an
amended complaint seeking a broadening of the injunctive orders heretofore entered in this case, and will enter
an amended judgment enjoining defendants from violating the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act as
adjudicated in this Memorandum Opinion." 69 F. Supp.
599, 608. The Court of Appeals agreed with this view
of the District Court (with a minor modification not
here relevant). 167 F. 2d 448. In short, both courts
found no contempt. They did so because there was
lacking that clearness of command in the court's order
which warranted a finding of its disobedience, if due regard were paid to the proper construction of the injunction
as the starting point of the contempt proceedings. At

McCOMB v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
187

FRANKFURTER,

197

J., dissenting.

the least, such was a warrantable interpretation of the
circumstances of this case, and we are disentitled to set
our interpretation against theirs.
In reversing the conclusion of the two lower courts
that there was no contempt because there was no disobedience of the injunction, the Court is rendering a
decision of far-reaching import to the law of injunctions.
Today's ruling happens to concern an injunction against
an employer. Tomorrow it may be an injunction against
employees, as it was yesterday and too often in the past.
One of the grievances which led to the Norris-LaGuardia
Act was the generality of the terms of labor injunctions.
Ambiguity lurks in generality and may thus become an
instrument of severity. Behind the vague inclusiveness
of an injunction like the one before us is the hazard of
retrospective interpretation as the basis of punishment
through contempt proceedings. The two lower courts,
in finding that generally to enjoin obedience to a law
is too vague a foundation for proceedings in contempt,
were avoiding the very evil with which labor injunctions
were justly charged. And of course it is not to be assumed that the allowable vagueness of an injunction
varies with the use to which the injunction is put. This
Court ought not to encourage injunctions couched in
such indefinite terms by setting aside the findings of the
courts below that the injunction did not forbid with
explicitness sufficient to justify a finding of contempt.

I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

