UNITED STATES v. KNIGHT.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. KNIGHT.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 406.

Argued March 4, 1949.-Decided April 4, 1949.

1. Respondent was indicted for aiding and abetting a trustee in
bankruptcy to appropriate property of the bankruptcy estate
in violation of the Bankruptcy Act, and for conspiring to do so.
The case hinged on whether certain funds received by the trustee
and his counsel, and for which they did not account, were funds
of the estate or gifts by a third party from his own property.
There was substantial evidence to support either view. The jury
found respondent guilty and he was sentenced to pay a fine.
The Court of Appeals reversed his conviction and directed entry
of a judgment of acquittal. Held: The Court of Appeals' reversal
was an improper interference with the jury function, and its
judgment is reversed. Pp. 506-509.
2. All of the consideration which is paid for a bankrupt's assets
becomes part of the estate; and no device or arrangement, however
subtle, can subtract or divert any of it. Pp. 508-509.
3. A different result is not required in this case by the claim that
the funds in question were paid by the purchaser of the assets
at a time when the rights of creditors and stockholders in the
estate had been fixed and all allowances had been determined.
P. 509.
169 F. 2d 1001, reversed.

Respondent was convicted for aiding and abetting a
violation of the Bankruptcy Act and for conspiracy. The
Court of Appeals reversed. 169 F. 2d 1001. This Court
granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 901. Reversed, p. 509.
Philip R. Monahan argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman,Assistant Attorney General Campbell and Robert S. Erdahl.
Robert T. McCracken argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were George G. Chandler and
J. Julius Levy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

336 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Robert Michael was trustee in bankruptcy of the Central Forging Co. and Donald Reifsnyder was his counsel.
Maxi Manufacturing Co. was a competitor of Central
and one of its creditors. George Fenner and respondent
Harry S. Knight were attorneys for Maxi. After negotiations which it is unnecessary to relate here, a plan of
reorganization under ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act, 52
Stat. 883, 11 U. S. C. § 501 et seq., was approved by the
court and accepted by more than two-thirds of the creditors. Under this plan Maxi was to acquire all the assets
of Central; the stockholders of Central were to receive
nothing; the secured creditors of Central were to receive
20 per cent and its unsecured creditors 5 per cent of their
claims in bonds of Maxi; and all taxes, costs, and expenses
of the reorganization were to be paid in full in cash by the
trustee. The cash requirements of the plan were to be
furnished by Maxi.
The amount of those requirements and the nature of
Maxi's commitment are sources of the present controversy. Michael and Reifsnyder concededly obtained
funds in connection with the reorganization for which
they did not account. It is the theory of the prosecution
that those funds were part of the bankruptcy estate. It
is the theory of the defense that they were gifts by Maxi
of its own property.
There was evidence (including Michael's testimony in
this case and one construction of respondent's testimony
concerning the same transactions in an earlier contempt
case against Michael) that Maxi agreed to pay $26,404.33
in cash for Central's net current assets in addition to the
$17,000 in bonds. If this version of the transaction were
believed, there was a scheme to value the assets of Central
at $3,000 less than $26,404.33 and to divert the $3,000
to Michael's and Reifsnyder's own ends.

UNITED STATES v. KNIGHT.
505

Opinion of the Court.

There was another version of this phase of the plan
which is also supported by evidence, viz. that Maxi was
to pay in cash all expenses of the reorganization provided
they did not exceed $26,404.33. In this view the difference between $26,404.33 and the expenses allowed by the
Court, $23,404.33, was Maxi's to do with as it pleased.
The court confirmed the plan and ordered the transfer
of all of Central's assets to Maxi on receipt of the bonds
and on payment of the costs and expenses as allowed by
the court, "within the limits of the funds as set forth
in the Trustee's report filed April 15, 1942." That report
listed the net current assets of Central at $23,404.33.
There was some evidence that the value of those assets
had been falsified in the report by deducting $3,000 from
the accounts receivable.
The expenses approved by the court and paid by Maxi
included allowances for the fees and expenses of Michael
and Reifsnyder. Knight arranged for Maxi also to draw
a check for $3,000 to Fenner which Fenner cashed and,
after deducting $500 for income tax, paid over to Michael
and Reifsnyder who never accounted to the court for it.
Knight and Fenner were indicted for aiding and abetting Michael to appropriate property of the bankruptcy
estate in violation of the Bankruptcy Act, 30 Stat. 554, as
amended, 11 U. S. C. § 52 (a),' and for conspiring with
Michael and others to do the same. Knight and Fenner
were found guilty by a jury on all counts. Knight was
fined $1,000. The Court of Appeals reversed his conviction and directed entry of a judgment of acquittal, one
1 "A person shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of not
to exceed five years or by a fine of not more than $5,000, or both,
upon conviction of the offense of having knowingly and fraudulently
appropriated to his own use, embezzled, spent, or unlawfully transferred any property or secreted or destroyed any document belonging
to the estate of a bankrupt which came into his charge as trustee,
receiver, custodian, marshal, or other officer of the court."

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

judge dissenting. 169 F. 2d 1001. The case is here on a
petition for certiorari which we granted because of the
importance of the ruling in the administration of the
Bankruptcy Act.
There was substantial evidence that Maxi agreed to
pay $26,404.33 for the net current assets of Central and
that Knight was party to a scheme to divert $3,000 of
that consideration to the personal ends of Michael and
Reifsnyder. It was therefore an improper interference
with the jury's function for the Court of Appeals to reject
that theory of the case and to accept one which to it
seemed more credible. See Glasser v. United States, 315
U. S. 60, 80; Kotteakos v. United States, 328 U. S. 750,
763-764.
But even if, as the defense urges, Maxi only agreed to
pay expenses up to $26,404.33, the result is the same.
Maxi in fact paid that amount. It was paid in connection with the reorganization. It was paid for services
allegedly rendered by Michael and Reifsnyder in the
proceedings. It was paid secretly and in a devious way.
The assets of the estate which were transferred to Maxi
were worth $26,404.33. This is a substantial showing
that $26,404.33 was in fact paid for the assets and that
the form of the arrangement served only to syphon a
part of the consideration to Michael and Reifsnyder
without court approval.
All the consideration which is paid for a bankrupt's
assets becomes part of the estate. No device or arrangement, however subtle, can subtract or divert any of it.
It is the substance of the transaction, not its form, which
controls. If that requirement were not rigidly enforced,
control of the plan of reorganization 2 and control of
2 Even after confirmation of the plan of reorganization under § 221
of ch. X, it may be altered or modified pursuant to the procedure
prescribed in § 222.

UNITED STATES v. KNIGHT.
505

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

allowances' would pass from the court to the parties.
That would subvert the statutory scheme.
This consequence is sought to be avoided here by the
argument that when the $3,000 was diverted to Michael
and Reifsnyder, the rights of creditors and stockholders
in the estate had been fixed and all the allowances had
been determined. It is therefore said that there would
have been no rightful claimants to the money had it
been paid into court. By that procedure parties would
arrogate to themselves the control over the estate which
Congress has entrusted to the bankruptcy judge
Reversed.
and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

The Court of Appeals, speaking through one of the
most conscientious and experienced of judges, thus summarized the problem of the case:
"The whole transaction was highly reprehensible and
it may well have involved the commission of a criminal offense. Indeed under another indictment defendant Michael pleaded guilty to another charge
growing out of these occurrences. The question before us, however, is not whether the defendant
Knight committed any crime but only whether he
aided and abetted Michael to violate Section 29,
sub. a, in the manner described in the indictment."
169 F. 2d 1001, 1005.
3See

§§ 241-244 of ch. X; Leiman v. Guttman, 336 U. S. 1.

4See note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

The court concluded that the evidence did not support
the charges made in the indictment and that the motion
for a directed verdict should have been granted. At the
bar of this Court the Government disavowed the presence
of any question of law in the case except the question
whether the record warranted submission of the case to
the jury as the District Court thought, and as the Court
of Appeals thought not. The Government conceded unreservedly that the correctness of this decision turns
entirely on the facts of this particular case. We ought
not to be called upon to canvass a record of 870 pages to
determine whether the District Court properly viewed
the facts in relation to the charge, or whether the appraisal made by the Court of Appeals was right. I do
not propose to do so. One appellate review of the facts
should suffice, even when the review goes against the
Government.
It having appeared, after the writ of certiorari was
granted, that the case merely involves weighing evidence,
I think the writ should be dismissed as having been
improvidently granted.

