OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND

No. 143.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 10, 1949.-Decided March 28, 1949.

Petitioner was convicted in a federal district court for inducing a
woman (the complaining witness) fo go from New York to Florida
for the purpose of prostitution, transporting her from New York
to Miami for that purpose, and conspiring with another woman
to commit those offenses. At his trial, there was admitted in
evidence over his objection testimony concerning a statement made
by the co-conspirator to the complaining witness more than six
weeks after the transportation to Miami had been completed,
which implied that petitioner was guilty and suggested concealing
his guilt. Held:
1. The hearsay declaration attributed to the co-conspirator was
not admissible on the ground that it was made in furtherance of
the conspiracy to transport. Pp. 441-443.
2. Nor was it admissible on the ground that it was in furtherance
of a continuing subsidiary phase of the conspiracy-i. e., an implied
agreement to conceal the crime. Pp. 443-444.
3. Since it cannot be said on the record in this case that the
erroneous admission of the hearsay declaration may not have tipped
the scales against petitioner, it cannot be considered a harmless
error under 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 391; and the conviction is
reversed. Pp. 444-445.
167 F. 2d 943, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted in a federal district court of
violations of the Mann Act and of conspiracy to commit
those offenses, 18 U. S. C. §§ 88, 398, 399 (now 18 U. S. C.
§§ 371, 2421, 2422). The Court of Appeals affirmed.
167 F. 2d 943. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S.
811. Reversed, p. 445.
Jacob W. Friedman argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Robert W. Ginnane argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

Opinion of the Court.

Perlman,Assistant Attorney General Campbell, John R.
Benney, Robert S. Erdahl and Joseph M. Howard.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

A federal district court indictment charged in three
counts that petitioner and a woman defendant had (1)
induced and persuaded another woman to go on October 20, 1941, from New York City to Miami, Florida,
for the purpose of prostitution, in violation of 18 U. S. C.
§ 399 (now § 2422); (2) transported or caused her to be
transported from New York to Miami for that purpose,
in violation of 18 U. S. C. § 398 (now § 2421); and (3)
conspired to commit those offenses in violation of 18
U. S. C. § 88 (now § 371). Tried alone, the petitioner
was convicted on all three counts of the indictment.
The Court of Appeals affirmed. 167 F. 2d 943. And
see disposition of prior appeal, 145 F. 2d 76. We granted
certiorari limiting our review to consideration of alleged
error in admission of certain hearsay testimony against
petitioner over his timely and repeated objections.
The challenged testimony was elicited by the Government from its complaining witness, the person whom
petitioner and the woman defendant allegedly induced
to go from New York to Florida for the purpose of prostitution. The testimony narrated the following purported
conversation between the complaining witness and petitioner's alleged co-conspirator, the woman defendant.
"She asked me, she says, 'You didn't talk yet?'
And I says, 'No.' And she says, 'Well, don't,' she
says, 'until we get you a lawyer.' And then she says,
'Be very careful what you say.' And I can't put it
in exact words. But she said, 'It would be better
for us two girls to take the blame than Kay (the
defendant) because he couldn't stand it, he couldn't
stand to take it.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

The time of the alleged conversation was more than a
month and a half after October 20, 1941, the date the complaining witness had gone to Miami. Whatever original
conspiracy may have existed between petitioner and his
alleged co-conspirator to cause the complaining witness
to go to Florida in October, 1941, no longer existed when
the reported conversation took place in December, 1941.
For on this latter date the trip to Florida had not only
been made-the complaining witness had left Florida,
had returned to New York, and had resumed her residence
there. Furthermore, at the time the conversation took
place, the complaining witness, the alleged co-conspirator,
and the petitioner had been arrested. They apparently
were charged in a United States District Court of Florida
with the offense of which petitioner was here convicted.'
It is beyond doubt that the central aim of the alleged
conspiracy-transportation of the complaining witness to
Florida for prostitution-had either never existed or had
long since ended in success or failure when and if the
alleged co-conspirator made the statement attributed to
her. Cf. Lew Moy v. United States, 237 F. 50. The
statement plainly implied that petitioner was guilty of
the crime for which he was on trial. It was made in petitioner's absence and the Government made no effort
whatever to show that it was made with his authority.
The testimony thus stands as an unsworn, out-of-court
declaration of petitioner's guilt. This hearsay declaration, attributed to a co-conspirator, was not made pursuant to and in furtherance of objectives of the conspiracy
charged in the indictment, because if made, it was after
those objectives either had failed or had been achieved.
Under these circumstances, the hearsay declaration attributed to the alleged co-conspirator was not admissible
1The Florida grand jury failed to indict and the cases there were

closed without prosecution in February, 1942. The New York indictments were not returned until January, 1943.

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

Opinion of the Court.

on the theory that"it was made in furtherance of the alleged criminal transportation undertaking. Fiswick v.
United States, 329 U. S. 211, 216-217; Brown v. United
States, 150 U. S. 93, 98-99; Graham v. United States,
15 F. 2d 740, 743.
Although the Government recognizes that the chief
objective of the conspiracy-transportation for prostitution purposes-had ended in success or failure before the
reported conversation took place, it nevertheless argues
for admissibility of the hearsay declaration as one in
furtherance of a continuing subsidiary objective of the
conspiracy. Its argument runs this way. Conspirators
about to commit crimes always expressly or implicitly
agree to collaborate with each other to conceal facts in
order to prevent detection, conviction and punishment.
Thus the argument is that even after the central criminal
objectives of a conspiracy have succeeded or failed, an implicit subsidiary phase of the conspiracy always survives,
the phase which has concealment as its sole objective.
The Court of Appeals adopted this view. It viewed
the alleged hearsay declaration as one in furtherance of
this continuing subsidiary phase of the conspiracy, as
part of "the implied agreement to conceal." 167 F. 2d
943, 948. It consequently held the declaration properly
admitted.
We cannot accept the Government's contention. There
are many logical and practical reasons that could be advanced against a special evidentiary rule that permits
out-of-court statements of one conspirator to be used
against another. But however cogent these reasons, it is
firmly established that where made in furtherance of the
objectives of a going conspiracy, such statements are admissible as exceptions to the hearsay rule. This prerequisite to admissibility, that hearsay statements by
some conspirators to be admissible against others must be
made in furtherance of the conspiracy charged, has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

scrupulously observed by federal courts. The Government now asks us to expand this narrow exception to the
hearsay rule and hold admissible a declaration, not made
in furtherance of the alleged criminal transportation conspiracy charged, but made in furtherance of an alleged
implied but uncharged conspiracy aimed at preventing
detection and punishment. No federal court case cited
by the Government suggests so hospitable a reception to
the use of hearsay evidence to convict in conspiracy cases.
The Government contention does find support in some
but not all of the state court opinions cited in the Government brief.2 But in none of them does there appear to be
recognition of any such broad exception to the hearsay
rule as that here urged. The rule contended for by the
Government could have far-reaching results. For under
this rule plausible arguments could generally be made in
conspiracy cases that most out-of-court statements offered
in evidence tended to shield co-conspirators. We are not
persuaded to adopt the Government's implicit conspiracy
theory which in all criminal conspiracy cases would create automatically a further breach of the general rule
against the admission of hearsay evidence.
It is contended that the statement attributed to the
alleged co-conspirator was merely cumulative evidence,
that without the statement the case against petitioner was
so strong that we should hold the error harmless under 28
U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 391. In Kotteakos v. UnitedStates,
328 U. S. 750, we said that error should not be held harmCommonwealth v. Smith, 151 Mass. 491, 24 N. E. 677; People v.
Mol, 137 Mich. 692, 707, 100 N. W. 913, 918; Hooper v. State, 187
Ark. 88, 92, 58 S. W. 2d 434, 435; State v. Gauthier, 113 Ore. 297,
307, 231 P. 141, 145; State v. Emory, 116 Kan. 381, 384, 226 P.
754, 756; Carter v. State, 106 Ga. 372, 376, 32 S. E. 345, 346-347;
Watson v. State, 166 Miss. 194, 213, 146 So. 122, 127; Baldwin v.
State, 46 Fla. 115, 120-121, 35 So. 220, 222; State v. Strait, 279
S. W. 109 (Mo.).
2

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

445

JACKSON, J., concurring.

less under the harmless error statute if upon consideration
of the record the court is left in grave doubt as to whether
the error had substantial influence in bringing about a
verdict. We have such doubt here. The Florida District
Court grand jury failed to indict. After indictment in
New York petitioner was tried four times with the following results: mistrial; conviction; mistrial; conviction
with recommendation for leniency. The revolting type of
charges made against this petitioner by the complaining
witness makes it difficult to believe that a jury convinced
of a strong case against him would have recommended
leniency. There was corroborative evidence of the complaining witness on certain phases of the case. But as
to all vital phases, those involving the sordid criminal
features, the jury was compelled to choose between believing the petitioner or the complaining witness. The
record persuades us that the jury's task was difficult
at best. We cannot say that the erroneous admission
of the hearsay declaration may not have been the weight
that tipped the scales against petitioner.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring in the judgment and
opinion of the Court.
This case illustrates a present drift in the federal law
of conspiracy which warrants some further comment because it is characteristic of the long evolution of that
elastic, sprawling and pervasive offense. Its history exemplifies the "tendency of a principle to expand itself to
the limit of its logic." ' The unavailing protest of courts
against the growing habit to indict for conspiracy in lieu
of prosecuting for the substantive offense itself, or in
'The phrase is Judge Cardozo's-The Nature of the Judicial
Process, p. 51.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

addition thereto,2 suggests that loose practice as to this
offense constitutes a serious threat to fairness in our
administration of justice.
The modern crime of conspiracy is so vague that it
almost defies definition.3 Despite certain elementary and
2

The Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, presided over by Chief

Justice Taft, in 1925 reported:
"We note the prevalent use of conspiracy indictments for converting a joint misdemeanor into a felony; and we express our conviction that both for this purpose and for the purpose-or at least
with the effect-of bringing in much improper evidence, the conspiracy statute is being much abused.
"Although in a particular case there may be no preconcert of
plan, excepting that necessarily inherent in mere joint action, it
is difficult to exclude that situation from the established definitions
of conspiracy; yet the theory which permits us to call the aborted
plan a greater offense than the completed crime supposes a serious
and substantially continued group scheme for cooperative law breaking. We observe so many conspiracy prosecutions which do not
have this substantial base that we fear the creation of a general
impression, very harmful to law enforcement, that this method of
prosecution is used arbitrarily and harshly. Further the rules of
evidence in conspiracy cases make them most difficult to try without
prejudice to an innocent defendant." Annual Report of the Attorney
General for 1925, pp. 5-6.
Fifteen years later Judge Learned Hand observed: "...
so many
prosecutors seek to sweep within the drag-net of conspiracy all those
who have been associated in any degree whatever with the main
offenders. That there are opportunities of great oppression in such
a doctrine is very plain, and it is only by circumscribing the scope
of such all comprehensive indictments that they can be avoided."
United States v. Falcone, 109 F. 2d 579, 581.
3Harno, Intent in Criminal Conspiracy, 89 U. of Pa. L. Rev.
624: "In the long category of crimes there is none, not excepting
criminal attempt, more difficult to confine within the boundaries of
definitive statement than conspiracy."
An English author-Wright, The Law of Criminal Conspiracies
and Agreements, p. 11-gives up with the remark: "but no intelligible definition of 'conspiracy' has yet been established."

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON,

447

J., concurring.

essential elements, 4 it also, chameleon-like, takes on a
special coloration from each of the many independent
offenses on which it may be overlaid.' It is always "pre4 Justice Holmes supplied an oversimplified working definition in
United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601, 608: "A conspiracy is a
partnership in criminal purposes." This was recently restated "A
conspiracy is a partnership in crime." Pinkerton v. United States,
328 U. S. 640, 644. The latter is inaccurate, since concert in criminal
purposes, rather than concert in crime, establishes the conspiracy.
Carson offers the following r~sum6 of American cases: "It would
appear that a conspiracy must be a combination of two or more
persons by some concerted action to accomplish some criminal object;
or some object not criminal by criminal means; or, some object
not criminal by means which are not criminal, but where mischief
to the public is involved; or, where neither the object nor the means
are criminal, or even unlawful, but where injury and oppression to
individuals are the result." The Law of Criminal Conspiracies and
Agreements, as Found in The American Cases, p. 123.
5 See, for example:
8 U. S. C. § 47, Conspiracy to interfere with civil rights; (1)
Preventing officer from performing duties; (2) Obstructing justice,
intimidating party, witness, or juror; (3) Depriving persons of rights
or privileges. 10 U. S. C. § 1566, Conspiracy by persons in military
service to defraud the U. S. 12 U. S. C. § 1138d (f), Conspiracy
involving Farm Credit Banks, Administration, etc. 15 U. S. C.:
§§ 1-3, Conspiracy in restraint of trade; § 8, Conspiracy in restraint
of import trade. 18 U. S. C. as revised by the Act of June 25,
1948, 62 Stat. 928 et seq., effective September 1, 1948: § 2384, Seditious conspiracy; §§ 2385, 2387, Conspiracy to impair loyalty of
armed forces or advocate overthrow of U. S. Government by force;
§ 241, Conspiracy to injure person in exercise of civil rights; § 372,
Conspiracy to prevent officer from performing duties; § 286, Conspiracy to defraud the Government by obtaining payment of a false
claim; § 371, Conspiracy to defraud the United States; §§ 1501-1506,
Conspiracy to obstruct justice; §§ 752, 1792, Conspiracy to cause
riots at federal penal institutions; § 1201, Conspiracy to transport
kidnapped person in interstate commerce; § 2314, Conspiracy to
transport stolen property and counterfeiting instruments in interstate
commerce; § 1951, Conspiracy to violate Anti-Racketeering Act;
823978 0-49---33

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J1., concurring.

336 U. S.

dominantly mental in composition" because it consists
primarily of a meeting of minds and an intent.'
The crime comes down to us wrapped in vague but
unpleasant connotations. It sounds historical undertones of treachery, secret plotting and violence on a scale
that menaces social stability and the security of the state
itself. "Privy conspiracy" ranks with sedition and rebellion in the Litany's prayer for deliverance. Conspiratorial movements do indeed lie back of the political assassination, the coup d'6tat, the putsch, the revolution, and
seizures of power in modern times, as they have in all
history.'
But the conspiracy concept also is superimposed upon
many concerted crimes having no political motivation.
It is not intended to question that the basic conspiracy
principle has some place in modern criminal law, because
to unite, back of a criminal purpose, the strength, opportunities and resources of many is obviously more dangerous and more difficult to police than the efforts of a
§ 2192, Conspiracy to incite mutiny on shipboard; § 2271, Conspiracy
to cast away vessel. 22 U. S. C. § 234, Conspiracy to injure property
of foreign government. 31 U. S. C. § 231, Conspiracy to obtain
payment of false claims. 34 U. S. C. § 749a, Conspiracy to bid
collusively on construction of naval aircraft. 38 U. S. C. § 715,
Conspiracy to falsify pension claims. 50 U. S. C. § 34, Conspiracy
to disclose national defense information or commit espionage. 50
U. S. C. App. § 311, Conspiracy to violate Selective Service Act.
6 Harno, Intent in Criminal Conspiracy, 89 U. of Pa. L. Rev. 624,
632.
'See Senturia, Conspiracy, Political, IV Encyc. Soc. Sci. 238
(1931).
On conspiracy principles German courts, on May 30, 1924, adjudged the Nazi Party to be a criminal organization. It also held
in 1928 that the Leadership Corps of the Communist Party was a
criminal organization and in 1930 entered judgment of criminality
against the Union of Red Front Fighters of the Communist Party.
See note 15.

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

lone wrongdoer.8 It also may be trivialized, as here,
where the conspiracy consists of the concert of a loathsome panderer and a prostitute to go from New York
to Florida to ply their trade (see 145 F. 2d 76 for details)
and it would appear that a simple Mann Act prosecution
would vindicate the majesty of federal law. However,
even when appropriately invoked, the looseness and pliability of the doctrine present inherent dangers which
should be in the background of judicial thought wherever
it is sought to extend the doctrine to meet the exigencies
of a particular case.
Conspiracy in federal law aggravates the degree of crime
over that of unconcerted offending. The act of confederating to commit a misdemeanor, followed by even an
innocent overt act in its execution, is a felony and is such
even if the misdemeanor is never consummated. The
more radical proposition also is well-established that at
common law and under some statutes a combination may
be a criminal conspiracy even if it contemplates only acts
which are not crimes at all when perpetrated by an individual or by many acting severally."
S8 Holdsworth, History of English Law, 383. Miller, Criminal
Law, p. 110.
1 18 U. S. C. A. § 371. Until recently, the punishment for such a
felony could have been far in excess of that provided for the substantive offense. However, the Act of June 25, 1948, c. 645, 62
Stat. 683, 701, provides that in such a case the punishment for
the conspiracy shall not exceed the maximum provided for such
misdemeanor.
10 This is the federal law applicable to antitrust prosecutions.
For the history of this conception and its perversion, particularly in
labor cases, see Sayre, Criminal Conspiracy, 35 Harv. L. 1ev. 393.
On the abuse of conspiracy see O'Brian, Loyalty Tests and Guilt by
Association, 61 Harv. L. Rev. 592, and Note, The Conspiracy Dilemma: Prosecution of Group Crime or Protection of Individual
Defendants, 62 Harv. L. Rev. 276.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.

450

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

Thus the conspiracy doctrine will incriminate persons
on the fringe of offending who would not be guilty of
aiding and abetting or of becoming an accessory, for
those charges only lie when an act which is a crime has
actually been committed.11
Attribution of criminality to a confederation which contemplates no act that would be criminal if carried out by
any one of the conspirators is a practice peculiar to AngloAmerican law. "There can be little doubt that this wide
definition of the crime of conspiracy originates in the
criminal equity administered in the Star Chamber." 12
In fact, we are advised that "The modern crime of conspiracy is almost entirely the result of the manner in
which conspiracy was treated by the court of Star
Chamber." " The doctrine does not commend itself to
jurists of civil-law countries, 4 despite universal recognition that an organized society must have legal weapons for
combatting organized criminality. Most other countries
have devised what they consider more discriminating
principles upon which to prosecute criminal gangs, secret
associations and subversive syndicates."
"This statement, of course, leaves out of account the subject of
attempts with which conspiracy is said to be allied. 8 Holdsworth,
History of English Law, 382.
12

13

Id., 382.
Id., 379.

14 "It is utterly unknown to the Roman law; it is not found in
modern Continental codes; few Continental lawyers ever heard of it.
It is a fortunate circumstance that it is not encrusted so deep in our
jurisprudence by past decisions of our courts that we are unable to
slough it off altogether. It is a doctrine which has proved itself the
evil genius of our law wherever it has touched it." Sayre, Criminal
Conspiracy, 35 Harv. L. Rev. 393, 427.
15 Counsel representing the United States, the United Kingdom,
the French Republic, and the Soviet Union, and German defendants,
indulged in some comparisons of the relevant laws of several nations

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

A recent tendency has appeared in this Court to expand
this elastic offense and to facilitate its proof. In Pinkerton v. United States, 328 U. S. 640, it sustained a conviction of a substantive crime where there was no proof
of participation in or knowledge of it, upon the novel
and dubious theory that conspiracy is equivalent in law
to aiding and abetting.
Doctrines of conspiracy are not only invoked for criminal prosecution, but also in civil proceedings for damages
or for injunction, and in administrative proceedings to
apply regulatory statutes. They have been resorted to
by military commissions and on at least one notable
occasion when civil courts were open at the time and
place to punish the offense."6 This conspiracy concept
was employed to prosecute laborers for combining to
raise their wages and formed the basis for abuse of the
labor injunction. 7 The National Labor Relations Act
found it necessary to provide that concerted labor activities otherwise lawful were not rendered unlawful by mere
concert. 8 But in other fields concert may still be a crime
though it contemplates only acts which each could do
lawfully on his own.
The interchangeable use of conspiracy doctrine in civil
as well as penal proceedings opens it to the danger, absent
in the case of many crimes, that a court having in mind
before the International Military Tribunal at Niirnberg in connection
with organizations there accused as criminal. 8 Trial of Major
War Criminals (GPO 1947), pp. 353, et seq.; 2 Nazi Conspiracy
and Aggression (GPO 1946), p. 1; Jackson, The Niirnberg Case,
p. 9 5 .
16 The Assassination of President Lincoln and the Trial of the
Conspirators, New York, 1865. See, however, Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2.
17 See Sayre, Criminal Conspiracy, 35 Harv. L. Rev. 393, 403.
I InternationalUnion, U. A. W. A. v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, ante, p. 245.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

336 U. S.

only the civil sanctions will approve lax practices which
later are imported into criminal proceedings. In civil
proceedings this Court frankly has made the end a test
of the means, saying, "To require a greater showing
would cripple the Act," United States v. Griffith, 334
U. S. 100, in dispensing with the necessity for specific
intent to produce a result violative of the statute. Further, the Court has dispensed with even the necessity
to infer any definite agreement, although that is the
gist of the offense. "It is elementary that an unlawful
conspiracy may be and often is formed without simultaneous action or agreement on the part of the conspirators. . . ." United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S.
265, 275. One might go on from the reports of this and
lower courts and put together their decisions condoning
absence of proof to demonstrate that the minimum of
proof required to establish conspiracy is extremely low,
and we may expect our pronouncements in civil cases to
be followed in criminal ones also.
Of course, it is for prosecutors rather than courts to
determine when to use a scatter-gun to bring down the
defendant, but there are procedural advantages from
using it which add to the danger of unguarded extension
of the concept.
An accused, under the Sixth Amendment, has the right
to trial "by an impartial jury of the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed." The leverage of a conspiracy charge lifts this limitation from the
prosecution and reduces its protection to a phantom, for
the crime is considered so vagrant as to have been committed in any district where any one of the conspirators
did any one of the acts, however innocent, intended to
accomplish its object.19 The Government may, and often
'I Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347. Mr. Justice Holmes,
on behalf of himself and Justices Hughes, Lurton "and Lamar, wrote

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

does, compel one to defend at a great distance from any
place he ever did any act because some accused confederate did some trivial and by itself innocent act in the
chosen district. Circumstances may even enable the
prosecution to fix the place of trial in Washington, D. C.,
where a defendant may lawfully be put to trial before
a jury partly or even wholly made up of employees of the
Government that accuses him. Cf. Frazier v. United
States, 335 U. S. 497.
When the trial starts, the accused feels the full impact of the conspiracy strategy. Strictly, the prosecution
should first establish prima facie the conspiracy and
identify the conspirators, after which evidence of acts and
declarations of each in the course of its execution are
admissible against all. But the order of proof of so
sprawling a charge is difficult for a judge to control.
As a practical matter, the accused often is confronted
with a hodgepodge of- acts and statements by others
which he may never have authorized or intended or
even known about, but which help to persuade the jury
of existence of the conspiracy itself. In other words, a
conspiracy often is proved by evidence that is admissible only upon assumption that conspiracy existed. The
naive assumption that prejudicial effects can be overcome
by instructions to the jury, cf. Blumenthal v. United
States, 332 U. S. 539, 559, all practicing lawyers know to
be unmitigated fiction. See Skidmore v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 167 F. 2d 54.
The trial of a conspiracy charge doubtless imposes a
heavy burden on the prosecution, but it is an especially
difficult situation for the defendant. The hazard from
loose application of rules of evidence is aggravated where
a vigorous protest which did not hesitate to brand the doctrine as
oppressive and as "one of the wrongs that our forefathers meant
to prevent." 225 U. S. 347, 387.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

the Government institutes mass trials." Moreover, in
federal practice there is no rule preventing conviction
on uncorroborated testimony of accomplices, as there are
in many jurisdictions, and the most comfort a defendant
can expect is that the court can be induced to follow the
"better practice" and caution the jury against "too much
reliance upon the testimony of accomplices." Caminetti
v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 495.
A co-defendant in a conspiracy trial occupies an uneasy seat. There generally will be evidence of wrongdoing by somebody. It is difficult for the individual to
make his own case stand on its own merits in the minds
of jurors who are ready to believe that birds of a feather
are flocked together. If he is silent, he is taken to admit
it and if, as often happens, co-defendants can be prodded into accusing or contradicting each other, they convict
each other. There are many practical difficulties in defending against a charge of conspiracy which I will not
enumerate.2
Against this inadequately sketched background, I
think the decision of this case in the court below intro20 An example is afforded by Allen v. United States, 4 F. 2d 688.
At the height of the prohibition frenzy, seventy-five defendants were
tried on charges of conspiracy. A newspaper reporter testified to
going to a drinking place where he talked with a woman, behind
the bar, whose name he could not give. There was not the slightest
identification of her nor showing that she knew or was known by
any defendant. But it was held that being back of the bar showed
her to be a co-conspirator and, hence, her statements were admissible
against all. He was allowed to relate incriminating statements made
by her.
21 For courtroom technique employed in the trial of conspiracy
cases by both prosecution and defense, see O'Dougherty, Prosecution
and Defense under Conspiracy Indictments, 9 Brooklyn L. Rev. 263.
His survey, which accords with our observation, will hardly convince
one that a trial of this kind is the highest exemplification of the
working of the judicial process.

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON, J., concurring.

duced an ominous expansion of the accepted law of conspiracy. The prosecution was allowed to incriminate the
defendant by means of the prostitute's recital of a conversation with defendant's alleged co-conspirator, who
was not on trial. The conversation was said to have
taken place after the substantive offense was accomplished, after the defendant, the co-conspirator and the
witness had all been arrested, and after the witness
and the other two had a falling out. The Court of Appeals sustained its admission upon grounds stated as
follows:
"... We think that implicit in a conspiracy to
violate the law is an agreement among the conspirators to conceal the violation after as well as
before the illegal plan is consummated. Thus the
conspiracy continues, at least for purposes of concealment, even after its primary aims have been
accomplished. The statements of the co-conspirator
here were made in an effort to protect the appellant
by concealing his role in the conspiracy. Consequently, they fell within the implied agreement to
conceal and were admissible as evidence against the
appellant. Cf. United States v. Goldstein, 2 Cir.,
135 F. 2d 359; Murray v. United States, 7 Cir., 10
F. 2d 409, certiorari denied, 271 U. S. 673 . ...
While Bryan v. United States, 5 Cir., 17 F. 2d 741,
is by implication directly to the contrary, we decline
to follow it."
I suppose no person planning a crime would accept
as a collaborator one on whom he thought he could not
rely for help if he were caught, but I doubt that this fact
warrants an inference of conspiracy for that purpose.
Of course, if an understanding for continuous aid had
been proven, it would be embraced in the conspiracy

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

336 U. S.

by evidence and there would be no need to imply such
an agreement. Only where there is no convincing evidence of such an understanding is there need for one to
be implied.
It is difficult to see any logical limit to the "implied
conspiracy," either as to duration or means, nor does
it appear that one could overcome the implication by
express and credible evidence that no such understanding
existed, nor any way in which an accused against whom
the presumption is once raised can terminate the imputed
agency of his associates to incriminate him. Conspirators, long after the contemplated offense is complete, after
perhaps they have fallen out and become enemies, may
still incriminate each other by deliberately harmful, but
unsworn declarations, or unintentionally by casual conversations out of court. On the theory that the law
will impute to the confederates a continuing conspiracy
to defeat justice, one conceivably could be bound by
another's unauthorized and unknown commission of perjury, bribery of a juror or witness, or even putting an
incorrigible witness with damaging information out of
the way.
Moreover, the assumption of an indefinitely continuing
offense would result in an indeterminate extension of the
statute of limitations. If the law implies an agreement
to cooperate in defeating prosecution, it must imply that
it continues as long as prosecution is a possibility, and
prosecution is a possibility as long as the conspiracy to
defeat it is implied to continue.
I do not see the slightest warrant for judicially introducing a doctrine of implied crimes or constructive conspiracies. It either adds a new crime or extends an old
one. True, the modern law of conspiracy was largely
evolved by the judges. But it is well and wisely settled
that there can be no judge-made offenses against the

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

United States and that every federal prosecution must
be sustained by statutory authority.22 No statute authorizes federal judges to imply, presume or construct
a conspiracy except as one may be found from evidence.
To do so seems to approximate creation of a new offense
and one that I would think of doubtful constitutionality
even if it were created by Congress. 2 And, at all events,
it is one fundamentally and irreconcilably at war with
our presumption of innocence.
There is, of course, strong temptation to relax rigid
standards when it seems the only way to sustain convictions of evildoers. But statutes authorize prosecution
for substantive crimes for most evil-doing without the
dangers to the liberty of the individual and the integrity
of the judicial process that are inherent in conspiracy
charges. We should disapprove the doctrine of implied
or constructive crime in its entirety and in every manifestation. And I think there should be no straining to
uphold any conspiracy conviction where prosecution for
the substantive offense is adequate and the purpose served
by adding the conspiracy charge seems chiefly to get
procedural advantages to ease the way to conviction.
Although a reversal after four trials is, of course,
regrettable, I cannot overlook the error as a harmless
one. But I should concur in reversal even if less sure
that prejudice resulted, for it is better that the crime
go unwhipped of justice than that this theory of implied
continuance of conspiracy find lodgment in our law, either
by affirmance or by tolerance. Few instruments of inUnited States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32; United States v. Worrall,
2 Dall. 384; United States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415; United States
v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677, 687; United States v. Bathgate, 246 U. S.
220, 225. See, however, Warren, New Light on the History of the
Federal Judiciary Act of 1789,37 Harv. L. Rev. 49, 73.
23 Cf. Tot v. United States., 319 U. S. 463.
22

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

justice can equal that of implied or presumed or constructive crimes. The most odious of all oppressions are
those which mask as justice.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

join in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

dissenting.

While I agree with the opinion of the Court that the
hearsay testimony in question was not properly admissible, I regard its admission, under the circumstances of
this case, as an absolutely harmless error.
In speaking of harmless errors that may result from
the admission of evidence, this Court has said:
"Errors of this sort in criminal causes conceivably
may be altogether harmless in the face of other clear
evidence, although the same error might turn scales
otherwise level, as constantly appears in the application of the policy of § 269* to questions of the
admission of cumulative evidence." Kotteakos v.
United States, 328 U. S. 750, 763.
*Section 269 of the Judicial Code, as then in effect, and as in
effect at the time of the trial of the instant case and of the entry
of the judgment below, provided:
"SEc. 269. . . .On the hearing of any appeal, certiorari, writ of
error, or motion for a new trial, in any case, civil or criminal, the
court shall give judgment after an examination of the entire record

before the court, without regard to technical errors, defects, or
exceptions which do not affect the substantial rights of the parties."
40 Stat. 1181, 28 U. S. C. § 391.
Rule 52 (a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, as continuously in effect during and since the time of the trial of the
instant case and as still in effect, provides:
"RULE 52. HARMLESS ERROR AND PLAIN ERROR.
"(a) HARMLESS ERROR. Any error, defect, irregularity or variance
which does not affect substantial rights shall be disregarded. ..."

KRULEWITCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

Again, in determining whether error in the admission
of evidence should result in a reversal of a judgment, we
said that the question is"what effect the error had or reasonably may be
taken to have had upon the jury's decision ...
"If, when all is said and done, the conviction is
sure that the error did not influence the jury, or
had but very slight effect, the verdict and the judgment should stand, except perhaps where the departure is from a constitutional norm or a specific
command of Congress." Id. at pp. 764-765.
The issue before us involves no constitutional question
or specific command of Congress. The trial was a long
one concerning personal conduct involving simple issues
of fact. The record of it covers more than 800 pages.
The jury must have been thoroughly familiar with the
issues and with the degree of dependability, if any, to
be placed upon the oral testimony of the petitioner and
of the two witnesses involved in the conversation that
is before us as reported by one of them. The evidence
supporting the jury's verdict was cumulative, repetitive
and corroborated to such a point that I cannot believe
that the verdict or the rights of the parties could have
been appreciably affected by such weight as the jury
may have attached to this reported snatch of conversation between two people of such negligible dependability
as was demonstrated here. After this extended fourth
trial, to set aside this jury's verdict merely because of
this particular bit of hearsay testimony seems to me to
be an unrealistic procedure that tends to make a travesty
of the jury system which is neither necessary nor deserved. I would affirm the judgment below.

