REYNOLDS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.

207

Opinion of the Court.

REYNOLDS, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. ATLANTIC
COAST LINE RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 234.

Argued January 10, 1949.-Decided February 14, 1949.

A complaint in a suit brought in a state court under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act charged that the defendant's negligence
caused the deceased to perform additional work of the same kind
as he normally performed. It was not alleged that this additional
work contained any hazards other than those usual to the occupation. The state court sustained a demurrer to the complaint
on the ground that the injury did not result proximately, in whole
or in part, from the defendant's negligence. Held: Judgment
affirmed. Pp. 207-209.
251 Ala. 27, 36 So. 2d 102, affirmed.

The state trial court sustained respondent's demurrer
to the complaint in a suit brought by petitioner under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The State Supreme Court affirmed. 251 Ala. 27, 36 So. 2d 102.
This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 852. Affirmed,
p. 209.
J. Kirkman Jackson argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Peyton D. Bibb argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was Charles Cook Howell.

With

PER CURIAM.

The petitioner brought this suit under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act in an Alabama state court. As
permitted by the practice in that state, all the facts
which the petitioner expected to prove to establish her
823978 0-49-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

cause of action were set forth in the complaint so that
any objections to a verdict in her favor based on evidence
of those facts could be disposed of prior to trial. The
respondent demurred to the complaint on the ground
that the facts as thus set forth did not constitute a cause
of action. The demurrer was sustained by the trial court
and its action was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Alabama.1 We granted certiorari. 2
It appears from the complaint that the petitioner's
husband was a brakeman whose duties customarily required him to cross between cars on moving freight
trains. On one such crossing he fell and was killed. This
crossing occurred as part of a required journey from the
caboose to a car from which a signal was to be given.
The signal ordinarily would have been given from the
sixth car from the caboose. The complaint charged, however, that because the railroad had negligently allowed
canes to grow alongside the roadbed the deceased could
not safely signal from the sixth car and so had to cross
to the seventh in order to give the required signal. On
this additional crossing he was killed. The complaint
also charged that the deceased would not have had to
make this particular journey at all if the railroad had
provided a competent assistant brakeman. Neither the
journey nor the crossing on which the accident occurred
was alleged to be any more hazardous than that usually
undertaken by railroad brakemen.
The Alabama Supreme Court conceded that the complaint adequately charged negligence in the failure to
remove the canes and in the failure to provide a competent fellow servant. It held, however, that the facts
alleged did not show that the accident resulted proxi1251 Ala. 27, 36 So. 2d 102 (1948).
2 335 U. S. 852 (1948).

REYNOLDS v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
207

209

Dissent.

mately, in whole or in part, from that negligence. We
cannot say that the Supreme Court of Alabama erred.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER is

of opinion that this is

also a case in which the petition for certiorari should
not have been granted. See Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336
U. S. 53, 64 (concurring opinion). However, inasmuch
as the case does not call for an independent examination
of the record in order to appraise conflicting testimony,
but merely turns on the facts presented in the pleadings,
he joins in the Court's disposition of it.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent. See

TICE MURPHY

Lilie v. Thompson, 332 U. S. 459; Anderson v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co., 333 U. S. 821.

