AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.

245

Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL UNION, U. A. W. A., A. F.

OF

L.,

LOCAL 232, ET AL. v. WISCONSIN EMPLOYMENT
RELATIONS BOARD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 14 and 15.

Argued November 17-18, 1948.-Decided February
28, 1949.

Negotiations for a collective bargaining agreement between an employer, engaged in interstate commerce, and a labor union, certified
under the National Labor Relations Act as collective bargaining
representative of the employees, became deadlocked. In order to
bring pressure on the employer, the union adopted a plan whereby
union meetings were called at irregular times during working hours,
without advance notice to the employer or any notice as to whether
or when the employees would return. In a period of less than 5
months, 27 such work stoppages occurred. The employer was not
informed during this period of any specific demands which these
tactics were designed to enforce nor what concessions it could make
to avoid them. In a proceeding under the Wisconsin Employment
Peace Act, the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board issued an
order which was construed and upheld by the State Supreme Court
as forbidding the individual defendants and members of the union
from engaging in concerted effort to interfere with production by
those methods. Held: It was within the power of the State to
prohibit the particular course of conduct described. Pp. 247-265.
1. Upon review here, the construction placed upon the State
Board's order by the State Supreme Court is conclusive. Pp. 250251.
2. As thus applied, the state statute does not have the purpose
or effect of imposing any form of involuntary servitude in violation
of the Thirteenth Amendment. P. 251.
3. The statute as applied does not invade rights of free speech
and public assemblage guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Lincoln Labor Union v. Northwestern Iron & Metal Co., 335 U. S.
525; American Federationof Labor v. American Sash & Door Co.,
335 U. S. 538. Pp. 251-252.
4. The statute as applied does not violate the Commerce Clause
of the Federal Constitution. P. 252.
5. This recurrent or intermittent unannounced stoppage of work
to win unstated ends was neither forbidden by federal statute nor
was it legalized and approved thereby, and there is no basis for

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Counsel for Parties.

336 U. S.

denying to the State the power, in governing her internal affairs,
to regulate an activity having such an obviously coercive effect.
Pp. 252-265.
(a) Neither by the National Labor Relations Act nor by the
Labor Management Relations Act has Congress clearly manifested
an intention to exclude the state power sought to be exercised in
this case. Pp. 252-254.
(b) There is no existing or possible conflict or overlapping
between the authority of the Federal and State Boards, because the
Federal Board has no authority to investigate, approve or forbid the
union conduct in question. Pp. 252-254.
(c) The order of the State Board does not conflict with the
provision of § 7 of the National Labor Relations Act that employees shall have the right to engage in "concerted activities" for
the purpose of "collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection." Pp. 254-258.
(d) Nor does the order of the State Board conflict with § 13
of the National Labor Relations Act, which provides that nothing
in that Act shall be construed so as to "interfere with or impede or
diminish" the right to strike-even when read in connection with
the definition of "strike" in the Labor Management Relations Act.
Pp. 258-265.
250 Wis. 550, 27 N. W. 2d 875, affirmed.
In a proceeding under state law, the Wisconsin Em-

ployment Relations Board ordered a labor union and
members thereof to cease and desist from instigating certain intermittent and unannounced work stoppages in
the plants of an employer engaged in interstate commerce.
Separate proceedings were instituted in the state courts
by the Board to enforce the order and by the union and
individual defendants to obtain review. The State Supreme Court, reversing judgments of the trial court, upheld the validity of the order. 250 Wis. 550, 27 N. W. 2d
875. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 853.
Affirmed, p. 265.
David Previant argued the cause and filed a brief for

petitioners.
Beatrice Lampert, Assistant Attorney General of Wis-

consin, argued the cause for the Wisconsin Employment

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
Opinion of the Court.

245

Relations Board, respondent. With her on the brief were
Grover L. Broadjoot, Attorney General, and Stewart G.
Honeck, Deputy Attorney General.
Jackson M. Bruce argued the cause for the Briggs &
Stratton Corp., respondent. With him on the brief were
Edgar L. Wood and Bernard V. Brady.
Max Raskin filed a brief for the Wisconsin State
Industrial Union Council, as amicus curiae, in support of
petitioners.
Briefs urging affirmance were filed as amici curiae by
the following: A joint brief by Guy E. Williams, Attorney
General, for the State of Arkansas, J.Tom Watson, Attorney General, for the State of Florida, Robert L. Larson,
Attorney General, for the State of Iowa, Eugene F. Black,
Attorney General, and Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor
General, for the State of Michigan, Walter R. Johnson,
Attorney General, for the State of Nebraska, P. 0. Sathre,
Attorney General, for the State of North Dakota, Roy H.
Beeler, Attorney General, for the State of Tennessee, and
Grover A. Giles, Attorney General, for the State of Utah;
by T. McKeen Chidsey, Attorney General, M. Louise
Rutherford, Deputy Attorney General, and George L.
Reed, Solicitor, State Labor Relations Board, for the State
of Pennsylvania; by Leon B. Lamfrom for the Employers Association of Milwaukee; and by Howard Johnson
for the Wisconsin Manufacturers' Association et al.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Certain labor legislation of the State of Wisconsin,'
as applied by its Supreme Court, is challenged because
it is said to transgress constitutional limitations imposed
1

The Wisconsin

Employment Peace Act provides in part as

follows:
"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employe individually
or in concert with others: (a) To coerce or intimidate an employe

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

by the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments and by
the Commerce Clause' as implemented by the National
Labor Relations Act' and the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947.'
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin held' that its Act
authorizes the State Employment Relations Board to
order a labor union to cease and desist from instigating
certain intermittent and unannounced work stoppages
which it had caused under the following circumstances:
Briggs & Stratton Corporation operates two manufacturing plants in the State of Wisconsin engaging approximately 2,000 employees. These are represented by the
International Union, Automobile Workers of America,
A. F. of L., Local No. 232, as collective bargaining agent,
it having been duly certified as such by the National Labor
Relations Board in proceedings under the National Labor
Relations Act. Under such certification, the Union had
in the enjoyment of his legal rights, including those guaranteed in section 111.04, or to intimidate his family, picket his domicile, or injure
the person or property of such employe or his family. . . . (e) To
co-operate in engaging in, promoting or inducing picketing (not
constituting an exercise of constitutionally guaranteed free speech),
boycotting or any other overt concomitant of a strike unless a
majority in a collective bargaining unit of the employes of an
employer against whom such acts are primarily directed have voted
by secret ballot to call a strike. . . . (h) To take unauthorized possession of property of the employer or to engage in any concerted
effort to interfere with production except by leaving the premises
in an orderly manner for the purpose of going on strike." Wis. Stat.
(1947) c. 111, § 111.06 (2).
2 U. S. Const., Art. 1, § 8,Cl. 3, giving the Congress power "To
regulate Commerce .. .among the several States ... "
3 49 Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. §§ 151-166.
461 Stat. 136; 29 U. S. C. §§ 141-197.
5 250 Wis. 550, 27 N. W. 2d 875. The State Supreme Court concluded that petitioners were guilty of unfair labor practices as
defined in §§ 111.06 (2) (a), (e) and (h) of the Wisconsin statutes.
Those provisions are set out in note 1.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

negotiated collective bargaining agreements, the last of
which expired on July 1, 1944. Negotiation of a new
one reached a deadlock and bargaining sessions continued
for some time without success.
On November 3, 1945, its leaders submitted to the
Union membership a plan for a new method of putting
pressure upon the employer. The stratagem consisted
of calling repeated special meetings of the Union during
working hours at any time the Union saw fit, which the
employees would leave work to attend. It was an essential part of the plan that this should be without warning
to the employer or notice as to when or whether the
employees would return. The device was adopted and
the first surprise cessation of work was called on November 6, 1945; thereafter, and until March 22, 1946, such
action was repeated on twenty-six occasions. The employer was not informed during this period of any specific
demands which these tactics were designed to enforce nor
what concessions it could make to avoid them.'
This procedure was publicly described by the Union
leaders as a new technique for bringing pressure upon
the employer. It was, and is, candidly admitted that
these tactics were intended to and did interfere with production and put strong economic pressure on the employer, who was disabled thereby from making any dependable production plans or delivery commitments.
And it was said that "this can't be said for the strike.
After the initial surprise of the walkout, the company
knows what it has to do and plans accordingly." It was
6 Petitioners suggest that the stoppages were initiated to force
the employer to comply with a War Labor Board directive. However, the stoppages began several weeks before that directive reached
either the Union or the employer. By the latter date, the National
Board had been abolished. Consequently the issuance of the directive
would not seem to throw any light on the Union's motives or to have
any effect on the State Board's jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

commended as a procedure which would avoid hardships
that a strike imposes on employees and was considered "a
better weapon than a strike."
The employer did not resort to any private disciplinary
measures such as discharge of the employees; instead, it
sought a much less drastic remedy by plea to the appropriate public authority under Wisconsin law' to investigate and adjudge the Union's conduct under the law
of the State. After the prescribed procedures, the Board
ordered the Union to cease and desist from "(a) engaging
in any concerted efforts to interfere with production by
arbitrarily calling union meetings and inducing work
stoppages during regularly scheduled working hours; or
engaging in any other concerted effort to interfere with
production of the complainant except by leaving the
premises in an orderly manner for the purpose of going
on strike." I
Two court proceedings resulted from the Board's order:
one by the Board to obtain enforcement and the other by
the Union to obtain review. They are here considered,
as they were below, together.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin sustained the Board's
order but significantly limited the effect of its otherwise
general prohibitions. It held that what the order does,
and all that it does, is to forbid individual defendants
and members of the Union from engaging in concerted
effort to interfere with production by doing the acts in7 The Employment Relations Board was created by the 1939

Act. See Wis. Stat. (1947) c. 111, § 111.03. The Board's jurisdiction over unfair labor practices is delineated in § 111.07.
8 The Board also ordered petitioners to cease and desist from
"(b) Coercing or intimidating employes by threats of violence or
other punishment to engage in any activities for the purpose of
interfering with production or that will interfere with the legal
rights of the employes." This provision of the order, based on
evidence of some violence and threats, is not challenged here.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

stantly involved. As we have heretofore pointed out, the
construction placed upon such an order by the State Supreme Court is conclusive on us. Allen-Bradley Local v.
Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315 U. S. 740.
Our only question is, therefore, whether it is beyond the
power of the State to prohibit the particular course of
9
conduct described.
The Union contends that the statute as thus applied
violates the Thirteenth Amendment in that it imposes a
form of compulsory service or involuntary servitude.
However, nothing in the statute or the order makes it
a crime to abandon work individually (compare Pollock
v. Williams, 322 U. S. 4) or collectively. Nor does either
undertake to prohibit or restrict any employee from
leaving the service of the employer, either for reason or
without reason, either with or without notice. The facts
afford no foundation for the contention that any action
of the State has the purpose or effect of imposing any
form of involuntary servitude.
It is further contended that the statute as applied
invades rights of free speech and public assemblage guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. We recently
considered a similar contention in connection with other
state action concerning labor relations. Lincoln Federal
Labor Union v. Northwestern Iron & Metal Co., and
Whitaker v. North Carolina,335 U. S. 525, and American
Federation of Labor v. American Sash & Door Co., 335
9In the consolidated case before the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County, that court denied enforcement of paragraph (a) of the
Board's order forbidding the work stoppages, but upheld paragraph
(b) enjoining violence and threats. See note 8. The Supreme Court
approved the order in its entirety. Review of that court's action
in upholding paragraph (a) is sought in these petitions by the Union

and nine of its officers, seven of whom are employees of respondent
corporation, and all of whom are members of the Union's Bargaining
Committee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

U. S. 538. For reasons there stated, these contentions
are without merit.
No serious question is presented by the Commerce
Clause of the Constitution standing alone. It never has
been thought to prevent the state legislatures from limiting "individual and group rights of aggression and defense" or from substituting "processes of justice for the
more primitive method of trial by combat." Mr. Justice
Brandeis, dissenting, Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.
443, 488; see also Dorchy v. Kansas, 272 U. S.306, 311,
cited with approval, Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88,
103; and see Hotel & Restaurant Employees' Local v.
Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315 U. S. 437.
The substantial issue is whether Congress has protected
the union conduct which the State has forbidden, and
hence the state legislation must yield. When the order
of the State Board and the decision of the State Supreme
Court were made, the National Labor Relations Act, 49
Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. §§ 151-166, was in effect and questions of conflict between state and federal law were raised
and decided with reference to it. However, the order
imposes a continuing restraint which it is contended now
conflicts with the Labor Management Relations Act of
1947, 61 Stat. 136, 29 U. S. C. §§ 141-197, which amended
the earlier statute. We therefore consider the state
action in relation to both Federal Acts.
Congress has not seen fit in either of these Acts to
declare either a general policy or to state specific rules
as to their effects on state regulation of various phases
of labor relations over which the several states traditionally have exercised control. Cf. Securities Act of
1933, § 18, 48 Stat. 74, 85, 15 U. S. C. § 77r; Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, § 28, 48 Stat. 881, 903, 15 U. S. C.
§ 78bb; United States Warehouse Act, before and after
1931 Amendment, 39 Stat. 486, 490, 46 Stat. 1465, 7

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. C. § 269. However, as to coercive tactics in labor
controversies, we have said of the National Labor Relations Act what is equally true of the Labor Management
Relations Act of 1947, that "Congress designedly left open
an area for state control" and that the "intention of
Congress to exclude States from exercising their police
power must be clearly manifested." Allen-Bradley Local
v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board,315 U. S. 740,
750, 749. We therefore turn to its legislation for evidence
that Congress has clearly manifested an exclusion of the
state power sought to be exercised in this case.
Congress made in the National Labor Relations Act
no express delegation of power to the Board to permit
or forbid this particular union conduct, from which an
exclusion of state power could be implied. The Labor
Management Relations Act declared it to be an unfair
labor practice for a union to induce or engage in a strike
or concerted refusal to work where an object thereof is
any of certain enumerated ones. § 8 (b) (4), 61 Stat.
140, 141; 29 U. S. C. § 158 (b) (4). Nevertheless the
conduct here described is not forbidden by this Act and
no proceeding is authorized by which the Federal Board
may deal with it in any manner. While the Federal
Board is empowered to forbid a strike, when and because
its purpose is one that the Federal Act made illegal, it
has been given no power to forbid one because its method
is illegal-even if the illegality were to consist of actual
or threatened violence to persons or destruction of property. Policing of such conduct is left wholly to the states.
In this case there was also evidence of considerable injury
to property and intimidation of other employees by
threats and no one questions the State's power to police
coercion by those methods."
10

See notes 8 and 9.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

It seems to us clear that this case falls within the rule
announced in Allen-Bradley" that the state may police
these strike activities as it could police the strike activities
there, because "Congress has not made such employee and
union conduct as is involved in this case subject to regulation by the federal Board." There is no existing or
possible conflict or overlapping between the authority
of the Federal and State Boards, because the Federal
Board has no authority either to investigate, approve or
forbid the union conduct in question. This conduct is
governable by the State or it is entirely ungoverned.
This case is not analogous to Bethlehem Steel Co. v.
New York State Labor Relations Board, 330 U. S. 767, on
which petitioners rely. There the State Board undertook to determine the bargaining unit in an industry,
an identical question which the Federal Board was authorized to determine, and the two had deliberately laid down
contrary policies to govern decisions of this same matter.
In that case, of course, the federal policy was necessarily
given effect as the supreme law of the land. See also
La Crosse Telephone Corporation v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, ante, p. 18.
But it is claimed that the congressional labor legislation confers upon or recognizes and declares in unions
and employees certain rights, privileges or immunities in
connection with strikes and concerted activities, and that
these are denied by the State's prohibition as laid down in
this case. It is elementary that what Congress constitutionally has given, the state may not constitutionally
take away. Hill v. Florida,325 U. S. 538.
The argument is that two provisions, found in § § 7 and
13 of the National Labor Relations Act, not relevantly
changed by the Labor Management Relations Act of

1 Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board,
315 U. S. 740, 749.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

1947, grant to the Union and its members the right to
put pressure upon the employer by the recurrent and
unannounced stoppage of work. Both Acts provide
that "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to
bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection." 2 Because the acts forbidden by the Wisconsin judgment are concerted activities and had a purpose to assist labor organizations in collective bargaining,
it is said to follow that they are federally authorized and
thereby immunized from state control.
It is urged here that we are bound to hold these activities protected by § 7 because that has become the settled
interpretation of the Act by the Board charged with its
administration. This contention is based on decisions by
the Board in American Mfg. Concern, 7 N. L. R. B. 753;
Harnischfeger Corp., 9 N. L. R. B., 676; The Good Coal
Co., 12 N. L. R. B. 136; Armour & Co., 25 N. L. R. B.
989; Cudahy Packing Co., 29 N. L. R. B. 837; and Mt.
Clemens Pottery Company, 46 N. L. R. B. 714. We do
not think it can fairly be said that even the cumulative
effect of those cases amounts to a fixed Board interpretation that all work stoppages are federally protected concerted activities. In those cases, but in a context of
antiunion animus on the employer's part, the Board condemned as unfair labor practices summary discharges
attempted in retaliation for isolated work stoppages re§ 7 of National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 452. The
Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 added a proviso that
employees also have the right to refrain from any or all activities
mentioned in this section, except to the extent that the right to
refrain might conflict with an agreement requiring membership in a
12

union as a condition of employment as authorized by the Act. 61
Stat. 140.
823978 0-49-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

flecting temporary rebellion over rules or conditions of
work. The drastic remedy of discharge, so outweighing
any possible damage in those cases to the employer and
so tainted by antiunion motives, led to the Board's conclusion of unfair labor practices proscribed by the Act.
The Board, however, made it clear in the Harnischfeger
and Armour cases that such a conclusion does not necessarily follow a finding that the employees' activities were
concerted:
"... Section 7 of the Act expressly guarantees
employees the right to engage in concerted activities
for the purpose of collective bargaining or other
mutual aid or protection. We do not interpret this
to mean that it is unlawful for an employer to discharge an employee for any activity sanctioned by a
union or otherwise in the nature of collective activity.
The question before us is, we think, whether this
particular activity was so indefensible, under the
circumstances, as to warrant the respondent, under
the Act, in discharging the stewards for this type of
union activity. We do not think it was." 13
In view of that statement, the facts of the present
case do not bring it within the protection of the Act
as administered by the Board. Here the employer has
resorted to no retaliatory measures and its motive in asking help from the State is not even alleged to be antiunion but merely a desire to keep its plant in operation.
The remedy sought against repeated disruption of production is not summary dismissal but invocation of a
statutory procedure made available by the State for the
adjudication and resolution of such difficulties. Consequently, we do not find any fixed Board policy to apply
the Act to such facts as we have here. The quoted state13

9 N. L. R. B. 676, 686; 25 N. L. R. B. 989, 996.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

ment from the Board's two opinions indicates lack of
belief that it was creating any such rule.
However, in no event could the Board adopt such a
binding practice as to the scope of § 7 in the light of the
construction, with which we agree, given to § 7 by the
Courts of Appeals, authorized to review Board orders.
In similar cases they have denied comparable work stoppages the protection of that section. C. G. Conn, Ltd. v.
Labor Board, 108 F. 2d 390; Labor Board v. Condenser
Corp., 128 F. 2d 67; Home Beneficial Life Ins. Co. v.
Labor Board, 159 F. 2d 280; and see Labor Board v.
DraperCorp., 145 F. 2d 199; Labor Board v. IndianaDesk
Co., 149 F. 2d 987. To hold that the alleged fixed Board
interpretation has irrevocably labeled all concerted activities "protected" would be in the teeth of the Board's own
language and would deny any effect to the Courts of
Appeals' decisions. The latter decisions and our own,
Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S. 240; Southern
S. S. Co. v. Labor Board, 316 U. S. 31; Labor Board v.
Sands Mfg. Co., 306 U. S. 332; Allen-Bradley Local v.
Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315 U. S. 740;
and see Hotel & Restaurant Employees' Local v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315 U. S. 437,
clearly interdict any rule by the Board that every type
of concerted activity is beyond the reach of the states'
adjudicatory machinery. The bare language of § 7 cannot be construed to immunize the conduct forbidden by
the judgment below and therefore the injunction as construed by the Wisconsin Supreme Court does not conflict
with § 7 of the Federal Act.
In the light of labor movement history, the purpose
of the quoted provision of the statute becomes clear.
The most effective legal weapon against the struggling
labor union was the doctrine that concerted activities were conspiracies, and for that reason illegal. See-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

tion 7 of the National Labor Relations Act took this conspiracy weapon away from the employer in employment
relations which affect interstate commerce. No longer
can any state, as to relations withifi reach of the Act, treat
otherwise lawful activities to aid unionization as an illegal
conspiracy merely because they are undertaken by many
persons acting in concert."
But because legal conduct
may not be made illegal by concert, it does not mean that
otherwise illegal action is made legal by concert.
Reliance also is placed upon § 13 of the National Labor
Relations Act, which provided, "Nothing in this Act shall
be construed so as to interfere with or impede or diminish
in any way the right to strike." 49 Stat. 449, 457. The
1947 Amendment carries the same provision but that
Act includes a definition. Section 501 (2) says that
when used in the Act "The term 'strike' includes any
strike or other concerted stoppage of work by employees
(including a stoppage by reason of the expiration of
a collective-bargaining agreement) and any concerted
slow-down or other concerted interruption of operations
by employees." 61 Stat. 161.
This provision, as carried over into the Labor Management Relations Act, does not purport to create, establish
or define the right to strike. On its face it is narrower in
scope than § 7-the latter would be of little significance
if "strike" is a broader term than "concerted activity."
Unless we read into § 13 words which Congress omitted
With respect to activities subject to state control, § 111.04
of the Wisconsin statutes provides that employees shall have
the right of self-organization, the right to form, join and assist labor
organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their
own choosing, and to engage in lawful, concerted activities for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection.
Section 111.06 (1) makes it an unfair labor practice for an employer
to interfere with, restrain or coerce his employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in § 111.04, and lists other unfair labor
practices which the Board is also empowered to prevent.
14

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

and a sense which Congress showed no intention of including, all that this provision does is to declare a rule
of interpretation for the Act itself which would prevent
any use of what originally was a novel piece of legislation
to qualify or impede whatever right to strike exists under
other laws. It did not purport to modify the body of
law as to the legality of strikes as it then existed. This
Court less than a decade earlier had stated that law to be
that the state constitutionally could prohibit strikes and
make a violation criminal. It had unanimously adopted
the language of Mr. Justice Brandeis that "Neither the
common law, nor the Fourteenth Amendment, confers
the absolute right to strike." Dorchy v. Kansas, 272 U. S.
306, 311. Dissenting views most favorable to labor in
other cases had conceded the right of the state legislature
to mark the limits of tolerable industrial conflict in the
public interest. Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443,
488. This Court has adhered to that view. Thornhill v.
Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 103. The right to strike, because
of its more serious impact upon the public interest, is
more vulnerable to regulation than the right to organize
and select representatives for lawful purposes of collective bargaining which this Court has characterized as a
"fundamental right" and which, as the Court has pointed
out, was recognized as such in its decisions long before
it was given protection by the National Labor Relations
Act. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1, 33.
As to the right to strike, however, this Court, quoting
the language of § 13, has said, 306 U. S. 240, 256, "But this
recognition of 'the right to strike' plainly contemplates a
lawful strike,-the exercise of the unquestioned right to
quit work," and it did not operate to legalize the sit-down
strike, which state law made illegal and state authorities
punished. Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S. 240.
Nor, for example, did it make legal a strike that ran
afoul of federal law, Southern S. S. Co. v. Labor Board,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

316 U. S. 31; nor one in violation of a contract made
pursuant thereto, Labor Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306
U. S. 332; nor one creating a national emergency, United
States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258.
That Congress has concurred in the view that neither
§ 7 nor § 13 confers absolute right to engage in every
kind of strike or other concerted activity does not rest
upon mere inference; indeed the record indicates that,
had the courts not made these interpretations, the Congress would have gone as far or farther in the direction
of limiting the right to engage in concerted activities
including the right to strike. The House Committee of
Conference handling the bill which became the Labor
Management Relations Act, on June 3, 1947 advised the
House to recede from its disagreement with the Senate
and to accept the present text upon grounds there stated
under the rubric "Rights of Employees." H. R. Rep. No.
510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 38. The Committee pointed
out that "the courts have firmly established the rule that
under the existing provisions of section 7 of the National
Labor Relations Act, employees are not given any right
to engage in unlawful or other improper conduct. In its
most recent decisions the Board has been consistently
applying the principles established by the courts. . ....
And "it was believed that the specific provisions in the
House bill excepting unfair labor practices, unlawful concerted activities, and violation of collective bargaining
agreements from the protection of section 7 were unnecessary. Moreover, there was real concern that the inclusion of such a provision might have a limiting effect and
make improper conduct not specifically mentioned subject to the protection of the act." The full text of this
section of the report is printed in the margin.15
15,,Both the House bill and the Senate amendment in amending
the National Labor Relations Act preserved the right under section 7
of that act of employees to self-organization, to form, join, or assist

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

261

Opinion of the Court.

Thus, the obvious purpose of the Labor Management
Amendments was not to grant a dispensation for the
strike but to outlaw strikes when undertaken to enforce
any labor organization, and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing and to engage in other concerted
activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual
aid or protection. The House bill, however, made two changes in
that section of the act. First, it was stated specifically that the
rights set forth were not to be considered as including the right to
commit or participate in unfair labor practices, unlawful concerted
activities, or violations of collective bargaining contracts. Second,
it was specifically set forth that employees were also to have the right
to refrain from self-organization, etc., if they chose to do so.
"The first change in section 7 of the act made by the House bill
was inserted by reason of early decisions of the Board to the effect
that the language of section 7 protected concerted activities regardless
of their nature or objectives. An outstanding decision of this sort
was the one involving a 'sit down' strike wherein the Board ordered
the reinstatement of employees who engaged in this unlawful activity.
Later the Board ordered the reinstatement of certain employees
whose concerted activities constituted mutiny. In both of the above
instances, however, the decision of the Board was reversed by the
Supreme Court. More recently, a decision of the Board ordering
the reinstatement of individuals who had engaged in mass picketing
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (Indiana Desk Co. v.
N. L. R. B., 149 Fed. (2d) 987) (1944).
"Thus the courts have firmly established the rule that under the
existing provisions of section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act,
employees are not given any right to engage in unlawful or other
improper conduct. In its most recent decisions the Board has
been consistently applying the principles established by the courts.
For example, in the American News Company case (55 N. L. R. B.
1302) (1944) the Board held that employees had no right which
was protected under the act to strike to compel an employer to
violate the wage stabilization laws. Again, in the Scullin Steel case
(65 N. L. R. B. 1294) and in the Dyson case (decided February 7,
1947), the Board held that strikes in violation of collective bargaining
contracts were not concerted activities protected by the act, and
refused to reinstate employees discharged for engaging in such
activities. In the second Thompson Products case (decided February
21, 1947) the Board held that strikes to compel the employer to vio-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

what the Act calls unfair labor practices, an end which
would be defeated if we sustain the Union's claim in
this respect. By § 8 (b) (4), strikes to attain named oblate the act and rulings of the Board thereunder were not concerted
activities protected by the provisions of section 7. The reasoning
of these recent decisions appears to have had the effect of overruling
such decisions of the Board as that in Matter of Berkshire Knitting
Mills (46 N. L. R. B. 955 (1943)), wherein the Board attempted to
distinguish between what it considered as major crimes and minor
crimes for the purpose of determining what employees were entitled
to reinstatement.
"By reason of the foregoing, it was believed that the specific
provisions in the House bill excepting unfair labor practices, unlawful
concerted activities, and violation of collective bargaining agreements
from the protection of section 7 were unnecessary. Moreover, there
was real concern that the inclusion of such a provision might have
a limiting effect and make improper conduct not specifically mentioned subject to the protection of the act.
"In addition, other provisions of the conference agreement deal
with this particular problem in general terms. For example, in
the declaration of policy to the amended National Labor Relations
Act adopted by the conference committee, it is stated in the new
paragraph dealing with improper practices of labor organizations,
their officers, and members, that the 'elimination of such practices
is a necessary condition to the assurance of the rights herein guaranteed.' This in and of itself demonstrates a clear intention that
these undesirable concerted activities are not to have any protection
under the act, and to the extent that the Board in the past has
accorded protection to such activities, the conference agreement
makes such protection no longer possible. Furthermore, in section
10 (c) of the amended act, as proposed in the conference agreement,
it is specifically provided that no order of the Board shall require
the reinstatement of any individual or the payment to him of any
back pay if such individual was suspended or discharged for cause,
and this, of course, applies with equal force whether or not the acts
constituting the cause for discharge were committed in connection
with a concerted activity. Again, inasmuch as section 10 (b) of
the act, as proposed to be amended by the conference agreement,
requires that the rules of evidence applicable in the district courts
shall, so far as practicable, be followed and applied by the Board,

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

Opinion of the Court.

jectives are made unfair labor practices; and by § 10 (a),"
the Board is authorized to prevent them. The definition
plainly enough was designed to enable the Board to order
a union to cease and desist from a strike so made illegal,
whether it consisted of a strike in the usual or conventional meaning or consisted of some of the other practices
mentioned in the definition. However, if we add the
definition to § 13, it does not change the effect of the
Act on state powers. It still gives the Federal Board
no authority to prohibit or to supervise the activity
which the State Board has here stopped nor to entertain
any proceeding concerning it, because it is the objectives
only and not the tactics of a strike which bring it within
the power of the Federal Board. And § 13 plus the definition only provides that "Nothing in this Act . . . shall
be construed so as either to interfere with or impede"
the right to engage in these activities. What other Acts
or other state laws might do is not attempted to be reguproof of acts of unlawful conduct cannot hereafter be limited to
proof of confession or conviction thereof.
"The second change made by the House bill in section 7 of the
act (which is carried into the conference agreement) also has an
important bearing on the kinds of concerted activities which are
protected by section 7. That provision, as heretofore stated, provides that employees are also to have the right to refrain from
joining in concerted activities with their fellow employees if they
choose to do so. Taken in conjunction with the provisions of section
8 (b) (1) of the conference agreement (which will be hereafter
discussed), wherein it is made an unfair labor practice for a labor
organization or its agents to restrain or coerce employees in the
exercise of rights guaranteed in section 7, it is apparent that many
forms and varieties of concerted activities which the Board, particularly in its early days, regarded as protected by the act will no
longer be treated as having that protection, since obviously persons
who engage in or support unfair labor practices will not enjoy immunity under the act."
16 61 Stat. 136, 146, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

lated by this section. Since reading the definition into
§ 13 confers neither federal power to control the activities
in question nor any immunity from the exercise of state
power in reference to them, it can have no effect on the
right of the State to resort to its own reserved power
over coercive conduct as it has done in this instance.
If we were to read § 13 as we are urged to do, to make
the strike an absolute right and the definition to extend
the right to all other variations of the strike, 7 the effect
would be to legalize beyond the power of any state or
federal authorities to control not only the intermittent
stoppages such as we have here but also the slowdown and
perhaps the sit-down strike as well. Cf. Allen-Bradley
Local v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315
U. S. 740, 751. And this is not all; the management also
would be disabled from any kind of self-help to cope with
these coercive tactics of the union except to submit to its
undeclared demands. To dismiss or discipline employees
for exercising a right given them under the Act or to interfere with them or the union in pursuing it is made an
unfair labor practice and if the rights here asserted are
rights conferred by the Labor Management Relations Act,
it is hard to see how the management can take any steps
to resist or combat them without incurring the sanctions
of the Act. It is certain that such a result would be
inconsistent with the whole purpose disclosed by the
Labor Management Relations Act amendments to the
National Labor Relations Act. Nor do we think such is
the result of any fair interpretation of the text of the
Act.
We think that this recurrent or intermittent unannounced stoppage of work to win unstated ends was
17 To call these stoppages a strike we would have to ignore petitioners' own conception of this activity. As we have shown, they adopted
this technique precisely because it was believed to be "better than

a strike."

See text, pp. 249-250.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

neither forbidden by federal statute nor was it legalized
and approved thereby. Such being the case, the state
police power was not superseded by congressional Act
over a subject normally within its exclusive power and
reachable by federal regulation only because of its effects
on that interstate commerce which Congress may regulate. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1;
Bethlehem Steel Co. v. Board, 330 U. S. 767.
We find no basis for denying to Wisconsin the power,
in governing her internal affairs, to regulate a course of
conduct neither made a right under federal law nor a
violation of it and which has the coercive effect obvious
in this device.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur, dissenting.
This strike was legal under the Wagner Act in 1945 and
1946 and its legality was not affected by the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. I think, therefore, that
the effort of Wisconsin to make it unlawful must fail because it conflicts with the national policy.
Section 13 of the Wagner Act is written in language
too plain to admit of doubt or ambiguity: "Nothing in
this Act shall be construed so as to interfere with or
impede or diminish in any way the right to strike." The
Court held in Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S.
240, 256, that by this provision Congress "recognized the
right to strike,-that the employees could lawfully cease
work at their own volition because of the failure of the
employer to meet their demands." The congressional
policy of protection of strikes as economic sanctions is now
converted into a congressional policy of hands-off.
If the States can outlaw this strike, I see no reason
why they cannot adopt regulations which determine the
manner in which strikes may be called in these interstate

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

industries. Can they in practical effect outlaw strikes
by requiring a unanimous vote of the workers in order

to call one?

The federal Board is not authorized, it is

said, to forbid or control strikes because of the method
by which they are called or the way in which they are
utilized. If that is the criterion, as the Court declares,
then the manner of calling of strikes is left wholly to
the States. The right to strike, which Congress has sanctioned, can in that way be undermined by state action.
The federal policy thus becomes a formula of empty
words.
That conclusion is made all the more surprising when
§ 13 of the Act is read in conjunction with § 7 which provides, "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain
collectively through representatives of their own choosing,
and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of
collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection." 1
(Italics added.) Section 7 read in conjunction with § 13
must mean that one of the "concerted activities" in which
employees may engage is to strike in these interstate
industries. In all of labor's history no "concerted activity" has been more conspicuous and important than the
strike; and none was thought to be more essential to
recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Moreover, the strike historically and in the present cases was
used to make effective the collective bargaining power
which § 7 of the Wagner Act guarantees. The right to

I It was held in Labor Board v. Peter C. K. Swiss Choc. Co., 130
F. 2d 503, 505, 506, that the right to engage in a sympathetic strike
or a secondary boycott was a concerted activity protected by § 7
prior to the 1947 amendments. It was also held in Labor Board v.
Remington Rand, Inc., 94 F. 2d 862, 871, that a strike because of
an employer's refusal to negotiate was protected by § 13, and employees so engaged could recover their positions even at the expense
of workers hired to replace them during the strike.

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

strike, recognized by § 13, is thus an integral part of the
federal labor-management policy.
Section 7 was invoked in Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 315 U. S. 740, 750,
to challenge as unconstitutional Wisconsin's regulation
of picketing, threats, and violence in connection with
labor disputes. We disallowed the defense, holding that
those matters were problems within the reach of the
traditional police power of the States and remained there
after passage of the federal Act because it had not undertaken to regulate them.
The Wagner Act, to be sure, did not undertake to give
the federal agency control over the manner of calling
strikes or the purpose for which they may be called. To
that extent these cases have common ground with the
Allen-Bradley decision. But there the similarity ends.
In Allen-Bradley the Congress had not expressed a policy
on picketing, threats or violence in connection with labor
disputes. In this case, as § 13 read in conjunction with
§ 7 makes plain, it has adopted a policy on strikes.
It is the presence of a conflicting federal policy that
determines whether state action must give way under
the Supremacy Clause,2 even though there may be no
actual or potential collision between federal and state
administrative agencies. Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp.,
331 U. S. 218. In Hill v. Florida,325 U. S. 538, a state
regulation of the licensing of business agents of unions
subject to the federal Act was held to be in conflict with
the Wagner Act not because the federal Board had any
licensing jurisdiction but because the state law interfered with the freedom of collective bargaining guaranteed by § 7 of the Act. The present cases follow a
fortiori, if the strike is included in the "concerted activities" guaranteed by § 7.
2 Article

VI, Clause 2 of the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

The concerted activities in these cases were as old as
labor's struggle for existence and were aimed at (as well
as a part of) the purposes which § 7 of the federal Act
was designed to protect.3 Therefore the legality of the
methods used is exclusively a question of federal law."
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE RUT-

LEDGE concurs, dissenting.
To interfere with production and to enforce their bargaining demands, employees of Briggs and Stratton called
twenty-seven union meetings during working hours with3 Although this litigation is controlled by the Wagner Act, there is
nothing in the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 that suggests that Congress wished to withdraw its protection from the right
to strike except to the extent specially provided by the amendments
to the Act. See S. Rep. No. 105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 28 (1947).
It makes some strikes unfair labor practices. 61 Stat. 141, 29 U. S. C.
§ 158 (b). But the strikes so condemned concededly do not include
the kind we have in the present cases. The amendments to §§ 7
and 13, 29 U. S. C. §§ 157, 163, do not restrict the right as it previously existed. Moreover, the 1947 legislation comprehensively defines a strike, 29 U. S. C. § 142, as "any concerted slow-down or
other concerted interruption of operations by employees," which is
broad enough to include the activity which Wisconsin has condemned
here.
4 The Court heretofore has held that the measure of the right to
strike in these interstate industries is a question of federal law.
Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S. at 255-257. Thus § 2 (3)
of the Wagner Act defined employee to "include any individual whose
work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with, any
current labor dispute . . . ." 49 Stat. 450, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (3). In
accordance with this section the Court has held that participation in
a strike did not remove workers from the protection of the Act and
that they retained the status of employees. See Labor Board v.
Mackay Co., 304 U. S. 333, 345-347. The question of what is a
"labor dispute" within the meaning of § 2 (3) necessarily involves a
consideration of whether the strike was or was not justified. See
Labor Board v. Stackpole Carbon Co., 105 F. 2d 167, 176.
Determination of the legality of strikes in interstate industries
by federal law is necessary if the administration of the federal system

AUTO. WORKERS v. WIS. BOARD.
245

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

out advance notice to the employer. Employees left their
work and returned later in the day, or the following day.
Wisconsin has made this concerted activity unlawful.
The question is whether the State's action violates the
federal guarantee contained in § 7 of the Wagner and
Taft-Hartley Acts: "Employees shall have the right
to . . . engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of

collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection."
We have recognized that the phrase "concerted activities" does not make every union activity a federal right.
We have held that violence by strikers is not protected,
Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Employment Relations
Board, 315 U. S. 740; that a sit-down strike, Labor Board
v. Fansteel Corp., 306 U. S. 240, a mutiny, Southern S. S.
Co. v. Labor Board, 316 U. S. 31, and a strike in violation
of a contract, Labor Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306 U. S.
332, must be withdrawn from the literal language of § 7.
But the Court, by its reasoning and its quotation from
a Congressional report, now makes intermittent work
stoppages the equivalent of mutiny, contract-breaking,
and the sit-down strike. It stretches the "objectives and
means" test to include a form of pressure which is peaceful and direct. In effect, it adopts the employer's plea
that it cannot plan production schedules, cannot notify
its customers and suppliers, cannot determine its output
with any degree of certainty and that these inconveniences withdraw this activity from § 7 of the national
statutes. The majority and the Wisconsin court call the
weapon objectionable, then, only because it is effective.
of labor-management relations is to be uniform and harmonious. The
status of workers as employees will determine what relief they may be
entitled to under the federal Act. See Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor
Board, 313 U. S. 177. Reinstatement rights may indeed depend on
whether a worker has lost his status as an employee through activities
not comprehended in the federal protection of the right to strike.
Labor Board v. Fansteel Corp., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

To impute this rationale to the Congress which enacted
the Wagner Act is, in my opinion, judicial legislation of
an extreme form.
The Court chooses to ignore the consistent policy of
the agency charged with primary responsibility in interpreting and administering § 7. The National Board has
repeatedly held that work stoppages of this nature are
"partial strikes" and "concerted activities" within the
meaning of § 7. Cudahy Packing Company, 29 N. L.
R. B. 837, 863; Armour & Company, 25 N. L. R. B. 989;
The Good Coal Company, 12 N. L. R. B. 136, 146; American Mfg. Concern, 7 N. L. R. B. 753, 758; Harnischfeger
Corporation,9 N. L. R. B. 676, 685; Mt. Clemens Pottery
Company, 46 N. L. R. B. 714, 716. In each of these
six cases, the Board's interpretation of § 7 is directly
contrary to that reached by the Court in the case before
us. In each case the Board concluded that work stoppages or "partial strikes" cannot be withdrawn from the
language of § 7. To ignore the Board's consistent rulings
in this case is a new and unique departure from the rule
of deference to settled administrative interpretation. The
fact that the stoppages in the Board cases were fewer
in number than those at Briggs and Stratton is not, of
course, a controlling difference-unless we are to say that
the stoppages are not protected by § 7 because they are
effective from the union's point of view.
Wisconsin's action clearly conflicts with § 7, and accordingly, I would reverse the judgment.

