OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

and mechanics. It is one thing to hold that the states
may regulate the use of sound trucks by appropriately
limited measures. It is entirely another to say their use
can be forbidden altogether.
To what has been said above and by MR. JUSTICE
BLACK, I would add only that I think my brother FRANKFURTER demonstrates the conclusion opposite to that
which he draws, namely, that the First Amendment guaranties of the freedoms of speech, press, assembly and
religion occupy preferred position not only in the Bill
of Rights but also in the repeated decisions of this Court.

RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC.

ET AL.

V.

NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 51.

Argued December 6, 1948.-Decided January 31, 1949.

A New York City traffic regulation forbids the operation of any
advertising vehicle on the streets, but excepts vehicles which have
upon them business notices or advertisements of the products of
the owner and which are not used merely or mainly for advertising.
An express company, which sold space on the exterior sides of its
trucks for advertising and which operated such trucks on the
streets, was convicted and fined for violating the ordinance. Upon
review here of the state court judgment, held:
1. The regulation does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 108-109.
(a) The function of this Court upon such review is not to
weigh evidence on the due process issue in order to determine
whether the regulation is sound or appropriate, nor to pass judgment on the wisdom of the regulation. P. 109.
(b) This Court can not say that the regulation has no relation
to the traffic problem of the City. P. 109.
2. The exemption of vehicles having upon them advertisements
of products sold by the owner does not render the regulation a
denial of the equal protection of the laws. Pp. 109-110.

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

Opinion of the Court.

(a)" This Court can not say that the advertising which is forbidden has less incidence on traffic than that which is exempted.
P. 110.
(b) The regulation is not rendered invalid by the fact that it
does not extend to what may be even greater distractions affecting
traffic safety, such as the spectacular displays at Times Square.
P. 110.
3. The regulation does not burden interstate commerce in violation of Art. I, § 8 of the Federal Constitution. P. 111.
(a) Where traffic control and the use of highways are involved,
and where there is no conflicting federal regulation, great leeway
is allowed local authorities, even though the local regulation materially interferes with interstate commerce. P. 111.
297 N. Y. 703, 77 N. E. 2d 13, affirmed.

Appellant was convicted and fined for violation of a
traffic regulation of the City of New York. The conviction was sustained by the Court of Special Sessions. 188
Misc. 342, 67 N. Y. S. 2d 732. The Court of Appeals
affirmed. 297 N Y. 703, 77 N. E. 2d 13. On appeal to
this Court, affirmed, p. 111.
Ralph M. Carson argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were William R. Meagher and
James V. Lione.
Stanley Buchsbaum argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief were John P. McGrath and
Seymour B. Quel.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.

Section 124 of the Traffic Regulations of the City of
New York' promulgated by the Police Commissioner

provides:
"No person shall operate, or cause to be operated,
in or upon any street an advertising vehicle; pro1

This regulation was promulgated by the Police Commissioner

pursuant to the power granted the police department under § 435

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

vided that nothing herein contained shall prevent
the putting of business notices upon business delivery
vehicles, so long as such vehicles are engaged in the
usual business or regular work of the owner and not
used merely or mainly for advertising."
Appellant is engaged in a nation-wide express business.
It operates about 1,900 trucks in New York City and
sells the space on the exterior sides of these trucks for
advertising. That advertising is for the most part unconnected with its own business.' It was convicted in
the magistrate's court and fined. The judgment of conviction was sustained in the Court of Special Sessions.
188 Misc. 342, 67 N. Y. S. 2d 732. The Court of Appeals
affirmed without opinion by a divided vote. 297 N. Y.
703, 77 N. E. 2d 13. The case is here on appeal. Judicial
Code § 237 (a), 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), as amended, now
28 U. S. C. § 1257.
The Court in Fifth Ave. Coach Co. v. New York,
221 U. S. 467, sustained the predecessor ordinance to
the present regulation over the objection that it violated
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is true that that was a municipal
of the New York City Charter which provides as follows: "The
police department and force shall have the power and it shall be
their duty to . . .regulate, direct, control and restrict the movement

of vehicular and pedestrian traffic for the facilitation of traffic and
the convenience of the public as well as the proper protection of
human life and health; . . . The commissioner shall make such rules

and regulations for the conduct of pedestrian and vehicular traffic
in the use of the public streets, squares and avenues as he may deem
necessary . ..."
2 The advertisements for which appellant was convicted consisted
of posters from three by seven feet to four by ten feet portraying
Camel Cigarettes, Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus,
and radio station WOR. Drivers of appellant's trucks carrying
advertisements of Prince Albert Smoking Tobacco and the United
States Navy were also convicted.

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

Opinion of the Court.

ordinance resting on the broad base of the police power,
while the present regulation stands or falls merely as a
traffic regulation. But we do not believe that distinction
warrants a different result in the two cases.
The Court of Special Sessions concluded that advertising on vehicles using the streets of New York City constitutes a distraction to vehicle drivers and to pedestrians
alike and therefore affects the safety of the public in
the use of the streets. ' We do not sit to weigh evidence
on the due process issue in order to determine whether the
regulation is sound or appropriate; nor is it our function
to pass judgment on its wisdom. See Olsen v. Nebraska,
313 U. S.236. We would be trespassing on one of the
most intensely local and specialized of all municipal problems if we held that this regulation had no relation to
the traffic problem of New York City. It is the judgment of the local authorities that it does have such a
relation. And nothing has been advanced which shows
that to be palpably false.
The question of equal protection of the laws is pressed
more strenuously on us. It is pointed out that the regulation draws the line between advertisements of products
sold by the owner of the truck and general advertisements.
It is argued that unequal treatment on the basis of such
a distinction is not justified by the aim and purpose of
the regulation. It is said, for example, that one of
appellant's trucks carrying the advertisement of a commercial house would not cause any greater distraction of pedestrians and vehicle drivers than if the
3The element of safety was held to be one of the standards by
which the regulations of the Police Commissioner were to be judged.
We accept that construction of the authority of the Police Commissioner under § 435 of the Charter, note 1, supra. See Price v.
Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 451; Hartford Accident Co. v. Nelson Co.,
291 U. S. 352, 358; Central Hanover Bank Co. v. Kelly, 319 U. S.
94, 97.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

commercial house carried the same advertisement on
its own truck. Yet the regulation allows the latter
to do what the former is forbidden from doing. It is
therefore contended that the classification which the regulation makes has no relation to the traffic problem since
a violation turns not on what kind of advertisements are
carried on trucks but on whose trucks they are carried.
That, however, is a superficial way of analyzing the
problem, even if we assume that it is premised on the correct construction of the regulation. The local authorities
may well have concluded that those who advertise their
own wares on their trucks do not present the same traffic
problem in view of the nature or extent of the advertising which they use. It would take a degree of omniscience which we lack to say that such is not the case. If
that judgment is correct, the advertising displays that
are exempt have less incidence on traffic than those of
appellants.
We cannot say that that judgment is not an allowable
one. Yet if it is, the classification has relation to the purpose for which it is made and does not contain the kind of
discrimination against which the Equal Protection Clause
affords protection. It is by such practical considerations
based on experience rather than by theoretical inconsistencies that the question of equal protection is to be
answered. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138, 144;
Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170, 198-199;
Metropolitan Co. v. Brownell, 294 U. S. 580, 585-586.
And the fact that New York City sees fit to eliminate
from traffic this kind of distraction but does not touch
what may be even greater ones in a different category,
such as the vivid displays on Times Square, is immaterial.
It is no requirement of equal protection that all evils of
the same genus be eradicated or none at all. Central
Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160.

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

JACKSON,

111

J., concurring.

It is finally contended that the regulation is a burden
on interstate commerce in violation of Art. I, § 8 of the
Constitution. Many of these trucks are engaged in delivering goods in interstate commerce from New Jersey to
New York. Where traffic control and the use of highways are involved and where there is no conflicting federal
regulation, great leeway is allowed local authorities, even
though the local regulation materially interferes with
interstate commerce. The case in that posture is controlled by S. C. Hwy. Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S.
177, 187 et seq. And see Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S.
598.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE acquiesces in the Court's
opinion and judgment, dubitante on the question of equal
protection of the laws.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

There are two clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
which this Court may invoke to invalidate ordinances by
which municipal governments seek to solve their local
problems. One says that no state shall "deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law." The other declares that no state shall "deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the elual protection
of the laws."
My philosophy as to the relative readiness with which
we should resort to these two clauses is almost diametrically opposed to the philosophy which prevails on this
Court. While claims of denial of equal protection are
frequently asserted, they are rarely sustained. But the
Court frequently uses the due process clause to strike
down measures taken by municipalities to deal with activities in their streets and public places which the local
823978 0-49---12

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

authorities consider as creating hazards, annoyances or
discomforts to their inhabitants. And I have frequently
dissented when I thought local power was improperly
denied. See, for example, opinion in Douglas v. Jeannette and companion cases, 319 U. S. 157, 166; and dissents in Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558, 566; Prince v.
Massachusetts,321 U. S. 158,176.
The burden should rest heavily upon one who would
persuade us to use the due process clause to strike down
a substantive law or ordinance. Even its provident use
against municipal regulations frequently disables all government-state, municipal and federal-from dealing
with the conduct in question because the requirement of
due process is also applicable to State and Federal Governments. Invalidation of a statute or an ordinance on
due process grounds leaves ungoverned and ungovernable
conduct which many people find objectionable.
Invocation of the equal protection clause, on the other
hand, does not disable any governmental body from dealing with the subject at hand. It merely means that the
prohibition or regulation must have a broader impact.
I regard it as a salutary doctrine that cities, states and the
Federal Government must exercise their powers so as not
to discriminate between their inhabitants except upon
some reasonable differentiation fairly related to the object
of regulation. This equality is not merely abstract justice. The framers of the Constitution knew, and we
should not forget today, that there is no more effective
practical guaranty against arbitrary and unreasonable
government than to require that the principles of law
which officials would impose upon a minority must be
imposed generally. Conversely, nothing opens the door
to arbitrary action so effectively as to allow those officials
to pick and choose only a few to whom they will apply
legislation and'thus to escape the political retribution that
might be visited upon them if larger numbers were af-

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

fected. Courts can take no better measure to assure
that laws will be just than to require that laws be equal
in operation.
This case affords an illustration. Even casual observations from the sidewalks of New York will show that an
ordinance which would forbid all advertising on vehicles
would run into conflict with many interests, including
some, if not all, of the great metropolitan newspapers,
which use that advertising extensively. Their blandishment of the latest sensations is not less a cause of diverted
attention and traffic hazard than the commonplace cigarette advertisement which this truck-owner is forbidden
to display. But any regulation applicable to all such
advertising would require much clearer justification in

local conditions to enable its enactment than does some
regulation applicable to a few. I do not mention this
to criticize the motives of those who enacted this ordinance, but it dramatizes the point that we are much
more likely to find arbitrariness in the regulation of the
few than of the many. Hence, for my part, I am more
receptive to attack on local ordinances for denial of equal
protection than for denial of due process, while the Court
has more often used the latter clause.
In this case, if the City of New York should assume
that display of any advertising on vehicles tends and

intends to distract the attention of persons using the
highways and to increase the dangers of its traffic, I
should think it fully within its constitutional powers to
forbid it all. The same would be true if the City should
undertake to eliminate or minimize the hazard by any
generally applicable restraint, such as limiting the size,
color, shape or perhaps to some extent the contents of
vehicular advertising. Instead of such general regulation
of advertising, however, the City seeks to reduce the
hazard only by saying that while some may, others may
not exhibit such appeals. The same display, for exam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J.,

concurring.

336 U. S.

ple, advertising cigarettes, which this appellant is forbidden to carry. on its trucks, may be carried on the
trucks of a cigarette dealer and might on the trucks
of this appellant if it dealt in cigarettes. And almost
an identical advertisement, certainly one of equal size,
shape, color and appearance, may be carried by this appellant if it proclaims its own offer to transport cigarettes.
But it may not be carried so long as the message is not
its own but a cigarette dealer's offer to sell the same
cigarettes.
The City urges that this applies equally to all persons
of a permissible classification, because all that it does
is (1) forbid all inhabitants of New York City from
engaging in the business of selling advertising space on
trucks which move as part of the city traffic; (2) forbid
all truck owners from incidentally employing their vehicles for such purpose, with the exception that all truck
owners can advertise their own business on their own
trucks. It is argued that, while this does not eliminate
vehicular advertising, it does eliminate such advertising
for hire and to this extent cuts down the hazard sought
to be controlled.
That the difference between carrying on any business
for hire and engaging in the same activity on one's own
is a sufficient one to sustain some types of regulations
of the one that is not applied to the other, is almost
elementary. But it is usual to find such regulations applied to the very incidents wherein the two classes present
different problems, such as in charges, liability and quality
of service.
The difference, however, is invoked here to sustain a
discrimination in a problem in which the two classes
present identical dangers. The courts of New York have
declared that the sole nature and purpose of the regulation before us is to reduce traffic hazards. There is
not even a pretense here that the traffic hazard created

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

by the advertising which is forbidden is in any manner
or degree more hazardous than that which is permitted.
It is urged with considerable force that this local regulation does not comply with the equal protection clause
because it applies unequally upon classes whose differentiation is in no way relevant to the objects of the
regulation.
As a matter of principle and in view of my attitude
toward the equal protection clause, I do not think differences of treatment under law should be approved on
classification because of differences unrelated to the legislative purpose. The equal protection clause ceases to
assure either equality or protection if it is avoided by
any conceivable difference that can be pointed out between those bound and those left free. This Court has
often announced the principle that the differentiation
must have an appropriate relation to the object of the
legislation or ordinance. See, for example, Mayflower
Farms v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 266; Smith v. Cahoon, 283
U. S. 553. In the latter case a motor vehicle regulation
was struck down upon citation of many authorities because "such a classification is not based on anything
having relation to the purpose for which it is made." 283
U. S. 553, 567. If that were the situation here, I should
think we should reach a similar conclusion.
The question in my mind comes to this. Where individuals contribute to an evil or danger in the same way
and to the same degree, may those who do so for hire
be prohibited, while those who do so for their own commercial ends but not for hire be allowed to continue? I
think the answer has to be that the hireling may be put
in a class by himself and may be dealt with differently
than those who act on their own. But this is not merely
because such a discrimination will enable the lawmaker
to diminish the evil. That might be done by many
classifications, which I should think wholly unsustainable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

336 U. S.

It is rather because there is a real difference between
doing in self-interest and doing for hire, so that it is
one thing to tolerate action from those who act on their
own and it is another thing to permit the same action
to be promoted for a price.
Certainly the presence or absence of hire has been the
hook by which much highway regulation has been supported. Rights usual to passengers may be denied to the
nonpaying guest in an automobile to limit vexatious litigation. Silver v. Silver, 280 U. S. 117. A state may
require security against injuries from one using the highways for hire that it does not exact from others because,
as Mr. Justice Sutherland put it, "The streets belong to
the public and are primarily for the use of the public
in the ordinary way. Their use for the purposes of gain
is special and extraordinary and, generally at least, may
be prohibited or conditioned as the legislature deems
proper." Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 144. In the
case of those who let out automobiles to those who drive
them, the Court, through Mr. Justice Butler, said of the
State, "It may prohibit or condition as it deems proper the
use of city streets as a place for the carrying on of private
business." Hodge Co. v. Cincinnati, 284 U. S. 335, 337.
See also Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 393; Stephenson
v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 278; Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S.
169; Stanley v. Public Utilities Commission, 295 U. S. 76;
Aero Transit Co. v. Georgia Commission, 295 U. S. 285;
Dixie Ohio Express Co. v. State Revenue Commission, 306 U. S. 72. The rule was flatly stated for the
Court by Mr. Justice Brandeis: "In dealing with the problem of safety of the highways, as in other problems of
motor transportation, the State may adopt measures
which favor vehicles used solely in the business of their
owners, as distinguished from those which are operated
for hire by carriers who use the highways as their place of
business." Bradley v. Public Utilities Commission, 289

RAILWAY EXPRESS v. NEW YORK.
106

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

U. S. 92, 97. However, it is otherwise if the discriminations within the regulated class are based on arbitrary
differences as to commodities carried having no relation
to the object of the regulation. Smith v. Cahoon, 283
U. S. 553. See also Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,
277 U. S. 389.
Of course, this appellant did not hold itself out to carry
or display everybody's advertising, and its rental of space
on the sides of its trucks was only incidental to the main
business which brought its trucks into the streets. But
it is not difficult to see that, in a day of extravagant advertising more or less subsidized by tax deduction, the rental
of truck space could become an obnoxious enterprise.
While I do not think highly of this type of regulation,
that is not my business, and in view of the control I would
concede to cities to protect citizens in quiet and orderly
use for their proper purposes of the highways and public
places (see dissent in Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558,
566), I think the judgment below must be affirmed.

