OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. URBUTEIT.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 640.

Decided May 2, 1949.

In reversing the decision below in this condemnation proceeding

under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and remanding
the case to the Court of Appeals, 335 U. S. 355, this Court decided
that the separate shipment of certain machines and certain leaflets
relative to their alleged diagnostic and curative value was immaterial because the movement of the machines and leaflets constituted a single interrelated activity; but it left for consideration
by the Court of Appeals the question whether the evidence as to
the falsity of the advertising as to the diagnostic capabilities of
the machines was adequate to sustain their condemnation even
though error in exclusion of other evidence were conceded. Held:
The United States was entitled to a hearing on the latter question;
and the Court of Appeals failed to follow the mandate of this
Court when it remanded the case to the District Court for determination of a question as to which of the shipments might be
considered a single interrelated activity. Pp. 804-806.
172 F. 2d 386, reversed.

After the decision of this Court, reversing the decision
below and remanding this case to the Court of Appeals,
335 U. S. 355, the latter court remanded it to the District
Court for further proceedings. 172 F. 2d 386. Certiorari granted and judgment reversed, p. 806.
Solicitor General Perlman for the United States.
H. 0. Pemberton for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The question presented by this petition is whether the
Court of Appeals followed our mandate on remand of the
cause in 335 U. S. 355.

UNITED STATES v. URBUTEIT.
804

Opinion of the Court.

The case when it was here earlier this Term appeared
in the following posture:
A condemnation proceeding was instituted by the
United States under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (52 Stat. 1040,1044, 21 U. S. C. § 334). Sixteen
machines with alleged diagnostic and curative capabilities had been shipped in interstate commerce. Leaflets
describing the uses of the machine had been shipped at a
separate time. The Court of Appeals had held that the
separate shipments of the machines and leaflets precluded
a conclusion that the leaflets had accompanied the device
in interstate commerce, and therefore the transaction was
outside the reach of the Act. We reversed the Court of
Appeals and held that the separate shipment of the
machines and leaflets constituted a single interrelated
activity.
On remand the Court of Appeals concluded that because there were several shipments of machines and a
single shipment of advertising matter, it was not clear
which shipments might be considered a single interrelated
activity. Therefore, it remanded the case to the District
Court for a determination of this fact. 172 F. 2d 386.
When the case was here before, we decided that the
fact of separate shipments of machines and leaflets was
immaterial. The controlling factors were whether the
leaflets were designed for use with the machine and
whether they were so used. Since the function of the
leaflets and the purpose of their shipment were established, nothing more was needed to show that the movements of the machines and leaflets constituted a single
interrelated activity. Moreover, the case is not complicated by shipments of machines and leaflets to different
persons. One Kelsch was the recipient of both.
On remand the Court of Appeals adhered to its former
ruling that the District Court erroneously excluded evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

dence as to the therapeutic or curative value of the machines. When the case was here before we did not disturb
that ruling. But we did leave to the Court of Appeals
for consideration a further question-whether the evidence as respects the falsity of the representations regarding the diagnostic capabilities of the machines was
adequate to sustain the condemnation even though error
in exclusion of the other evidence were conceded. The
United States is entitled to a hearing on that question.
The petition for certiorari is granted and the judgment is
Reversed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. JOHNSON v. SHAUGHNESSY, ACTING DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 506.

Argued April 19-20, 1949.-Decided May 9, 1949.

1. A board of special inquiry appointed pursuant to § 17 of the
Immigration Act of 1917 as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 153, is bound
to accept as final a certificate that an alien is a mental defective
of a class excluded from admission to the United States by § 3, 8
U. S. C. § 136 (d), where such certificate has been issued by a
medical appeal board after a fair hearing in conformity with § 16,
8 U. S. C. § 152, and regulations of the Public Health Service
prescribed pursuant thereto. P. 809.
2. A report of a medical appeal board appointed pursuant to § 16
of the Immigration Act of 1917 as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 152,
to review a finding of two medical officers that an alien seeking
admission to the United States is mentally defective, does not
comply with the applicable law and regulations where it fails
to show that the appeal board based its findings and conclusion
''on its medical examination of the alien" and merely shows that
it considered the appeal and, after "taking into consideration" the
certificate of the medical officers who made the original examination and the testimony of an alienist employed by the alien, con-

