OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
336 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED

STATES

v. WOMEN'S

SPORTSWEAR

MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 37.

Argued February 28-March 1, 1949.-Decided March 28,
1949.

Women's sportswear jobbers in Boston, selling in interstate commerce
about 80% of theit annual production approximating $8,800,000,
agreed by contract to employ only those stitching contractors who
were unionized and also members of a particular trade association,
and to divide all their work among association members who, as
to price and quality, were comparable with nonmembers. Held:
1. The intent and effect of the agreement was substantially to
restrict competition, prices and markets in violation of § 1 of
the Sherman Act. Pp. 461-463.
2. The effect of the agreement being to restrain interstate commerce, it is immaterial whether or not the stitching contractors
themselves may have been engaged only in intrastate business.
Pp. 464-465.
3. Inclusion in the contract of a provision which limited the
work to union shops which were also members of the trade association did not immunize the agreement from attack under § 1
of the Sherman Act. Pp. 463-464.
75 F. Supp. 112, reversed.

In a suit by the United States to enjoin violations of

§ 1 of the Sherman. Act and for other relief, the District
Court, after trial, denied the relief sought. 75 F. Supp.
112. On direct appeal to this Court, reversed, p. 465.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Win. Amory Underhill and Robert G. Seaks.
Harry Bergson argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellees.

U. S. v. WOMEN'S SPORTSWEAR ASSN.

461

Opinion of the Court.

460

MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The District Court, after trial, has denied the Government's plea for an injunction, and other relief, against
appellees under the Sherman Act.1 75 F. Supp. 112.
The cause is brought here by direct appeal, as Congress
has authorized.' Defendants below and appellees here
are an unincorporated trade association, its officers and
members. There is no serious controversy as to facts.
Our review must determine whether or not they establish the Government's right to the relief which has been
denied.
We first should be satisfied that the activities on which
restraints are alleged to have been exerted constitute
commerce among states. The industry involved is women's sportswear. It is carried on by jobbers, who maintain sales offices in New York and engage in nation-wide
competition for orders, chiefly by means of traveling
salesmen who solicit throughout the country. Upon receiving an order, the jobber buys the fabrics and cuts
them to the customer's fancy. In most cases he then
sends the cut material to a contractor who does the
stitching, puts on such accessories as the buttons and
the bows, and returns the completed garments to the
jobber, who promptly ships them to the customer.
That the jobbers maintain a current of commerce,
substantial in volume and interstate in character, seems
clear. The Boston area ranks fifth in this country's
production of women's sportswear. Its jobbers obtain
about 80% of the cloth used from sources outside of
Massachusetts. At least 80% of the finished sportswear
1Section

1 of the Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, as

amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1.
215 U. S. C. §29; 28 U. S. C. § 2101.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

is sold and shipped to customers outside of that State.
Thus the industry in Massachusetts subsists on a constant
influx of cloth and outgo of garments which pass through
the hands of the stitching contractors for an essential
operation.
Our next inquiry is whether the accused combination,
which is made up of stitching contractors, has imposed
upon this interstate trade restraints of a character and
magnitude to violate the Sherman Act. The Association
is made up of members who handle at least 50% of all
sportswear produced in Boston. The cost of this contractor's operation is about 25% of the jobber's sale
price, and its variations are reflected in wholesale and
retail prices. The Association's executive director took
steps to induce jobbers to enter into a written agreement,
among other things, to employ only members of the
Association, refrain from dealing with nonmembers, and
accept no secret price rebates. When the jobbers hesitated, stoppage of production was threatened; and when
they refused because they were advised that it would
violate antitrust laws, the Association ordered contractors
to stop work for three jobbers, which was done, and work
for them was not resumed until the jobbers obtained a
state court injunction. The proposed agreement was then
revised and ultimately was signed by twenty-one jobbers
who handle a gross annual volume of about $8,800,000,
that being a substantial portion of the Boston output.
The agreement in final form, together with the circumstances of its making, is alleged to constitute an illegal
restraint of trade. Terms relevant to the issue require
jobbers to give all of their work to available Association
members who are in good standing with the International
Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, provided such contractors are "comparable" as to price and quality of work with
nonmember contractors having contracts with the same
Union. The jobber is to furnish a written order speci-

U. S. v. WOMEN'S SPORTSWEAR ASSN.
460

463

Opinion of the Court.

fying price and is forbidden to receive secret rebates. A
jobber can give work to a nonmember only in continuance
of an existing relationship. The jobber will give no new
contract to any stitcher who ceases to be a member of the
Association. The Association agrees to assist the jobber
in getting sufficient contractors as the amount of his
work "may equitably require," and the jobber agrees
that he will divide his work "as equally and equitably as
possible among the Association Contractors engaged by
him." The District Court found that one of the purposes
of the Association was to maintain the standard of prices.
The Government also recites evidence suggesting that the
Association policed the membership to prevent price competition and excluded from membership "new comers in
the trade."
In the light of its origin and the circumstances of the
industry, it seems clear that the intent and effect of the
agreement is substantially to restrict competition and to
control prices and markets. It prohibits the jobbers from
awarding work to others (with minor exceptions) unless
their prices are not "comparable" to those of Association
members. It effects for Association members a virtual
monopoly of work at "comparable" prices. Work given
to members must be allocated "equitably," not by reference to price or quality of work. And it apparently contemplates boycott by the Association of jobbers who do
not subscribe to these terms. That such a contract restrains trade in violation of the Sherman Act is obvious,
even if the restraints in actual practice under it do not go
beyond its express terms, which the evidence indicates to
be likely.
It is argued that inclusion of the labor provisions makes
the agreement immune from attack under the antitrust
laws. The stitching contractor, although he furnishes
chiefly labor, also utilizes the labor through machines and
has his rentals, capital costs, overhead and profits. He
823978 o-49--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

is an entrepreneur, not a laborer. Cf. Columbia River
Packers Association v. Hinton, 315 U. S. 143. The labor
provisions were incorporated into the second proposal
after the first was rejected as violating the antitrust laws
and seem to give nothing to labor that it was not already
getting for itself from other as well as from these manufacturers. The restraints here went beyond limiting work
to Union shops; it limited it to those Union shops also
members of the Association. The trial court found no
evidence that the Union participated in making the agreement. And if it (lid, benefits to organized labor cannot
be utilized as a cat's-paw to pull employers' chestnuts out
of the antitrust fires. Allen Bradley Co. v. Local Union
No. 3, 325 U. S. 797.
The trial court appears to have dismissed the case
chiefly on the ground that the accused Association and
its members were not themselves engaged in interstate
commerce. This may or may not be the nature of their
operation considered alone, but it does not matter. Restraints, to be effective, do not have to be applied all along
the line of movement of interstate commerce. The source
of the restraint may be intrastate, as the making of a
contract or combination usually is; the application of the
restraint may be intrastate, as it often is; but neither matters if the necessary effect is to stifle or restrain commerce
among the states. If it is interstate commerce that feels
the pinch, it does not matter how local the operation which
applies the squeeze.
The manifest purpose and intent of the contract in
question was to restrain the jobbers from free choice
among stitching contractors on equal terms. The business affected by the restraint is interstate commerce.
The volume affected is substantial. While the restraint
of the final contract is more moderate than the one first
attempted and its dollar-and-cents effect on the commerce

CHICAGO ETC. R. CO. v. ACME FREIGHT.

465

Syllabus.

460

might be difficult to appraise, it is sufficient to warrant
judgment canceling the contract and enjoining carrying
out of the plan it embodies.
The judgment is
Reversed.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & PACIFIC
RAILROAD CO. ET AL. v. ACME FAST FREIGHT,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 65.

Argued December 8, 194.-Decided April 4, 1949.

Under Part IV of the Interstate Commerce Act and specifically
49 U. S. C. § 1013, a freight forwarder is a shipper (rather than
an initial carrier) vis-&-vis the railroads, and must file loss or
damage claims against them within the nine-month period specified
in the railroad bill of lading. Pp. 466-489.
1. The language and legislative history of § 1013 clearly indicate that forwarders were not given the right-over under 49 U. S. C.
§ 20 (12) against the railroads. Pp. 479-476.
2. A contrary construction would be out of harmony with the
previously existing relationship between forwarders and carriers
regulated by Parts I, II and III of the Interstate Commerce Act,
which relationship Part IV accepted and continued. Pp. 476-479.
3. The factors which make the Carmack Amendment workable
as between carriers are totally absent when the right-over given
by 49 U. S. C. § 20 (12) is sought to be extended to freight forwarders. Pp. 479-483.
4. Equitable considerations do not require a different result.
Pp. 483-489.
(a) The Act leaves freight forwarders of the kind regulated
by Part IV in substantially the same position they previously
held with respect to their liability to shippers and their rights
against underlying carriers. Pp. 484-487.
(b) That § 20 (11) forbids forwarders to limit to less than
nine months the period within which claims must be filed by their
shippers and that forwarders must file their claims against the

