OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

LAWSON, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, UNITED
STATES EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION COMMISSION, v. SUWANNEE FRUIT & STEAMSHIP
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 56.

Argued December 7, 1948.-Decided February 14, 1949.

1. An employee, who had previously lost the sight of his right eye
through causes unconnected with industry or his employment,
suffered an injury in the course of his employment as a result
whereof he lost the sight of his left eye, and thereby became
totally disabled within the meaning of the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. Held: Under § 8 (f) (1) of
the Act, the employer was liable only for permanent partial disability (loss of the left eye), and the remainder of the compensation due for permanent total disability was payable out of the
special fund established by § 44 of the Act. Pp. 199-206.
2. The term "disability" in § 8 (f) (1) is not to be construed as a
term of art but rather in a broader and more usual concept.
Pp. 200-202.
3. Section 8 (f) (1) is not to be read as creating a distinction
between a worker previously injured in industry and one handicapped by a non-industrial cause. Pp. 202-206.
4. The contention against the conclusion here reached, that the
statutory fund will soon be insolvent if burdened with liability
in the case of non-industrial previous injury, can not be sustained.
Pp. 205-206.
166 F. 2d 13, affirmed.

An award by the Deputy Commissioner under the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act
required respondent to pay compensation for permanent
total disability of an employee. On review the District
Court held that respondent was liable only for permanent
partial disability. 68 F. Supp. 616. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 166 F. 2d 13. This Court granted certiorari. 334 U. S. 857. Affirmed, p. 206.

LAWSON v. SUWANNEE S. S. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

Newell A. Clapp argued the cause for petitioner. Solicitor GeneralPerlman, Assistant Attorney General Morison, Philip Elman, Paul A. Sweeney and Morton Lif tin
filed a brief for petitioner.
Harry T. Gray argued the cause for respondents.
him on the brief was Sam R. Marks.

With

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a workmen's compensation case, under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 44
Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq. A narrow and difficult question of statutory construction confronts us.
John Davis lost the sight of his right eye in an accident
unconnected with industry or his employment. He was
later hired by respondent. An injury occurred during
this employment, and he is now blind in both eyes. The
parties agree that he is totally disabled within the meaning of the Act; they also agree that the employer is liable
for compensation for the loss of the left eye. The dispute
is narrowed to this question: should the employer or the
statutory second injury fund, administered by petitioner,
be liable for the balance of payments to equal compensation for total disability?
Petitioner concluded that the employer was liable.
The employer secured a reversal of this determination in
the District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
68 F. Supp. 616,1 and the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
166 F. 2d 13. Because this decision conflicted with that
of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in
National Homeopathic Hospital Association v. Britton,
79 U. S. App. D. C. 309, 147 F. 2d 561, cert. denied 325
U. S. 857, we granted certiorari.
I Under § 21 of the statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

Section 8 (f) (1) of the Act provides that "if an employee receive an injury which of itself would only cause
permanent partial disability but which, combined with a
previous disability,' does in fact cause permanent total
disability, the employer shall provide compensation only
for the disability caused by the subsequent injury: Provided, however, That in addition to compensation for such
permanent partial disability, and after the cessation of
the payments for the prescribed period of weeks, the employee shall be paid the remainder of the compensation
that would be due for permanent total disability. Such
additional compensation shall be paid out of the special
fund established in section 44." The court below held
that this section is "clear and unambiguous, and therefore
needs no construction. When read in its ordinary sense
it can have but one meaning": liability for the second
injury fund.
But the word "disability" is defined in the statute.
Section 2 provides that "when used in this Act . . . , (10)
'Disability' means incapacity because of injury . ... "
(Emphasis supplied.) The word "injury" is, in turn,
defined as "accidental injury or death arising out of and
in the course of employment . . ."
§ 2 (2). If these
definitions are read into the second injury provision, then,
it reads as follows: "If an employee receive an injury
which of itself would only cause permanent partial disability but which, combined with a previous incapacity
because of accidental injury or death arising out of and
in the course of employment, does in fact cause permanent
total disability, the employer shall provide compensation
only for the disability caused by the subsequent injury."
Because Davis' previous injury was nonindustrial, this
reading points to liability for the employer.
2

Emphasis supplied.

LAWSON v. SUWANNEE S. S. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

If Congress intended to use the term "disability" as a
term of art, a shorthand way of referring to the statutory
definition, the employer must pay total compensation.
If Congress intended a broader and more usual concept of
the word, the judgment below must be affirmed. Statutory definitions control the meaning of statutory words,
of course, in the usual case. But this is an unusual case.
If we read the definition into § 8 (f) (1) in a mechanical
fashion, we create obvious incongruities in the language,
and we destroy one of the major purposes of the second
injury provision: the prevention of employer discrimination against handicapped workers. We have concluded
that Congress would not have intended such a result.
Chief Justice Groner, dissenting in the NationalHomeopathic case, 79 U. S. App. D. C. at 313, 147 F. 2d at
565, noticed that the "inter-replaceients of words" we
have set out above "produces a manifest incongruity,
for . . . it would literally result in this: '. . . previous
incapacity because of accidental injury or death'-And
if to avoid this it be argued that only a portion of the
definition of injury should be inserted, the result would
be to change or at least to limit the statutory definition
only to produce a desired result, which no one would
urge or defend. It is evident, therefore," that the definition of disability was "not made with watch-like precision" and should not be so applied in § 8 (f) (1). If
the intent of Congress had been to limit the applicability
of this subsection in the fashion for which petitioner
contends, "it could easily have accomplished this by
the insertion of the word 'compensable' between the
words 'previous' and 'disability'. . . ." And see Atlantic
Cleaners and Dyers v. United States, 286 U. S. 427.
More important, perhaps, is the disservice we would do
to the purpose of the second injury provision. We must
look to the explanation of congressional intent behind

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

the subsection. A witness at a hearing on the measure
outlined his reasons for favoring the provision in the
following manner: "The second injury proposition is as
much to the advantage of the employer and his interests
as it is for the benefit of the employee. It protects that
employer who has hired, say, a one-eyed worker who goes
and loses his other eye and becomes a total disability.
The employer without this sort of thing would have to
pay total permanent disability compensation. Then, on
the other hand, this also protects the worker with one eye
from being denied employment on account of his being an
extra risk. Now, by simply taking this up in this way
it is possible to protect both the employer and to protect
the one-eyed employee also." '
Petitioner relies on the statement of another witness
before the Senate Committee, who favored inclusion of
the second injury provisions because "they have become
a commonplace . . . in State compensation legislation
and ought to be included in the act."'
And petitioner
states that "we may appropriately refer, therefore, to the
second injury provisions in other statutes and to the evaluations made by administrative experts in the field for
guidance with respect to the manner in which opposing
policy considerations have been resolved." But our
search for guidance in the sources suggested by petitioner
convinces us that petitioner's theories are not wellfounded.
From the attitude of experts in the field, one would
not expect Congress to distinguish between two types
of handicapped workers. The annual conventions of the
International Association of Industrial Accident Boards
3 Hearings before Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives on S. 3170, 69th Cong., 1st Sess. (1926), p. 2 08 .
Hearings before Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary on S. 3170, 69th Cong., 1st Sess. (1926) p. 43.

LAWSON v. SUWANNEE S. S. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

and Commissions provide the most helpful considerations
of the problem. At the 1931 convention, Mr. Joseph
Parks of the Massachusetts Commission spoke as follows
of workmen's compensation legislation without a second
injury provision: "I little knew that this great piece of
legislation . . . would become an instrument of persecution, as I may call it, of men who are physically handicapped, but that is what it has become. Men who are
physically handicapped are being discriminated against
in our Commonwealth." '
This attitude has been echoed by Mr. Charles Sharkey
of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics; 8 Miss
Frances Perkins, then Industrial Commissioner in New
York; ' and others.' Perhaps the most impressive evidence of the force behind these statements is that offered
by Mr. I. K. Huber of Oklahoma. Nease v. Hughes Stone
Co., 114 Okla. 170, 244 P. 778, held the employer liable
for total compensation for loss of the second eye. After
the decision, Mr. Huber reports, "thousands of one-eyed,
5 United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 564 (1932),
p. 278.
6 United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 577 (1933),
p. 146.
7 United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 536 (1931),
p. 254.
8 "We are dealing with a condition and not a theory. If the man
is found with some defect which, if he meets with an accident, is
likely to be aggravated and made more severe and thus increase the
cost to the employer whose experience rating goes up as a result,
then he does not want to accept that risk; and that poor fellow is
met with the alternative of being deprived of a means of earning
a livelihood or of waiving his rights to compensation." Ibid., p. 256.
And see Discussion of Industrial Accidents and Diseases, United
States Division of Labor Standards, Bull. No. 94 (1948), p. 104;
United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 602 (1934),
p. 11, if., especially p. 15; United States Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Bull. No. 577 (1933), pp. 154, 155.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

one-legged, one-armed, one-handed men in the State of
Oklahoma were let out and can not get employment coining under the workmen's compensation law of Oklahoma. . . . Those . . . court decisions put us in bad
shape. . . . The decision displaced between seven and
eight thousand men in less than 30 days in Oklahoma.""
A distinction between a worker previously injured in
industry and one handicapped by a cause outside of industry has no logical foundation if we accept the premise
that the purpose of the fund is that of aid to the handicapped. This is the conclusion of Mr. Fred Wilcox, then
Chairman of the Wisconsin Commission: 1' "Wisconsin
takes no account of where the injured man may have
gotten his first injury. It makes no difference where he
got it. It is just as serious to him, when he has the second injury, as if he had gotten the first one in industry."
We cannot attribute the illogic of petitioner's position
to Congress.
9 United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 536 (1931),
pp. 268, 272. Mr. Fred Wilcox, former Chairman of the Wisconsin
Commission, said: "Fundamentally, there is no moral reason why the
employer of a man, when he gets his second injury, should not pay
the full cumulative effect of that injury . . . but that is not the way
things work out. The employer escapes the burden and lets the
injured man bear it, and he sits at home without a job ....
The
employer is going to be afraid to take them on because of some added
responsibility. . . . We allowed the employee who lost his second
eye to have twice as much compensation for the loss of the second
eye as for the loss of the first eye. But what about it? Did anyone
ever get any compensation for the loss of a second eye? No; he
never got a job. He never got a chance to lose his second eye in an
industry-to be blunt in stating the facts. Employers would not
hire him, because they would take on twice as much liability as
they had before." United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull.
No. 577 (1933), pp. 157, 158.
10 Id.

LAWSON v. SUWANNEE S. S. CO.
198

Opinion of the Court.

Our conclusion is reinforced by the administrative practice under the New York statute. The federal statute
is based upon New York law." In New York "the commission holds that if the man loses his second eye in an
industrial accident it is immaterial how he lost the first
eye. The loss of eyesight in one eye may have been
congenital; it may have occurred when the child was
two years old, or it may have occurred after he was grown,
but not in an industrial accident. Nevertheless, at the
time he loses his second eye, he has suffered total
disability." 12
Petitioner argues that New York law is to the contrary,
citing La Belle v. Britton Stone & Supply Corp., 247 App.
Div. 843, 286 N. Y. S. 347, and Bervilacqua v. Clark, 225
App. Div. 190, 232 N. Y. S. 502. The La Belle case is
inadequately reported; the Bervilacqua case did not consider the precise point involved in this case, and was distinguished by the New York Attorney-General in 1937
when he advised the Department of Labor to continue its
established practice. Annual Report of the AttorneyGeneral, State of New York, for 1937 (Albany, 1938),
p. 270.
Petitioner's most strenuous argument is that the fund
will soon be insolvent if we open liability to a nonindustrial previous injury, and that therefore Congress could
not have contemplated the result we reach."8 Petitioner's
11H. R. Rep. No. 1190, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2. See Employers'
Liability Assurance Corp., Ltd. v. Monahan, 91 F. 2d 130; Hartford
Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Hoage, 66 App. D. C. 154, 85 F. 2d 411.
12 United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 577 (1933),
p. 154.
13 Payments are made from the special fund established in § 44 of
the Act. Employers pay $1,000 into the fund for noncompensable
deaths, half of which is available for second injuries. All penalties
and fines collected are also paid into the fund. § 44 (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

worries seem exaggerated in the light of Wisconsin and
New York experience. From 1919 to 1933,"4 Wisconsin's
fund had only 50 second injury cases charged against it.
Second-Injury Funds as Employment Aids to the Handicapped, U. S. Division of Labor Standards (1944), p. 7.
From 1919 to 1943, only 99 cases were charged against
the New York fund. Id., p. 5. In 1930 Miss Frances
Perkins told her associates that the problem is "not so
large . . . as it appears." 1
On the basis of the incongruity involved in applying the
definition mechanically, the unmistakable purpose of the
second injury fund, and the interpretation of the State
statute on which the federal act is based, we conclude
that the term "disability" was not used as a term of art
in § 8 (f) (1), and that the judgment must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

14 In

dissents.

1933 the Wisconsin Supreme Court decided Ruehlow v. Industrial Commission, 213 Wis. 240, 251 N. W. 451, which reversed
the administrative practice outlined by Mr. Wilcox, supra. Compare
Lehman v. Schmahl, 179 Minn. 388, 229 N. W. 553.
15United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. No. 536 (1931),
p. 260. At p. 259, Mr. L. W. Hatch of New York is reported as
follows: "Many people have said, 'Oh, well, if you make a secondinjury fund take care of every case in which a prior condition was a
material factor in the man's disability you will bankrupt the State
or the taxpayers will be called upon to bear an enormous burden.'
The evidence so far as we have gone does not indicate any such
situation."

