OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

and seamen based solely on proof of fault, it is not for this
Court to torture and twist the law of negligence so as to
make it in result a law not of liability for fault but a law
of liability for injuries.
One cannot be unmindful that "the radiating potencies
of a decision may go beyond the actual holding." Hawks
v. Hamill, 288 U. S. 52, 58. Lower courts read the opinions of this Court with a not unnatural alertness to catch
intimations beyond the precise ratio decidendi. A decision like this exerts an influence, however unwittingly,
well calculated to lead lower court judges-to avoid reyersals by deciding compassionately for the plaintiff in
these negligence cases confident that such decisions are
not likely to be reviewed here.
I would have the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

and MR. JUSTICE 1URTON join

in this dissent.
MAGGIO v. ZEITZ, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38.

Submitted October 13, 1947.-Decided February 9, i948.

1. In a civil contempt proceeding against a bankrupt for failure to
comply with an order to turn over to the trustee assets of the
estate found to be in his possession or under his control at the time

such order was issued (20 months earlier in this case), the bankruptcy court should not adjudge the bankrupt in contempt and
commit him to jail to coerce compliance if it appears that he is
presently unable to comply-even though the previous finding that
he had possession of the property when the turnover order was
.issued has beccme res judicata. Pp. 69-78.

2. Courts of bankruptcy have no authority to compensate for any
neglect or lack of zeal in applying the criminal sanctions prescribed
by the Bankruptcy Act by perversion of civil remedies to ends
of punishment. P. 62.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56.

Syllabus.

3. The summary turnover procedure, fashioned by bankruptcy
courts as a means of retrieving concealed assets or books of account,
is essentially a proceeding for restitution of property rather than
indemnification; and the primary condition of relief is possession
of existing chattels or their proceeds capable of being surrendered
by the person ordered to do so. Pp. 62-63.
4. Resort to a turnover proceeding is not appropriate when the
property and its proceeds have already been dissipated, no matter
when that dissipation occurred. Pp. 63-64.
5. In a turnover proceeding, the burden is upon the trustee to prove
by clear and convincing evidence that the property has been abstracted from the bankrupt estate and is in the possession of the
party proceeded against. Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358. P. 64.
6. The presumption that possession of property of a bankrupt, once
proven, continues until the possessor explains when and how possession ceased is not a rule of law to be applied in all cases, but
a rule'of evidence to be applied only'when the time element and
other factors make that a fair and reasonable inference. Pp.
64-66.
7. A turnover order should not be issued or affirmed on a presumption thought to arise from some isolated circumstance, such as onetime possession, when the reviewing court finds from the whole
record that, the order is unrealistic and unjust. Pp. 66-67.
8. When a turnover proceeding is completed and terminated in a
final order, it becomes res Judicata and is not subject to collateral
attack in a subsequent proceeding in civil contempt to coerce obedience. Pp. 68-69.
9. Even though a turnover order has become res judicata as to the
issue of possession of the goods in question at the time of the turnover proceedings, a subsequent proceeding in civil contempt to
coerce compliance tenders the issue as to present wilful disobedience, which must be tried like any other issue; and the Court
is entitled to consider all evidence relevant to it. Pp. 74-75.
10. In a civil contempt proceeding to coerce compliance with a turnover order, the bankrupt may not challenge the previous adjudication of possession made when the turnover order was issued;
but he may be permitted to deny his present possession and to
give any evidence of present conditions or intervening events which
corroborate such denial. Pp. 75-76.
11. In a civil contempt proceeding to enforce a turnover order, a
trial court is obliged to weigh not merely the facts that a turnover
order has issued and has not been obeyed but also all other evidence

OCTOBER. TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

properly before it, in determining whether or not there is actually
a present ability to comply and whether failure to do so constitutes
deliberate defiance which a jail term will break. Pp. 76-77.
12. This Court regards turnover. and contempt orders, and petitions
for certiorari to review them, as usually raising only questions of
fact to be solved by a careful analysis of evidence, which should
take place in the lower courts; and this Court is loath to review
particular cases, especially where the order carries approval of the
referee, the district court, and the circuit court of appeals. P. 70.
13. When a misapprehension of the law has led both courts below
to adjudicate rights without considering essential facts in the light
of the controlling law, this Court will vacate the judgments and
remand the case to the district court for further proceedings consistent with the principles laid down in this Court's opinion.
P. 77..
157 F. 2d 951, judgments vacated and case remanded.

A referee in bankruptcy found the bankrupt in contempt for failure to comply with a turnover order pre.viously affirmed by the Di~trict Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The District Court affirmed and ordered the bankrupt committed to jail until he complied
or until further order of the court. The Circuit Court
of Appeals -affirmed, although it said it knew that the
bankrupt coild not comply with the turnover order. 157
F. 2d 951. This Court granted certiorari. 330 U. S. 816.
Judgments wv~ated and case remanded to the District
Court, p. 7&

Max Schwartz submitted on brief for petitioner.
Joseph Glass and Sidney Freibergsubmitted on brief for
respoident.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Cdurt.

Joseph Maggio, the petitioner, was president and man-,
ager of Luma Camera Service, Inc., which was adjudged
bankrupt on April 23, 1942. In January of 1943 the

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opini0n of the Court.

trustee asked the court to direct Maggio to turn over
a considerable amount of merchandise alleged to have
been taken from the bankrupt concern in 1941, and till in
Maggio's possession or control. After hearing, the referee
found that "the Trustee established by clear and convincing evidence that the merchandise hereinafter described,
belonging to the, estate of the bankrupt, was knowingly
and fraudulently concealed by the respondent [Maggio]
from the Trustee herein and that said merchandise is now
in the possession or under the control pf the respondent."
A turnover order issued and was affirmed by the District
Court and then unanimously affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Second Circuit,. without opinion other
than citation of its own prior cases. Zeitz v. Maggio,
145 F. 2d 241. Petition for certiorari was denied by this
Court. 324 U.S.841.
As Maggio failed to turn over the property or its proceeds, the Referee found him in contempt- After hearing, the District Court affirmed and ordered Maggio to
be jailed until .he complied or until further order of the
court. Again the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
157 F. 2d 951.
But in affirming the Court said: "Although we know
that Maggio cannot comply with the order, we must keep
a straight face and pretend that he can, and must thus
affirm orders which first direct Maggio 'to do an impossibility, and then punish him for refusal to perform it.' "
Whether this is to be read literally as its deliberate judgment of the law of the case or is something of a decoy intended to attract our attention to the problem, 'the declaration is one which this Court, in view of its supervisory
power over courts of bankruptcy, cannot ignore. Fraudulent bankruptcies probably present more difficulties to
the courts in the Second Circuit than they do elsewhere.
These conditions are reflected in conflicting views within
the Court of Appeals, which we need not detail as they are

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

already set out in the books: In re Schoenberg, 70 F. 2d
321; Danish v. Sofranski, 93 F. 2d 424; In re Pinsky-Lapin
& Co., 98 F. 2d 776; Seligson v. Goldsmith, 128 F. 2d 977;
Rosenblum v. Marinello, 133 F. 2d 674; Robbins v. Gottbetter, 134 F. 2d 843; Cohen v. Jeskowitz, 144 F. 2d 39;
Zeitz v. Maggio, 145 F. 2d 241.
The problem is illustrated by this case. The court
below says that in the turnover proceedings it was sufficiently established that, towards the end of 1941, a shortage occurred in this bankrupt's stock of merchandise. It
seems also to regard it as proved that Maggio personally
took possession of the corporation's vanishing assets.
But this abstraction by Maggio occurred several months
before bankruptcy and over a year before the turnover
order was applied for. The only evidence that the goods
then were in the possession or control of Maggio was the
proof of his onetime possession supplemented by a "presumption" that, in the absence of a credible explanation
by Maggio of his disposition of the goods, he continues in
possession of them or their proceeds. Because the dourt
of Appeals felt constrained by its opinions to adhere to
this "presumption" or "fiction" it affirmed the turnover
order. Now it says it is convinced that in reality Maggio
did not retain the goods or their proceeds up to the time
of the turnover proceedings and that the turnover order
was unjust. But it considers the turnover order res
judicata and the injustice beyond reach on review of the
contempt order.
The proceeding which leads to commitment consists of
two separate stages which easily become out-of-joint because the defense to the second often in substance is an
effort to relitigate, perhaps before another judge, the issue
supposed to have been settled in the first, and because
while the burden of proof rests on the trustee, frequently
evidence of the facts is entirely in possession of his adversary, the bankrupt, who is advantaged by nondisclosure.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

Because these separate but interdependent turnover andcontempt procedures are important to successful bankruptcy administration, we restate some of the principles
applicable to each, conscious however of the risk that we
may do more to stir new than to settle old controversies.
I.
The turnover procedure is one not expressly created
or regulated by the Bankruptcy Act. It is a judicial innovation by which the court seeks efficiently and expeditiously to accomplish ends prescribed by the statute,
which, however, left the means .largely to judicial
ingenuity.
The courts of bankruptcy are invested "with such jurisdiction in law and in equity as will enable them" to
"Cause the estates of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to
money and distributed, and determine controversies in
relation thereto . . . ." 11 U. S. C. § 11(a) (7). And
the function to "collect and reduce to money the property
of the estates" is also laid upon the trustee. 11 U. S. C.
§ 75 (a) (1). A correlative duty is imposed upon the
bankrupt fully and effectually to turn over all of his
property and interests, and in case of a corporation the
duty rests upon its officers, directors or stockholders. 11
U.S.C. § 25.
To compel these persons to discharge their duty, the
statute imposes criminal sanctions. It denounces a comprehensive list of frauds, concealments, falsifications, mutilation of records and other acts that would defeat or
obstruct collection of the assets of the estate, and prescribes heavy penalties of fine or imprisonment or both.
11 U. S. C. § 52 (b). It also confers on the courts power
to arraign, try and punish persons for violations, but "in
accordance with the laws of procedure" regulating trials
of crimes. 11 U. S. C. § 11 (a) (4). And it specifically
provides for jury trial of offenses against-the Bankruptcy

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Act. 11 U. S. C. § 42 (a), (c). Special provisions are
also made to induce vigilance in prosecuting such offenses.
It is the duty of the referee and trustee to report any
probable grounds for believing such an offense has been
committed to the United States Attorney, who thereupon
is required to investigate and report to the referee. In
a proper case he is directed to present the matter to the
grand jury without delay, and if he thinks it not a proper
case he must report the facts to the Attorney General and
abide his instructions. 11 U. S C. § 52 (e).
Courts of bankruptcy have no authority to compensate
for any neglect or lack of zeal in applying these prescribed
criminal sanctions by perversion of civil remedies to ends
of punishment, as some judges of the Court of Appeals
suggest is being done.
Unfortunately, crirminal prosecutions do not recover
e0lealed ,treasure. Aifd the trustee, as well as the Court,
is commanded to collect the property. The Act vests
title to all property of the bankrupt, including any transferred in1 fraud of creditors, in the trustee, as of the date
of filing the petition in bankruptcy, 11 U. S. C. § 110,
which puts him in position to pursue all plenary or summary remedies to obtain possession.
To entertain the petitions of the trustee the bankruptcy
court not only is vested with "jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity" between trustees and adverse
claimants concerning property acquired or claimed by the
trustee, 11 U. S. C. § 46, but,it alsc is given a wide discretioury jurisdiction to accomplish the ends of the Act,
or in the words of the statute to "make such orders, issue
such process, arid enter such judgments, in addition to
those specifically provided for, as may be necessary for
the enforcement of the provisions of this title." 11
U. S. C. § 11 (a) (15).
In applying these grants of power, courts of bankruptcy
lave fashioned thesummary turnover proceduier as one

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

necessary to accomplish their function of administration.
It enables the court summarily to retrieve concealed and
diverted assets or secreted books of account the withholding of which, pending the outcome of plenary suits, would
intolerably obstruct and delay administration. When
supported by "clear and convincing evidence," the turnover order has been sustained as an appropriate and necessary step in enforcing the Bankruptcy Act. Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358; Cooper v. Dasher, 290 U. S. 106. See
also Farmers & Mechanics National Bank v. Wilkinson,
266 U. S. 503.
But this procedure is one primarily to get at property
rather than to get at a debtor. Without pushing the
analogy too far, it may be said that the theoretical basis
for this remedy is found in the common law actions to
recover possession-detinue for unlawful detention of
chattels and replevin for their unlawful taking-as distinguished from actions in trespass or trover to recover
damages for the withholding or for the value of the property. Of course the modern remedy does not exactly
follow any of these ancient and often overlapping procedures, but the object-possession of specific property-is
the same. The order for possession may extend to proceeds of property that has been disposed of, if they are
sufficiently identified as such. But it is essentially a
proceeding for restitution rather than indemnification,
with some characteristics of a proceeding in rem; the
primary condition of relief is possession of existing chattels or their proceeds capable of being surrendered by the
*person ordered to do so. It is in no sense based on a cause
of action for damages for tortious conduct such as embezzlement, misappropriation or improvident dissipation of
assets.
The nature and derivation of the remedy make clear
that it is appropriate only when the evidence satisfactorily
establishes the existence of the property or its proceeds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

and possession thereof by the defendant at the time of the
proceeding. While some courts have taken the date of
bankruptcy, as the time to which the inquiry is directed,
we do not consider resort to this particular proceeding
appropriate if, at the time it is instituted, the property and
its proceeds have already been dissipated, no matter when
that dissipation occurred. Conduct which has put property beyond the limited reach of the turnover proceeding
may be a crime, or, if it violates an order of the referee, a
criminal contempt, but no such acts, however reprehensible, warrant issuance of an order which creates a duty
impossible of performance, so that punishment can follow.
It should not be necessary to say that it would be a flagrant abuse of process to issue such an order to exert
pressure on friends and relatives to ransom the accused
party from being jailed.
II.
It is evident that the real issue as to turnover orders
concerns the burden of proof that will be put on the
trustee and how he can meet it. This Court has said
that the t*urnover order must be supported by "clear and
convincing evidence," Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358, and
that includes proof that the property has been abstracted
from the bankrupt estate and is in the possession of the
party proceeded against. It is the burden of the trustee
to produce this evidence, however difficult his task
may be.
The trustee usually can show that the missing assets
were in the possession or under the control of the bankrupt at the time of bankruptcy. To bring this past
possession down to the date involved in the turnover
proceedings, the trustee has been allowed the benefit of
what is called a presumption that the possession continues
until the possessor explains when and how it ceased.
This inference, whiich might be entirely permissible in

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

some cases, seems to have settled into a rigid presumption
which it is said the lower courts apply without regard to
its reasonableness in th particular case.
However, no such presumption, and no such fiction,
is created by the bankruptcy statute. None can be found
in any decision of this Court dealing with this procedure.'
Language can, of course, be gleaned from judicial pronouncements and texts that conditions once existing may
be presumed to continue until they are shown to have
changed. But such generalizations, useful enough, perhaps, in solving some problem of a particular case, are
not rules of law to be applied to all cases, with or without
reason.
Since no authority imposes upon either the Court of Appeals or the Bankruptcy Court any presumption of law,
either conclusive or disputable, which would forbid or dispense with further inquiry or consideration of other evidence and testimony, turnover orders should not be issued, or approved on appeal, merely on proof that at some
past time property was in possession or control of the
accused party, unless the time element and other factors
make that a fair and reasonable inference.' Under some
circumstances it may be permissible, in resolving the-unknown from the known, to reach the conclusion of present
control from proof of previous possession. Such a process,
The Court of Appeals itself -said: "...
the Supreme Court has
never decided in favor of the fictitious 'presumption' here invoked. . . ." 157 F. 2d 951,954.
2 Other circuits have treated the presumption of continued possession as one which "grows weaker as time passes, until it finally ceases
to exist" (C. C. A. 8th in Matin v. Ellis, 15 F. 2d 321) and as one
"only as strong as the nature of the circumstances permits" and which
"loses its force and effect as time intervenes and as circumstances
indicate that the bankrupt is no longer in possession of the missing
goods or their proceeds" (C. C. A. 4th in Brune v. Fraidin, 149 F.
2d 325). See also Comments in 95 U. of Pa. L. Rev. 789 (1947) and
42 Ill. L. Rev. 396 (1947).

OCTOBER TERM. 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U.S.

sonetimes ,characterized as a "presump' ion of fact," is,
however, 'othing more than a process of reasoning from
one fact'to another, an argument which infers a fact
otherwise doubtful from a fact which is proved.
Of course, the fact that a man at one time had a given
item of property, is a circumstance to be weighed in
determining whether he may properly be found to have
it at a later date. But the inference from yesterday's
possession is one thing, that permissible from possession twenty months ago quite another. With what kind
of property do we deal? Was it salable or consumable?
The inference of continued possession might be warranted
when applied to books of account which are not consumable or marketable, but quite inappropriate under the
same circumstances if applied to perishable merchandise or salable goods in considerable demand. Such an
inference is one thing when applied to a thrifty person
who withdraws his savings account after being involved
in an accident, for no apparent purpose except to get
it beyond the reach of a tort creditor, see Rosenblum
v. Marinello, 133 F. 2d 674; it is very different when
applied to a stock of wares being sold by a fast-living
adventurer using the proceeds to make up the difference
between income and outgo.
Turnover orders should not be issued or affirmed on a
presumption thought to arise from some isolated circumstance, such as onetime possession, when the reviewing court finds from the whole record that the order is
unrealistic and unjust. No rule of law requires that
judgment be thus fettered; nor has this Court ever so
prescribed. Of course, deference is due to the trial court's
findings of fact, as prescribed by our rules, but even this
presupposes that the trier of fact be actually exercising
hfs judgment, not merely applying some supposed rule
of law. In any event, rules of evidence as to inferences
from facts are* to aid reason, not to override it. And

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

there does not appear to be any reason for allowing any
such presumption to override reason when reviewing a
turnover order.
We are well aware that these generalities do little to
solve concrete issues. The latter can be resolved only by
the sound sense and good judgment of trial courts, mindful that the order should issue only as a responsible and
final adjudication of possession and ability to deliver, not
as a questionable experiment in coercion which will recoil
to the discredit of the judicial process if time proves the
adjudication to have been improvident and requires the
courts to abandon its enforcement.
III.
Unlike the judicially developed turnover proceedings,
contempt proceedings for disobedience of a lawful order
are specifically authorized by two separate provisions
of the Act and are of two distinct kinds. The court is
authorized to "enforce obedience by persons to all lawful
orders, by fine or imprisonment or fine and imprisonment." 11 U. S.C. § 11 (a) (13). This creates the civil
contempt proceeding to coerce obedience, now before us.
There is also provision for a criminal contempt proceeding
whose end is to penalize contumacy, the court also being
authorized to "punish persons for contempts committed
before referees." il U. S. C. § 11 (a) (16). These contempts before referees are defined to include disobedience
or resistance to a lawful order, and the statute provides
for a summary proceeding before the District Judge who,
if the evidence "is such as to warrant him in so doing,"
may punish the accused or commit him upon conditions.
11 U. S. C. § 69.
The proceeding before us sought only a coercive or
enforcement sanction. The petition asked commitment
"until he shall have complied with the aforesaid turnover
order." The commitment was only until he "shall'have

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333.U. S.

purged himself of such contempt by complying with said
turnover order, or until the further order of this Court."
Thus no punishment whatever was imposed for past disobedience, and every penalty was contingen t upon failure
to obey. This is a decisive characteristic of civil contempt and of the truly coercive commitment for enforcement purposes, which, as often is said, leaves the contemnor to "carry the key of his prison in his own pocket."
Penfield Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 330
U. S. 585. We thus have before us now a civil contempt of
the same kind that was before the Court in Oriel v. Russell,
278 U. S. 358, 363. What we say, therefore, is not
applicable to criminal contempt proceedings designed
solely for punishment and vindication of the court's
flouted authority, such, for example, as a proceeding to
sentence one for destroying or mutilating books of account
or property in his possession which the court had ordered
him to turn over.
The question now arises as to whether, in this contempt proceeding, the Court may inquire into the justification for the turnover order itself. It is clear however
that the turnover proceeding is a separate one &nd, when
completed and terminated in a 'final order, it becomes
res judicata and not subject to collateral attack in the
contempt proceedings. This we long ago settled in Oriel
v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358, and, we think, settled rightly.
The court order is increasingly resorted to, especially
by statute, to coerce performance of duties under sanction
For examples of statutory provisions, see lterstate Commerce
Act, 49 U. S. C. § 12 (3) ; Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U. S. C.
§ 78 (u) (c); Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, 15
U. S. C. § 79 (r) (d); Communications Act of 1934, 47 U. S. C.
3

§ 409 (d); National Labor Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. § 161 (2); Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U. S. C. § 49; Administrative Procedure Act of 1946, 5 'U. S. C. 1946 ed. § 1005 (c); and Atomic
Energy Act of 1946, 42 U. S. C. A. (1947 Supp.) § 1816 (d).

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

of contempt. It would be a disservice to the law if we
were to depart from the long-standing rule that a contempt proceeding does not open to reconsideration the
legal or factual basis of the order alleged to have been
disobeyed and thus become a retrial of the original controversy. The procedure to enforce a court's order commanding or forbidding- an act should not be so inconclusive as to foster experimentation with disobedience.
Every precaution should be taken that orders issue,
in turnover as in other proceedings, only afer legal
grounds are shown and only when it appears thpt obedience is within the power of the party being coerced by
the order. But when it has become final, disobedience
cannot be justified by re-trying the issues as to whether
the order should have issued in the first place. United
States v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258; Oriel v.
Russell, 278 U. S. 358. Counsel appears to recognize this
rule, for the record in the case now before us does not
include the evidence on which the turnover order was
based. We could learn of it only by going outside of the
present record to that in the former case, which would be
available only because an application was made to this
Court to review that earlier proceeding.
We therefore think the Court of Appeals was right insofar as it concluded that the turnover order is subject only
to direct attack, and that its alleged infirmities cannot be
relitigated or corrected in a subsequent contempt
proceeding.
IV.
But does this mean that the lower courts "must thus
affirm orders which first direct a bankrupt 'to do an impossibility, and- then punish him for refusal to perform

it' "?

Whether the statement by the Court of Appeals that
it knows Maggio cannot comply with the turnover order

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

is justified by the evidence in this record, we do not stop
to inquire. We have regarded turnover and contempt
orders, and petitions for certiorari to review them, as
usually raising only questions of fact to be solved by
the careful analysis of evidence. which we expect to
take place in the two lower courts. The advantage of
the referee and the District Court in having the parties
and witnesses before them, instead of judging on a cold
record, is considerable. The Court of Appeals for each
circuit also has the advantage of closer familiarity with
the capabilities, tendencies, and practices of the referee
and District Judge. Both lower courts better know the
fruits of their course of decision in actual practice than
can we. Consequently, we have been loath to venture a
review of particular cases, especially where the turnover
order carries approval of the referee, the District Court
and the Court of Appeals.
However, the court below appears to have affirmed the
order for commitment in this case by relying on the earlier
finding of previous possession to raise a presumption of
wilful disobedience continuing to the time of commitment, 'even though that conclusion is rejected by the
court's good judgment.- While the court protests that
such a presumed continuance of possession from the time
of bankruptcy to the time of the turnover order is unrealistic, it seems to have affirmed the contempt order by
extending the presumption from the time of the turnover
order to the time of the contempt proceedings, although
persuaded that Maggio had overcome the presumption
if it were rebuttable.
The fact that the contempt proceeding must begin
with acceptarce of the turnover order does not mean that
it must end with it. Maggio makes no explanation as to
the whereabouts or disposition of the property which the
.order, earlier affirmed, declared him to possess. But time

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

has elapsed between issuance of that order and initiation
of the contempt proceedings in this case. He does tender
evidence of his earnings after the turnover proceedings
and up until November 1944; his unemployment after
that time allegedly due to his failing health; and of his
family obligations and manner of living during the intervening period. He has also sworn that neither he noihis
family has at any time since the turnover proceedings
possessed any real or personal property which could be
used to satisfy the trustee's demands. And he repeats
his denial that he possesses the property in question.
It is clear that the District Court in the contempt proceeding attached little or no significance to Maggio's
evidence or testimony, although the Court gave no indication that the evidence was incredible. The District
Court in its opinion cites only In re Siegler, 31 F. 2d 972,
in which the Court of Appeals reversed a District Judge
who, because he believed the bankrupt's testimony, had
refused tc commit him for contempt. The'Siegler case
and other cases decided by the Court of Appeals apparently led the District Judge to conclude that no decision
other than commitment of Maggio would be approved
by that court.
Nor did the Court of Appeals reject this view. Indeed
it affirmed the commitment for contempt because it considered either that present inability to comply is of no relevance or that there is an irrebuttable presumption of continuing ability. to comply even if the record establishes
present inability in fact. It seems to be of the view that
this presumption stands indefiaiitely, if not permanently,
and can be overcome by the accused only when he affirmatively shows some disposition of the property by him
subsequent to the turnover proceedings. We do not believe these views are required by Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S.
358, despite some conflicting statements in the opinion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

which the Court of Appeals construed as compelling affirmance of the contempt decree.
This Court said in the Oriel case that "a motion to commit the bankrupt for failure to obey an order of the Court
to turn over to the receiver in bankruptcy the property of
'the bankrupt is a civil contempt and is to be treated as a
mere step in the proceedings to administer the assets of
the bankrupt as provided by law, and in aid of the seizure
of those assets and their proper distribution. While in
a sense they are punitive, they are not -merepunishmentthey are administrative but coercive, and intended to
compel, against the reluctance of the bankrupt, performance by him of his lawful duty." 278 U. S. 358 at 363.
Of course, to jail one for a contempt for omitting an act
he is powerless to perform would reverse this principle
and make the proceeding purely punitive, to describe it
charitably. At the same time, it would add nothing to
the bankrupt estate. That this Court in the Oriel case
contemplated no such result appears from language which
it borrowed from a Circuit Court of Appeals opinion
which, after pointing out that confinement often failed to
produce the money or goods, said, "'Where it has failed,
and where a reasonable interval of time has supplied the
previous defect in the evidence, and has made sufficiently
certain what was doubtful before, namely, the bankrupt's
inability to obey the order, he has always been released,
and I need hardly say that he would always have the right
to be released, as soon as the fact becomes clear that he
can not obey.' "4 Moreover, the authorities relied upon
in Chief Justice Taft's opinion 5 make it clear that his
decision did not contemplate that a coercive contempt
order should issue when it appears that there is at that
278 U. S. 358, 366, quoting from In re Epstein (cited as Epstein
v. Steinfeld), 206 F. 568, 570.
5 278 U S. 358,-364.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

73

Opinion of the Court.

time no wilful disobedience but only an incapacity to
comply.' Indeed, the quotation from In re Epstein, cited
supra (note 4), also stated at p. 569: "In the pending case,
6

The late Chief Justice said

"...

the following seem to us to lay

down more nearly the correct view," and cited Toplitz v. Walser, 27 F.
2d 196, a contempt case in which it is said (at p. 197) "The sole question is whether the bankrupt is presently able to comply with the
turnover order previously made and, accordingly, whether he is
disobeying that order . . ."; Epstein v. Steinfeld, 210 F. 236,
.a turnover proceeding,.in which the Court delineates both turnover
and contempt procedures and states that a contempt order should not
be, issued unless there is present ability to comply; Schmid v. Rosenthal, 230 F. 818, a turnover case, citing Epstein v. Steinfeld, supray
Frederick v. Silverman, 250 F. 75, a contempt case, reciting the
necessity for present ability to comply; Reardon v. Pensoneau, 18
F. 2d 244, a contempt case, holding the evidence there insufficient to
establish present inability to comply; United States ex rel. Paleais v.
Moore, 294 F. 852, involving a commitment for contempt, stating ". . . the court should be satisfied of the present ability of the
bankrupt to comply . . . ."; In re Frankel, .184 F. 539, a contempt
case in which the evidence was held insufficient to show present
inability to comply; Drakeford v. Adams, 98 Ga. 722, 25 S. E. 833, a
State contempt case requiring present ability to comply to be "clearly
and satisfactorily established"; and Collier, Bankruptcy (Gilbert's ed.,
1927) 652. The cumulative effect of these authorities seems clearly
to be that, while a bankrupt's denial of present possession, standing
alone, may not be sufficient to establish his inability to produce the
property or its proceeds, if the Court is satisf.d, from all the evidence
prop6rly before it, that the bankrupt has not the present ability to
comply, the commitment order should not issue.
Other decisions are to the same effect. See, for example, American
Trust Co. v. Wallis, 126 F. 464; Samel v. Dodd, 142 F. 68, cert.
den. 201 U. S. 646; In re Nisenson, 182 F. 912; In re Holden, 203
F. 229, cert. den. 229 U. S. 621; In re McNaught, 225 F. 511;
Dittmar v. Michelson, 281 F. 116; In re Davison, 143 F. 673;
In re Marks, 176 F.. 1018; In re Elias, 240 F. 448; Freed v. Central Trust Co. of Illinois, 215 F. 873; In re Nevin, 278 F. 601;
Johnson v. Goldst6in, 11 F. 2d 702; In re Magen, 14 F. 2d 469;
id., 1SF. 2d 288; -In re Walt, 17 F. 2d 588; Clark v. Milens, 28 F.
2d 457; Berkower v. Mielziner., 29 F. 2d 65, cert. den. 279 U. S. 848;

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

or in any other, the court may believe the bankrupt's
assertion that he is not now in possession or control of
the money or the goods, and in that event the civil inquiry
is at an end ...
The source of difficulties in these cases has been that
in the two successive proceedings the same question of
possession and ability to produce the goods or their proceeds is at issue, but as of different points of time. The
earlier order may not be impeached, avoided or attacked
in the later proceedings and no relief can be sought
against its command. But when the trustee institutes
the later proceeding to commit, he tenders the issue as to
present wilful disobedience, against which the court is
asked to direct its sanctions. The latter issue must be
tried just as any other issue, and the court is entitled to
consider all evidence relevant to it. The turnover order
In re Tabak, 34 F. 2d 209; In re Weisberger, 43 F. 2d 258. See
also Collier, Bankruptcy (14th ed.) pp. 244-249; 2 id. pp. 535-542;
5 Remington, Bankruptcy (4th ed.) pp. 624-681; 8 C. J. S. pp. 68166; 6 Am. Jur. § 369, pp. 752-753.
7
Similarly, the following cases involving contempt orders for failure
to pay alimony were cited (278 U. S. at 365) as illustrating rules of evidence concerning ability to comply, "much the same as are here laid
down for bankruptcy": Smiley V. Smiley, 99 Wash. 577, 169 P. 962,
affidavit as to lack of ability to comply being undenied, commitment
for contempt by failure to pay held erroneous; Barton v. Barton,
99 Kan. 727, 163 P. 179, evidence held sufficient to justify commitment although it is said ". . . The defendant can not, of course,
be committed for the fhilure to do something which is beyond his
power..
"; In re Von Gerzabek, 58 Cal. App. 230, 208 P. 318,
a showing of inability to comply said to be "the most effectual
answer" to a contempt order; Hurd v. Hurd, 63 Minn. 443, 65 N. W.
728, Heflebower v. Heflebower, 102 Ohio St. 674, 133 N. E. 455, and
Fowler v. Fowler, 61 Okla. 280, 161 P. 227,. defendant's evidence
insufficient to establish inability to comply which would have prevented commitment.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

adjudges the defendant to be in possession at the date of
its inquiry, but does it also cut off evidence m to nonpossession at the later time? Thus, the real ."roblem
concerns the evidence admissible in the contempt proceeding. Of course we do not attempt to lay dovn a
comprehensive or detailed set of rules on this subject.
They will have to be formulated' as specific and concrete
cases present different aspects of the problem.
In Oriel's case, this Court said: "...
on the motion for
commitment the only evidence that can be considered is
the evidence of something that has happened since the
turnover order was made showing that since that time
there has newly arisen an inability on the part of the
bankrupt to comply with the turnover order." This
language the Court of Appeals has construed to mean
that the accused can offer no evidence to show that he
does not now have the goods if that evidence, in the absence of an affirmative showing of when and how he disposed of the goods, might tend to indicate that he never
had them and hence to contradict findings of the turnover
order itself. We agree with the Court of Appeals that the
turnover order may not be attacked in the contempt proceedings because it is res judicata on this issue of possession at the time as of which it speaks. But application of
that rule in these civil contempt cases means only that
the bankrupt, confronted by the order establishing prior
possession, at a time when continuance thereof is the
reasonable inference, is thereby confronted by a prima
facie case which he can successfully meet only with a
showing of present inability to comply. He cannot challenge the previous adjudication of possession, but that
does not prevent him from establishing lack of present
possession. Of course, if he offers no evidence as to his
inability to comply with the turnover order, or'stands
mute, he does not meet the issue. Nor does he do so by

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

evidence or by his own denials which the court finds
incredible in context.'
But the bankrupt may be permitted to deny his present
possession and to give any evidence of present conditions
or intervening events which corroborate him. The credibility of his denial is to be weighed in the light of his
present circumstances. It is everywhere admitted that
even if he is committed, he will not be held in jail forever
if he does not comply. His denial of possession is given
credit after demonstration that a period in prison does not
produce the goods. The fact that he has been under the
shadow of prison gates may be enough, coupled with his
denial and the type of evidence mentioned above, to convince the court that his is not a wilful disobedience which
will yield to coercion.
The trial court is obliged to weigh not merely the two
facts, that a turnover order has issued and that it has not
been obeyed, but all the evidence properly before it in the
contempt proceeding in determining whether or not there
is actually a present ability to comply and whether failure
so to do constitutes deliberate defiance which a jail term
will break.
This duty has nowhere been more clearly expressed
than in the Oriel case: I ". . . There is a possibility, of
course, of error and hardship; but the conscience of judges
in weighing the evidence under a clear perception of the
consequences, together with the opportunity of appeal and
review, if properly taken, will restrain the courts from
8 These

conclusions are supported by the cases cited in the Oriel
case as laying down "more nearly the correct view." See note 6,
supra. Of course cases such as Gompers v. United States (233 U. S.
604), Michaelson v. United States (266 U. S. 42), Pendergast V.
United States (317 U. S. 412) and Cooke v. United States (267 U. S.
517), all involving criminal contempt charges, are of no relevance
here, as we deal only with civil contempts. See text, p. 10.
9278 U. S. at 364.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of the Court.

recklessness of bankrupt's rights on the one hand and
prevent the bankrupt from flouting the law on the
other. . ....
Such a careful balancing was said to be required in
turnover proceedings because "coercive methods by imprisonment are probable'and are forcshadowed." 10 Certainly the same considerations require as careful and
conscientious weighing of the evidence relevant in the
contempt proceeding. At that stage, imprisonment is
not only probable and foreshadowed-it is imminent.
And, without such a weighing, it becomes inevitable.
V.
We deal here with a case in which the Court of Appeals
was persuaded that the bankrupt's disobedience was not
wilful. It appears, however, that the District Court did
not. in the contempt proceedings, weigh and evaluate the
evidence before it but felt bound almost automatically to
order Maggio's commitment in deference to clear precedents established by the Court of Appeals. Moreover,
the Court of Appeals affirmed the commitment order although it was convinced that Maggio was not deliberately
disobeying but had established his contention that he was
unable to comply. On such findings the Oriel case would
require Maggio's discharge even if he were already in jail.
It is hardly consistent with that case, or with good judicial
administration, to order his commitment on findings that
require his 'immediate release.
When such a misapprehension of the law has led both
courts below to adjudicate rights without considering
essential facts in the light of the controlling law, this
Court will vacate the judgments and remand the case to
the District Court for further proceedings consistent with
the principles laid down in this Court's opinion. Manu10278 U. S. at 363.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

333 U. S.

facturers' Finance Co. v. McKey, 294 U. S. 442, 453,
Gerdes v. Lustgarten,266 U. S. 321, 327, and cases cited."
That practice is appropriate in this case in view of what
has been said herein concerning the judgments below.
Vacated and remanded.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE

BLACK,

in which MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs.

August 9, 1943, the referee in bankruptcy found that
petitioner had possession of certain merchandise belonging to a bankrupt corporation and ordered him to turn it
or the proceeds over to the bankruptcy trustee. In these
contempt proceedings (April 18, 1945) the District Court
found that petitioner had failed to prove he no longer
had possession of the property, and ordered him to be
held in jail until he delivered the property or its proceeds
to the trustee.
Had the petitioner been charged with embezzling this
same property after the 1943 turnover order, doubtless
no one would even argue that a doctrine of res judicata
barred him from introducing evidence to show that the
tl., nover findings of possession were wrong, and that in
truth he did not have possession of the property or its
proceeds either on, before, or after August 9, 1943, or
April 18, 1945. One basic reason why the findings of fact
in a turnover proceeding would not be res judicata in
an embezzlement proceeding is that the burden of proof
is different in the two types of proceedings. In the first,
a turnover proceeding, "clear and convincing proof" is
enough; in the second, embezzlement, "proof beyond a
reasonable doubt" is required. The burden of proof is
Cf. kay v. United States, 303 U.. S. 1, 10; PrairieFarmer PubO1
lishing Co. v. Indiana Farmer's Pub. Co., 299 U. S. 156, 159;
Buzynski v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 277 U. S. 226, 228.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

Opinion of

BLACK, J.

heavier in the embezzlement case because a judgment of
conviction may embody a criminal punishment, while a
turnover judgment does not-it is merely an order for
the surrender of property, similar to an order of delivery
in a replevin suit.
There is no such reason for different measurements of
proof in contempt and embezzlement cases; consequentially, the two are almost identical. Fine, imprisonment, or both can result from a conviction of either.
Here if this contempt judgment is carried out against
the petitioner, he might be compelled to remain in prison
longer than he would had he been convicted and sentenced
on a charge of embezzlement. It is true that, if the court
was correct in finding that petitioner had possession of
the property or its proceeds (and if he still has it), he
carries the keys of the jail in his pocket, because he can
turn the property or proceeds Over to the trustee at any
time and thus get his freedom. The crucial question
to petitioner in this contempt proceeding was whether
he had possession of the property or its proceeds June 5,
1945. And that crucial question was decided against
petitioner by the trial court without holding that the
evidence was sufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt
that petitioner still had possession of the property.
* I am unwilling to agree to application of a doctrine
of res judicata that results in sending people to jail for
contempt of court upon a measure of proof substantially
the same as thaf which would support the rendition of a
civil judgment for the plaintiff on a promissory note, an
open account, or some other debt. All court proceedings,
whether designated as civil or criminal contempt of court
or given some other name, which may result in fine, prison
sentences, oi-both, should in my judgment require the
same measure of proof, an.d that measure should be proof
beyond a reasonable dbubt. See Gompers v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

333 U, S.

States, 233 U. S. 604, 610-611; Michaelson v. United
States, 266 U. S. 42, 66-67; Pendergast v. United States,
317 U. S. 412, 417-418.
The foregoing is written on the assumption that the
turnover-contempt procedure is legal, an assumption
which I do not accept. I share the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that this procedure is unauthorized
by statute and that it should not be permitted to take
the place of criminal prosecutions for fraud as apparently
was done here.' This whole procedure savors too much
of the old discredited practice of imprisonment for debtsdebcs which people are unable to pay. For here, if petitioner did wrongfully dispose of the property, whether
or not he was guilty of a crime, he was probably liable
in some sort of civil action, basically similar to, if not
actually, one for debt. Had a judgment been obtained
against him in such a civil case, I doubt if it would be
thought at this period that the bankruptcy court could
have thrown petitioner in jail for his failure to obqy what
would have been in effect a court order to pay the debt
embodied in the judgment.
Furthermore, the finding of possession of the merchandise as of 1943 may rest on an evidential foundation
firm enough to support a civil turnover order but it is too
shaky to support a sentence to prison. Accepting that
"We would hold that a turover proceeding may not, via a fiction,
be substituted for a criminal prosecution so as to deprive a man of
a basic constitutional right, the right of trial by jury. We would
note, too,' that one consequence of the fiction is that the respondent
may be twice punished for the same offense, since, if he is later indicted for violation of 11 U. S. C. A. § 52 (b), his imprisonment for
contempt wi!l not serve as a defense. We would add that nowhere
in the Bankruptcy Act has Congress even intimated an intention to
authorize such results, and that they stem solely from a judge-made
gloss on the statute." In re Luma Camera Service, 157 F. 2d 951,
953-954.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

finding, however, the presumption of present or 1945
possession from the possible 1941 or 1943 possession
achieves a procedural result which runs counter to basic
practices, in our system of laws. For as the District
Court said, it gave the prosecution the advantage of a
"presumption" which, of itself, was held to relieve it
from. offering further proof of petitioner's guilt in a case
where forfeiture of his personal liberty and property was
sought, it threw upon the petitioner the'burden of proving his innocence.!
For the foregoing reasons, among others, I would reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, with
directions that the petitioner be released and that no
further contempt proceedings be instituted against him
baoed on his refusal to obey the turnover order.
'MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

This is one of those rare cases where I find myself in
substantial agreement with the direction and main views
of an opinion, but am thereby led to a different conclusion.
Too often we are called upon to disentangle a snarled
skein of facts into a thread of legal principles. In this
case, the Court's opinion seems to me to snarl a straight
thread of facts into a confusing skein of Jegal principles.
It was the record in a prior case involving the same litigants that invited correction of a rule of bankruptcy
administration in the Second Circuit. We denied review.'
2 In holding petitioner in contempt, the District Court said: "Respondent has not sustained his 'burden of satisfactorily accounting
for the disposition of the assets by his mere denial of possession
under oath." It then made the following finding of fact: "4. The
respondent, Joseph.F. Maggio, has wholly failed to comply with said
turnover order, and he has failed to explain to the satisfaction of
this court his failure to comply."
'324 U. S. 841.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting..

333 U. S.

The record in this case precludes such correction, but the
Court's opinion is an effort to whip the devil round the
stump.
The precise question before us may be simply stated.
The District Court ordered the bankrupt to turn over
goods withheld by him from the trustee. On the basis
of two prior cases,' the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
this order, per curiam. 145 F. 2d 241. These earlier
cases in turn relied on a previous case.' All three enforced
a rule of the Second Circuit that goods in the possession of
a bankrupt on the day of bankruptcy are presumed to continue in his possession regardless .of the time that may
have elapsed. In all three cases, the Circuit Court of
Appeals had affirmed the turnover orders although it was
maintained that the bankrupts could not obey them.
Likewise, in all three cases, that court had declared its
impotence to change what it regarded as an untenable rule
of bankruptcy adxtinistration, although fashioned by it
and not by this Court.' In almost imprecating language
review and reversal by this Court in these cases were invited." In one of these cases, the bankrupt filed a petition
2Robbins

v. Gottbetter, 134 F. 2d 843, and Cohen v. Jeskowitz,

144 F. 2d 39.
3

Seligson v. Goldsmith, 128 F. 2d 977.
Seligson v. Goldsmith, 128 F. 2d 977, 978-79; Robbins v. Gottbetter, 134 F. 2d 843, 844; Cohen v. Jeskowuitz, 144 F. 2d 39, 41
(concurring opinion of Frank, J.).
I Presumably, this avowed inability of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to free itself from its own prior decision
in this situation is not the reflection of a principle similar to that
which binds the House of Lords to its past precedents. It must be
attributable to the fact that the Second Circuit has six circuit judges
who never sit en bane and that presumably they deem it undesirable
for the majority of one panel to have a different view from that of
a majority of another panel.
6128 F. 2d at 979; 134 F. 2d at 844; 144 F. 2d at 40-41.
4

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

for certiorari, which this Court denied.'

Then came the

prior case involving the litigants now before us, with this
Court's refusal to review the turnover order. To tke sure,
the denial of a petition for certiorari carries no substantive
implications. Reference to it here is relevant as proof of
the finality with which the turnover order, as affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, was invested.
In Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358, a. unanimous bench,
including in its membership judges of wide experience
with bankruptcy law,' held that upon a citation for contempt to compel obedience of a turnover order the issues
adjudicated by that order could not be relitigated. That
case decided nothing if it did not decide that what the
turnover order adjudicated-that the bankrupt withheld
certain property from the bankrupt estate and was still
in control of this property on the day he was ordered
to turn it over-is the definitive starting point for contempt proceedings to exact obedience to the turnover'
order. In.short, the contempt proceedings must proceed
from the turnover order and cannot go behind it. We
should not ignore this relevant sentence in Oriel v. Russell:
"Thereafter on the motion for commitment the only
evidence that can be considered is the evidence of
something that has happened since the turnover order
was made showing that since that time there has newly
arisen an inability on the part'of the bankrupt to comply
with the turnover order." 9
I In the first two of these cases, the bankrupt did not seek review
in this Court; in the Jeskowitz case, the bankrupt took the hint, but
this Court denied certiorari. 323 U. S: 787.
8Judge A. N. Hand's observa:ion concurring, in the Robbins case,
134 F. 2d at 845, is also pertinent: ". . . all the justices of a court of
which those exceptionally alert guardians of civil rights, Justices
Holmes, Brandeis and Stone, were members, unanimously concurred
in the opinion of Chief Justice Taft .... .
9 278 U. S. at 363.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

The Court today reaffirms Oriel v. Russell. At the
same time it makes inroad on the practical application of
Oriel v. Russell. On virtually an identical record 10 it
reverses where Oriel v. Russell affirmed. The nature and
scope of the inroad are uncertain because the Court's
opinion, to the best of my understanding, leaves undefined
how the District Court is to respect both Oriel v. Russell
and today's decision.
About some aspects of our problem there ought to
be no dispute. We are all agreed that while the bankrupt cannot relitigate the determination of a turnover
order that he 'had such and such goods on the day of
the order, he can avoid the duty of obedience to that
order if he "can show a change of situation after the
turnover order relieving him from compliance." "x The
right to be relieved from obeying the turnover order by
sustaining theurden of inability to perform, on proof of
circumstances not questioning the turnover order, has
never been disputed. Again, if a judgment of civil contempt is rendered and the bankrupt is sent to jail until
he chooses to obey the court's command, he will not be
kept there when keeping him no longer gives promise
.of performance. Oriel v. Russell so pronounced."
And so, since the fact that the bankrupt had possession
of the goods on the day of the turnover order is a fact
10See Appendix.
11278 U. S. at 364.
12 " 'I have known a brief confinement
to produce the money,

promptly, thus justifying the court's incredulity, and I have also
known it to fail. Where it has failed, and where a reasonable interval of time has supplied the previous defect in the evidence, and has
made sufficiently certain what was doubtful before, namely, the
bankrupt's inability to obey the order, he has always been released,
and I need hardly say that he would always have the right to be
released, as soon as the fact becomes clear that he can not obey.'"
278 U. S. at 366, quoting from Judge McPherson's opinion in In re
Epstein, 206 F. 568,570.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

that cannot be controverted or relitigated because his
possession of the goods on that day was the very thing
adjudicated, the case reduces itself to this simple question: Where, on failure to obey the turnover order, the
bankrupt stands mute, offers no evidence as to a change
of circumstances since the order or offers evidence of a
kind which the District Cburt may justifiably disbelieve,
has he met his burden of proof so as to preclude the District Court from enforcing obedience by commitment for
civil contempt?
On the record and the findings of the, istrict Court
this is the precise question now presented. There is nothing else in the record, except Judge Frank's statement
below that the bankrupt was ordered to perform although
the court knew that it was impossible for him to perform. 13
But this assertion of "impossibility" was not derived from
the record in these contempt proceedings. It derives
from Judge Frank's familiar hostility to what he deems the
unfairness of his court's rule of presumption in ordering
turnover." Judge Frank here merely repeats his conviction that a turnover order like that rendered against
Maggio is an order to turn over goods which could not be
is"Although we know that Maggio cannot comply with the order,
we must keep a straight face and pretend that he can, and must
thus affirm orders which first direct Maggio 'to do an impossibiiity,
and then punish him for refusal to perform it.'" 157 F. 2d at 955
(italics supplied). Judge Frank made this statement concerning the
presumption of continued possession in turnover order proceedings,
and was not addressing his remarks to the record before him in the
contempt proceeding. The dictum began with this sentence: "Were
this a case of first impression involving the validity of a turnover
order, we would not accept such reasoning." 157 F. 2d 951, 953.
The "thus" in his statement indicates hostility to the basis of the
turnover order because of a virus which the lower court feels unable
to extract but which automatically infects the contempt proceedings.
14 "With the turnover order once sustained, the contempt order
necessarily followed." Id. at 954.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

turned over. But that was water over the dam in the
contempt proceeding. To give it legal significance when
enforcement of the turnover order is in issue is to utter
contradictory things from the two corners of the mouth.
It is saying that the turnover order cannot be relitigatedthat we cannot go back on the adjudication that the
bankrupt had the goods at the time he was ordered to turn
them over-but we know he did not have the goods, so we
contradict the turnover order and do not respect it as
res judicata.
I cannot reconcile myself to saying that we adhere to
Oriel v. Russell and yet reject its only meaning, namely,
that we cannot go behind the judicial determination made
by the turnover order that the bankrupt on such and
such a day had the enumerated goods. Moreover, the
authorities relied upon in Chief Justice Taft's opinion"
make it clear that his decision did contemplate that a
coercive contempt order should issue when it appears
that the bankrupt has introduced no evidence or, what
is the same, evidence that may properly not satisfy the
District Court by establishing incapacity to comply since
the turnover order. 1 In this case, the District Court was
15 278 U. S. 358,364.
16 The:Chief Justice said". . the following seem to us to lay down
more nearly:the correct view," and cited Toplitz v. Walse., 27 F. 2d
196. a Third Circuit contempt case in which it is said (at p. 197) "It
therefore devolves upon the bankrupt in the latter [contempt] proceeding to show how and when the property previously adjudged in
his possession or control had passed out of his possession or control . . . . The trouble with the evidence in the contempt proceeding, the only evidence properly here for review, is that it is directed to
the issue of the bankrupt's possession and control of property at the
date of bankruptcy raised and definitely decided against her in the
turnover proceeding .

.

.

..

Though not in form this is in substance a

collateral attack upon the now finally established turnover order,
which of course is not permissible."; Epstein v. SteinJeld, 210 F.
236, a turnover proceeding, in which the Third Circuit delineated
its procedure, different from that followed in the Second Circuit,

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

entirely warranted in finding that the bankrupt had produced no evidence to contradict the adjudication of the

turnover order that he had the goods when he was told to
whereby if the referee found a shortage at the time of bankruptcy
the turnover order was automatically entered, and the question of
present possession or ability to comply with that order was left
open for possible contempt proceedings, the presumption of continued possession being applied in such proceedings since the bankrupt had to show that by reason of events occurring since the bankruptcy he was unable to comply (cf. In re Eisenberg, 130 F. 2d 160)
(this distinction has no real bearing on the instant issue as to
either collateral attack or the presumption of continued possession);
Schmid v. Rosenthal, 230 F. 818, a Third Circuit turnover case,
citing Epstein v. Steinfeld, supra; Frederick v. Silverman, 250 F.
75, a Third Circuit contempt case citing Epstein v. Steinjeld, supra;
Reardon v. Pensoneau, 18 F. 2d 244, an Eighth Circuit contempt
case, holding that the bankrupt had ,iot met his burden of establishing present inability to comply, in which it is said (at pp. 245-46)
"They [turnover orders] establish the bankrupt's possession and
control on the day the referee's order was made. The burden was
on him to show what disposition had been made of the $6,900.
Until that showing is made relieving him of an intentional loss of its
possession and control, it must be presumed that he still has it ...
a bankrupt cannot escape an order for the surrender of property
belonging to his estate 'by simply denying under oath that he has
it.' "; United States ex rel. Paleais v. Moore, 294 F. 852, a Second
Circuit habeas corpus case following a commitment for contempt,
stating (at p. 857) "If, at the time the turn-over order was made,
the books and papers were in the bankrupt's hands, the presumption
is that they continued to be in his possession or under his control
until he has satisfactorily accounted to the court of bankruptcy for
their subsequent disposition or disappearance. The burden is upon
him satisfactorily to so account for them. He cannot escape an
order for their surrender by simply denying under oath that he
no longer has them."; In re Frankel, 184 F. 539, a contempt case
in which L. Hand, then a District Judge, refused to commit for
contempt because he did not deem the turnover order binding as
res judicata, but on rehearing reversed himself, holding that' the
bankrupt could not show present inability by evidence constituting
an indirect attack on the turnover order, stating (at p. 542) "Therefore, in so far as the [turnover] order directs anyone to do anything,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

turn them over, unless, in place of what is usually deemed
evidence, an infirmity has been found to seep, by a process
of osmosis, into the turnover order respect for which in its
entirety is the starting point of our problem.
The time to have acted on the inference of impossibility
of performance of the turnover order, or to have taken

notice of the imprisoning rule of the Second Circuit as
to the presumption of continued possession of a bank-

rupt's withheld goods, was when we were asked to review
the Circuit Court of Appeals' denigrating affirniance of the
turnover order."

When we declined to review that turn-

he may not in the contempt proceeding question the propriety of
the direction; and in so far as ,the order determines an existing fact,
which is necessary in law to the validity of the direction, he may
not question its truth. To question such a fact
to question the
validity of the direction which depends upon it," and is only an
indirect way of reviewing the order. Therefore now to deny the
fact that the bankrupt had the money in his possession is in this
case to assert that the order directing him to pay it over was erroneous. On this account, therefore, that fact is concluded, once
it be granted that it was necessary to the validity of the order,
which I have shown. Quite reluctantly, therefore, I can only conclude that I was wrong originally to inquire into the merits, and
that a committal must issue." The cumulative effect of these
authorities is that a bankrupt's denial of present possession, standing
alone, is not sufficient to establish his inability to produce the property or its proceeds, and that the bankruptcy court will not permit
the bankrupt to prove present inability to comply with the turnover order by evidence which indirectly constitutes a collateral
attack on that order.
11 For almost forty years, the Second Circuit has tenaciously
abided by the presumption of continued possession. While this
presumption was previously sub silentio utilized (e. g., In re Schlesinger, 102 F. 117, affirming 97 F. 930), In re Stavrahn in 1909, 174
F. 330, appears to have been the Second Circuit's case of first impression, and the decision that sired the presumption. There the
court stated that the bankrupt could not defend against a contempt
citation following a turnover order on the assertion that he had

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

over order, it became a final'and binding adjudication.
Neither court below was under a misapprehension as to
the applicable law in the instant contempt proceeding..
The District Court relied on In re Siegler, 31 F. 2d 972.
But surely reliance on,a case that was correctly decided is
hardly an indication of misapprehension of law. If the
Siegler decision had preceded instead of followed 18 Oriel v.
Russell, it might well have been one of the authorities relied upon in Chief Justice Taft's opinion."9 Nor do we
have to speculate as to whether Judge Frank's conclusion
that Maggio was unable to comply was based on evidence
in this record or on doubt as to the propriety of the turnover order. We have the same printed record before us
that he had and it is barren of such evidence. Presumnever taken the assets in question, but had to come forward with
some reasonable explanation as to what had become of the assets
since the turnover order. In 1912, the Second Circuit reiterated the
reasoning of its earlier decision in In re Weber Co., 200 F. 404.
The presumption had been somewhat inarticulately phrased in the
earlier opinion, and the court in this case commended the District
Judge for aptly carrying out the mandate of the Stavrahn decision.
The cases up to 1925 and before the Oriel case are listed and discussed at length in In re H. Magen Co., 10 F. 2d 91, in which the
court observed that "The law relating to turn-over orders is pretty
well established in this circuit." 10 F. 2d at 93. In re Siegler,
note 18 s-upra, was decided three months after this Court's decision
in the Oriel case. .Then came: Danish v. Sofranski, 93 F. 2d 424;
In re Pinsky-Lapin & Co., 98 F. 2d 776; Seligson v. Goldsmith, note
3 supra; Robbins v. Gottbetter, note 2 supra; Cohen v. Jeskouitz,
note 2 supra; and the per curiam affirmance of the turnover order
in the instant bankruptcy proceedings.
18,Any difference of opinion respecting the force and effect of a
turnover order, which may have prevailed before the decision of the
Supreme Court, in Prela v. Hubshman [companion case to Oriel v.
Russell] . . . is now out of place in any discussion of the subject."
31 F. 2d at 973.
19Cf. In re Frankel,note 16 supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFUYRTER,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S

ably Judge Frank did not travel outside this record and
act on undisclosed private knowledge. The whole course
of this issue in the Second Circuit in recent years makes
it obvious that his observation was merely another animadversion on that Circuit's practice in issuing turnover
orders. The Circuit Court of Appeals did not purport to
make an independent evaluation of Maggio's evidence
bearing on his incapacity to obey the turnover order. It
was beyond its power to do so. The Circuit Court was riot
at large. Its power was limited to a consideration of the
justifiability of the District Court's findings on the basis
of the re'cord before that court.
The cure for this procedural situation, if curb is called
for, is correction of the rule of the Second Circuit regarding presumptions in turnover orders.' It -ought not to
be dealt with indirectly and at the cost of beclouding the
doctrine of res judicata in proceedings for civil contempt.
If Maggio has become the unhappy victim of the procedural snarl into which the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit has involved itself by its decisions
on the appeals of turnover orders and by this Court'srefusal to review such adjudications, the law is not without
ample remedies. The District Court has power to discharge a contemnor when confinement has become futile,
or release may be had.through use of habeas corpus, which,
in the now classic language of Mr. Justice Holmes, "cuts
through all forms and goes to the very tissue of the structure. It comes in from the outside, not in subordination
to the proceedings . . . ." Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S.
309, 346. These are means available to correct whatever
specific hardship this case may present without generating
cloudiness indeterminate in range upon a legal principle
of.such social significance as that of res judicataand upon
20

Cf. Brune v. Fraidin,149 F. 2d 325.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
56

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

a remedy so vital as civil contempt for the sturdy administration of justice.
How is the conscientious District Court to carry qut the
directions conveyed by the Court's opinion? If the District Court gives unquestioned respect, as it is told to
do, to the turnover order of August 9, 1943, it will start
with the fact that on August 9, 1943, the bankrupt was able to comply with that order. With that
as a starting-point, will the District Court not be entitled
to find again, as it has already found, 2 that nothing presented by the bankrupt in exculpation for not complying
with the turnover order disproves that he continued to
have the property, which he was found to have had
as of August 9, 1943? If the District Court should so
find, would not the Circuit Court of Appeals and this
Court, if the case came here for review, be duty
bound to hold that, on the basis of the situation as adjudicated by the turnover order, the District Court
could reasonably make such a finding? Or is' the
District Court to infer that in view of the snarl into which
these proceedings have got by reason of the failure to upset
the turnover order when directly under review, this Court
was indulging in benign judicial winking-that while the
fact of the possession of the property had been adjudicated by the turnover order and could not verbally be
questioned, the District Court need not accept the
determination of that order as facts? But if the District
In the opinion dated April 18, 1945, holding petitioner in. contempt of court, the District Court stated that: "Respondent [peti21

tioner here] has not sustained his burden of satisfactorily accounting
for the disposition of the assets by his mere denial of possession
under oath." And that court's fourth finding of fact was as follows:
"The respondent, Joseph F. Maggio, has wholly failed to comply
with said turnover order, and he has failed to explain to the satisfaction of this court his failure to comply."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

Court may so drain the adjudication of the turnover order
of its only legal significance, why assert that Oriel v.
Russell is left without a scratch? Why reaffirm that an
adjudication sustaining a turnover order may not be relitigated when obedience is sought to such turnover order?
These are questions which will confront not merely the
district judge to whom this case will be remanded. After
all, we are concernpd with the practical administration
of the Bankruptcy Act by district judges all over the
United States.
By abstaining from expressing views regarding the
requisites of a turnover order, I mean neither to agree nor
disagree with observations made by the Court. There
has been opportunity in the past for adjudication of that
matter, and there may be such an opportunity in the
future. This case does not present it. From all of which
I conclude that the judgment below should be affirmed,
leaving for another day, when the occasion makes it
appropriate, to consider directly and explicitly the principle that should govern the issue of turnover orders by
bankruptcy courts."

2 "The proceedings in .these two cases have been so long drawn out
by efforts on the part of the bankiupts to retry the issue presented
on the motion to turn over as to be, of themselves, convincing argument that if the bankruptcy statute is not to be frittered away in
constant delays and failures of enforcement of lawurl orders, the rule
we have laid down is the proper one." 278 U. S. at 363.

MAGGIO v. ZEITZ.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF FRANKFURTER, J.
Comparison between Maggio v. Zeilz and Prela v. Iubshman (companion case to Oriel v. Russell), 278 U. S. 358
Differences

Identities

--------~~~~~
~ ~ -----------Preis

Maggio

Prela

Maggio

Name of bankrupt.

Joseph Maggio (R.
cover).

Name of trustee.

Raymond Zeitz (R.
cover),

Type of property.

Photographic equipment (R. 2).

Apr. 14, 1942 (324
U. S.841, R. 4).

Date of petition in
bankruptcy.

Jan. 7, 1943
U. S. 841, R. 8).

Date of petition for
turnover.

(324

Ifubshman

(R.

Silk (R. 1).
Before
(R. 1).

Nov.

22,

1924

Nov. 22, 1924 (R. 1).
July 1, 1925 (R. 5).

I
Eight months more or less.

Interval between petition in bankruptcy and petition
for turnover. -

,

Trustee's proof of
possession in bankrupt.

Examination of Maggio's inventories revealed discrepancies between
sales and stock on hand at close of
last inventory (324 U. S. 841, R. 7).

Prela manufactured blouses from
silk; each blouse required l1i
yards of silk; examination of Prela's
discrepancy between
books revealed
blouses manufactured and silk on
hand (R.1).

Bankrupt's reply to
above proof.

1. Inventory figures erroneous (unrecorded sales) (324 U. S. 841, R. 5361).

1. Assumption from books erroneous-manufactured a kind of blouse
that required more than 11,i yards
of silk (1.2,19).
2. Denial of present possession of the
property. (Ibid.)
--------------

2. Denial of present possession of the
property. (Id. at 62.)

I. Assumptions as to past posession correct. 2. Bankrupt's denial of present

R. il1.)

(324 U. S.

possession disbelieved.
1 (R. 1, 5.)
j41,

Aug. 9, 1943 (R. 5).

Date of turnover or-

July 8, 1926.(R. 3).

-_

der.

Interval between
dates of proven pesession and turnover order.

20 months more or less.

Review of turnover
order.

Unanimously affirmed by CCA 2 without opinion.
Hough, Mack, and L. Hand, J. J., on
L. Hand, Swan, and Clark, J. J., on
Dec. 13, 1926 (unreported) (R.15).
Oct. 25,1944 (145 F. 2d 241).

Cert. denied Feb. 5,
1945,324U.S.841.
Dec. 7, 1944 (R.3).

Date of trustee's petition for contempt
citation.

April 22, 1927 (R.13).

I.Turnover order.
2. Fafifre Ito conply.

Trustee's proof of
contempt.

(R.13. 15.)

(R. 10.)

1. Did not have possession on date of turnover order.
I
2. Hasn't got it now.
3. lias become physically incapacitated.

Bankrupt's reply to
above proof.

(R.17.)

(R. 13, 17.)

District court's ruling
on evidence,

Louis
cover).

Before Jan. 1, 1942
(324 U. S. 841, R. 13).

Date of proven possession.

District court's ruling
on evidence.

Samuel Prela (R. cover).

3 (a). Heart trouble
(R.15).
4. Merely repeated
denial (R.13, 17).

3 (a). Paralytic stroke
(R.24).
, (b) Wire sick, too. (Ibid.,
25.)
4. Filed affidavits of former cutter, salesman, and
blouse buyers to the effect
that blouses in question
used 2 and more yards of
silk (R.27, 28. 29).

1. Tr stee makes out prima facie case by proof of non-compliance with turnI
over or er.
2. Turnover order cannot be collaterally attacked by proving that bankrupt
disposed of property prior to date of order to show present inability to comply
I
with order.
3. To avoid contempt, bankrupt must prove present inability to comply by
proof of disposition of property subsequent to turnover order.
4. Bankrupt makes no claim that he has disposed of the property since the
turnover order.
1 (R.48, 52.)
(R. 18, 19.)
5. Physical incapacity of bankrupt and/or bankrupt's wife ignored.
6. Bankrupt's bare
denial of present inability to comply with
turnover disbelieved
(11. 19).

1945 (R.19).
Apr. 18,

Date of contempt ci-

6. Bankrupt's evidence
and that of other witnesses
that as a matter of fact
bankrupt disposed of silk
prior to turnover order
excluded and/or stricken
(R. 3.3-34, 45-46, 50, U).
Sept. 9,1927 (R. 52).

tation.

Interval between date
of turnover order
and date of contempt citation.
Review of contempt
citation by CCA 2.

14 months.

20 months.

157 F. 2d 951.

Affirmed.
23 F. 2d 413.

1. "A disobedience of the order to
I. "With the turnover order once
sustained the contempt order neces- turn over presents a prima facie case
sarily followed." Citing the Oriel of contumacy for punishment." Citcase (at p. 414).
ing the CCA Oriel
case (at p. 954).

Certiorari to review
turnover order applied
for, opposed, and denied.

Certiorari to review turnover order not sought.

Frank and L. Hand,
J.J., with Swan, J.
(concurring in the
result).

Manton and Swan, J.J.,
with L. Hand, J.,dissent.
ing.

2. Findings in the turnover order proceeding are res Judicata in the contempt proeedlng. (Ibid.)
3. "That is to say" the district court
"had to accept it as true" that Maggio
had possession on the date of the turnover order and that "this Possession
continued . . .unless Magglo showed
that, since August 9, 1943, he had been
deprived of that possession or had in
some other way become unable to
comply with the turnover ordei."
(Ibid.)

3. "Having been directed to turn
over property, it is Presumed that the
offender continues in his willful and
deliberate conduct when he fails to
obey the order." (Ibid.)

4. "As Maggio made no such showing of an intervening change of facts,
there was no error In'the entry of the
contempt order." (Ibid.)

4. "No evidence was offered by the
bankrupt to show what he had done
with the property since he was adJudged a bankrupt" (at p. 413).

5. Physical incapacity of bankrupt and/or bankrupt's wife treated as
irrelevant.

3 (a). "Although we
know that Maggio
cannot comply with
the order, we must
keep a straight face
that
and pretend
he can . . ." (at pp.
954-5). (Italics supplied.)

