McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.

203

Syllabus.

ILLINOIS

EX REL. McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 71,
CHAMPAIGN COUNTY, ILLINOIS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 90.

Argued Decemler 8, 1947.-Decided March 8, 1948.

With the permission of a board of education, granted. under its
general supervisory powers over the use of public school buildings,
religious teachers, employed subject to the approval and supervision of the superintendent of schools by a private religious group
including representatives of the Catholic, Protestant and Jewish
faiths, gave religious instruction in public school buildings once
each week. Pupils whose parents so requested were excused from
their secular classes during the periods of religious instruction and
were required to attend the religious classes; but other pupils were.
not released from their public school duties, which were compulsory
under-state law. A resident and taxpayer of the school district
whose child was enrolled in the public schools sued in a state court
for a writ of mandamus requiring the board of education to
terminate this practice. Held:
1. A judgment of the State Supreme Court sustaining denial of
the writ of mandamus on the ground that the state statutes granted
the board of education authority to establish such a program drew
into question "the validity of a statute" of the State within the
meaning of § 237 of the Judicial Code, and was appealable to this
Court. P. 206.
2. As a resident and taxpayer of the school district and the
parent.of a child required by state law to attend the school, appellant had standing to maintain the suit. P. 206.
3. Both state courts having ruled expressly on appellant's claim
that the state- program violated the Federal Constitution, a motion
to dismiss the appeal on the ground that appellant failed properly
to present that question in the State Supreme Court cannot be
sustained. -P.207.
4. This utilization of the State's tax-supported public ,school
system and its machinery for compulsory public school attendance
to enable sectarian groups to give religious instruction to public
school pupils in public school buildings violates the First Amendment of the Constitution, made applicable to the states by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 209-212.
396 I1. 14,71 N. E. 2d 161, reversed.
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Th6 Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed a denial of a
petition for a'writ of mandamus requiring a board of education to terminate the giving of religious instruction by
private teachers in the public schools. 396 Ill. 14, 71
N. E. 2d 161. On appeal to this Court, reversed and remanded, p. 212.
Walter F. Dodd and Edward R.. Burke argued the-cause
for appellant. Mr. Dodd also filed a brief.
John L.Franklin and Owen Rall argued the cause and
filed a brief for appellees.'
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Henry Epstein, Leo Pfeffer and Samuel Rothstein for the
Synagogue Council of America et al.; Herbert A. Wclff
for the American Ethical Union; E. Hilton Jackson, Challen B. Ellis, W. D. Jamieson and Kahl K. Spriggs for the
'Joint Conference Committee on Public Relations of several Baptist conventions; Edward C. Park for the American Unitarian Association; Kenneth W. Greenawalt,
Leon Despres, Russell Whitman, John D. Miller, William
L. Marbury, Thomas H. Eliot, Winthrop Wadleigh, Whitney N. Seymour and Gurney Edwards for the American
Civil Liberties Union; and Homer Cummings and William D. Donnelly for the General Conference of Seventh
Day Adventists.
George F. Barrett, Attorney General of Illinois, and
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General, filed a
brief as amici curiae, urging. affirmance.
Charles H. Tuttle filed a brief for the Protestant Council of New York City, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the -opinion of the Court.
This case relates to the power of a state to utilize its
tax-supported public school system in aid of religious

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

205

Opinion of the Court.

instruction insofar as that power may be restricted by
the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Federal
Constitution.
The appellant, Vashti McCollum, began this action for
mandamus against the Champaign Board of Education
in the Circuit Court of Champaign County, Illinois. Her
asserted interest was that of a resident and taxpayer of
Champaign and of a parent whose child was then enrolled
in the Champaign public schools. Illinois has a compulsory education law which, with exceptions, requires parents to send their children, aged seven to sixteen, to its
tax-supported public schools where the children are to
remain in attendance during the hours when the schools
are regularly in session. Parents who violate this law
commit a misdemeanor punishable by fine unless the
children attend private or parochial schools which meet
educational standards fixed by the State.- District boards
of education are given general supervisory powers over
the use of the public school buildings within the school
districts. Ill. Rev. Stat. ch. 122, §§ 123, 301 (1943).
Appellant's petition for mandamus alleged that religious teachers, employed by private religious groups, were
permitted to come weekly into the school buildings during
the regular hours set apart for secular teaching, and then
and there for a period of thirty minutes substitute their
religious teaching for the secular education provided under
the compulsory "education law. The petitioner charged
that this joint public-school religious-group program violated the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United
States Constitution. The prayer of her petition.was that
the Board of Education be ordered to "adopt and enforce
rules and regulations. prohibiting all instruction in and
teaching of religious education in all public schools in
Champaign School. District Number 71, . . . and in all
public school-houses and buildings'in said district when
occupied by public schools."

OCTOBER TERM. 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

The board first moved to dismiss the petition on the
ground that under Illinois law appellant had no standing
to maintain the action. This motion was denied. An
answer was then filed, which admitted that regular weekly
religious instruction was given during school hours to
those pupils whose parents consented and that those
pupils were released temporarily from their regular secular
classes for the limited purpose of attending the religious
classes. The answer denied that this coordinated program of religious instruction violated the State or Federal
Constitution. Much evidence was heard, findings of fact
were made, after which the petition for mandamus was
denied on the ground that the school's religious instruction program violated neither the federal nor state constitutional provisions invoked by the appellant. On appeal the State Supreme Court affirmed. 396 Ill. 14. 71
N. E. 2d 161. Appellant appealed to this Court under
2S U. S. C. S 344 (a), and we noted probable jurisdiction
on June 2, 1947.
The appelees press a motion to dismiss the appeal
on several grounds, the first of which is that the judgment
of the State Supreme Court does not, draw in question
the "validity of a statute of any State" as required by
28 U. S. C. § 344 (a). This contention rests on the admitted fact that the challenged program of religious
instruction was not expressly authorized by statute. But
the State Supreme Court has sustained the validity of
the program on the ground that the Illinois statutes
granted the board authority to establish such a program.
This holding is sufficient to show that the validity of. an
Illinois statute was drawn in question within the meaning
of 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a). Hamilton v. Regents of U.
of Cal., 293 U. S. 245, 258. A seconcd ground for the
motion to dismiss is that, the appellant lacks standing
to maintain the act;on, a groun, which is also without
merit. - Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. &. 433, 443, 445, 464.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

207

Opinion of the Court.

A third ground for the motion is that the appellant failed
properly to present in the State Supreme Court her challenge that the state program violated the Federal Constitution. But in view of the express rulings of both
state courts on this question, the argument cannot be
successfully maintained.. The motion to dismiss the
appeal is denied.
Although there are disputes between the. parties as to
various inferences that may or may not properly be drawn
from the evidence concerning the religious program, the
following facts are shown by the record without dispute.'
In 1940 interested members of the Jewish, Roman Catholic, and a few of the Protestant faiths formed a voluntary
association called the Champaign Council on Religious
Education. They obtained permission irom the Board
of Education to offer classes in religious instruction to
public school pupils in grades four to nine inclusive.
Classes were made up of pupils whose parents signed

printed cards requesting that their children be permitted
to attend;

2

they were held weekly, thirty minutes for

I Appellant, taking issue with the facts found by the Illinois courts,
argues that the religious education program in question is invalid
under the Federal Constitution for any one of the following reasons:
(1) In actual practice certain Protestant groups have obtained an
overshadowing advantage in the propagation of their faiths over
other Protestant sects; (2). the religious education program was
voluntary in name*only because in fact subtle pressures were brought
to bear on the students to force them to participate in it; and (3) the
power given the school superintendent to reject teachers selected
by religious groups and the power given the local Council on Religious
Education to determine which religious faiths shovld participate in
the program was a prior censorship of religion.
In view of our decision we find it unnecessary to consider these
arguments or the disputed facts upon which they depend.
2 The Supreme Court described the request card system as follows:
... Admission to the classes was to be allowed only upon the
express written request of parents, and then only to classes designated by the parents. . . . Cards were distributed to the parents

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the lower grades, forty-five minutes for the higher.
The council employed the religious teachers at no expense to the school authorities, but the instructors were
subject to the approval and supervision of the superintendent of schools.3 The classes were taught in three
of elementary students by the public-school teachers requesting them
to indicate whether they desired their children to receive religious
education. After being filled out, the cards were returned to the
teachers of religious education classes either by the public-school
teachers or the children. . . ." On this subject the trial court found
that ". . . those students who have obtained the written consent of
their parents therefor are released by the school authorities from
their secular work, and in the grade schools for a period of thirty
minutes' instruction in each week during said school hours, and
forty-five minutes during each week in the junior high school, receive
training in religious education. . . . Certain cards are used for obtaining permission of parents for their children to take said religious
instruction courses, and they are made available through the offices
of the superintendent of schools and through the hands of principals
and teachers to the pupils of the -school district. Said cards are
prepared at the cost of the council of religious education. The
handling and distribution of said cards does not interfere with
the duties or suspend the regular secular work of the employees of
the defendant. . ....
3 The State Supreme Court said: "The record further dicloses that
the teachers conducting the religious classes were not teachers in the
public schools but were subject to the approval and supervision of the
superintendent ... " The trial court found: "Before any faith or
other group may obtain permission from the defendant for the simnilar, free and equal'use of rooms in the public school buildings said
faith or group must make application to the superintendent of schools
of said School District Number 71, who in turn will determine whether
or not it is practical for said group to teach in said school system."
The president of the local school board testified: ". . . The Protestants would have one group and the Catholics, and would be given a
room where they. would have the class and we would go along with
.the plan of the religious people. They were all to be treated alike,
with the understanding that the teachers they would bring into
the school were approved by the superintendent. . . . The
superintendent was the last word so far as the individual was concerned ... "

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

209

Opinion of the Court.

separate religious groups by Protestant teachers,4 Catholic priests, and a Jewish rabbi, although for the past
several years there have apparently been no classes instructed in the Jewish religion. Classes were conducted
in the regular classrooms of the school building. Students who did not choose to take the religious instruction
were not released from public school duties; they were
required to leave their classrooms and go to some other
place in the school building for pursuit of their secular
studies. On the other hand, students who were released
from secular study for the religious instguctions were required to be present at the religious classes. Reports of
their presence or absence were to be made to their secular
teachers.'
The foregoing facts, without reference to others that
appear in the record, show the use of tax-supported property for religiodis instruction and the close cooperation
between the school authorities and the- religious council
in promoting religious education. The operation of the
State's compulsory education system thus assists and is
integrated with the program of religious instruction carried on by separate religious sects. Pupils compelled
by law to go to school for secular education are released
There were twu teachers of the Protestant faith. One was a
Presbyterian and had been a foreign missionary for that church.
The second testified as follows: "I am affiliated with the Christian
church. I also work in the Methodist Church and I taught at the
Presbyterian. I am married to a Lutheran."
5The director of the Champaign Council on Religious Education
testified: ". . . If any pupil is absent we turn in a slip just like any
teacher would to the superintendent's office. The slip is a piece of
paper with a number of hours in the school day and a square, and
the teacher of the particular room for the particular hour records the
absentees- It has their names and the grade and the section to which
they belong. It is the same sheet that the geography and history
teachers and all the other teachers use, and is furnished by the
school ......
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1947
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

in part from their legal duty upon the condition that
they attend the religious classes. This is beyond all
question a utilization of the tax-established and taxsupported public school system to aid religious groups to
spread their faith. And it falls squarely under the ban
of the First Amendment (made applicable to the States
by the Fourteenth) as we interpreted it in Everson v.
Board of Education, 330 U. S. 1. There we said:
"Neither a state nor the Federal Government can set up
a church. Neither (an pass laws which aid one religion,
aid all religions, or prefer one religion over another.'
Neither can force or influence a person to go to or to
remain away from church against his will or force him
to profess a belief or disbelief in any religion. No person
can be punished for entertaining or professing religious
beliefs or disbeliefs, for church attendance or non-attendance. No tax in any amount, large or small, can be
levied to support any religious activities or institutions,
whatever they may be called, or whatever form they may
adopt to teach or practice religion." Neither a state nor
6 The dissent, agreed to by four judges, said: "The problem then
cannot be cast in terms of legal discrimination or its absence. This
would be true, even though the state in giving aid should treat all
religious instruction aiike. . . . Again, it was the furnishing of
'contributions of money for the propagation of opinions which he
disbelieves' that the fathers outlawed. That consequence and effect
are not removed by multiplying to all-inclusiveness the sects for
which support is exacted. The Constitution requires, not comprehensive identification of state with religion, but complete separation." Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U. S. 1, 59, 60.
7 The dissenting judges said: "In view of this history no further
proof is needed that the Amendment forbids any appropriation, large
or small, from public funds to aid or support any and all religious
exercises.- . . . Legislatures are free to make, and courts to sustain,
appropriations only when it can be found that in fact they do hot
aid, promote, encourage or sustain religious teaching or observances,
be the anmount large or small." Everson v. Board of Education, 330
U. S. 1, 41, 52-53.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

211

Opinion of the Court.

the Federal Government can, openly or secretly, participate in the affairs of any religious organizations or
groups and vice versa. In the words of Jefferson, the
clause against establishment of religion by law was intended to erect 'a wall of separation between church and
State.'" Id. at 15-16. The majority in the Everson case,
and the minority as shown by quotations from the dissenting views in our notes 6 and 7, agreed that the First
Amendment's language, properly interpreted, had erected
a wall of separation between Church and State.- They
disagreed as to the facts shown by the record and as to
the proper application of the First Amendment's language to those facts.
Recognizing that the Illinois program is barred by the
First and Fourteenth Amendments if we adhere to the
views expressed both by the majority and the minority
in the Everson case, counsel for the iespondents challenge
those views as dicta and urge that we reconsider and
repudiate them. They argue that historically the First
Amendment was intended to forbid only government preference of one religion over another, not an impartial
governmental assistance of all religions. in addition they
ask that we distinguish or overrule our holding in the
Everson case that the Fourteenth Amendment made the
"establishment of religion; clause of the First Amendinent applicable as a prohibition -against the States.
After giving full consideration to the arguments presented
we are unable to accept either of these contentions.
To hold that a state cannot consistently with the First
and Fourteenth Amendments utilize its public school
system to aid any or all religious faiths or sects in ihe
dissemination of their doctrines and ideals does not, as
counsel urge, manifest a governnental hostility to religion or religious teachings. A manifestation of suich . 1 1.
tility would be at war with our national tradition as
embodied in the First Amendment's guaranty of the free

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

exercise of religion. For the First Amendment rests upon
the premise that both religion and government can best
work to achieve their lofty aims if each is left free from
the other within its respective sphere. Or, as we said
in the Everson case, the First Amendment has erected a
Wall between Church and State which musi be kept high
and impregnable.
Here not only are the State's tax-supported public
.school buildings used for the dissemination of religious
doctrines. The State also affords sectarian groups an invaluable aid in that it helps to provide pupils for their
religious classes through use of the State's compulsory
public school machinery. This is not separation of
Church and State.
The cause is reversed and remanded to the State Supreme Court for proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
delivered the following
opinion, in which MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, MR. JUSTICE
RUTLEDGE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join.*
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

We dissented in Everson v. Board of Education, 330
U. S. 1, because in our view the Constitutional principle
requiring separation of Church and State compelled
invalidation of the ordinance sustained by the majority.
Illinois has here authorized the commingling of sectarian
with secular instruction in the public schools. The Con:stitution of the United States forbids this.
This case, in the light of the Everson decision, demonstrates anew that the mere formulation of a relevant Constitutional principle is the beginning of the solution of a
problem, not its answer. This is so because the mean*MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

in the Court's opinion.

concurred akn

.McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

213

J.

ing of a spacious conception like that of the separation
of Church from State is unfolded as appeal is made to the
principle from case to case. We are all agreed that the
First and the Fourteenth Amendments have a secular
reach far more penetrating in the conduct of Government than merely to forbid an "established church."
But agreement, in the abstract, that the First Amendment
was designed to erect a "wall of separation between
church and State," does not preclude a clash of views as
to what the wall separates. Involved is not only the
Constitutional principle but. the implications of judicial
review in its enforcement. Accommodation of legislative freedom and Constitutional limitations upon that
freedom cannot be achieved by a mere phrase. We cannot illuminatingly apply the "wall-of-separation" metaphor until we have considered the relevant history of
religious education in America, the place of the "released
time" movement in that history, and its precise manifestation in the case before us.
To understand the particular program now before us
as a conscientious attempt to accommodate the allowable
functions of Government and the special concerns of the
Church within the framework of our Constitution and
with due regard to the kind of society for which it was
designed, we must put this Champaign program of 1940 in
its historic setting. Traditionally, organized education in
the Western world was Church education. It could
hardly be otherwise when the education of children was
primarily study of the Word and the ways of God. Even
in the Protestant countries, where there was 'a less close
identification of Church and State, the basis of education
was largely the Bible, and its chief purpose inculcation of'
piety. To the extent that the State intervened, it used
its authority to further aims of the Church.
The e aigrants who came to these shores brought this
view of education with them. Colonial schools certainly

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

started with a religious orientation. When the common
problems of the early settlers of the Massachusetts Bay
Colony revealed the need for common schools, the object
was the defeat of "one chief project of that old deluder,
Satan, to keep men from the'knowledge of the Scriptures."
The Laws and Liberties of Massachusetts, 1648 edition
(Cambridge 1929) 47.'
The evolution of colonial education, largely in the service of, 'eligion, into the public school system of today is
the story of changing conceptions regarding the American
.democratic society, of the functions of State-maintained
education in such a society, and of the role therein of the
free exercise of religion b5y the people. The modern public school derived from a philosophy of freedom reflected
in the First Amendment. It is appropriate to recall that
the Remonstrance of James Madison, an event basic in
the history of religious liberty, was called forth by a proposal which involved support to religious education. See.
Ma. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE'S opinion in the Everson case,
supra, 330 U. S. at 36-37. As the momentum for popular
education increased and in turn evoked strong claims for
State support of religious education, contests not unlike
that which in Virginia had produced Madison's Remonstrance appeared in various forms in other States.
New York and Massachusetts provide famous chapters in
the history that established dissociation of religious teaching from State-maintained schools. In New York, the
rise of the common schools led, despite fierce sectarian
opposition, to the barring of tax funds to church schools,
and .later to any. school in which sectarian doctrine was
* For an exposition of the religious origins of American education,
.see S. W. Brown, The Secularization of American Education (1912)
cc. 1,11; Knight, Education in the United States (2d rev. ed. 1941)
cc. III, V; Cubberley, Public Education in the United States (1934)
cc. II, III:

"McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

215

J.

In Massachusetts, iargely through the efforts of
taught
Horace Mann, all sectarian teachings were barred from
the common school to save it from being rent by denominational conflict.' The upshot of these controversies,
often long and fierce, is fairly summarized by saying that
long before *the Fourteenth Amendment subjected the
States to new limitations, the prohibition of furtherance
by the State of religious instruction became the guiding
principle, in law and feeling, of the American people. In
sustaining Stephen Girard's will, this Court referred to the
inevitable conflicts engendered by matters "connected
with religious polity" and particularly "in a country
composed, of such a variety of religious sects as our country." Vidal v. Gitard'sExecutors, 2 How. 127, 198. That
was more than one hundred years ago.
Separation in the field of education, then, was not imposed upon unwilling States by force of superior law. In
this respect the Fourteenth' Amendment merely reflected a
principle then dominant in our national life. To the
extent 'that the Constitution thus made it binding upon
the States, the basis of the restriction is the whole experience'of our people. Zealous watchfulness against fusion
of secular and religious activities by Government itself,
through any of its instruments but especially through its
educational Agencies, was the democratic response of the
American community to the particular needs of a young
and growing nation, unique in the composition of its
2 See Boese, Public Education in the City of New York (1869)
c. XIV; Hall, Religious Education in fhe Public Schools of the State
and City kf New York (1914) cc. VI, VII; Palmer, The New York
Public School (1905) cc. VI, VII, X, XII. And see New York Laws
1842, c. 150, § 14, amended, New York Laws 1844, c. 320, § 12.
1 S. M. Smith, The Relation of the State to Religious Education,,
in Massachusetts (1926) c. VII; Culver, Horace Mann and Religion
in the Massachusetts Public Schools (1929).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

people.' A totally different situation elsewhere, as illustrated for instance by the English provisions for religious
education in State-maintained schools, only serves to illustrate that free societies are not cast in one mould. See
the Education Act of 1944, 7 and 8 Geo. VI, c, 31.
-Different institutions evolve from different historic circumstances.
It is pertinent to remind .that the establishment of this
principle of Separation in the field of education was not
due to aiiy decline in the religious beliefs of the people.
Horace Mann was a devout' Christian, and the deep religious feeling of James Madison is stamped upon the
Remonstrance. The secular public school did not imply
indifference to the basic role of religion in the life of the
people, nor rejection of religious education as a means of
fostering it. The claims of religion were not minimized
by refusing to make the public schools agencies for their
assertion. The non-sectarian or secular public school was
the means of recon ciling freedom in general with religious
freedom. The sharp confinement of the public schools
,to secular education was a recognition of the need of a
democratic society to-educate its children, insofar as the
State undertook to do. so, in an atmosphere free from
pressures in a realm' in which pressures are most resisted
and 0;'ere conflicts are most easily and most bitterly engendered. Designed to serve as perhaps the most powerful agency for promoting cohesion among a. heterogeneous
democratic people, the public school must keep scrupu'It has been suggested that secular education in. this country is
the ihevitable "product of 'the utter impossibility of harmonizing
multiform creeds.'" T. W. M'I. Marshall, Secular Education in Eng-

laid and the United States, 1 American Catholic Quarterly Review
278, 308. it is precisely because of this "utter impossibility" that the

fathers put into the Constitution 'the principle of complete "handsoff," for a people as religiously Jheterogeneous as ours.,

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion 'of

FRANKiFURTER,

217

J.

lously free from entanglementin the strife of sects. The
preservation of the community from divisive conflicts, of
Government from irreconcilable pressures by religious
groups, of religion from censorship and coercion however
subtly exercised, requires strict confinement of the State
to instruction other than religious, leaving to the individual's church and home, indoctrination in the faith of
his choice.
This development of the public school as a symbol of
our secular unity was not a sudden achievement nor attained without violent conflict.' While in small communities of comparatively homogeneous religious beliefs,
the need for absolute separation presented no urgencies,
elsewhere the growth of the secular school encountered
the resistance of feeling strongly engaged against it. But
the inevitability of such attempts is the very reason
for Constitutional provisions primarily concerned with
the protection of minority groups. And such sects are
shifting groups, varying from time to time, and place to
place, thus representing in their totality the common
interest of the nation.
Enough has been said to indicate that we are dealing
not with a full-blown principle, nor orne having the definiteness of a surveyor's metes and bounds. But by 1875
the separation of public education from Church entanglements, of the State from the teaching of religion, was
firmly established in the consciousness of the nation. In
5

See Cubberley, Public Education in the United States (1934) pp.
•230 et seq.; Zollmann, The Relation of Church and State, in Lotz and
Crawford, Studies in Religious Education (1931) 403, 418 et seq.;
Payson Smith, The Public Schools and Religious Education, in Religion and Education (Sperry, Editor, 1945) pp. 32 et seq.; also
Mahoney, The Relation of the State to Religious Education in Early
New York 1633-1825 (1941) c. VI; McLaughlin, A History of State
Legislation Affecting Private Elementary and Secondary Schools in
the United States, 1870-1945 (1946) c. I; and see note 10, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

that year President Grant made his famous remarks to
the Convention of the Army of the Tennessee:
"Encourage free schools, and resolve that not one
dollar appropriated for their support shall be appropriated to the support of any sectarian schools. Resolve that neither the State nor nation, nor both
combined, shall support institutions of learning other
than those sufficient to afford every child growing
up in the land the opportunity of a good commonschool education, unmixed with sectarian, pagan, or
atheistical dogmas. Leave the matter of religion to
the family altar, the church, and the private school,
supported entirely by private contributions. Keep
the church and the state forever separate." "The
President's Speech at Des Moines," 22 Catholic
World 433, 434-35 (1876).
So strong was this conviction, that rather than rest
on the comprehensive prohibitions of the First And Four-,
teenth Amendments, President Grant urged that there be
written into the United States Constitution particular
elaborations, including a specific prohibition against the
use of public funds for sectarian education,' such as had
6 President Grant's Annual Message to Congress, December 7, 1875,
4 Cong. Rec. 175 .et seq.; Ames, The Proposed Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States during the First Century of its History, H. R. Doe. No. 353, Pt. 2, 54th Cong.,'2d Sess., pp, 277-78. In
addition to the first proposal, "The Blaine Amendment,". five others
to similar effect are cited by Ames. The reaon for the failure of these
attempts seems to have been in part that the "provisions of the
.State constitutions are in'almost all instances adequate on this subject, and no amendment is likely to be secured." Id.
In the form in which it passed the House of Representatives, the
Blaine Arherrdment read as follows: "No State shall make any law
respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; and no religious test shall ever'be required as-a qualification to any office or public trust under any State, No public

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

219

J.

been written into many State constitutions.! By 1894, in
urging the adoption of such a-provision in the New York
Constitution, Elihu Root was able to summarize a century
of the nation's history: "It is not a question of religion, or
of creed, or of party; it is a question of declaring and maintaining the great American principle of eternal separation
between Church and State." Root, Addresses on Government and Citizenship, 137, 140.' The extent to which
property, and no public revenue of, nor any loan of credit by or
under the authority of, the United States, or any State, Territory,
District, or municipal corporation, shall be appropriated to, or made
or used for, the support of any school, educational or other institution, under the control of any religious or anti-religious sect,
organization, or denomination, or wherein the particular creed or
tenets of any religious or anti-religious sect, organization, or denomination shall be taught. And no such particular creed or tenets shall
be read or taught in any school or institution supported in whole
or in part by such revenue or loan of credit; and no such appropriation or loan of credit shall be made to any religious or antireligious sect, organization, or denomination, or to promote its
interests or tenets. This article shall not be construed to prohibit
the reading of the Bible in any school or institution; and it shall
not have the effect to impair rights of property already vested. . ....
H. Res. 1, 44th Cong., 1st Sess. (1876).
7 See Constitutions of the States and United States, III Report of
the New York State Constitutional Convention Committee (1938)
Index, pp. 1766-67.
S It is worthy of interest that another famous American lawyer,
and indeed one of the most'distinguished of American judges, Jeremiah S. Black, expressed similar views nearly forty years before Mr.
Root: "The manifest object of the men who framed the institutions
of this country, was to have a State without religion, and a Church
4without politics--that is to say, they meant that one should never
'be 'used as an engine for any purpose of the other . . . . Our
fathers seem to have been perfectly sincere in their belief that the
members of the Church would be more patriotic, and the citizens
of the State more religious, by keeping their respective functions
entirely separate. For that reason they built up a wall of complete
and perfect partition between the two." From Religious Liberty

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

this principle was deemed a presupposition of our Constitutional system is strikingly illustrated by the fact that
every State admitted into the Union since 1876 was compelled by Congress to write into its constitution a requirement that it maintain a school system "free from sectarian
control."

Prohibition of the commingling of sectarian and secular
instruction in the public school is of course only half
the story. A religious people was naturally concerned
about the part of the child's education entrusted "to the
family altar, the church, and the private school." The
promotion of religious education took many forms. Laboring under financial difficulties and exercising only persuasive authority, various denominations felt handicapped in their task of religious education. Abortive
(1856) in Black, Essays and Speeches (1886) 51, 53; cf. Brigance,
Jeremiah Sullivan Black (1934). While Jeremiah S. Black and Elihu
Root had many things in common, there were also important differences between them, perhaps best illustrated by the fact that one
became Secretary of State to President Buchanan, the other to Theodore Roosevelt. That two men, with such different political alignment, should have shared identic views on a matter.'so basic to the
well-being of our American democracy affords striking proof of the
respect to be accorded to that principle.
925 Stat. 676, 677, applicable to North Dakota, South Dakota,
Montana and Waghington, required that the constitutional conventions of those States "provide, by ordinances irrevocable without the
consent of the United States and the people of said States . . . for
the establishment and maintenance of systems of public schools,
which shall be open to all the children of said States, and free from
sectarian control . . . ." The same provision was contained in the
Enabling Act for Utah, 28 Stat. 107, 108; Oklahoma, 34 Stat. 267,
270; New Mexico and Arizona, 36 Stat. 557, 559, 570. Idaho and
Wyoming. were.admitted after adoption of their constitutions; that of
Wyoming contained an irrevocable ordinance in the same terms.
Wyoming Constitution, 1889, Ordinances, § . The Constitution of
Idaho, while it contained no irrevocable ordinance, had a provision
even more explicit in its establishment of separation. Idaho Constitution, 1,889, art. IX, § 5.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

221

FRANKFURTER, J.

attempts were therefore frequently made to obtain public
funds for religious schools."° But the major efforts of
religious inculcation were a recognition of the principle
of' Separation by the establishment of church schools
privately supported. Parochial schools were maintained
by various denominations. These, however, were often
beset by serious handicaps, financial and otherwise, so
that the religious aims which they represented found
other directions. There were experiments with vacation
schools, with Saturday as well as Sunday schools.". They
all fell short of their purpose. It was urged that by
appearing to make religion a one-day-a-week matter, the
10See, e. g., the New York experience, including, inter alia, the

famous Hughes controversy of 1840-42, the conflict culminating in
the Constitutional Convention of 1894, and the attempts to restore
aid to parochial schools by revision of the New York City Charter,

in 1901, and at the State Constitutional Convention of 1938. See
McLaughlin, A History of State Legislation Affecting Private Elementary and Secondary Schools in the United States, 1870-1945
(1946) pp. 119-25; Mahoney, The Relation of the State to Religious
Education in Early New York 1633-1825 (1941) c. VI; Hall, Religious Education in the Public Schools of the State and the City of
New York (1914) pp. 46-47; Boese, Public Education in the City of
New York (1869) c. XIV; Compare New York Laws 1901, vol. 3,
§ 1152, p. 492, with amendment, id., p. 668;'see Nicholas Murray
Butler, Religion and Education (Editorial) in 22 Educational Review
101, June, 1901; New York Times, April 8, 1901, p. 1, col. 1; April
9, 1901, p. 2, col. 5; April 19, 190i, p. 2, col. 2; April 21, 1901, p. 1,
col. 3; Editorial, April 22, 1901, p. 6, col. 1.
Compare S.2499, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. providing for Federal
aid to education, and the controversy engendered over the inclusion
in the aid program of sectarian schools, fully discussed in, e. g., 'The
Nation's Schools," January through June, 1947.
"For surveys of the development of private religious education,
see, e. g., A. A. Brown, A History of Religious Education in Recent
Times (1923); Athearn, Religious Education and American Democracy (1917); Burns and Kohlbrenner, A History of Catholic Education in the United States (1937); Lotz and Crawford, Studies in
Religious Education (1931) Parts I and IV.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

Sunday school, which acquired national acceptance,
tended to relegate the child's religious education, and
thereby his religion,, to a minor role not unlike the enforced piano lesson.
Out of these inadequate efforts evolved the week-day
church school, held on one or more afternoons a week
after the close of the public school. But children continued to be children; they wanted to play when school was
out, particularly when other children were free to do so.
Church leaders decided that if the week-day church school
was to succeed, a way had to be found to give the child
his religious education during what the child conceived to
be his "business hours."
The initiation of the movement 2 may fairly be attributed to Dr. George U. Wenner. The underlying assumption of his proposal, made at the Interfaith Conference
on Federation held in New York City in 1905, was that
the public school unduly monopolized the child's time
and that the churches were entitled to their share of
it.1" This, the schools should "release." Accordingly, the
Federation, citing the example of the Third Republic
of France, ' . urged that upon the request of their parents
12 Reference' should be made to Jacob Gould Schurman, who in
1903 proposed a plan bearing close resemblance to that of Champaign.
See Symposium, 75 The Outlook 635, 636, November 14, 1903;
Crooker, Religious Freedom in American Education (1903) pp. 39

et seq.
1 For the text of the resolution, a brief in its support, as well as
an exposition of some of the opposition it inspired, see Wenner's
-book, Religious Education and the Public School (rev. ed. 1913).

"4The French example is cited not only by Wenner but also by
Nicholas 'Murray Butler, who thought released time was "restoring

the American system in the state of New y ork." The Place of
Religious Instruction in Our EducationalSystem, 7 Vital Speeches 167,
168 (Nov. 28, 1940); see also Report of the President of Columbia
University," 1934, pp. 22-24. It is important to note, h6wever, that
the French practice must be viewed as the result of the struggle to

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

223

FRANKFURTER, J.

children be excused from public school on Wednesday
afternoon, so that the churches could provide "Sunday
school on Wednesday." This was to be carried out on
church premises under church authority. Those not desiring to attend church schools would continue their
normal classes. Lest these public school classes unfairly
compete with the church education, it was requested.that
the school authorities refrain from scheduling courses or
activities of compelling interest or importance.
The proposal aroused considerable opposition and it
took another decade for a "released time" scheme to
become part of a public school system. Gary, Indiana,
inaugurated the movement. At a time when industrial
emancipate the French schools from control by the Church. The
leaders of this revolution, men like Paul Bert, Ferdinand Buisson, and
Jules Ferry, agreed to this measure as one part of a great step towards, rather than a retreat from, the principle of Separation. The
history of these events is described in Muzzey, State, Church, and
School in France, The School Review, March through June, 1911.
In effect, moreover, the French practice differs in crucial respects
from both the Wenner proposal and h-.q Champaign system. The
law of 1882 provided that "Public elementary schools will be closed
one day a week in addition to Sunday in order to permit parents,
if they so desire, to have their children given religious instruction
outside of school buildings.i' Law No. 11,696, March 28, 1882,
Bulletin des Lois, No. 690. This then approximates that aspect of
released time generally known as "dismissed time." No children
went to school on that day, and the public school was therefore
not an alternative used to impel the children towards the religious
school. The religious education was given "outside of school
buildings."
The Vichy Government attempted to introduce a program of
religious instruction: within the public school system remarkably
similar to that in effect in Champaign. The proposal was defeated
by intense opposition which included the protest of the French clergy,
who apparently feared State control of the Church. See Schwartz;
Religious Instruction under PMtain, 58 Christian Century 1170, Sept.
24, 1941.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

expansion strained the communal facilities of the city,
Superintendent of Schools Wirt suggested a fuller use
of the school buildings. Building on theories which had
become more or less current, he also urged that education was more than instruction in a classroom. The
school was only one of several educational agencies. The
library, the playground, the home, the church, all have
their function in the child's proper unfolding. Accordingly, Wirt's plan sought to rotate the schedules of the
children during the school-day so that some were in class,
others were in the library, still others in the playground.
And some, he suggested to the leading ministers of the
City,'might be released to attend religious classes if the
churches of the City cooperated and provided them.
They did, in 1914, and thus was "released time" begun.
The religious teaching was held on church premises and
the public schools had no hand in the conduct of these
church schools. They did not supervise the choice of instructors or the subject matter taught. Nor did they assume responsibility for the attendance, conduct or achievement of the child in a church school; and he received no
credit for it. The period of attendance in the religious
schools would otherwise have been a play period for the
child, with the result that the arrangement did not cut
into public school instruction or truly affect the activities or feelings of the children who did not attend the
church schools. 5
From such a beginning "released time" has attained substantial proportions. In 1914-15, under the Gary program, 619 pupils left the public schools for the church
sthools during one period a week. According to responsible figures almost 2,000,000 in some 2,200 communities
10 Of the many expositions of the Gary plan, see, e. g., A. A. Brown,
The Week-Day Church Schools of Gary, Indiana, 11 Religious Education 5 (1916).; Wirt, The Gary Public Schools and the.Churches,

id. at 221 (1916).

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

225

J:

participated in "released time" programs during 1947.6
A movement of such scope indicates the importance of the
problem to which the "released time" programs are directed. But to the extent that aspects of these-programs
are open to Constitutional objection, the more extensively
the movement operates, the more ominous the breaches
in the wall of separation.
Of course, "released time" as a generalized conception,
undefined by differentiating particularities, is not an issue
for Constitutional adjudication. Local programs differ
from each other in many and crucial respects. Some
"released time" classes are under separate denominational
auspices, others are conducted jointly by several denominations, often embracing all the religious affiliations of a
community. Some classes in religion teach a limited sectarianism.; others emphasize democracy, unity and spiritual values not anchored in a particular creed. Insofar as
these are manifestations' merely of the free exercise of
religion, they are quite outside the scope of judicial concern, except insofar as the Court may be called upon to
protect the right of religious freedom. It is only when
challenge is made to the share that the public schools
have in the execution of a particular '"released time" program that close judicial scrutiny is demanded of the exact
relation between the religious instruction and the public
educational system in the specific situation before theCourt."
16

See the 1947 Yearbook, International Council of Religious Edu-

cation, p. 76; also New York Times, September 21, 1947, p. 22.
col. 1.
17 Respects in which programs differ include, for example, the
amount of supervision by the public school of attendance and performance in the religious class, of the course of study, of the selectio of
teachers; methods of enrolment and dismissal from the secular classes;
the amount of school time devoted'to operation of the program; utc
extent to which school property and administrative machinery axe

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

The substantial differences among arrangements
lumped together as "released time" emphasize the importance of detailed analysis of the facts to which the
Constitutional test of Separation is to be applied. How
does "released time" operate in Champaign? Public
school teachers distribute to their pupils cards supplied
by church groups, so that the parents may indicate
whether they desire religious instruction for their children. For those desiring it, religious classes are conducted in the regular classrooms of the public schools
by teachers of religion paid by the churches and appointed
by them, but, as the State court found, "subject to
the approval and supervision of the superintendent."
The courses do not profess to give secular instruction
in subjects concerning religion. Their candid purpose
is sectarian teaching. While a child can go to any of the
religious classes offered, a particular sect wishing a teacher
for its devotees requires the permission of the school
superintendent "who in turn will determine whether or
not it is practical for said group to teach in said school
involved; the effect on the public school program of the introduction
of "released time"; the proportion of students who seek to be excused;
the effect of the program on non-participants; the amount and nature
of the publicity for the program in the public schools.
The studies of detail in "released time" programs are voluminous.., Most of these may be found in the issues of such periodicals
as The International Journal of Religious Education, Religious
Education, and Christian Century. For some of the more comprehensive studies found elsewhere, see Davis, Weekday Classes
in Religious Education, U. S. Office of Education Bulletin 1941,
No. 3; Gorham, A Study of the Status of Weekday Church Schools
in the United States (1934); Lotz, The Weekday Church School, in
Lotz and Crawford, Studies in Religious Education (1931) c. XII;
Forsyth, Week-Day Church. Schools (1930); Settle, The Weekday
Church School, Educational Bulletin No. 601 of The International
Council of Religious Education (1930); Shaver, Present-Day Trends
in Religious Education (1928). cc. VII, VIII; Gove, Religious Edu-

cation on Public School Time (1926).

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

227

J.

system." If no provision is made for religious' instruction
in the particular faith of a child, or if for other reasons thechild is not enrolled in any of the offered classes, he is
required to attend a regular school class, or a study period
during which he is often left to his own devices. Reports
of attendance in the religious classes are submitted by the
religious instructor to the school authorities, and the child
who fails to attend is presumably deemed a truant.
Religious education so conducted on school time and .
property is patently woven into the working scheme of
the school. The Champaign arrangement thus presents
powerful elements of inherent pressure by the school system in the interest of religious sects. The fact that this
power has not been used to discriminate is beside the
point. Separation is a requirement to abstain from fusing functions of Government and of religious sects, not'
merely to treat them all equally. That a child is offered.
an alternative may reduce the constraint; it does pot
eliminate the operation of influence by the school in
matters sacred to conscience and outside the 'school's
domain. The law of imitation operates, and non-conformity is not an outstanding characteristic of children.
The result is an obvious pressure upon children to
attend. 8 Again, while the Champaign school popula,tion represents only a fraction of the more than two
,-hundred and fifty sects of the nation, not even all the
practicing sects in Champaign are willing or able to provide religious instruction. The children belonging to
these non-participating sects will thus have inculcated in
them a feeling of separatism when the school should be
the training ground for habits of communitf., or they will
have religious instruction in a' .faith which is not that of

Is It deserves notice that in discussing with the relator heryon's!
inability to get along with his classmates, one of his teachers suggested
that "allowing him to take the religious education course might help
him.to become a member of the group."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

their parents. As a result, the public school system of
Champaign actively furthers inculcation in the religious
tenets of some faiths, and in the process sharpens the
consciousness of religious differences at least among some
of the children committed to its care. These are consequences not amenable to statistics. But they are precisely the consequences against which the Constitution
was directed when it prohibited the Government common
to all from becoming embroiled, however innocently, in
the destructive religious conflicts of which the history
of even this.country records some dark pages. "
Mention should not be omitted that theintegration of
religious instruction within the school system as practiced in Champaign is supported by arguments drawn
from educational theories as diverse as those derived from
Catholic conceptions and from the writings of John
Dewey.20 Movements like- "released time" are seldom
1"The divergent views expressed in the briefs submitted here on
behalf of various religious organizations, as amici curiae, in themselves

suggest that the movement has been a divisive and not an irenic influence in the community: The American Unitarian Association; The
General Conference of Seventh Day Adventists; The Joint Conference
Committee on Public Relations set up by the Southern Baptist Convention, The Northern Baptist Convention, The National Baptist
Convention Inc., and the National Baptist Convention; The Protestant Council of the City of New York; and The Synagogue Council of
America and National Community Relations Advisory Council.
20 There is a prolific literature on the educational, social and religious merits of the "released time" movement. In support 'of "released time" the following may be mentioned: The International
Council of Religious Education, and particularly the writings of Dr.
Erwin L. Shaver, for some years Director of its Department of Weekday Religious Education, in publications of the Council and in
numerous issues of The International Journal of Religious Education
(e. g., They Reach One-Third, Dec., 1943, p. 11; Weekday Religious
Educqtion Today, Jan., 1944, p. 6), and Religious Education (e. g.,
Survey of Week-Day Religious Education, Feb., 1922, p. 51; The
Movement for Weekdap Religious Education, Jan.-Feb., 1946, p. 6);

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

229

J.

single in origin or aim. Nor can the intrusion of
religious instruction into the public school system of
Champaign be minimized by saying that it absorbs less
than an hour a week; in fact, that affords evidence of
see also Information Service, Federal Council of Churches of Christ,
May 29, 1943. See also Cutton, Answering the Arguments, The International Journal of Religious Education, June, 1930, p. 9, and Released Time, id., Sept., 1942, p. 12; Hauser, "Hands Off the Public
School?", Religious Education, Mar.-Apr., 1942, p. 99; Collins, Release Time for Religious Instruction, National Catholic Education
Association Bulletin, May, 1945, pp. 21, 27-28; Weigle, Public
Education and Religion, Religious Education, Apr.-June, 1940, p.
67; Nicholas Murray Butler, The Place of Religious Instruction in
Our EducationalSystem, 7 Vital Speeches 167 (Nov. 28, 1940.); Howlett, Released Time for Religious Education in New York City,. 64
Education 523, May, 1944; Blair, A Case for the Weekday Church
School, 7 Frontiers of Democracy 75, Dec. 15, 1940; cf. Allred, Legal
Aspects of Release Time (National Catholic Welfare Conference,
1947). Favorable views are also cited in the studies in note 17, supra.
Many not opposed to "released time" have declared it "hardly
enough" or "pitifully inadequate." E. g., Fleming, God in Our Public
Schools (2d ed. 1944) pp. 80-86; Howlett, Released Time for Religious
Education in New York City, Religious Education, Mar.-Apr., 1942, p.
104; Cavert, Points of Tension Between Church and State in America
Today, in Church and State in the Modem World (1937) 161, 168;
F. E. Johnson, The Church and Socieiy (1935) 125; Hubner, Professional Attitudes toward Religion in the Public Schools of the United
States. Since 1900 (1944) 108-109, 113; cf. Ryan, A Protestant Experiment in Religious Education, The Catholic World, June, 1922;
Elliott, Are Weekday Church Schools the Solution?, The International Journal of Religious Education, Nov., 1940, p. 8; Elliott,
Report of the Discussion, Religious Education, July-Sept., 1940,
p. 158.
For opposing views, see V. T. Thayer,. Religion in Public Education
(1947) cc. VII, VIII; Moehlman, The Church as Educator (i947) c.
X; Chave, A Functional Approach to Religious Education (1947)
104-107; A. W. Johnson, The Legal Status of Church-State Relationships in the United States (1934) 129-130; Newman, The Sectarian
Invasion of Our Public Schools (1925). See also Payson Smith, The
Public Schools and Religious Education, in Religion and Education

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

a design constitutionally objectionable. If it were merely
a question of enabling a child to obtain religious instruction with a receptive mind, the thirty or forty-five minutes
could readily be found on Saturday or Sunday. If that
were all, Champaign might have drawn upon the French
system, known in its American manifestation as "dismissed time," whereby one school day is shortened to
allow all children to go where they please, leaving those
who so desire to go to a religious school." The momentum of the whole school atmosphere and school planning
is presumably put behind religious instruction, as given in
Champaign, precisely in order to secure for the religious
(Sperry, Editor, 1945) 32, 42-47; Herrick, Religion in the Public
Schools of America, 46 Elementary School Journal 119, Nov., 1945;

Kallen, Churchmen's Claims on the Public School, The Nation's
Schools, May, 1942, p. 49; June, 1942, p. 52. And cf. John Dewey,
Religion in Our Schools (1908), reprinted in 2 Characters and Events
(1929) 504, 508, 514. "Released time" was introduced in the public
schools of the City of New York over the opposition of organizations
like the Public Education Association and the United Parents Associations.
The arguments and sources pro and con are collected in Hubner,

Professional Attitudes toward Religion in the Public Schools in the
United States since 1900 (1944) 94 et seq. And see the symposia,
Teaching Religion in a Democracy, The International Journal of
Religious Education, Nov., 1940, pp. 6-16; The Aims of Week-Day
Religious Education, Religious Education, Feb., 1922, p. 11; Released
Time in New York City, id., Jan-Feb., 1943, p. 15; Progressin Week.day Religious Education, id., Jan.-Feb., 1946, p. 6; Can Our Public
Schools Do More about Religion?, 125 Journal of Education 245,
Nov., 1942, id. at 273, Dec., 1942; Religious Instruction on School

Time, 7 Frontiers of Democracy 72-77, Dec. 15, 1940; and the
articles in 64 Education 519 et seq., May, 1944.

21 See note 14, supra. Indications are that "dismissed time" is

used in an inconsiderable number of. the communities employing
released time. Davis, Weekday Classes in Religious Education,
U. S. Office of Education Bulletin 1941, No. 3, p. 22; Shaver, The
Movement for Weekday Religious Education, Religious Education,

Jam-Feb., 1946, pp. 6, 9.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

Opinion of

231

FRANKFURTER, J.

instruction such momentum and planning. To speak of
"released time" as being only half or three quarters of an
hour is to draw a thread from a fabric.
We do not consider, as indeed we could not, school programs not before us which, though colloquially characterized s "released time," present situations differing in
aspects that may well be constitutionally crucial. Different forms which "released time" has taken during more
than thirty years of growth include programs which,
like that before us, could not withstand the test of the
Constitution; others may be found unexceptionable. We
do not now attempt to weigh in the Constitutional
scale every separate detail .or various combination of factors which may establish a valid "released time" program.
We find that the basic Constitutional principle of absolute Separation was violated when the State of Illinois,
speaking through its Supreme Court, sustained the school
authorities of Champaign in sponsoring and effectively
furthering religious beliefs by its educational arrangement.
Separation means separation, not something less.
Jefferson's metaphor in describing the relation between
Church and State speaks of a "wall of separation," not
of a fine line easily overstepped. The public school is
at once the symbol of our democracy and the most pervasive means for promoting our common destiny. In
no activity of the State is it more vital to keep oudivisive
forces than in its schools, to avoid confusing, not to say
fusing, what the Constitution sought to keep strictly
apart. "The great American principle of eternal separation"-Elihu Root's phrase bears repetition-is one
of the vital reliances of our Constitutional system for
assuring unities among our people stronger than our
diversities. It is the Court's duty to enforce this principle 'in its full integrity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

333 U. S.

We renew our conviction that "we have staked the very
existence of our country on the faith that complete separation between the state and religion is best for the state
and best for religion." Everson v. Board of Education,
330 U. S. at 59. If nowhere else,' in the relation between
Church and State, "good fences make good neighbors."
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

I join the opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, and
concur in the result reached by the Court, but with these
reservations: I think it is doubtful whether the facts of
this case establish jurisdiction in this Court, but in any
event that we should place some bounds on the demands
for interference with local schools that we are empowered
or willing to entertain. I make these reservations a matter of record in view of the number of litigations likely
to be started as a result of this decision.
A Federal Court x'ay interfere with local school authorities only when they invade either a personal liberty or
a property right protected by the Federal Constitution.
Ordinarily this will come about in either of two ways:
First. When a person is required to submit to some
religious rite or instruction or is deprived or threatened with deprivation of his freedom for resisting such
unconstitutional requirement. We may -then set him
free or enjoin his prosecution. Typical of such cases
was Wes4 Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette,
319 U. S. 624. There penalties were threatened against
both parent and child for refusal of the latter to perform a
compulsory ritual which offended his convictions. We
intervened to shield them against the penalty. But here,
complainant's son may join religious classes if he chooses
and if his parents so request, or he may stay out of them.
The complaint is that when others join and he does not,
it sets him apart as a dissenter, which is humiliating.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

JACKSON,

233

J., concurring.

Even admitting this to be true, it may be doubted whether
the Constitution which, of course, protects the right to
dissent, can be construed also to protect one from the embarrassment that always attends nonconformity, whether
in religion, politics, behavior or dress. Since no legal
compulsion is applied to complainant's son himself and
no penalty is imposed or threatened from which we may
relieve him, we can hardly base jurisdiction on this
ground.
Second. Where a complainant is deprived of property
by being taxed for unconstitutional purposes, such as
directly or indirectly to support a religious establishment.
We can protect a taxpayer against such a levy. This
was the Everson Case, 330 U. S. 1, as I saw it then and see
it now. It was complained in that case that the school
treasurer drew a check on public funds to reimburse parents for a child's bus fare if he went to a Catholic parochial
school or a public school, but not if he went to any other
private or denominational school. Reference to the record in that case will show that the School District was not
operating busses, so it was not a question of- allowing
Catholic children to ride publicly owned busses along with
others, in the interests of their safety, health or morals.
The child had to travel to and from'parochial school on
commercial busses like other paying passengers and all
other school children, and he was exposed to the same
dangers. If it could, in fairness, have been said that the
expenditure was a measure for the protection of the
safety, health or morals of youngsters, it would not merely
have been constitutional to grant it; it would have been
unconstitutional to refuse it to any child merely because
he was a Catholic.. But in the Everson Case there was a
direct, substantial and measurable burden on the complainant as a taxpayer to raise funds that were- used to
subsidize transportation to parochial schools. Hence, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON, J.,

concurring.

333 U. S.

had jurisdiction to examine the constitutionality of the
levy and to protect against it if a majority had agreed that
the subsidy for transportation was unconstitutional.
In this case, however, any cost of this plan to the taxpayers is incalculable and negligible. It can be argued,
perhaps, that religious classes add some wear and tear
on public buildings and that they should be charged with
some expense for heat and light, even though the sessions
devoted to religious instruction do not add to the length
of the school day. But the cost is neither substantial nor
measurable, and no one seriously can say that the complainant's tax bill has been proved to be increased because
of this plan. I think it is doubtful whether the taxpayer
in this case has shown any substantial property injury.
If, however, jurisdiction is found to exist, it is important
that we circumscribe our decision with some care. What
is asked is not a defensive use of judicial power to set aside
a tax levy or reverse a conviction, or to enjoin threats of
prosecution or taxation. The relief demanded in this case
is the extraordinary writ of mandamus to tell the local
Board of Education what it must do. The prayer for
relief is that a writ issue against the Board of Education
"ordering it to immediately adopt and enforce rules and
regulations prohibiting all instruction in and teaching of
religious education in all public schools . . . and in all
public school houses and buildings in said district ,when
occupied by public schools." The plaintiff, as she has
every right to be, is an avowed atheist. What she has
asked of the courts is that they not only end the "released
time" plan but also ban every form of teaching which
suggests or recognizes that there is a God. She would
ban all teaching of the Scriptures. She especially mentions as an example of invasion of her rights "having
pupils learn and recite such statements as, 'The Lord is
my Shepherd, I shall not want.'" And she objects to
teaching that the King James version of the Bible "is

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

235

JACKSON, J., concurring.

called the Christian's Guide Book, the Holy Writ and
the Word of God," and many other similar matters.
This Court is directing the Illinois courts generally to
sustain plaintiff's complaint without exception of any of
these grounds of complaint, without discriminating between them and without laying down any standards to
define the limits of the effect of our decision.
To me, the sweep and detail of these complaints is
a danger signal which warns of the kind of local controversy we will be required to arbitrate if we do not place
appropriate limitation on our decision and exact strict
compliance with jurisdictional' requirements. Authorities list 256 separate and substantial 'religious bodies
to exist in the continental United States. Each of them,
through the suit of some discontented but unpenalized
and untaxed representative, has as good a right as this
plaintiff to demand that the courts compel the schools
to sift out of their teaching everything inconsistent with
its doctrines. If we are to eliminate' everything that is
objectionable to any of these warring sects or inconsistent
with any of their doctrines, we will leave public education
in shreds. Nothingbut educational confusion and a discrediting of the public school system can result from
subjecting it to constant law suits.
While we may and should end such formal and explicit
instruction as the Champaign plan and can at all times
prohibit teaching of creed and catechism and ceremonial
and can forbid forthright proselyting in the schools, I
think it remains to be demonstrated whether it is possible,
even if desirable, to comply with such demands as plaintiff's completely to isolate and cast out of secular education all that some people may reasonably regard as religious instruction. Perhaps subjects such as mathematics,
physics or chemistry are, or can be, completely secularized. But it would not seem practical 'to teach either
practice or appreciation of the arts if we are to forbid ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

posure of youth to any religious influences. Music without sacred music, architecture minus the cathedral, or
painting without the scriptural themes would be eccentric
and incomplete, even from a secular point of view. Yet
the inspirational appeal of religion in these guises is often
stronger than in forthright sermon. Even such a
"science" as biology raises the issue between evolution and
creation as an explanation of our presence on this planet.
Certainly a course in English literature that omitted the
Bible and other powerful uses of our mother tongue for
religious ends would be pretty barren. And I should suppose it is a proper, if not an indispensable, part of preparation for a worldly life to know the roles that religion and
religions have played in the tragic story of mankind. The
fact is that, for good or for ill, nearly everything in our
culture worth transmitting, everything which gives meaning to life, is saturated with religious influences, derived
from paganism, Judaism, Christianity-both Catholic and
Protestant-and other faiths accepted by a large part
of the world's peoples. One can hardly respect a system
of education that would leave the student wholly ignorant
of the currents of religious thought that move the world
society for a part in which he is being prepared.
But how one can teach, with satisfaction or even with
justice to all faiths, such subjects as the story of the
Reformation, the Inquisition, or even the New England
effort to found "a Church without a Bishop and a State
without a King," is more than I know. It is too much
to expect that mortals will teach subjects about which
their contemporaries have passionate controversies with
the detachment they may summon to teaching about
remote subjects such as Confucius or Mohammed. When
instruction turns to proselyting and imparting knowledge
becomes evangelism is, except in the crudest cases, a
subtle inquiry.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

JACKSON,

237

J., concurring.

The opinions in this case show that public educational
authorities have evolved a considerable variety of practices in dealing with the religious problem. Neighborhoods differ in racial, religious and cultural compositions.
It must be expected that they will adQpt different customs
which will give emphasis to different values and will
induce different experiments. And it must be expected
that, no matter what practice prevails, there will be many
discontented and possibly belligerent minorities. We
must leave some flexibility to meet local conditions, some
chance to progress by trial and error. While I agree
that the religious classes involved here go beyond permissible limits, , also think the complaint demands more
than plaintiff is entitled to have granted. * So far as I can
see this Court does not tell the State court where it may
stop, nor does it set up any standards by which the State
court may determine that question for itself.
The task of separating the secular from the religious
in education is one of magnitude, intricacy and delicacy.
To lay down a sweeping constitutional doctrine as demanded by complainant and apparently approved by the
Court, applicable alike to all school boards of the nation,
"to immediately adopt and enforce rules and regulations
prohibiting all instruction in and teaching of religious
education in all public schools," is to decree a uniform,
rigid and, if we are consistent, an unchanging standard
for countless school boards representing and serving
highly localized groups which not only differ from each
other but which themselves from time to time change
attitudes. It seems to me that to do so is to allow zeal
for our own ideas of what is good in public instruction
to induce us to accept the role of a super board of education for every school district in the nation.
I It is idle to pretend that this task is one for which we
can find in th6 Constitution one word to help us as
judges to decide where the secular ends and the sectarian

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED, J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

begins in education. Nor can we find guidance in any
other legal source. It is a matter on which we can find
no law but our own prepossessions. If with no surer
legal guidance we are to take up and decide every variation of this controversy, raised by persons not subject
to penalty or tax but who are dissatisfied with the way
schools are dealing with the problem, we are likely to
have much business of the sort. And, more importantly,
we are likely to make the legal "wall of 'separation between church and state" as winding as the famous serpentine wall designed by Mr. Jefferson for the University
he founded.
MR. JUSTICE REED, dissenting.

The decisions reversing the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois interpret the prohibition. of the First
Amendment against the establishment of religion; made
effective as to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment,
to forbid pupils of the public schools electing, with the
approval of their parents, courses in religious education.
The courses are given, under the school laws of Illinois
as approved by the Supreme Court of that state, by lay
or clerical teachers supplied and directed by an interdenominational, local council of religious education.1 The
classes are held in the respective school buildings of the
pupils at study or released time periods so as to avoid
conflict with recitations. The teachers and supplies are
paid for by the interdenominational group.! As I am
1 The trial court found that: "'The Champaign Council of Religious
Education' [is] a voluntary association made up ,of the representa-,
tives of the Jewish, Roman Catholic and Protestant faiths in the
school district."
2 There is no extra cost to the state but as a theoretical accounting
problem it may be correct to charge to the classes their comparable
proportion of the state expense for buildings, operation and teachers.
In connection with the classes, the teachers need only keep a'record

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

REED,

239

J., dissenting.'

convinced that this interpretation of the First Amendment is erroneous, I feel impelled to express the reasons
for my disagreement. By directing attention to the many
instances of close association of church and state in
American society and by recalling that many of these
relations are so much a part of our tradition and culture
that they are accepted without more, this dissent may
help in an appraisal of the -meaning of the clause of the
First Amendment concerning the establishment of religion and of the reasons which lead to the approval or
disapproval of the judgment below.
The reasons for the reversal of the Illinois judgment,
as they appear in the respective opinions, may be summarized by the following excerpts. The opinion of the
Court, after stating the facts, says: "The foregoing facts,
without reference to others that appear in the record, show
the use of tax-supported property for religious instruction
and the close cooperation between the school authorities
and the religious council in promoting religious education. . . . And it falls squarely under the ban of the
First Amendment (made applicable to the States by the
Fourteenth) as we interpreted it in Everson v. Board of
Education, 330 U. S. 1." Another opinion phrases it
thus: "We do not now attempt to weigh in the Constitutional scale every separate detail or various combination
of factors which may establish a valid 'released time'
program. We find that the basic Constitutional principle
of absolute separation was violatedwhen the State of Illinois, speaking through its Supreme Court, sustained the
school authorities of Champaign in sponsoring and effectively furthering religious beliefs by its educational arrangement." These expressions in the decisions seem to
of the pupils who attend. Increased custodial requirements are likewise nominal. It is customary to use school buildings for community
activities 'when not needed for school purposes. See Ill. Rev. Stat.,
ch. 122, § 123.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

leave open for further litigation variations from the
Champaign plan. Actually, however, future cases must
run the gantlet not only of the judgment entered but
of the accompanying words of the opinions. I find it
difficult to extract from the opinions any conclusion as
to what it is in the Champaign plan/that is unconstitutional. Is it the use of school buildings for religious
instruction; the release of pupils by the schools for religious instruction during school hours; the so-called assistance by teachers in handing out the request cards
to pupils, in keeping lists of them for release and records
of their attendance; or the action of the principals in
arranging an opportunity for the classes and the appearance of the Council's instructors? None of the reversing opinions say whether the purpose of the Champaign
plan for religious instruction during school hours is unconstitutional or whether it is some ingredient used in
or omitted from the formula that makes the plan
unconstitutional.
From the tenor of'the opinions I conclude that their
teachings are that any use of a pupil's school time, whether
that use is on or off the school grounds, with the necessary
school regulations to facilitate attendance, falls under the
ban. I reach this conclusion notwithstanding one sentence of indefinite meaning in the second opinion: "We
do not consider, as indeed we could not, school programs
not before us which, though colloquially characterized as
'released time,' present situations differing in. aspects that
may well be constitutionally crucial." The use of the
words "cooperation," "fusion," "complete hands-off,"
"integrate" and "integrated" to describe the relations between the school and the Council in the plan evidences
this. So does the interpretation of the word "aid." The
criticized "momentum of the whole school atmosphere,"
"feeling of separatism" engendered in the non-participat-

McCOLLUM v.'BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

241

REED, J., dissenting.

ing sects, "obvious pressure . . .to attend," and "divisiveness" lead to the stated conclusion. From the holding
and the language of the opinions, I can only deduce that
religious instruction of public school children during
school hours is prohibited. The history of American education is against such an interpretation of the First
Amendment.
The opinions do not say in words that the condemned
practice of religious education is a law respecting an
establishment of religion contrary to the First Amendment. The practice is accepted as a state law by all. I
take it that when the opinion of the Court says that "The
operation of the state's compulsory education system thus
assists and is integrated with the program of religious
instruction carried on by separate religious sects" and
concludes "This is beyond all question a utilization of the
tax-established and tax-supported public school system to
aid religious groups to spread their faith,'" the intention
of its author is to rule that this practice is a law "respecting an establishment of religion." That was the basis of
Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U. S. 1. It seems
obvious that the action of the School Board in permitting religious education in certain grades of the schools
by all faiths did not prohibit the free exercise of religion.
Even assuming that certain children who did not elect
to take instruction are embarrassed to remain outside
of the classes, one can hardly speak of that embarrassment as a prohibition against the free exercise of religion.
As no issue of prohibition upon the free exercise of religion is before us, we need only examine the School Board's
action to see if it constitutes an establishment of
religion.
The facts, as stated in the reversing opinions, are adequately set out if we interpret the abstract words used in
the light of the concrete incidents of the record. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

correct to say that the parents "consented" to the religious
instruction of the children, if we understand "consent" to
mean the signing of a card like the one in the margin.3
It is correct to say that "instructors were subject to
the approval and supervision of the superintendent of
schools," if it is understood that there were no definitive
written rules and that the practice was as is shown in the
excerpts from the findings below.4 The substance of the
3

,"CHAMPAIGN COUNCIL OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION
1945-1946
Parent's Request Card

Please permit ........... ........... in Grade , . at ..........
School to attend a class in Religious Education one period a week
under the Auspices of the Champaign Council of Religious Education.
(Check which)
Date ............
.
( ) Interdenominational
Protestant
Roman Catholic
( ) Jewish
Signed ........... ...........
(Parent Name)
Parent's'Church ........... ...........
Telephone No ...........
Address .... .... ......
A fee of 25 cents a semester is charged each pupil to help cover
the cost of material used.
If you wish your child to receive religious instruction, please sign
this card and return to the school.
Mae ChApin, Director."
Mae Chapin, the Director, was not a school employee.
,'The superintendent testified that Jehovah's Witnesses or any
other sect would be allowed to teach provided their teachers had
proper educational qualifications, so that bad grammar, for instance,
would not be taught to the pupils. A similar situation developed
with reference to the Missouri Synod of the Lutheran Church.' The
evidence tends to show that during the course of the trial that group
indicated it would affiliate with the Council of Religious Education.
"Before any faith or other group may obtain permission from the
defendant for the similar, free and equal use of rooms in the public,

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

REED,

243

J., dissenting.

religious education course is determined by the members
of the various churches on the council, not by the superintendent.' The evidence and findings set out in the two
preceding notes convince me that the- "approval and
supervision" referred to above are not of the teachers and
the course of studies but of the orderly presentation of the
courses to those students who may elect the instruction.
The teaching largely covered Biblical incidents.' The
religious teachers and their teachings, in every real sense,
school buildings said faith or group must make application to the
superintendent of schools"-of said School District Number 71, who
in turn will determine whether or not it is practical for said group
to teach in said school system.
"The court feels from all the facts. in the record that an honest
attempt has been made and is being made to permit religious instruction to be given by qualified outside teachers of any sect to people
of their own faith in the manner above outlined. The evidence shows
that no sect or religious group has ever been denied the right to
use the schools in this manner."
5A finding reads: "The curriculum of studies in the Protestant
classes is determined by a committee of the Protestant members of
the council of religious education after consultation with representatives of all the different faiths included in said council. The Jewish
classes of course would deny the divinity of Jesus Christ. The teaching in the Catholic classes of course explains to Catholic pupils the
teaching of the Catholic religion, and are not shared by other students
who are Protestants or Jews. The teachings in the Protestant classes
would undoubtedly, from the evidence, teach some doctrines that
would not be accepted by the other two religions."
6 It was found: "The testimony shows that sectarian
differences
between the sects are not taught or emphasized in the actual teaching
as it is conducted in the schools. The testimony of the religious
education teachers, the secular teachers who testified, and the many
children, mostly from Protestant' families, who either took or did
not take religious education courses, is to the effect that religious
education classes have fostered tolerance rather than intolerance."
The Supreme Court of Illinois said: "The religious education
courses do not go to the extent of being worship services and do
not include prayers or the' singing of hymns." 396 Ill. 14, 21, 71
N. E. 2d 161, 164.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED, J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

were financed and regulated by the Council of Religious
Education, not the School Board.
The phrase "an establishment of religion" may have
been intended by Congress to be aimed only at a state
church. When the First Amendment was pending in
Congress in substantially its present form, "Mr. Madison
said, he apprehended the meaning of the words to be, that
Congress should not establish a religion, and enforce the
legal observation of it *bylaw, nor compel men to worship
PassGod in any manner contrary to their conscience."'
ing years, however, have brought about acceptance of a
broader meaning, although never until today, I believe,
has this Court widened its interpretation to any such
degree as holding that recognition of the interest of
our nation in religion, through the granting, to qualified
representatives of the principal faiths, of opportunity to
present religion as an optional, extracurricular subject
during released school time in public school buildings, was
equivalent to an establishment of religion. A reading of
the general statements of eminent statesmen of former
days, referred to in the opinions in this case and in Everson v. Board of Education, supra, will show that circumstances such as those in this case were far from the minds
of the authors. The words and spirit of those statements
may be wholeheartedly accepted without in the least
impugning the judgment of the State of Illinois.'
7 1 Annals of Congress 730.
8 For example, Mr. Jefferson's striking phrase as to the "wall of
separation between church and State" appears in a letter acknowledg-

ing "The affectionate sentiments of esteem and approbation" included
in a testimonial to himself. In its context it reads as follows:
"Believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely
between man and his God, that he owes account to none* other for
his faith or his worship, that the legislative powers of government
reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign
reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that
their legislature should 'make no law respecting an establishment of

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION:
203

REED,

245

J., dissenting.

Mr. Jefferson, as one of thejfounders of the University
of Virginia, a school which from its establishment in 1819
has been wholly governed, managed. and controlled by the
State of Virginia,9 was faced with the same problem that
is before this Court today: the question of the constitutional limitation upon religious education in public
schools. In his annual report as Rector, to the President
and Directors of the Literary Fund, dated October 7, 1822,
approved by the Visitors of the University of whom Mr.
Madison was one,"0 Mr. Jefferson set forth his views at

some length."

These suggestions of Mr. Jefferson were

religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,' thus building a wall
of separation between church and State." 8 The Writings of Thomas
Jefferson (Washington ed., 1861) 113.
9 Acts of the Assembly of 1818-19 (1819) 15; Phillips v. The Rector
and Visitors of the University of Virginia, 97 Va. 472, 474-75, 34
S. E. 66, 67.
10 19 The Writings of Thomas Jefferson (Memorial edition, 1904)
408, 409.
11Id., pp. 414-17:
"It was not, however, to be understood that instruction in religious
opinion and duties was meant to be precluded by the public authorities; as indifferent to the interests of society. On the contrary, the
relations which exist between man and his Maker, and the duties*
resultin from those relations, are the most interesting and important
to every human being, and the most incumbent on his study and
investigation. The want of instruction in the various creeds of religious faith existing among our citizens presents, therefore, a chasm
A remedy, howin a general institution of 'he useful sciences ....
it excludes
while
which,
aspect,
of
promising
suggested
ever, has been
the public authorities from the domain of religious freedom, will
give to, the sectarian schools of divity the fall benefit the public
provisions made for instruction in the other branches of science. ...
It has, therefore, been in contemplation, and suggested by some pious
individuals, who perceive the advantages of associating other studies
with those of religion, to establish their .religious schools on the confines of the University, so as to give *to their students ready and
convenient access and attendance on the scientific lectures of the
University; and to maintain, by that means, those destined for the
religious professions on as high a standing of science, and of personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J.; dissenting.

333 U. S.

adopted 12 and ch. II, § 1, of the Regulations of the University of October 4, 1824, provided that:
"Should the religious sects of this State, or any
of them, according to the invitation held out to them,
establish within, or adjacent to, the precincts of the
University, schools for instruction in the religion of
their sect, the students of the University will be free,
and expected to attend religious worship at the establishment of their respective sects, in the morning,'
and in time to meet their school in the University at
its stated hour." 13
weight and respectability, as may be obtained by others from the
benefits of the University:' Such establishments would offer the further and greater advantage of enabling the students of the University
to attend religious exercises with the professor of their particular sect,
either in the rooms of the building still to be erected, and destined
to that purpose under impartial regulations, as proposed ii, the same
report of the commissioners, or in the lecturing room of such professor. .

.

. 'Such

an arrangement would complete the circle of

the useful sciences embraced by this institution, and w6ull fill the
chasm now existing, on principles which would leave inviolate the
constitutional freedom of religion, the most inalienable and sacred
of all human rights, over which the people and authorities of this
state, individually and publicly, have ever manifested the most watchful jealousy: and could this jealousy be now alarmed, in the opinion
of the legislature, by what is here suggested, thIidea will be relinquished on any surmise 'of disapprobation which they might think
proper to express."
Mr. Jefferson commented upon the report on November 2, 1822,
in a letter to Dr. Thomas Cooper, as follows: "And by bringing the
sects together, and mixing them with the mass of other students, we
shall soften their asperities, liberalize and neutralize their prejudices,
and make the general religion - religion of peace, reason, and morality." 12 Ford, The Works of Thomas Jefferson, (Fed. ed., 1905),
272.
12 3 Randall, Life of Thomas Jefferson (1858) 471.
i-19 The Writings of Thomas Jefferson (Memorial edition, 1904)

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

REED,

247

J., dissenting.

Thus, the "wall of separation between church and State"
that Mr. Jefferson built at the University which he
founded did not exclude religious education from that
school. The difference between the generality of his
statements on the separation of church and state and the
specificity of his conclusions on education are considerable. A rule of law should not be drawn from a fiaure of.
speech.
Mr. Madison's Memorial and Remonstrance against
Religious Assessments, " relied upon by the dissenting
Justices in Everson, is not applicable here.' Mr. Madison was one of the principal opponents in the Virginia
General Assembly of A Bill Establishing a Provision for
Teachers of the Christian Religion. The monies raised
by the taxing section "8of that bill were to be appropriated "by the Vestries, Elders, or Directors of each religious
society, . . . to a provision for a Minister or Teacher
14 The

texts of the Memorial and Remonstrance and the bill against
which it was aimed, to wit, A Bill Establishinga Provision for Teachers of the Christian Religion are set forth in Everson v. Board of
Education, 330 U. S. 1, 28, 63-74.
15 See, generally, the dissent of Ma. JusTicE RUTLEDGE, 330 U. S.
1,28.
18 330 U. S. at 72-73:
"Be it therefore enacted by the General Assembly, That for the
support of Christian teachers,
per centum on the amount, or
in
the pound on the sum payable for tax on the property within this
Commonwealth, is hereby assessed, and shall be paid by every person
chargeable with the said tax at the time the same shall become due;
and the Sheriffs of the several Counties shall have power to levy
and collect the same in the same manner and underthe like restrictions and- limitations, as are or may be prescribed by the laws for
raising the Revenues of this State.
"And be it enacted, That for every sum so paid, the Sheriff or
Collector* shall give a receipt, expressing therein to what society
of Christians the person from whom he may receive the same shall
direct the money to be paid, keeping a distinct account thereof in
his books. .. .'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

of the Gospel of their denomination, or the providing
places of divine worship, and to none other use whatsoever . . . ." The conclusive legislative struggle over
this act took place in the fall of 1785, before the adoption
of the Bill of.Rights. The Remonstrance had been issued
before the General Assembly convened and was instrumental in the "final defeat of the act, which died in committee. Throughout the Remonstrance, Mr. Madison'
speaks of the "establishment" sought to be effected by
the act. It is clear from its historical setting and its
language that the Remonstrance was a protest against
an effort by Virginia to support Christian sects by taxation. Issues similar to those raised by the instant case
were not discussed. Thus, Mr. Madison's approval of Mr.
Jefferson's report as Rector gives, in my opinion, a clearer
indication of his views on the constitutionality of religious
education in public schools than his general statements on
a different subject.
This Court summarized the amendment's accepted
reach into the religious field, as I understand its scope, in
Everson v. Board of Education,supra. The Court's opinion quotes the gist of the Qourts reasoningin Everson. I
agree, as there stated, that none of our governmental entities can "set up a church." I agree that they cannot
"aid" all or any religions or prefer one "over another."
But "aid" must be understood as a purposefal assistance
directly to the church itself -or to some religious group
or organization doing religicrus work .Df such a character
that it may fairly be said to bi performing ecclesiastical
functions. "Prefer" must give an advantage to one "over
another." I agree that pupils cannot '"be released in
part from their legal duty" *of school -attendance upon
condition that they attend religious classes. But'ag Illinois has held that it is within the discretion of the School
Board to permit absence from school for religious instruc-

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

249

REED, J., dissenting.

tion no legal duty of school attendance is violated. 396
Ill. 14, 71 N. E. 2d 161. If the sentence in the Court's
opinion, concerning the pupils' release from legal duty,
is intended to mean that the Constitution forbids a school
to excuse a pupil from secular control during school hours
to attend voluntarily -a class in religious education,
whether in or out of school buildings, I disagree. Of
course, no tax can be levied to support organizations
intended "to teach or practice religion." I agree too that
the state cannot influence one toward religion against his
will or punish him for his beliefs. Champaign's religious
education course does none of these things.
It seems clear to me that the "aid" referred to by the
Court in the Everson case could not have been those
incidental advantages that religious bodies, with other
groups similarly situated, obtain as a by-product of
organized society. This explains the well-known fact
that all churches receive "aid" from government in the
form of freedom from taxation. The Everson decision
itself justified the transportation of children to church
schools by New Jersey for safety reasons. It accords
with Cochran vi Louisiana State Board of Education,
281 U. S. 370, where this Court upheld a free textbook
statute of Louisiana against a charge that it aided private
schools on the ground that the books were for the education of the children, not to aid religious schools. Likewise the National School Lunch Act aids all school children attending tax-exempt schools." In Bradfield v.
Roberts, 175 U. S. 291, this Court held proper the payment of money by the Federal Government to build an
addition to a hospital, chartered by individuals who were
members of a Roman Catholic sisterhood, and operated
under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church. This
was done over the objection that it aided the establish1760 Stat. 230, ch. 281, §§ 4, 11 (d) (3).

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

ment of religion.'8 While obviously in these instances the
respective churches, in a certain sense, were aided, this
Court has never held that such "aid" was in violation of
the First or Fourteenth Amendment.
Well-recognized and long-established practices support
the validity of the Illinois statute here in question. That
statute, as construed in this case, is comparable to those
in many states." All differ to some extent. New York
may be taken as a fair example.' In'many states the pro8

See Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 390; Quick Bear V.
Leupp, 210 U. S. 50.
.19Ed. Code of Cal. (Deering, 1944) § 8286; 6 Ind. Stat. Ann.
(Bums, 1933) 1945 Supp. § 28-505a; 1 Code of Iowa ch. 299, .§ 299.2
(1946).; Ky. Rev. Stat. (1946) § 158.220; 1 Rev. Stat. of Maine
(1944) ch. 37, § 131; 2 Ann. Laws of Mass. (1945) ch. 76, § 1; Minn.
Stat. (1945) § 132.05; N. Y. Education Law § 3210 (1); 8 Ore. Comp.
Laws Ann. (1940) § 111-3014; 24 Pa. Stat. Ann. (Purdon, 1930)
1947 Supp. §'1563; 1 Cbde of S. D. (1939) § 15:3202; 1 Code of
W. Va. (1943) § 1847'
20 Education Law § 3210 (1) provides that: "a. A minor required
by the provisions of part one of this article to attend upon instruction
shall attend regularly as prescribed where he resides or is employed,
for the entire time the appropriate public schools or classes are in
session and shall be subordinate and orderly while so attending.
"b. Absence for religious observance and education shall be permitted under rides that the commissioner shall establish."
Acting under the. authority of the New York law, the State Commissioner of Education issued, on July 4, 1940, these. regulations:
"I Absence of a pupil from school during school hours for religious
observance and education to be had outside the school building and
grounds will be excused upon the request in writing signed by the
1

parent or guardian of the pupil.
"2 The courses in religious -observance and. education must be
maintained and operated by or under the control of a dul' constituted
religioqq body or of-duly constituted religous bodie'.
"3 P pils must be registered for the courses afid a copy of the
registraron filed with the local public school authorities.
"4 Reports of attendance of pupils upon such courses shall be filed
with the principal or teacher at theend of each week.
"5 Such absence shall be for not more than one hour each week

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

REED,

251

J., dissenting.

gram is under the supervision of a 'eligious council composed of delegates who are themselves communicants of
various faiths. 21 As is shown by Bradfield v. Roberts
supra, the fact that the members of the council have religious affiliations is not significant.

In

some, instruc-

at the close of a session at a time to be fixed by the local school
authorities.
"6 In the event that more than one school for religious observance
and education is maintained in any district, the hour for absence
for each particular public school in such district shall be the same
for all such religious schools."
On November 13, 1940, rules to govern the released time program
of the New York City schools were adopted by the Board of Education of the City of New York. Under these rules the practice of
the religious education program is this: classes in religious education
are to be held outside of school buildings; establishment of the program rests in the initiative of the church and home; enrollment is
voluntary and accomplished by this technique: the church distributes
cards to the parents and these are filled out and presented to the
school; records of enrollment and arrangements for release are handled by school authorities; discipline is the responsibility of the
church; and children who do not attend are kept at school and
given other work. See Rules of the Board of Education of the City
of New York adopted Nov. 13, 1940; Public Education Association
Released Time for Religious Education in New York City's Schools
(1943); id.(1945).
Constitutional approval by the New York Court of Appeals of
these practices was given before the passage of Education Law
§ 3210 (1). People ex rel. Lewis v. Graves, 245 N. Y. 195, 156 N. E.
663.
21 The New York City program is supervised by The Greater New
York Coordinating Committee on Relea.sed Time, a group of laymen
drawn from Jews, Protestants and Roman Catholics. This Committee is an example of a broad national effort to bring about religious
education of children through cooperative action of schools and
groups of members of various religious denominations. The methods
vary in different states and cities but are basically like the work of
the New York City Committee. See Brief Sketches of Weekday
Church Schools, Department of Weekday Religious Education, International Council of Religious Education, Chicago, Illinois (1944).

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

tion is given outside of the school buildings; in others,
within these buildings. Metropolitan centers like New
York usually would have available quarters convenient to
schools. Unless smaller cities and rural communities use
the school building at times that do not interfere with
recitations, they may be compelle*d to give up religious
education. I understand that pupils not taking religious
education usually are given other work of a secular nature
within the schools. 2 Since all these states use the facilities of the schools to aid the religious education to some
extent. their desire to permit religious education to school
children is'thwarted by this Court's judgment. 3 Under it,
as I understand its language, children cannot be released
or dismissed from school to attend classes in religion while
other children must remain to pursue secular education.
Teachers cannot keep the records as to which pupils are
to be dismissed and which retained. To do so is said to
be an "aid" in establishing religion; the use of public
money .for religion.
Cases running into the scores have been in the state
courts of last resort that involved religion and the schools.
Except where the exercises with religious significance partook of the ceremonial practice of sects or groups, their
22See note 20 supra.
The use of Ischool buildings is not unusual. See Davis, Weekday
Classes in Religious Education, U. S. Office of Education (Bulletin
23

1941, No. 3) 27; 'National Education Association, The State and
Sectarian Education, Research Bulletin (Feb. 1946) 36. The International Council of Religious Education advises that church buildings
be used if possible. Shaver, Remember the Weekday, International
Council of Religious Education (1946)..
"Today, approximately two thousand communities in all but two
states provide religious education in cooperation with the public
schools for more than a million and a half of pupils." Shaver, The

Movement for Weekday Religious Education, Religious Education
(Jan.-Feb. 194.6), p. 7.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

253

REED, J., dissenting.

constitutionality has been generally upheld.2' Illinois
itself promptly struck down as violative of its own
constitution required exercises partaking of a religious
ceremony. People ex rel. Ring v. Board of Educ4tion,
245 Ill. 334, 92 N. E. 251. In that, case compulsory religious exercises--a reading from the King James Bible,
the Lord's Prayer and the singing of hymns--were forbidden as "worship services." In this case, the Supreme
Court of Illinois pointed out that in the Ring case, the
activities in the school were ceremonial and compulsory.
in this, voluntary and educational. 396 Ill. 14, 20-21,
71 N; E. 2d i61, 164.
The practices of the federal government offer many
examples of this kind of "aid" by the state to religion.
The Congress of the United States has a chaplain for each
House who daily invokes divine blessings and guidance for.
24 Many

uses of religious material in the public schools in a manner

that has some religious significance have been sanctioned, by state
courts. These practices have been permitted: reading selections
from the King James Bible without comment; reading the Bible and
repeating the Lord's Prayer; teaching the Ten Commandments;
saying prayers; and using textbooks based upon the Bible and
emphasizing its fundamental teachings. When conducted in a sectarian manner - reading from the Bible and singing hymns in the
school's morning exercise have been prohibited as has using the Bible
as a textbook. There is a conflict of authority on the question of the
constitutionality of wearing religious garb while teaching in the public
schools. It has been held to be constitutional for school authorities
to prohibit the reading of the Bible in the public schools. There
is a conflict of authority on the constitutionality of the use of public school buildings for religious services held outside of school
hours. The constitutionality, under state constitutions, of furnishing
free textbooks and free transportation to parochial school children
is in conflict. See Nichols v. Henry, 301 Ky. 434, 191 S. W. 2d 930;.
Findley v. City of Conneaut, 12 Ohio Supp. 161. The earlier cases
are collected in 5 A. L. R. 866 and 141 A. L. R. 1144.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

the pinceedings." The armed forces have commissioned
chaplains from early days.2 ' They conduct the public
services in accordance with the liturgical requirements of
their xespective faiths, ashore and afloat, employing for
the purpose property belonging to the United States and
dedicated to the services of religion.2 1 Under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, eligible veterans may
receive training at government expense for the ministry
in denominational schools. 2' The schools of the District
of Columbia have opening exercises which "include a reading from the Bible without note or comment, and the
Lord's prayer." "
I-A.he United States Naval Academy and the United
States Military Academy, schools wholly supported and
eompletely controlled by the federal government, there
are a number of religious activities. Chaplains are attached to both schools. Attendance at church services
on Sunday is compulsory at both the Military and Naval
Academies.'
At West Point the Protestant services are
25 Rules of the House of Representatives (1943) Rule VII; Senate
Manual (1947) 6, fn. 2.

263

Stat. 297 (1816).

27

Army Reg., No. 60-5 (1944); U. S. Navy Reg. (1920), ch. 1,
§.2 and ch. 34, §§ 1-2.
'28

58 Stat. 289.

29 Board of Education Rules, ch. VI, § 4.
30Reg. for the U. S. Corps of Cadets (1947) 47: "Attendance at
chapel is part of a cadet's training; no cadet will be exempted. Each
cadet will receive religious training in one of the three principal
faiths: Catholic, Protestant, or Jewish." U. S. Naval Academy Reg.,
Art. 4301 (b): ".Midshipmen shall attend church services on Sundays at the Naval Academy Chapel or at one of the regularly
established churches inthe city of Annapolis."
Morning prayers are also required at Annapolis. U. S. Naval
Academy Reg., Art. 4301 (a): "Daily, except on Sundays, a Chaplain
will conduct prayers in the messhall, immediately before breakfast."
Protestant and Catholic Chaplains take their turn in le4iding these
prayers.

McCOLLUM v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
203

REED,

255

J., dissenting.

held in the Cadet Chapel, the Catholic in the Catholic
Chapel, and the Jewish in the Old Cadet Chapel; at Annapolis only Protestant services are held on the reservation, midshipmen of other religious persuasions attend
the churches of the city of Annapolis. These facts indicate that both schools since their earliest beginnings have
maintained and enforced a pattern of participation .in
formal worship.
With the general statements in the opinions concerning
the constitutional requirement that the nation and the
states, by virtue of the First and Fourteenth Amendments,3 ' may "make no law respecting an establishment'
of religion," I am in agreement. But, in the light of the
meaning given to those words by the precedents, customs,
and practices which I-have detailed above, I cannot agvee
with the Court's conclusion that when pupils compelled
by law to go to school for secular education are released
from school so as to attend the religious classes, churches
are unconstitutionally aided. Whatever mhykbe the wisdom of the arrangement as to the use of the school-buildings made with the Champaign -Council of Religious Education, it is clear to me that past practice shows such
cooperation between the schools and a non-ecclesiastical
body is not forbidden by the First Amendment. When
actual church services have always been permitted on government property, the mere use of the school buildings
by a non-sectarian group for religious education ought not
to be condemned as an establishment of religion. For a
non-sectarian organization to give the type of instruction
here offered cannot be said to violate .our rule as to the
establishment of religion by the state. The prohibition of
enactments respecting the establishment of religion do
31 The principles of the First Amendment were absorbed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pennekamp v. Florida, 328 U. S. 331

335.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

not bar every friendly gesture between church and state.
It is not an absolute prohibition against every conceivable
situation where the two may work together, any, more
than the other provisions of the First Amendment-free
speech, free press-are absolutes.2 If abuses occur, such
as the use of the instruction hour for sectarian purposes, I
have no doubt, in view of the Ring case, that Illinois will
promptly correct them. If they are of a kind that tend
to the establishment of a church or interfere with the free
exercise of- religion, this Court is open for a review of
any erroneous decision. This Court cannot be too cautious in upsetting practices embedded in our society by
many years of experience. A state is entitled to have
great leeway in its legislation when dealing with the important social problems of its population.33 A definite
violation of legislative limits must be established. The
Constitution should not be stretched to forbid national
customs in the way courts act to reach arrangements
to avoid federal taxation.' Devotion to the great principle of religious liberty should not lead us into a rigid
interpretation of the constitutional guarantee that conflicts with accepted habits of our people. This is an instance where, for me, the history of past practices is
determinative of the meaning of a constitutional clause,
not a decorous introduction to the study of its text. The
judgment should be affirmed.
32 See Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 371; Reynolds v. Unite(
States, 98 U. S. 145, 166; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U; S. 296
303; Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 574, 576; Chaplinsky v
New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571; Prince v. Massachusetts, 32
U. S. 158.
3 Cf. Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan,333 U. S. 28.
Higgins v. Smith, 308 U. S. 473; Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.
331; Comm'r v. Tower, 327 U. S. 280; Lusthaus v. Comm'r, 327

U.S .293.

