IN RE OLIVER.
Syllabus. •

IN RE OLIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 215.

Argued December 16, 1947.-Decided March 8, 1948.

In obedience to a subpoena, petitioner appeared as a witness before
a Michigan circuit judge who was then conducting, in accordance
with Michigan law, a secret "one-man grand jury" investigation of
crime. After petitioner had given certain testimony, the judgegrand jury, acting in the belief that his testimony was false and
evasive (which belief was based partly on testimony given-by at
least one other witness in petitioner's absence), summarily charged
him with contempt, convicted him, and sentenced him to sixty days
in Jail. These proceedings were secret and petitioner h~d no
opportunity to secure camnsel, to prepare his defense, to crossexamine the other grand- ury witness, or to summon witnesses to
refute the charge against him. Held:
1. The secrecy of petitioner's trial for criminal contempt violated the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp.
266-273,278.
(a) The reasons advanced to support the secrecy of grandjury investigative proceedings do not justify secrecy in the trial
of a defendant accused of an offense for which he may be fined or
sent to jail. Pp. 264-266.
(b) An accused is entitled to a public trial, at least to the
extent of having his friends, relatives and counsel present-no
matter with what offense he may be charged. Pp. 271-272.
2. The failure to afford petitioner a reasonable opportunity to
defend himself against the charge of giving false and evasive testimony was a denial of due process of law. Pp. 273-278.
(a) As a minimum, due process requires that an accused be
given reasonable notice of the charge against him, the right to
examine the witnesses against him, the right to testify in his own
behalf, and the right to be represented by counsel. P. 273.
(b) The circumstances of this case did not justify denial of
these rights on the ground. that the trial was for contempt of court
committed in the court's actual presence. Ex part? Terry, 128
U. S. 289, distinguished. Pp. 273-278.
318 Mich. 7, 27 N. W. 2d 323, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

In a habeas corpus proceeding, the State Supreme Court
denied petitioner's release from imprisonment upon a sentence for contempt., 318 Mich. 7, 27 N. W. 2d 323. This
Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 755. Reversed,
p. 278.
Osmond K. Fraenkel and William Henry Gallagher
argued the cause for petitioner. With them on the brief
were Louis M. Hopping and Elmer H. Groefsema.
Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor General, argued the
cause for the State of Michigan, respondent. With him
on the brief were Eugene F. Black, Attorney General,
H. H. Warner and Daniel J. O'Hara,Assistant Attorneys
General.
Harry G. Gault and Wilber M. Brucker filed a brief.for
the State Bar of Michigan as amicus curiae.
Patrick H. O'Brien and Erwin B. Ellmann filed a brief
for the Detroit Chapter, National Lawyers Guild, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE

BLAC; delivered the opinion of the Court.

A Michigan circuit judge summarily sent the petitioner
to jail for contempt 'of court. We must determine
whether he was denied the procedural due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
In obedience to a subpoena the petitioner appeared as
a witness before a Michigan circuit judge who was then
conducting, in accordance with Michigan law, a "oneman grand jury" investigation into alleged gambling and
'official corruption. The investigation presumably took
place in the judge's chambers, though that is not certain.

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

Two other circuit judges were present-in an advisory
capacity.1 A prosecutor may have been present. A
stenographer was most likely there. The record does not
show what other members, if any, of the judge's investigatorial staff participated in the proceedings. It is certain, however, that the public was excluded-the questioning was secret in accordance with the traditional grand
jury method..
After petitioner had given certain testimony, the judgegrand jury, still in secret session, told petitioner that
neither he nor his advisors believed petitioner's storythat it did not "jell.'? This belief of the judge-grand
jury was not based entirely on what the petitioner had
testified. As will later be seen, it rested in part on beliefs
or suspicions of the judge-jury derived from the testimony
of at least one other witness who had previously given
evidence in secret. Petitioner had not been present when
that witness testified and so far as appears was not even
aware that he had testified. Based on its beliefs thus
formed--that petitioner's story did not "jell"-the judgegrand jury immediately charged him with contempt,
immediately convicted him, and immediately sentenced
him to sixty days in jail. Under these circumstances
of haste and secrecy, petitioner, of course, had no chance
to enjoy the benefits of counsel, no chance to prepare
his defens6, and no opportunity either to cross-examine
the other grand jury witness or to summon witnesses
to refute the charge against him.
Three days later a lawyer filed on petitioner's behalf
in the Michigan Supreme Court the petition for habeas
corpus now under consideration. It alleged among other
I Under certain circumstances 'Michigan law permits circuit judges
to sit with other circuit judges in an advisory capacity. Mich. Stat.
Ann. § 27.188 (Henderson 1938); Mich. Comp. Laws 1929 § 13666.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
oprnion of the Court.

333 U. S

things that the petitioner's attorney had not been allowed
to confer with him and that, to the best of the attorney's
knowledge, the petitioner was not held in jail under any
judgment, decree or execution, and was "not confined by
virtue of any legal commitment directed to the sheriff
as required by law." An order was then entered signed by
the circuit judge that he had while "sitting as a One-Man
Grand Jury" convicted the petitioner of contempt of court
because petitioner had testified "evasively" and had given
"contradictory answers" to questions. The order directed
that petitioner "be confined in the County Jail . . . for a

period of sixty (60) days or until such time as he ...
shall appear and answer the questions heretofore propounded to him by this Court ...."
The Supreme Court of Michigan, on grounds detailed
in the companion case of In re Hartley, 317 Mich. 441,
27 N. W. 2d 48,2 rejected petitioner's contention that the

summary manner in which he had been sentenced to jail
in the secrecy of the grand jury chamber had deprived
him of his liberty without affording him the kind of
notice, opportunity to defend himself, and trial which
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
2 In giving reasons in its Hartley opinion for rejecting this petitioner's constitutional contentions, the State Supreme Court said it
would have been an "idle gesture to require such adjournment of
the grand jury-and its reconvening as a circuit court. The circuit
judge, while acting as a one-man grand jury may, in appropriate
cases, summarily adjudge a witness testifying before him guilty of
contempt and impose sentence forthwith.
"Plaintiff's contempt, if any, was committed in the face of the
court and required no extraneous proofs 'as to its occurrence. It
was direct and there was, therefore, no necessity for filing of charges,
notice to accused and hearing as provided in 3 Comp. Laws of 1929,
§ 1,3912 (Stat. Ann. § 27.513). It was properly dealt with summarily.
3 Comp. Laws 1929, §§ 13910, 13911 (Stat. Ann. §§ 27.511, 27.512)."
317 Mich. at 444-445, 27 N. W. 2d at 50.

IN RE OLIVER.
257

requires.3

Opinion of the Court.

In re Oliver, 318 Mich. 7, 27 N. W. 2d 323.

We granted certiorari to consider these procedural due
process questions.
The case requires a brief explanation of Michigan's
unique one-man grand jury system.4 That state's first
constitution (1835), like the Fifth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution, required that most criminal prosecutions be begun by presentment or indictment of a grand
jury. Art. I, § 11. This compulsory provision was left
out of the 1850 constitution and from the present constitution (1908). However, Michigan judges may still in
their discretion summon grand juries, but we are told by
the attorney general that this discretion is rarely exercised and that the "One-Man Grand Jury" has taken the
place of the old Michigan 16 to 23-member grand jury,
particularly in probes of alleged misconduct of public
officials.
The one-man grand jury law was passed in 1917 following a recommendation of the State Bar Association that, in
3 By a four to four vote the court also held that there was "evidence
to support the finding" of the judge-grand jury that petitioner had
testified falsely. Petitioner has argued here that there was not a

shred of evidence which under any circumstances could have conceivably supported this finding and thus that he was deprived of
his liberty without due process of law. In the view that we take
of this case we find it unnecessary to consider this constitutional
contention.
4 The laws authorizing the system are found in Michigan Comp.
Laws 1929, § 17217, et seq.; Mich. Stat. Ann. § 28.943, et seq. (Henderson 1938). A summary of the ten states' statutes which have
some similarities to Michigan's appears in Winters, The Michigan
One-Man Grand Jury, 28 J. Am. Jud. Soc. 137. See, e. g., Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 889f (Supp. 1941); McCarthy v. Clancy, 110 Conn. 482,
148 A. 551; Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 37, §83; tit. 21 §951 (1937); Ex
parte Ballew, 20 Okla. Cr. 105, 201 P. 525.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the interest of more rigorous-law enforcement, greater emphasis should be put upon the "investigative procedure"
for "probing" and for "detecting" crime.' With this need
uppermost in its thinking the Bar Association recommended a bill which, provided that justices of the peace
be vested with the inquisitorial powers traditionally
conferred only on coroners and grand juries. The bill
as passed imposed the recommended investigatory powers
not only on justices of the peace, but on police judges
and judges of courts of record as well. Mich. Laws 1.917,
Act 196.
Whenever this judge-grand jury may summon a witness to appear, it is his duty to go and to answer all
material questions that do not incriminate him. Should
he fail to appear, fail to answer material questions, or
should the judge-grand jury believe his evidence false and
evasive, or deliberately contradictory, he may be found
guilty of contempt. This offense may be punishable by
a fine of not more than one hundred dollars, or imprisoniment in the county jail not exceeding sixty days, or both,
at the discretion of the judge-grand jury. If after having been so sentenced he appears and satisfactorily
answers the questions propounded by the judge-jury,
his sentence may, within the judge-jury's discretion, be
commuted or suspended. At the end of his first sentence
he can be resummoned and subjected to the same inquiries. Should the judge-jury again believe his answers
false and evasive, or contradictory, he can be sentenced to
serve sixty days more unless he reappears before the
judge-jury during the second 60-day period and satisfactorily answers the questions, and the judge-jury within
Proceedings of the Twenty-sixth Annual Meeting of the Michigan
State Bar Association 101-105 (1916).

IN RE OLIVER..
257

Opinion of the Court.

its discretion then decides to commute or suspend his
sentence.'
In .carrying out this authority a judge-grand jury is
authorized to appoint its own prosecutors, detectives and
aides at public expense," all or any of whom may, at the
discretion of the justice of the peace or judge, be admitted
to the inquiry. Mich. Stat. Ann. § 28.944 (Henderson
1938). A witness may be asked questions on all subjects
and need not be advised of his privilege against selfincrimination, even though the questioning is in secret.'
And these secret interrogations can be carried on day or
night, in a public place or a "hideout," a courthouse, an
office bdilding, a hotel room, a home, or a place of business; so well is this 'ambulatory power understood in
Michigan that the one-man grand jury is also popularly
referred to as the "portable grand jury." 9
It was a circuit, court judge-grand jury before which
petitioner testified. That judge-jury filed in the State
Supreme Court an answer to this petition for habeas
corpus. The answer contained fragments of what was
apparently a stenographic transcript of petitioner's testimony given before the grand jury. It was these fragments of testimony, so the answer stated, that the "Grand
6 In re Ward, 295 Mich. 742, 747, 295 N. W. 483, 485.

(First

.60-day conviction May 31, 1940, followed by second 60-day conviction July 29, 1940. A $100 fine was also imposed in each
instance.)
In re Investigation of Recount, 270 Mich. 328, 331, 258 N. W.
776, 777; In re Slattery, 310 Mich. 458, 479, 17 N. W. 2d 251, 259.
8
People v. Wolfson, 264 Mich. 409, 413, 250 N. W. 260, 262; In re
Watson, 293 Mich. 263, 269, 291. N. W. 652, 655; People v. Butler,
221 Mich. 626, 631-632, 192 N. W. 685, 687.
9
Winters, The Michigan One-Man Grand Jury, 28 J. Am. Jud. Soc.
137, 143; Unprecedented Success in Criminal Courts, 26 J. Am.
Jud. Soc. 42-43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Jury" had concluded to be "false and evasive." The
petitioner then filed a verified motion with the State
Supreme Court seeking to have the complete transcript
of his testimony before the judge-jury produced for the
habeas corpus hearing. He alleged that a full report of
his testimony would disclose that he had freely, promptly,
and to the best of his ability, answered all questions asked,
and that the full transcript would refute the charge that
lie had testified evasively or falsely. In his answer to the
motion the circuit judge did not deny these allegations.
However, he asserted that the fragments contained in the
original answer showed "all of the Grand Jury testimony
necessary to the present proceeding" and that "the full
disclosure of Petitioner's testimony would seriously retard
Grand Jury activities." The State Supreme Court then
denied the petitioner's motion. Thus, when that Court
later dismissed the petition for habeas corpus it had seen
only a copy of a portion of the record of the testimony
given by the petitioner.
The petitioner does not here challenge the constitutional power of Michigan to grant traditional inquisitorial
grand jury power to a single judge, and therefore we
do not concern ourselves with that question. It has
long been recognized in this country however that the
traditional 12 to 23-member grand juries may examine
witnesses in secret sessions. Oaths of secrecy are ordinarily taken both by the members of such grand juries
and by witnesses before them. Many reasons have been
advanced to support grand jury secrecy. See, e. g.,
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 58-66; State v. Branch, 68

N. C. 186. But those reasons have never been thought
to justify secrecy in the trial of an accused charged with
violation of law for which he may be fined or sent to jail.
Grand juries investigate, and the usual end of their in-,
vestigation is either a report, a "no-bill" or an indictment.

IN RE OLIVER.
257

265

Opinion of the Court.

They do not try and they do not convict. They render no
judgment. When their work is finished by the return of
an indictment, it cannot be used as evidence against the
person indicted. Nor may he be fined or sentenced to
jail until he has been tried and convicted after having been
afforded the procedural safeguards required by due process
of law. Even when witnesses before grand juries refuse
to answer.proper questions, the grand juries do not adjudge the witnesses guilty of contempt of court in secret or
in public or at all."0 Witnesses who refuse to testify before
grand juries are tried on contempt charges before judges
sitting in open court. And though the powers of a judge
even when acting as a one-man grand jury may be, as
Michigan holds, judicial in their nature," the due process
clause may apply with one effect on the judge's grand
jury investigation, but with quite a different effect when
the judge-grand jury suddenly makes a witness before it
a defendant in a contempt case.
Here we are concerned, not with petitioner's rights as
a witness in a secret grand jury session, but with his rights
as a defendant in a contempt proceeding. The powers
of the judge-grand jury who tried and convicted him in
secret and sentenced him to jail on a charge of false and
evasive swearing must likewise be measured, not by the
limitations applicable to grand jury proceedings, but by
the constitutional standards applicable to court proceedings in which an accused may be sentenced to fine or
imprisonment or both. Thus our first question is this:
10See

cases collected in 8 A. L. R. 1579-1580; Orfield, Criminal

Procedure from Arrest to Appeal 161 (1947).
1 In re Slattery, 310 Mich. 458, 466-468, 17 N. W. 2d 251, 254-255;
Kloka v. State Treasurer, 318 Mich. 87, 90, 27 N. W. 2d 507, 508;

cf. Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 278, 284; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 481, 489; United States v.
Ferreira,13 How. 40, 44-48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Can an accused be tried and convicted for contempt of
court in grand jury secrecy?
First. Counsel have not cited and we have been unable
to find a single instance of a criminal trial conducted in
camera in any federal, 2 state, or municipal court during
the history of tis country. Nor have we found any
record of even one such secret criminal trial in England
since abolition of the Court of Star, Chamber in 1641, and
whether that court ever convicted people secretly is in
dispute. Summary trials for alleged misconduct called
contempt of court 13 have not been regarded as an exception to this universal rule against secret trials, unless some
other Michigan one-man grand jury case may represent
such an exception.
This nation's accepted practice of guaranteeing a public
trial to an accused has its roots in our English common
law heritage. The exact date of its origin is obscure, but
it likely evolved long before the settlement of our land
as an accompaniment of the aficient institution of jury
trial." In this country the guarantee to an accused of
Cases within the jurisdiction of courts martial may be regarded
as an exception. Ex parte Quirin, 317 U. S. 1, 43; King v. Governor
of Lewes Prison,61 Sol. J. 294, 30 Harv. L. Rev. 771. Whatever may
be the classification of juvenile court proceedings, they are often
conducted without admitting all the public. But it has never been
the practice wholly to exclude parents, relatives, and friends, or
to refuse juveniles the benefit of counsel.
I 3 Under Michigan law contempt proceedings against a witness
before a one-man grand jury are criminal in nature. In re Wilkowski, 270 Mich. 687, 259 N. W. 658. But this characterization is not'
material in resolving this due process q~iestion. Cf. Gompers v.
United States, 233 U. S. 604, 610-611.
'I Radin, The Right t3" a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381-384.
Early commentators mention that public trials were commonly held
without attempting to trace their origin. Sir Thomas Smith in, 1565
in his De Republica Anglorum bk. 2, pp. 79, 101 (Alston ed. 1906);
Sir Matthew Hale about 1670 in his History of The Common Law of
12

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

the right to a public trial first appeared in a state constitution in 1776.
Following the ratification in 1791 of
the Federal Constitution's Sixth Amendment, which commands that "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial . . ." most
of the original states and those subsequently admitted to
16
the Union adopted similar constitutional provisions.
Today almost without exception " every state by constiEngland 343-345 (Runnington ed. 1820). In 1649, a few years
after the Long Parliament abolished the Court of Star Chamber,
an accused charged with high treason before a Special Commission
of Oyer and Terminer claimed the right to public trial and apparently
was given such a trial. Trial of John Lilburne, 4 How. St. Tr. 1270,
1274. "By immemorial usage, wherever the common law prevails,
all trials are in open court, to which spectators are admitted." 2
Bishop, New Criminal Procedure § 957 (2d ed. 1913).
15Penn. Const., Declaration of Rights IX (1776); N. C. Const.,
Declaration of Rights IX (1776) (criminal convictions only by jury
verdict in "open court").
"6See, e.g., Vt. Const., ch. I, Declaration of Rights, XI (1787) ; Del.
Const., Art. I, § 7 (1792); Ky. Const., Art. XII, cl.
10 (1792); Tenn.
Const., Art. XI, § 9 (1796); Miss. Const., Art. I, § 10 (1817); Mich.
Const., Art. I, § 10 (1&35); Tex. Const., Art. I, § 8 (1845).
17 Four states, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Virginia and
Wyoming, appear to have neither statutory nor constitutional provisions specifically requiring that criminal trials be held in public,
although all have constitutions guaranteeing an accused the right to a
jury trial. Mass. Const., Pt. I, Art. XII; N. H. Const., Pt. First,
Arts. 15th, 16th; Va. Const., Art. I, § 8; Wyo. Const., Art. 1, § 10.
Massachusetts by implication has recognized that an accused has a
.right to a public trial as well. A statute of that state permits the
exclusion of spectators in only a limited category of cases. Mass.
Gen. Laws c. 278, § 16A (1932). In New Hampshire- and Wyoming
no statute or decision has been found in which the right of an accused
to a public trial is mentioned. In Virginia, although no decision has
been discovered, a statute provides: "In 'the trial of all criminal cases,
whether the same be felony or misdemeanor cases, the court may, in
its discretion, exclude from the trial any or all persons whose presence
is not deemed necessary." Va. Code Ann. § 4906 (1942).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

ttion, 8 statute," or judicial decision," requires that all
criminal trials be open to the public.
The traditional Anglo-American distrust for secret trials
has been variously ascribed to the notorious use of this
practice by the Spanish Inquisition,2 to the excesses of
18

Forty-one states: Ala. Const., Art. I, § 6; Ariz. Const., Art. Ii,
§ 24; Ark. Const., Art. II, § 10; Cal. Const., Art. I, § 13; Colo.Const.,
Art. II, § 16; Conn. Const., Art. I, § 9; Del. Const., Art. I, § 7;
Fla. Const., Declaration of Rights, § 11; Ga. Const., Art. I, § I, par. V;

Idaho Const., Art. I, § 13; Ill.
Const., Art. II, § 9; Ind. Const., Art. 1,
§ 13; Iowa Const., Art. I, § 10; Kan. Const., Bill of Rights, § 10;
Ky. Const., § 11; La. Const., Art. I, § 9; Me. Const., Art. I, § 6;
Mich. Const., Art. II, § 19; Minn. Const., Art. 1, § 6; Miss. Const.,
Art. 3, § 26; Mo. Const., Art. I, § 18; Mont. Const., Art. III, § 16;
Neb. Const., Art. I, § 11; N. J. Const., Art. I, § 8; N. M. Const., Art.
II, § 14; N. C. Const., Art. I, § 13 (no convictions for crime except by
jury verdict in "open court"); N. D. Coast., Art. I, § 13; Ohio Const.,
Art. I, § 10; Okla. Const., Art. II, § 20; Ore. Const., Art. I, § 11;
Pa. Coast., Art. I, § 9; R. I. Coast., Art. I, § 10; S. C. Coast., Art. I,
§ 18; $. D. Const., Art. 6, §7; Tenn. Const., Art. I, § 9; Tex. Const.,
Art. I, § 10; Utah Const., Art. I, § 12; Vt. Const., ch. I, Art. 10th;
Wash. Const., Art. I, § 22; W. Va. Coast., Art. III, § 14; Wis. Const.,
Art. I, § 7.
19Two states: Nev. Comp. Laws Ann. § 10654 (1929); N. Y.
Civil Rights Law § 12.
2 The Maryland Court of Appeals has apparently interpreted the
state constitution as prohibiting secret trials. Dutton v. State, 123
Md. 373, 386-388, 91 A. 417, 422-423.
21 Radin, The Right to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381, 389.
The criminal procedure of the civil law countries "long resembled that
of the Inquisition in thdt the preliminary examination of the accused,
the questioning of witnesses, and the trial of the accused were conducted in secret. Esmein, A History of Continental Criminal Procedure 183-382 (1913); Ploscowe, Development of Inquisitorialand
Accusatorial Elements in French Procedure, 23 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 372-386. The ecclesiastical courts of Great' Britain, which
intermittently exercised a limited civil and criminal jurisdiction,
adopted a procedure described as "in name as well as in fact an
Inquisition, differing from the Spanish Inquisition in the circumstances
that it did not at any time as far, as we are aware employ torture;
and that the bulk of the business of the courts was of a comparatively

IN RE OLIVER.
257

269

Opinion of the Court.

the English Court of Star Chamber,' and to the French
monarchy's abuse of the lettre de cachet." All of these
institutions obviously symbolized a menace to liberty. In
unimportant kind ....
" 2 Stephen, History of the Criminal Law
of England, 402 (1883). The secrecy of the ecclesiastical courts and
the civil law courts was often pointed out by commentators who
praised the publicity of the common law courts. See e. g., 3 Blackstone, Commentaries *373; 1 Bentham, Rationale of Judicial Evidence, 594-595, 603 (1827). The English common law courts which
succeeded to the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts have renounced
all claim to hold secret sessions in cases formerly within the ecclesiastical jurisdiction, even in civil suits. See, e. g., Scott v. Scott,
[1913] A. C. 417.
22 Davis v. United States, 247 F. 394, 395; Keddington v. State,
19 Ariz. 457, 459, 172 P. 273; Williamson v. Lacy, 86 Me. 80, 82-83,
29 A. 943, 944; Dutton v. State, 123 Md. 373, 387, 91 A. 417, 422;
Jenks, The Book of English Law 91 (3d ed. 1932). Some authorities
have said that trials in the Star Chamber were public, but that witnesses against the accused were examined privately with no opportunity for him to discredit them. Apparently all authorities agree
that the accused himself was grilled in secret, often tortured, in an
effort to obtain a confession and that .he most objectionable of the
Star Chamber's practices wps its asserted prerogative to disregard the
common law rules of criminal procedure when the occasion demanded.
5 Holdsworth, A History of English Law, 163, 165, 180-197 (2d ed.
1937); R]adin, The Right to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381, 386388; Washburn, The Court of Star Chamber, 12 Am. L. Rev. 21,
25-31.
2
8Radin, The Right to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381, 388.
The lettre de cachet was an order of the king that one of his subjects
be forthwith imprisoned or exiled without a trial or an opportunity
to defend himself. In the eighteenth century they were often issued
in blank to local police. Louis XV is supposed to have issued more
than 150,000 lettres de cachet during his reign. This device was the
principal means employed to prosecute crimes of opinion, although
it was also used by the royalty.as a convenient method of preventing
the public airing of inira-family scandals. Voltaire, Mirabeau and
Montesquieu, among others, denounced the use of the lettre de cachet,
and it was abolished after the French Revolution, though later temporarily revived by Napoleon. 13 Encyc. Brit. 971; 3 Encyc. Soc.
Sci. 137.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the hands of despotic groups each of them had become an
instrument for the suppifession of political and religious
heresies in ruthless disregard of the right of an accused
to a fair trial.

Whatever other benefits the guarantee to

an accused that his trial be conducted in public may confer
upon our 8ociety,2" the guarantee has always been recognized as a safeguard against any attempt to employ our
courts as instruments of persecution. The knowledge
that every criminal trial is subject to contemporaneous
review in the forum of public opinion is an effective restraint on possible abuse of judicial power.25 One need
not wholly agree with a statement made on the subject by
24 Other benefits attributed to publicity have been:
(1) Public
trials come to the attention of key witnesses unknown to the parties.
These witnesses may then voluntarily come forward and give important testimony. 6 Wigmore, Evidence § 1834 (3d ed. 1940);
Tanksley v. United States, 145 F. 2d 58, 59.
(2) The spectators learn about their government and acquire
confidence in their judicial remedies. 6 Wigmore, Evidence § 1834
(3d ed. 1940); 1 Bentham, Rationale of Judicial Evidence 525
(1827); State v. Keeler, 52 Mont. 205, 156 P. 1080; 20 Harv. L. Rev.
489.
25 Jenks, The Book of English Law 91 (1932); Auld, Comparative
Jurisprudence of Criminal Process, 1 U. of Toronto L. J. 82,.99;
Radin, The Right to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381; Criminal
Procedure in Scotland and England 108 Edinburgh Rev. 174, 181182; Holmes, J. in Cowley v. Pulsifer, 137 Mass. 392, 394; State v.
Osborne, 54 Ore. 289, 295-297, 103 P. 62, 64T66. People v. Murray,
89 Mich. 276, 286, 50 N. W. 995, 998: "It is for the protection of
all persons accused of crime-the innocently accused, that they may
not become the victim of an unjust prosecution, as well as the guilty,
that they may be awarded a fair trial-that one rule [as to public
trials] must be observed and applied to all." Frequently quoted is
the statement in 1 Cooley, Constitutional Limitations (8th ed. 1927)
at 647: "The requirement of a public trial is for the benefit of the
accused; that the public may see he is fairly dealt with and not
unjustly condemned, and that the presence of interested spectators
may keep his triers keenly alive to a sense of their responsibility and
to the importance of their functions ....

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

Jeremy Bentham over 120 years ago to appreciate the fear
of secret trials felt by him, his predecessors and contemporaries* Bentham said: "...
suppose the proceedings
to be conipletely secret, and the court, on the occasion, to
consist of no more than a single judge,-that judge will be
at once indolent and" arbitrary: how corrupt soever his
inclination may be, it will find no check, at any rate no
tolerably efficient check, to oppose it. Without publicity,
all other, checks are insufficient: in comparison of publicity, all other checks are of small account. Recordation,
appeal, whatever other institutions might present themselves in the character of checks, would be found to operate rather as cloaks than checks; as cloaks in reality, as
checks only in appearance." 28
In giving content to the constitutional and- statutory
commands that an accused be given a public trial, the
state and federal courts have differed over what groups
of spectators, if any, could properly be excluded from a
criminal trial.27 But, unless in Michigan and in one-man
grand jury contempt'cases, no court in this country has
ever before held, so far as we can find, that an accused can
be tried., convicted, and sent to jail, when everybody else
is denied entrance to the court, except the judge and his
attaches." And without exception all courts have *held
28

1 Bentham, Rationale of Judicial Evidence 524 (1827).

Compare People v. Murray, 89 Mich. 276, 50 N. W. 995; and
People v. Yeager, 113 Mich. 228, 71 N. W. 491, with Reagan v6
United States, 202 F. 488. For collection and analysis of the cases,
see 6 Wigmore, Evidence § 1834 (3d ed. 1940); Orfield, Criminal
Procedure from Arrest. to Appeal 385-387 (1947); Radin, The Right
to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q. 381; 389-391; Note, 35 Mich. L. Rev.
474; 8 U. of Det. L. J. 129; 156 A. L. R. 265.
28 "For the purposes contemplated by the provision of the constitution, the presence of the officers of the court, men whom [sic]; it is
safe to say, -were under the influence of the court, made the trial
no more public than if they too had been excluded." People v.
Hartman, 103 Cal. 242, 244, 37 P. 153, 154.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

that an accused is at the very least entitled to have his
friends, relatives and counsel present, no matter with what
offense he may be charged.29 In Gaines v. Washington,
277 U. S. 81, 85-86, this Court assumed that a criminal
trial conducted in secret would violate the procedural requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment's due process
clause, although its actual holding there was that no violation had in fact occurred, since the trial court's order
barring the general public had not been enforced. Certain proceedings in a judge's chambers, including convictions for contempt of court, have occasionally been
countenanced by state courts,' but there has never been
any intimation that all of the public, including the
accused's re]. tives, friends, and counsel, were barred from
the trial chamber.
In the case before us, the petitioner was called as a
witness to testify in secret before a one-man grand jury
conducting a grand jury investigation. In the midst of
petitioner's testimony the proceedings abruptly changed.
The investigation became a "trial," the grand jury became
a judge, and the witness became an accused charged with
contempt of court-all in secret. Following a charge,
conviction and sentence, the petitioner was led away to
29

See, e. g., State v. Beckstead, 96 Utah 528, 88 P. 2d 461 (error

to exclude friends and relatives of accused); Benedict v. People, 23
Colo. 126, 46 P. 637 (exclusion of all except witnesses, members of
bar and law students upheld); People v. Hall, 51 App. Div. 57, 64
N. Y. S. 433 (exclusion of general public upheld where accused
permitted to designate friends who remained). "No court has gone
so far as affirmatively to exclude the press." Note, 35 Mich. L. Rev.
474, 476. Even those who deplore the sensationalism of criminal
trials and advocate the exclusion of the general public from the courtroom would preserve the rights of the accused by requiring the admission of thq press, friends of the accused, and selected members of the
community. Radin, The Right to a Public Trial, 6 Temp. L. Q.
381, 394-395; 20 J. Am. Jud. Soc. 83.
30 Cases are collected in 27 Ann. Cas. 35.

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

prison-still without any break in the secrecy. Even in
jail, according to undenied allegations, his lawyer was
denied an opportunity to see and confer with him. And
that was not the end of secrecy. His lawyer filed in the
State Supreme Court this habeas corpug proceeding.
Even there, the mantle of secrecy enveloped the transaction and the State Supreme Court ordered him sent back
to jail without ever having seen a record of his testimony,
and without knowing all that took place in the secrecy
of the judge's chambers. In view of this nation's historic
distrust of secret proceedings, their inherent dangers to
freedom, and the universal requirement of our federal and
state governments that criminal trials be public, the
Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee that no one shall be
deprived of his liberty without due process of law means
at least that an accused cannot be thus sentenced to
prison.
Second. We further hold that failure to afford the petitioner a reasonable opportunity, to defend himself against
the charge of false and evasive swearing was a denial of
due process of law. A person's right to reasonable notice
of a charge against him, and an .opportunity to be heard
in his defense-a right to his day in court-are basic in
our system of jurisprudence; and these rights include, as a
minimum, a right to examine the witnesses dgainst him,
to offer testimony: and to be represented by counsel."
Michigan, not *denying the existence of these rights in
criminal cases generally, apparently concedes that the
summary conviction here would have been a denial of
procedural due process but for the nature of the charge,
31 The following decisions of this Court involving various kinds of
proceedings are among the multitude that support the above statement: Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U. S. 97, 116; Powell v. Alabama,
287 U. S. 45, 68-70; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, 418; Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 390-391; Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S,1,
14-15, and cases there cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333.U. S.

namely, a contempt of court, committed, the State urges,
in the court's actual presence.
It is true that courts have long exercised a power
summarily to punish certain conduct committed in
open court without notice, testimony or hearing. E.x
parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, was such a case. There Terry
committed assault on the marshal who was at the moment
removing a heckler from the courtroom.. The "violence
and misconduct" of both the heckler and the marshal's
assailant occurred within the "personal view" of the judge,
"under his own eye," and actually interrupted the trial
of a cause then under way. This Court held that under
such circumstances a judge has power to punish an offender at once, without notice and without hearing,
although his conduct may also be punishable as a criminal
offense. This Court reached its conclusion because it
believed that a court's business could not be conducted
unless it could suppress disturbances within the courtroom
by immediate punishment. However, this Court recognized that such. departure from the accepted standards of
due prQcess was capable of grave abuses, and for that
reason gave no encouragement to its expansion beyond
the suppression and punishment of the court-disrupting
misconduct which alone justified its exercise. Indeed in
the Terry case the Court cited with approval its decision in
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, which had marked the
limits of contempt authority in general as being "the least
possible power adequate to the end proposed." Id. at
231. And see In re Michael,326 U.S. 224, 227.
That the holding in the Terry case is not'to be considered a, an unlimited abandonment of the basic due
process procedural safeguards, even in contempt cases, was
spelled out with emphatic language in Cooke v. United
States, 267 U. S. 517, a contempt case arising in a federal
district court. There it was pointed out that for a

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

court to exercise the extraordinary but narrowly limited
power to punish for contempt without adequate notice
and oppor.tunity to be heard, the court-disturbing misconduct must not only occur in the court's immediate
presence, but that the judge must have personal knowledge of it acquired by his own observation of the contemptuous conduct. This Court said that knowledge acquired
from the testimony of others, or even from the confession
of the accused, would not justify conviction without a trial
in which there was an opportunity for defense. Furthermore, the Court explained the Terry rule as reaching only
such conduct as created "an open threat to the orderly
procedure .)f the court and such a flagrant defiance of the
person and presence of the .judge before the public" that,
if "not instantly suppressed and punished, demoralization
of the co.lrt's authority will follow." Id. at 536.
Except for a narrowly limited category of contempts,
due process of law as explained in the Cooke case requires
that one charged with contempt of court be advised of
the charges against him, have a reasonable opportunity
to meet them by way of defense or eiplanation, have the
right to be represented by counsel, and have a chance to
testify and call other witnesses in his behalf, either by way
of defense or explanation. The narrow exception to these
due process requirements includes only charges of nisconduct, in open colirt, in the presence of the judge, which
disturbs the court's business, where all of the essential
elements of the misconduct are under the eye of the
court, are actually observed by the court, and where
immediate punishment is essential to prevent "demoralization of the court's authority" before the public. If
some essential elemerfts of the offense are riot personally
observed by the judge, so that he must depend upon
statements made by others for his knowledge about these
essent ial elements, due process requires, according to the

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Cooke case, that the accused be accorded notice and a fair
hearing as above set out.
The facts shown by this record put this case outside the
narrow category of cases that can be punished as contempt
without notice, hearing and counsel. Since the petitioner's alleged misconduct all occurred in secret, there
could be no possibility of a demoralization of the court's
authority before the public. Furthermore, the answer of
the judge-grand jury to the petition for habeas corpus
showed that his conclusion that the petitioner had testified falsely was based, at least in part, upon the testimony
given before himby one or more witnesses other than
petitioner. Petitioner and one Hartley both testified the
same day; both were pin-ball machine operators; both had
bought or had in their possession certain so-called bonds
purchased from one Mitchell; both were sent to jail for
contempt the same day. In re Hartley, 317 Mich. 441, 27
N. W. 2d 48. The judge-grand jury pressed both petitioner and Hartley to state why they bought bonds which
were patently worthiess. The petitioner was also repeatedly asked what he had done with the worthless
bonds. He answered every question asked him, according to the fragmentary portions of his testimony reported to the Michigan Supreme Court, most of which
is included in that court's opinion. He steadfastly denied that he knew precisely what be had done with the
worthless bonds, but made several different statements
as to how he might have disposed of them, such as that
he might have thrown them into the wastebasket, or
trash can, or might have bu.- .edthem.
In upholding the judge-grand jury's conclusion that
petitioner had testified falsely and evasively, the majority
of the Michigan Supreme Court gave as one reason a
statement in the judge-grand jury's answer "That the
Grand Jury, after investigation, is satisfied that the bonds

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of the Court.

sold by the said Carman A. Mitchell to the said William
D. Oliver are the same as those sold by the said Carman A.
Mitchell to Leo Thomas Hartley." Nothing in the petitioner's testimony as reported could have remotely justified the judge-jury in drawing such a conclusion. The
judge-jury was obviously appraising the truth of Oliver's
testimony in light of testimony given the same day in
petitioner's absence by Hartley and possibly by other witnesses. The Terry case and others like it provide no
support for sustaining petitioner's conviction of contempt
of court upon testimony given in petitioner's absence.
This case would be like the Terry case only if the judge
there had not personally witnessed Terry's assault upon
the marshal but had nevertheless sent him to jail for
contempt of court after hearing the testimony of witnesses against Terry in Terry's absence. It may be conceivable, as is here urged, that a judge can under some
circumstances correctly detect falsity and evasiveness
from simply listening to a witness testify. But this is
plainly not a case in which'the finding of falsity 'ested
on an exercise of this alleged power. For this reason we
need not pass on the question argued in the briefs whether
a judge can, consistently with procedural due process,
convict a witness of testifying falsely and evasively solely
on the judge's ability to detect it from merely observing
a witness and hearing him testify.
Nor is there any reason suggested why "demoralization
of the court's authority" would have resulted from giving
the petitioner a reasonable opportunity to appear and
offer. a defense in open court to a charge of perjury or -t
the charge of contempt. The traditional grand juries
have never punished contempts. 2 The practice that has
always been followed with recalcitrant grand jury wit32

See note 10,supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947..
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

nesses is to take them into open court, and that practice,
consistent with due process, has not demoralized the authority of courts. Reported cases reveal no instances in
which witnesses believed by grand juries on the basis of
other testimony to be perjurers have been convicted for
contempt, or for perjury, without notice of the specific
charges against them, and opportunity to prepare a defense,Ato obtain counsel, to cross-examine the witnesses
against them and to offer eviden ein their own defense.
The right to be heard in open court before one is condemned is too valuable to be whittled away under the
guise of "demoralization of the court's authority."
It is "the law, of the land" that no man's life, liberty
or property be forfeited as a punishment until there has
been a charge fairly made and fairly tried in a public
tribunal. See Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 236-237. The petitioner was convicted without that kind of
trial.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan is
reversed and the cause is remanded to it for disposition
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I join in.the Court's opinion and decision. But there
is more which needs to be said.
Michigan's one-man grand jury, as exemplified by tbis
record, combines in a single official the historically separate powers of grand jury, committing magistrate, prosecutor, trial judge -and petit jury. This aggregated authority denies to the accused not only the right to a public
trial, but also those other basic protections secured by
the Sixth Amendment, namely, the rights "to be informed

IN RE OLIVER.
257

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

of the nature and cause of the accusation; 1 to be confronted with the witnesses against him; 2 to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and
to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence." It
takes away the security against being twice put in jeopardy for the same offense ' and denies the equal protectio;n
of the laws by leaving to the committing functionary's
sole discretion the scope and contents of the record on
appeal.4 U. S. Const. Amend. V and XIV
This aggregation of powers and inherently concomitant denial of historic freedoms were unknown to the common law at the time our institutions crystallized in the
Constitution. They are.altogether at variance with our
tradition and system of government. They cannot stand
the test of constitutionality for purposes of depriving any
person of life, liberty or property. There is no semblance
of due process of law in the scheme when it is used for
those ends.'
IThe requirement, of course, contemplates that the accused be so
informed sufficiently in advance of trial or sentence to enable him
to determine the nature of the plea to be entered and to prepare his
defense if one is to be made. Cf. White v. Ragen, 324 U. S. 760, 764;
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45.
2The only "witness" in this case was the grand jury-judge who,
so far as the record discloses, did not submit to cross-examination.
3As" the Court's opinion notes, the state supreme court has held
that the witness may be reexamined and recommitted for a further
60-day period after serving the first sentence of that length, unless
he reappears and answers the same questions to the satisfaction of
the one-man grand jury. In re Ward, 295 Mich. 742, 747.
4Cf. Cochran v. Kansas, 316 U. S. 255. So far as appears, only
persons committed or fined by a one-man grand jury are subjected
in Michigan to this attenuated appellate procedure. Others convicted of crime, including criminal contempt, apparently are afforded
rights to complete and nondiscretionary records on appeal.
5The immediate shift, of the proceeding from inquisitorial to punitive function converts it from a grand jury investigation to a proceeding in criminal contem t.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEGE,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

The case demonstrates how far this Court departed
from' our constitutional plan when, after the Fourteenth
Amendment's adoption, it permitted selective departure
by the states from the scheme of ordered personal liberty
established by the Bill of Rights.' In the guise of permitting the states to experiment with improving the administration of justice, the Court left them free to
substitute, "in spite of the absolutism of continental governments," their "ideas and-processes of civil justice" in
place of the time-tried "principles and institutions of the
common law" I perpetuated for us in the Bill of Rights.
Only by an exercise of- this freedom has Michigan been
enabled, to adopt and apply her scheme as was done in
this case. It is the immediate offspring of Hurtado v.
California,110 U. S.516, and later like cases
So long as they "stand, so long as the Bill of Rights is
regarded here as a strait jacket of Eighteenth Century
procedures rather than -a basic charter of personal liberty,
like experimentations may be expected from the states.
And the only check against their effectiveness will be the
agreement of a majority of this Court that the experiment violates fundamental notions of justice in civilized
society.
I do not conceive that the Bill of Rights, apart from
the -lue process clause of the Fifth Amendment, incorporates all such ideas. But as far as its provisions go, I
know of no better, substitutes. A few may be inconvenient.. But restrictions apon authority for securing
personal 'liberty, as well as fairness in trial to deprive
Cf. Adamson v.'California, 332 U. S. 46, dissenting opinion of
at 68.
7
See Hurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 531.
8E. g., Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; Adamson v. California,
332 U. S. 46.
B

MR.JUSTICE BLACK

IN RE OLIVER.
257

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

one of it, are always inconvenient-to the authority so
restricted. And in times like these I do not think substitutions imported from other, systems, including continental ones, offer promise on the whole of more improvement than harm, either for the cause of perfecting
the administration of justice or for that of securing and
perpetuating individual freedom, which is the main end
of our society as it is of our Constitution.
One cannot attribute the collapse of liberty in Europe
and elsewhere during recent years solely to the "ideas
and processes of civil justice" prevailing in the nations
which have suffered that loss. Neither can one deny the
significance of the contrast between their success in maintaining systems of ordered liberty and that of other nations which in the main have adhered more closely to the
scheme of personal freedoms the Bill of Rights secures.
This experience demonstrates, I think, that it is both wiser
and safer to put up with whatever inconveniences that
charter creates than to run the risk of losing its hard-won
guaranties by dubious, if also more convenient, substitutions imported from alien traditions."
9I do not think it can be demonstrated that state systems, freed
of the Bill. of Rights' "inconveniences," have been more fair, just,
or efficient than the federal system of administering criminal.justice,
which has never been clear of their restraints.
Notwithstanding Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, and its progeny,
I cannot imagine that state denial of the right to counsel beyond that
permissible in the federal courts or indeed of any other guaranty of
the Sixth Amendment could bring an improvement in the administration of justice.
The guaranties seemingly considered most obstructive to that process are those of the Fifth Amendment requiring presentment or
indictment of a grand jury and securing the privilege against selfincrimination; the rights to jury trial and to the assistance of counsel
secured by the Sixth Amendment; and the requirements relating to
suits at common law of the Seventh Amendment. Whatever inconveniences these or any of them may be thought to involve are far out-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

The states have survived with the nation through great
vicissitudes, for the greater part of our history, without
wide departures or numerous ones frorAthe plan of the
Bill of Rights. They accepted that plan for the nation
when they ratified those amendments. They accepted it
for themselves, in my opinion, when they ratified the
Fourteenth Amendment. Adamson v. California,.332
U. S. 46, dissenting opinions, at 68, 123. It was good
enough for our fathers. I think it should be good enough
for this Court. and for the states.
Room enough there is I yond the specific limitations
of the Bill of Rights for the states to experiment toward
improving the administration of justice. Within those
limitations there should be no laboratory excursions, unless or until the people have authorized them by the constitutionally provided method. This is no time to experiment with established liberties. That process carries
the dangers of dilution and denial with the chances of
enforcing and strengthening.
It remains only to say that, in the face of so broad a
departure from so many specific constitutional guaranties
or, if the other view is to control, from their aggregate
summarized in the concept of due process as representing
fundamental ideas of fair play and justice in civilized
society, such as the record in this case presents, this Court's
eyes need not remain closed nor its hand idle until the
case is returned to the state supreme court for reaffirmation of its position or confirmation of our views expressed
in the Court's opinion. Neither Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S. 549, nor Musser v. Utah, 333 U. S. 95,
presented a situation. like the one tendered here, whether
weighed -by ihe aggregate of security to the individual afforded by
the Bill of Rights. That aggregate cannot be secured, indeed it may
be largely defeated, so long as the states are left free to make broadly
selective applicaftln ot.Its protections.

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of

283

FRANKFURTER, J-.

in relation to the disentanglement of constitutional issues
from questions of state law or, consequently, in respect to
the breadth and clarity of the state's departure from federal constitutional commands. Neither case therefore
requires or justifies the disposition of this cause according
to the procedure there followed. This case is neither
unripe for decision nor wanting of sufficient basis in the
record for exercise of that function.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.

Under the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may surely
adopt as its own a procedure which was the established
method for prosecuting crime in nearly half the States
which ratified that amendment. And so, it may abolish
the grand jury,' or it may reduce the size of the grand
' In sustaining this power of the States, the Court enunciated
a principle the force of which has not lessened with time: "The
Constitution of the United States was ordained, it is true, by
descendants of Englishmen, who inherited the traditions of English
law and history; but it was made for an undefined and expanding
future, and for a people gathered and to be gathered from many
nations and of many tongues. And while we take just pride in
the principles and institutions of the common law, we are not to
forget that in lands where other systems of jurisprudence prevail,
the ideas and processes of civil justice are also not unknown. Due
process of law, in spite of the absolutism of continental governments,
is not alien to that code which survived the Roman Empire as the
foundation of modem civilizatioi in Europe, and which has given
us that fundamental maxim of distributive justice-suum cuique
tribuere. There is nothing in Magna Charta, rightly construed as
a broad charter of public right and law, which ought to exclude the
best ideas of all systems and of every age; and as it was the characteristic principle of the common law to draw its inspiration from
every fountain of justice, we are not to assume that the sources
of its supply have been exhausted. On the contrary, we should
expect that the new and various experiences of our own situation
and system will mould and shape it into new and not less useful
forms." Hurtado v. California,110 U.S. 5f6, 530-31.

284 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

333 U. S.

jury, and even to a single member. A. State has great
leeway in devising its judicial instruments for probing
into conduct as a basis- for charging the commission of
crime. It may, at the same time, surround such preliminary inquiry with safeguards, not only that crime
may be detected and criminals punished, but also that
charges may be sifted in secret so as not to injure or
embarrass the innocent.
Flouting of such a judicial investigatory system may
be prevented by the hitherto constitutionally valid power
to punish for contempt. There must, however, be such
recalcitrance, where the basis of punishment is testimony
given or withheld, that the administration of justice is
actively blocked. See Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U. S.378.
And the procedural safeguards of "due process" must be
observed. Due notice of the charge and a fair opportunity to meet it, are indispensable. This involves an opportunity to canvass the charge in the open and not
behind closed doors. So long as a man has ample
opportunity to demonstrate his innocence before he is
hustled off to jail, he cannot complain that a State has
seen fit to devise a new procedure for satisfying that oppqrtunity. Just as it. is not violative of due process for
a State to take private property for public use and
-leave to a later stage the constitutional vindication of
the right'to compensation, it does not seem to me that
it would be violative of due process to allow the judgegrand juror of Michigan to find -criminal wntempt for
conduct in his proceedings without the familiar elements
of an oper trial, provided that the State furnishes the
accused a public tribunal before which he has full opportunity to be quit of the finding.
But an opportunity, to meet a charge of criminal conempt must. be a fair opportunity. It would not be fair,
if in th.i court in which the accused can contest for the
first tirie the validity of the: charge against him, he comes

IN RE OLIVER.
257

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

285
J.

handicapped with a finding against him which he did not
have an adequate .opportunity of resisting.
We are here dalingwith the attempt of a State having
the seventh largest population in the. Union to curb or
mitigate the commission of crimes by effective prosecution. This pi'ocedure'has been in operation for over thirty
years. It was not heedlessly entered into nor has it been
sporadically pursued. In a series of cases it has had the,
sanction of the highest' court of Michigan. While there
are indications in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Michigan from which we could infer the constitutional.
inadequacy of tbe procedure pursued in this case, we
should not decide constitutional issues and conclude that
the Michigan system offends the Constitution of the
United States, without a-. clearer formulation of what it
is that actually happens under this system, or. did happen
here, than the case before us reveals.
It is to*me significant that the precise issues on which
this -Court decides this case have never been explicitly
challenged before, or passed on; by the Supreme Court
of Michigan in the, series of cases in which that court had
adjudicated controversies arising under the. Michigan
,grand jury system. If a State has denied the due process
required by the Fourteenth Amendment, -it is more-consonant with the delicate relations between theUnited
States and the courts of the United States, and the States'
and the courts of the States, that the courts of the States
be given the fullest opportunity, by. piroper presentation of
the issues, to make such a finding of, unconstitutionality.
I do not think that we have had that in this case. For
instance, while I could regard it inadmissible under the
Fourteenth Amendment to have only a partial and mutilated record of the proceedings before the grand,-jurorjudge when the contemnor for the first time has the
opportunity to meet the accusation against him publicly,
the petitioner himself in this case -seems to 1repel the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

suggestion that that is his complaint. '
JUSTICE JACKSON

333 U. S.

Certainly, as MR.

points out, the first ground of the Court's

opinion was not made the basis for inviting our review
here. I agree with him in concluding that in the light
of our decision the other day in Musser v. Utah, 333 U. S.
95, in conjunction with Rescue Army v. Municipal Court,
331 U. S.549, the cause should be returned to the Supieme
Court of Michigan to enable that court to pass upon these
issues.
with whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKagrees, dissenting.
The principal ground. assigned for reversal of the judgment of conviction is the alleged 'secrecy of the contempt
procedure. That ground was not assigned for review in
the petition for certiorari to this Court, Nor was, it
raised in the petition for writ of habeas corpus in the
state courts. Therefore, it has not been litigated and
the record has not been made with reference to it. On
the other hand, the principal question raised by the petition to this Court and argued by the State is not decided.
by the Court's opinion.
When a case here from a state court involves a question
not litigated below, not raised by petitioner here and
which the state court has had no opportunity, to. pass
upon, we should remand the case for its further consideration, as was just done in Musser v. Utah, 333 U. S. 95.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

FURTER

2 "Neither in our brief nor in our argument before the court have
we urged this court to reverse this conviction merely because the

partial return of-the witness's testimony to the Supreme Court constituted a denial of due process...

The questions we present Are

much more basic,-the denial of due process in the original commitment ....

[ToJ us it is much more shocking that an accused

charged with. contempt, not committed in open court be denied any
trial in the lower court than that he be given a trial only upon an
incomplete record in the appellate- court." Petitioner's "Brief in
Answer to Brief.of State.Bar of Michigan," pp. 13-14.

