OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

MOGALL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 48. - Argued October 16, 1947.-Decided March 8, 1948.
The Selective Service Regulations imposed no legal obligation upon
an employer of a registrant under the Selective Training and
Service Act to report to the local draft board facts which might
have resulted in the registrant being placed in a different draft
classification; and an employer's failure to make such reports was
not a violation of ยง.11 of the Act. P. 425.
158 F. 2d 792, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted of' a violation of ยง 11 of the
Selective Training and Service Act. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 158 F. 2d 792. This Court granted
certiorari. 331 U. S. 797. Reversed, p. 425.
Rudolph F. Becker, Jr. argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was CharlesW. Kehl.
W. Marvin Smith argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Quinn, Robert S.
Erdahl and Irving S. Shapiro.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner and his employee, one Perniciaro, were
jointly indicted and tried on the charges contained in an
eight-count indictment. The defendants were acquitted
under Counts 1 to 7, the first of which charged petitioner
and Perniciaro with conspiring for the purpose of enabling
Perniciaro to evade military service by failing to make
known to the draft board facts which might have resulted
in Perniciaro being placed in a different draft classifica-

MOGALL v. UNITED STATES.
424

Opinion of the Court.

tion. The defendants were convicted under Count 8,
however, which charged petitioner and Perniciaro with
failing to report facts in writing to the local draft board
which might have resulted in Perniciaro being placed in
a different draft classification, contrary to ยง 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 894, 50
U. S. C. ยง 311 and 626.1 (b) of the Selective Service
Regulations.
The Government now concedes that the Selective Service Regulations imposed no legal obligation upon petitioner, as an employer of a registrant under the Selective
Training and Service Act, to make such reports to the local
board. It is also conceded that petitioner was tried and
convicted upon the assumption that he was under such
a legal obligation. We agree that the plain language of
the Regulation and the record of this case support these
conclusions.
The Government urges that although the judgment
of conviction against petitioner should be reversed, the
indictment should not be dismissed since the prosecution
may wish to try petitioner a second time on the charges
contained in Count 8, as an aider and abettor.
There is no showing of facts sufficient for us to pass
judgment on the question. Accordingly, we intimate no
opinion on the propriety of this procedure or the issues
which it might present. See Sealfon v. United States,
332 U. S. 575 (1948). Those questions will be open in
the District Court on our remand of the cause.
Reversed.

