OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

extends in terms to all land and only tolls the time for
redemption for the period of military service. The other
construction attributes to Congress a purpose to protect
only certain classes of real property owned by those in the
armed services. We cannot do that without drastically
contracting the language of ยง 205 and closing our eyes to
its beneficent purpose. But as we indicated on another
occasion, the Act must be read with an eye friendly to
those who dropped their affairs to answer their country's
call. Boone v. Lightner, 319 U. S. 561, 575.
Reversed.
FONG HAW TAN v. PHELAN, ACTING DISTRICT
DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 370. 'Argued January 8-9, 1948.-Decided February 2, 1948.
1. Section 19 (a) of the Immigration Act of 1917, as hiended, which
provides that an alien who is "sentenced more than once" to imprisonment for a term of one year or more because of conviction of a
crime involving moral turpitude committed after entn, shall be
deported, does not apply to an alien who, in a single trial, has been
convicted on two different counts of a single indictment for murdering two different persons and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Pp. 7-10.
2. This provision of the statute authorizes deportation only where an
alien, having committed a crime involving moral turpitude and having been convicted and sentenced, once again commits a crime of
that nature and is convicted and sentenced for it. P. 9.
3. Because deportation is a drastic penalty equivalent to banishment
or exile, this section should be given the narrowest of several possible meanings of the words used. P. 10.

162 F. 2d 663, reversed.

A District Court denied an alien's petition for a writ
of habeas corpus challenging the legality of his detention

FONG HAW TAN v. PHELAN.
6

Opinion of the Court.

pending deportation. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 162 F. 2d 66a. This Court granted certiorari.
332 U. S. 814. Reversed, p. 10.
Lambert O'Donnell argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief wa; William J. Chow.
Beatrice Rosenberg argued the cause for respondent.
With her on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney Gener'al Quinn, W. Marvin Smith and

Robert S. Erdahl.
MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLA,

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An alien who is "sentenced more than once" to imprisonment for a term of one year or more because of conviction in this country of a crime involving moral turpitude committed after his entry shall, with exceptions not
material here, be deported. Section 19 (a) 1 of the ImmiSection 19 (a) so far as mat rial here provides:
. except as hereinafter provided, any alien who is hereafter
sentenced to imprisonment fcr a term of one year or more because of conviction in this (ountry of a crime involving moral
turpitude, committed within five years after the entry of the alien to
the United States, or who is hereafter sentenced more than once to
such a term of imprisonment b, cause of conviction in this country of
any crime involving moral tulpitude, committed at any time after
entry . . . shall, upon the warant of the Attorney General, be taken
into custody and deported. . . . The provision of this section respecting the deportation of aiens convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude shall not applyr to one who has been pardoned, nor
shall such deportation be mace or directed if the court, or judge
thereof, sentencing such alien for such crime shall, at the time of
'imposing judgment or passing_ 3entence or within thirty days thereafter, due notice having first been given to representatives of the
State, make a recommendation to the Attorney General that such
alien shall not be deported in pursuance of this Act; nor shall any
alien convicted as aforesaid be-deported until after the termination of
his imprisonment . .. ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

gration Act of February 5, 1917, 39 Stat. 889, a's amended
54 Stat. 671, 8 U. S. C. ยง 155 (a). It appears that petitioner, a native of China, was convicted of murder under
each of two counts of an indictment, one count charging
the murder of"one Lai Quan, the other charging the murder on or about the same date of one Ong Kim.2 The
jury fixed the punishnent for each murder at life Hiprisonment. He was thereupon sentenced to prison for
the period of his natural life by one judgment, construed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals to impose that sentence
on him for each of the convictions. Sometime thereafter
a warrant for his deportation to China issued. Later lie
was paroled, released from prison, and taken into the
custody of the Immigration Service. He then filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus challenging the legality
of his detention. The District Court denied the petition
on the authority of Nishimoto v. Nagle, 44 F. 2d 304.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 162 F. 2d 663.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because'of the contrariety of views among the
circuits concerning the meaning of the statutory words,
"sentenced more than once."
The Ninth Circuit view is that a conviction and sentence for more than one offense, whether at the same or
different times and whether carrying concurrent or consecutive sentences, satisfy the statute. That was the
position taken in Nishimoto v. Nagle, supra, and followed
below. The Second Circuit holds that an alien who is
given consecutive sentences is sentenced more than once,
while an alien who is given concurrent sentences is not,
even though the crimes are distinct. Johnson v. United
States, 28 F. 2d 810; United States ex rel. Mignozzi v.
Day, 51 F. 2d 1019. The Fourth Circuit takes the position that the statute is satisfied whether or not the
2

Whether the two murders resulted from one act or from two does

not appear.

FONG HAW TAN v. PHELAN.
6

Opinion of the Court.

sentences imposed run concurrently or consecutively
provided that the two crimes which are committed and
for which separate sentences are imposed arise out of
separate transactions. Tassari v. Schmucker, 53 F. 2d
570. The Fifth Circuit takes the view that an alien is
"sentenced once when, after a conviction or plea of
guilty, he is called before the bar and receives judgment,
whether for one or several crimes, with one or several
terms of imprisonment. He is sentenced more than once
when that happens again." Wallis v. Tecchio, 65 F. 2d
250, 252. That view is an adaptation of the position
taken earlier by a District Court in the same circuit that
Congress by this provision aimed to deport "repeaters,"
viz. "persons who commit a crime and are sentenced, and
then commit another and are sentenced again." Opolich
v. Fluckey, 47 F. 2d 950.
The latter is the reading we give the statute. There
is a trace of that purpose found in its legislative history.
Congressman Sabath who proposed the provision as an
amendment said it was aimed at the alien "who is a
criminal at heart, a man who is guilty of a second offense
involving moral turpitude and for the second time is
convicted." 53 Cong. Rec. 5167. Congressman Burnett,
who was in charge of the bill on the floor of the House,
gave the same emphasis when he said that the amendment
proposed "that those who committed a second crime
involving moral turpitude showed then a criminal heart
and a criminal tendency, and they should then be deported." Id., p. 5168. The Committee Report in the
Senate put the matter into sharper focus when it stated
that the provision was "intended to reach the alien who
after entry shows himself to be a criminal of the confirmed
type." S. Rep. No. 352, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 15.
Perhaps the plainest "confirmed type" of criminal is the
repeater. We give expression to that view by reading
this provision of the statute to authorize deportation only

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

where an alien having committed a crime involving moral
turpitude and having been convicted and sentenced, once
again commits a crime of that nature and is convicted
and sentenced for it.
We resolve the doubts in favor of that construction
because deportation is a drastic measure and at times the
equivalent of banishment or exile, Delgadillo v. Carmichael, 332 U: S. 388. It is the forfeiture for misconduct
of a residence in this country. Such a forfeiture is a
penalty. To construe this statutory provision less generously to the alien might find support in logic. But
since the stakes are considerable for the individual, we
will not assume that Congress meant to trench on his
freedom beyond that which is required by the narrowest
of. several possible meanings of the words used.
Reversed.
JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 329.

Argued December 18, 1947.-Decided February 2, 1948.

1. Where officers detected the odor of burning opium emanating
from a hotel room, entered without a search warrant and without
knowing who was there, arrested the only occupant, searched the
room and found opium and smoking apparatus, the search violated
the Fourth Amendment to the Federal Constitution; and a conviction for a violation of the federal narcotic laws based on the
evidence thus obtained cannot be sustained. Pp. 11-17.
2. As a general rule, the question when the right of privacy must
reasonably yield to the right of search must be decided by a
judicial officer, not by a policeman or government enforcement
agent. Pp. 13-14.
3. There were no exceptional circumstances in this case sufficient
to justify the failure of the officer to obtain a search warrant.
Pp. 14-15.

