OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

the railroads to operate in a way which violates the
Interstate Commerce Act.
The Commission's order is valid and should 1.
3 enforced.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

dissenting.

For the reasons stated in the opinion of the District
Court in this case, 71 F. Supp. 499, I believe that the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission exceeded its
jurisdiction and that the judgment permanently enjoining
the enforcement of such order should have been
affirmed.
DONALDSON, POSTMASTER GENERAL, v. READ
MAGAZINE, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 50.

Argued October 24, 1947. Reargued January 5, 1948.Decided March 8, 1948.

1. Where the Postmaster General has issued a fraud order under
39 U. S. C. §§ 259., 732, and later concludes that it is broader than
necessary to protect the public, he has power to modify the order
so as to make it less inclusive-even though there be pending
in this Court at the time a review of a judgment of a federal court
of appeals affirming a judgment of a district court enjoining enforcement of the order. Pp. 183-185.
2. The evidence in this case was sufficient to support the finding
of the Postmaster General that respondents' advertisements of a
so-called "puzzle contest" had been deliberately contrived to divert
readers' attention from material but adroitly obscured facts and
that respondents were conducting a scheme to obtain money
through the mails by means of false and fraudulent representations
in violation of 39 U. S. C. §§ 259,732. Pp. 185-189.
3. The fraud order statutes, 39 U. S. C. §§'259, 732, as interpreted
and. applied by the Postmaster General in this case, are constitutional. Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497. Pp.
189-192.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 339, 158 F. 2d 542, reversed.

DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court enjoined enforcement of a fraud
order issued by the Postmaster General under 39 U. S. C.
§§ 259, 732. 63 F. Supp. 318. The Court of Appeals
affirmed. 81 U. S. App. D. C. 339, 158 F. 2d 542. This
Court granted certiorari, 331 U. S. 798, and substituted
Donaldson for Hannegan as petitioner. 332 U. S. 840.
Reversed and remanded to the DistrictCourt, p. 192.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Solicitor General Perlman and
Paul A. Sweeney, and with them was Assistant Attorney
General Ford on the original argument and H. Grahan.
Morison, Melvin Richter and Alvin 0. West on the reargument.
John W. Burke, Jr. argued the cause and filed the brilfs
for respondents. With him on the brief on the reargument was Mac Asbill.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents questions as to the validity of an
order issued by petitioner, the Postmaster General, which
directed that mail addressed to some of respondents be
returned to the senders marked "Fraudulent," and that
postal money order sums payable to their order be returned to the remitters.
The respondent Publishers Service Company has conducted many con'tests to promote the circulation of newspapers in which it has advertised that prizes would be
given for the solution of puzzles. Through its corporate
subsidiaries, respondents Literary Classics, Inc., and Read
Magazine. Inc., it publishes books and two monthly magazines called Read and Facts. The place of business is
in New York City.
In 1945 respondents to promote sales of their books
put on a nationally advertised .project, known as the
Facts Magazine Hall of Fame Puzzle Contest. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Postmaster General after a hearing found "upon evidence satisfactory to him" that the "puzzle contest"
was "a scheme or device for obtaining money through
the mails by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, repregentations, and promises, in violation of sections 259
and 732 of title 39, United States Code . ..." Specifically, the Postmaster General found that the representations were false and fraudulent for two principal reasons.
"First, that prospective contestants were falsely led to
believe that they might be eligible to win prizes upon
payment of $3 as a maximum sum when in reality the
minimum requirement was $9, and as it later developed
they were finally calied on to pay as much as $42 to be
eligible for increased prize offers. Second, the Postmaster
General found that though the contest was emphasized
in advertisements as a "puzzle contest" it was not a
puzzle contest; that respondents knew from experience
that the puzzles were so easy that many people would
solve all the "puzzles" and that prizes would be awarded
only as a result of a tie-breaking letter-essay contest;
and that contestants were deliberately misled concerning
all these facts by artfully composed advertisements.
The contest was under the immediate supervision of
respondents Henry Walsh Lee and Judith S. Johnson,
editor-in-chief and "contest editor" respectively of Facts.
The Postmaster General's original fraud order related to
mail and money orders directed to
"Puzzle Contest, Facts Magazine; Contest Editor,
Facts Magazine; Judith S. Johnson, Contest Editor;
Miss J. S. Johnson, Contest Editor; Contest Editor;
Facts Magazine; and Henry Walsh Lee, Editor in
Chief, Facts Magazine, and their officers and agents
as such, at New York, New York."
Respondents filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia to enjoin
enfbrcement of the order. They alleged its invalidity on

DONALDSON .v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

the grounds that there was no substantial evidence
to support the' Postmaster General's findings of fraud,
and that the statutory provisions under which the order
was issued authorize the Postmaster General to act as
a censor and hence violate the First Amendment. The
District Court issued a temporary restraining order but
directed that pending further orders respondents should
deposit in court all moneys and the proceeds of all checks
and money orders received through the mails as qualifying
fees for the Hall of Fam Puzzle Contest. After a hearing the respondents' motion for summary judgment was
granted on the ground that'the findings were not supported by substantial evidence. 63 F. Supp. 318. The
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed on the same ground, one judge dissenting.
158 F. 2d 542. We granted certiorari.
The case has been twice argued in this Court. Briefs
of both parties on the first argument dealt only with the,
question of whether the Postmaster General's findings of
fraud were supported by substantial evidence. But assuming validity of the findings, questions arose during
the first oial argument concerning the scope of the fraud
order. That order had included a direction to the New
York postmaster to refuse to deliver any mail or to pay
any money orders to Facts, its officers and agents, including its editor-in-chief, who was also editor of Read.
The two monthly magazines, both published in New
York, had an aggregate circulation of nearly five hundred
thousand copies. We were told the total deprivation
of the right of Facts and of the editor of the two magazines to receive mail and to cash money orders would
practically put both magazines out of business. See
Milwaukee Publishing Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S.. 407.
Furthermore, the order was of indefinite duration and
Facts and its affiliates have made a business of conducting contests to promote the circulation of books

'182

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U.-8.

and magazines. The order, if indefinitely enforced, might
have resulted in barring delivery of mail and payment
of money orders in relation to other non-fraudulent contests as well as legitimate magazine business. All of
the foregoing raised questions about the validity and
scope of the original order, if unmodified, which we
deemed of sufficient importance to justify further argument. For that reason we set the case down for reargument, requesting parties to discuss the validity and scope
of the order, and whether, if invalid by reason of its
scope, it could be so modified as to free it from statutory
or constitutional objections.'
Thereafter, and before reargument, the Postmaster
General revoked the order insofar as it applied to Facts
magazine, its editor-in-chief, and its officers and agents.
"This case is or'dered restored to the docket for reargument.

On

reargument counsel need not further discuss the sufficiency of the
evidence to support the Postmaster General's findings. They are
requested to discuss the following:
"1. Does the fraud order prohibit delivery of mail and postal money
orders to Facts Magazine and all its employees, including its editorin-chief? If so,
"(a) Is the order within the Postmaster General's authory under
39 U. S. C. Secs. 259, 732 ?
"(b) If so, do these code provisions, in violation of the First
Amendment or any other constitutional provisions, abridge-the freedoma of speech or press of either the senders or the sendees of th
mail or the money orders?
-2. Does the fraud order prohibit indefinitely the delivery of mail
or money orders which relate to subject matters or contests other
than the contest on which the order is based? If so,
-(a) Is the order within the Postmaster General's statutory
authority?
-'(b) If so, are these code provisions in cooflict with the Constitution of the United States?
"3, Assuming that the order is in conflict with the code provisions
or the Constitution, can it be modified in such way as to fr.e it from
statutory or constitutional objections? If so, by whom can the order
be modified and by what procedure?"

'DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

As modified, the order bars ddlivery of mail and payment
of money orders only to addressees designated in the
contest advertisements:
"Puzzle Contest, Facts Magazine; Contest Editor,
Facts Magazine; Judith S. Johnson, Contest Editor;
Miss J. S. Johnson, Contest Editor; Contest Editor."
The Postmaster General, so we are informed, does not
construe the modified order as forbidding delivery of
mail or payment of money orders to Facts magazine or
even to Miss Judith (J. S.) Johnson, individually. So
construed, the order is narrowly restricted to mail and
money orders sent in relation to the Hall of Fame Puzzle
Contest found fraudulent, and. would not b,,r deliveries
to the magazines, to their editor, or to the three corporate
respondents. It would bar deliveries to Judith (J. S.)
Johnson, only if sent to her at the designated address and
in her capacity as "Contest Editor." Likewise the District Court's order impounding funds is limited to qualifying fees received in the Hall of Fame Puzzle Contest.
If the Postmaster General's action in modifying the order
is valid, the questions we asked to have argued have
largely been eliminated from the original order.
Respondents' contentions now are: (1) The Postmaster
General lacked power to modify his original fraud order,
and hence that order remains subject to any and all of
its original infirmities. (2) The, findings on which the
order is based are not supported by substantial evidence.
(3) The statutes under which the order was issued violate
various constitutional provisions.
First. Respondents' contention. that 'the Postmaster
General was without power to modify the order by
elimination of Facts magazine, its editor, and its officers
and agents. is based almost entirely on their two other
grounds for asserting invalidity of the order. Of course,
if the order were wholly invalid as to all of the respondents for these reasons, it could not have been validated

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

merely by eliminating some of them from its terms. But
laying aside respondents' other contentions for the moment, we have no doubt as to the Postmaster General's
authority to modify the fraud order.
Having concluded that the original order was broader
than necessary to reach the fraud proved, the Postmaster
General not only possessed the power but he had the duty
to reduce its scope to what was essential for-that purpose.
The purpose of mail fraud orders is not punishment, but
prevention of future injury to the public by denying the
use, of the mails to aid a fraudulent scheme. See
Comm'r v. Heininger, 320 U. S. 467, 474. Such orders
if too broad could work 'great hardships and inflict
unnecessary injuries upon innocent persons and businesses. No persuasive reason has been suggested why the.
Postmaster General should be without power to modify
an order of this kind. Such an order is similar to an
equitable 'injunction to restrain future conduct, and like
such an injunction should be subject to modification
whenever it appears that one or more of the restraints
imposed are no longer needed to protect the public.
United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106, 114; see
Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U. S. 557,
570.
Furthermore, the modification here involved was for
respondents' benefit; it gave them a part of the very
relief for which they prayed. It removed the ban against
delivery of mail-and payment of money orders to their
magazine, its editor and its agents-a ban which we were
told would have done them irreparable injury if left
in effect. The possibility that another order might be
entered against the eliminated respondent is too remote
to require us to consider the original order as though the
modification had never been made. See United States v.
Hamburg-AmericanCo., 239 U. S. 466, 475-476.

DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

Nor does the modification subject respondents to any
disadvantage in this case in reference to the impounded
funds. Those funds are sumfis sent in as qualifying fees
for the scheme found fraudulent. They are in court custody because of the court's restraining order; but for' it
they would have been returned to the senders as ordered
by the Postmaster General. Now, as before the fraud
order was modified, their disposition is dependent entirely upon the validity of the finding of fraud. Resporidents could thus claim the funds only by asserting
a right growing out of the scheme found fraudulent. The
court having lawful command of such funds must allocate them to the remitters if the order is valid. See Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 156-158;
United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S.183, 194-195.
Second. Iespondents contend that there was no substantial evidence to support the Postmaster General's
findings that they had represented that prizes could be
won (1) on payment of only three dollars as contest fees
or (2) by the mere solution of puzzles. They say that
the very advertisements and circular letters to contestants
from which these inferences were drawn by the Postmaster General contained language which showed that the
first $3 series of puzzles might result in ties, making necessary a second and maybe a third $3 puzzle series, and
that if these three efforts failed to determine the prize
winners, they would then be selected on the basis of competitive letters, written by the tied contestants on the
subject "The Puzzle I Found Most Interesting and Educational in This Contest."
There were sentences in the respondents' advertisements and communications which, standing alone, would
have conveyed to a careful reader information as to the
nine-dollar fees and the letter-essay' feature of the contest. Had these sentences stood alone, doubtless the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

fraud findings of the Postmaster General would not have
been justified. But they did not stand alone. They were
but small and inconspicuous portions of lengthy descriptions used by respondents to present their contest to the
public in their advertisements and letters. In reviewing
fraud findings of the Postmaster General, neither this
Court nor any other is authorized to pick out parts of the
advertisements on which respondents particularly rely,
decide that these excerpts would have supported different
findings, and set aside his order for that reason. We consider all the contents of the advertisements and letters,
and all of the evidence, not to resolve contradictory inferences, but only to determine if there was evidence to
support the Postmaster General's findings of fraud.
Leach v. Carlile, 258 U. S. 138,140.
Respondents' advertisements were long; their form letters to contestants discussing the contest, its terms, and
its promises were even longer than the advertisements.
Paradoxically, the advertisements constituted at the same
time models of clarity and of obscurity-clarity in referring to prizes and to a "puzzle contest," obscurity in referring to a remote possibility of a letter-essay contest. In
bold type, almost an inch high, their advertisements referred to "$10,000 FIRST PRIZE PUZZLE CONTEST."
Time after time they used the words "puzzle" and "puzzle contest." Conspicuous pictures of sample "puzzles"
covered a large part of a page. Rebus "puzzles" Nos.
1 to 4 of the contest were there. An explanation of
what each represented appeared above it. The first, it
was explained, represented "the inventor of the phonograph and electric light," the second "a Republican Piesident who became Chief Justice of the Supreme Court."
The last two contained equally helpful clues to the "puzzles." The advertisements left no doubt that the contest
presented an opportunity to win large prizes in connection

- DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

with solution of puzzles, which puzzles, to say the least,
would not be too taxing on the iiinagination.
Readers who might have felt some reluctance about
paying their money to enter an essay contest were not
so impressively and conspicuously informed about that
prospect; here the advertisement became a model of
obscurity. In the lower left corner of one of the advertising pages appeared the "Official Rules of the Contest,"
to which rules references were carefully placed in various
parts of the advertisement, and which were printed, as
the District Court's opinion observed. "in small type."
There were ten rules. About the middle of Rule 9 appeared the only reference to the possible need for letters
as a means of breaking ties. And it is impossible to
say that the Postmaster General drew an 'unreasonable
inference in concluding that competitive letter-writing
thus obscurely referred to was mentioned only as a remote
and unexpected contingency-' The same kind of obscurity
and doubt occurs in reference to the cost of the contest.
The District Court in an opinion holding that the Postmaster General's findings were not supported by the evidence had this to say about one advertisement which was
widely used:
"Indeed, the advertisement is by no means a model
of clarity and lucidity. It is diffuse and prolix, and
at itimes somewhat obscure. Many of its salient provisions are prinited in rather small type. An intensive and concentrated reading of the entire text is
indispensable in oider to arrive at an understanding
of the entire scheme. Nevertheless, a close analysis
of this material discloses the complete plan. Nothing is omitted, concealed or misrepresented. There
is no deception. The well-foinded criticisms of the
plaintiffs' literature are a far cry from justifyi)ng a
conclusion that the announcement was a fraud on

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the public. . . The conclusion is inevitable that
there is no evidence to support the finding of fact
on which the fraud order is based and that, therefore,
the plaintiff is entitled to a-permanent injunction
against the enforcement of the order."
We agree with the District Court that many people
are intellectually capable of discovering the cost and
nDature of this contest by "intensive and concentrated
reading", and by close-analysis of these advertisements.
Nevertheless, -we believe that the Postmaster General
could reasonably have concluded, as he did, that the
advertisements and other writings had been artfully contrived and composed in such manner that they would
confuse readers, distract their attentiohx'from the fact that
the scheme was in reality an essay contest, and mislead
them into thinking that they were entering a "rebus
puzzle" contest, in which prizes could be won by an expenditdfre of not more than $3. That respondents' past
experience in similar contests enabled them to know at
the beginning that esmay writing, not puzzle solutions,
would determine prize winners is hardly controvertible
on this record. That experience was borne out in this
contest by the fact that of the 90,000 contestants, who
submitted answers to the first series of 80 puzzles, 35,000
solved all of them, and of that number 27,000 had completed the first set of "tie-breaking puzzles" when the
fraud order was issued. Under the circumstances, to
advertise this as a puzzle contest instead of What it actually was cannot be attributed to a mere difference in
"nomenclature"; such conduct falls far short of that fair
dealing of which fraud is the antithesis.
Advertisements as a whole may be completely misleading although every sentence separately considered is literally true. This may be because things are omitted that
should be said, or because advertisements are composed
or purposefully printed in such way as to mislead. Wiser

DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

Opinion of the Court.

v. Lawler, 189 U. S. 260, 264; Farley v. Simmons, 99 F.
2d 343, 346; see also cases collected in 6 Eng. Rul. Cas.
129-131. That exceptionally acute and sophisticated
readers might have been able by penetrating analysis to
have deciphered the true nature of the contest's terms
is not sufficient to bar findings of fraud by a fact-finding
tribunal. Questions of fraud may be determined in the
light of the effect advertisements would most probably
produce on ordinary minds. Durland v. United States,,
161 U. S. 306-313, 314; Wiser v. Lawler, supra at 264;
Oesting v. United States, 234 F. 304, 307. People have
a right to assume that fraudulent advertising traps will
not be laid to ensnare them. "Laws are madie to protect
the trusting as well as the suspicious." Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Standard Education Society, 302 U. S. 112,
116.
The Postmaster General found that respondent s' advertisements had been deliberately contrived to divert readers' attention from material but adroitly obscured facts.
That finding has abstantial support in the evidence. The
District Court and the Court of Appeals were wrong in
holding the evidence insufficient.
Third. It is contended that §§ 259 and 732 of 39
U. S. C., the sections under which this order was issued,
are in conflict with various constitutional provisions and
that the statutes should be held unenforceable for this
reason. Specifically, it is argued that the sections authorize a prior censorship and thus violate the First Amendment; authorize unreasonable searches and seizures in violation of the Fourth Amendment; violate the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment; deny the kind of trial
guaranteed in criminal proceedings by 'the Sixth Amendment and by Art. III, § 2, cl. 3; and inflict unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment.
In 1872 Congress first authorized the Postmaster General to forbid delivery of registered letters and payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

money orders to persons or companies found by the Postmaster General to be conducting an enterprise to obtain
money by false pretenses through the use of the mails. 17
Stat. 322-323, 39 U. S. C. § 732. In the same statute
Congress made it a crime to place letters, circulars, advertisements, etc., in the mails for the purpose of carrying out
such fraudulent artifices or schemes. 17 Stat. 323, 18
U. S. C. § 338. In 1889 Congress declared "non-mailable"
letters and other matter sent to help perpetrate frauds.
25 Stat. 874. 39 U. S. C. § 256. In 1895 the Postmaster
General's fraud order powers were extended to cover all
letters or other matter sent by mail. 28 Stat. 964. 39
U. S. C. § 259. And Congress has passed many more
statutes, such, for illustration, as the Securities and Exchange Act, 48 Stat. 77, 906, 13 U. S. C. 77 (e), and
the Federal Trade Commission Act as amended, .52 Stat.
114. 15 U. S. C. § 52, to protect people against fraudulent
use of the mails.
All of the foregoing statutes, and others which need not
be referred to specifically, manifest a purpose of Congress to utilize its powers, particularly over the mails and
in interstate commerce, to protect people against fraud.
This governmental power has always been recognized in
this country and is firmly established. The particular
statutes here attacked have been regularly enforced by
the executive officers and the courts for more than half
a century. They are now part and parcel of our governmental fabric. This Court in 1904, in the case of
Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, sustained
the constitutional power of Congress to enact the laws.
The decision there rejected all the contentions now urged
against the validity of the statutes in their entirety, insofar as the pre.ent contentions have any possible merit.
No decision of this Court either before or after the Coyne
case has questioned the power of Congress to pass these

DONALDSON v. REA,
178

I AGAZINE.

Opinion of the Court.

laws. The Coyne case bas been cited with approval many
times.
Recognizing that past decisions of this Court if adhered
to preclude acceptance of their contentions, respondents
urge that certain of our decisions since the Coyne case
have partially undermined the philosophy on which it
rested. Respondents refer particularly to comparatively
recent decisions under the First and Fourteenth Amendments.2 None of the recent cases to which respondents
refer, however, provide the slightest support for a contention that the constitutional guarantees of freedom of
speech and freedom of the press include complete freedom,
uncontrollable by Congress, to use the mails for perpetration of swindling schemes.
We reject the contention that we should overrule the
Coyne case and declare these fraud order statutes to be
wholly void and unenforceable.
An additional argument urged by respondents is that
the fraud order statutes as interpreted and applied by
the Postmaster General in this case violate some of the
constitutional provisions above mentioned. We consider
this suggestion only in connection with the modified
order. Its future effect is merely to enjoin the continuation of conduct found fraudulent. Carried no further
than this, the order has not even a slight resemblance
to punishment-it only keeps respondents from getting
the money of others by false pretenses and deprives them
of a right to speak or print only to the extent necessary
to protect others from their fraudulent artifices. And
so far as the impounding order is concerned; of course
respondents can have no just or legal claim to money
Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 245-249; Near
v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 713, et scq.; Bridges v. California,314
U. S. 252, 260-263; Craig v. Harney, 331 U. S. 367; Milwaukee Publishing Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S. 407.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

mailed to them as a result of their fraudulent practices.
Nor does the modified order jeopardize respondents' magazine except to the extent, if any, that its circulation
might be dependent on monies received from this contest
scheme found fraudulent. A contention cannot be seriously considered which assumes that freedom of the press
inicludes a right to raise money to promote circulation
by deception of the public.
The order as modified is valid and its enforcement
should not have been enjoined. The judgments of the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and of the District Court are reversed. The cause
is remanded to the District Court to dismiss the petition
for injunction and to provide for proper return to the
remitters of the impounded fundssent in response to the
fraudulent advertisements and communications.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTIcE BURTON, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
concurs, dissenting.
The two lower courts reviewed in detail the facts in
this case. Both held. that the predecessor of the present
Postmaster General exceeded his authority in issuing his
stringent order of October 1, 1945. The modification
of that order on December 8, 1947, by the present Postmaster General, then serving as Acting Postmaster General, has restricted it to appropriate parties. It has not
altered, however, the primary basis for the lower court's
injunction of November 27, 1945, against the enforcement of the order. That injunction was granted because
the record failed to show evidence sufficient to justify the
drastic administritive action taken in reliance upon the
lottery and fraud sections of the mail and money order
statutes. R. S. §§ 3929 and 4041, as amended, 26 Stat.
466,,28 Stat. 964; 39 U. S. C. §§ 259 and 732. This dissent

DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

protests the overruling of the conclusions of the lower
courts on this issue and seeks especiAlly to discourage any
increase, or even repetition, of the degree of censorship
evidenced by this order.
The former Postmaster General applied here the drastic
summary police powers entrusted to his office by Congress
to deal with fraudulent swindlers using the mail in the
conduct of lotteries or any other scheme for obtaining
money by false or fraudulent pretenses. No charge of
a lottery or scheme of chance was made the basis for-the
order before us. This particular puzzle and letter-writing
contest, to which the order was limited, was a contest
of the familiar type which offers prizes and thereby seeks
to attract prospects for later sales. The sponsor candidly
stated that this contest was conducted for advertising purposes and it distributed to the contestants samples from
a series of books published by its subsidiary. Literary
Classics, Inc. The entrance fees of 15 cents, required to
accompany the respective sets of puzzle solutions, might
well add up to more than all the expenses of the program,
including the substantial prizes. provided the responses
were many. Such fees, however, would fail to meet those
expenses if the responses were few. The financial success
of the contest depended upon the number of volunteers
choosing to enter it.
The District Court found:
"These considerations, . . . , do not justify an inference of fraud. Under no circumstances, therefore,
can the puzzle contest and its descriptive literature
be considered a fraudulent device or strategem [stratagem] for obtaining money: The conclusion is inevitable that there is no evidence to support the finding
of fact on which the fraud order is based and that,
therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to a permanent
injunction against the enforcement of the order."
Read Magazine v. Hannegan,63 F. Supp. 318, 322.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

The Court of Appeals found:
"Appellant does not claim that any statement in
the advertisements was untrue or that there was any
departure from the procedure announced in the Official Rules of the Contest. There is no claim by him
that the judging of the letters was to be other than
bona fide, or that any contestant failed to receive
the promised books. No contestant, so far as the
record shows, complained of being misled or defrauded. In other words, the fraud order is not
premised upon specific or affirmative misstatements,
or upon failure to perform as prom-ised, but is premised upon an impression which appellant says is
conveyed by the advertisements as a whole. He
derives the impression from the headlines in the advertisements and the conparative urgency which he
finds in some of the expressions in them.
"To support appellant's conclusion in this case, one
must ascribe to the advertisements an impression
directly contrary to the stated rules of the contest.
One must thus assume that readers were led not to
read the Rules, or were led to ignore them or to
misunderstand them or to believe something else
contrary to their statement. There is no evidence,
we think, to support any of those assumptions. The
Rules were legibly printed. They were emphasized,
rather than minimized, in the text. They were clear
to any reasonable mind. No contradictory expressions occurred elsevhere.
"That this contest was an advertising device designed to promote the book-publishing business of
appellees must have been plain to the most casual
:reader. The advertisements specifically told him,
'This-contest with FACTS MAGAZINE as sponsor,

DONALDSON v. READ MAGAZINE.
178

BURTON, J., di:-senting.

is being presented as a means of popularizing the
Literary Classics Book Club.' . . .
"We fail to see that the letters which were written
to the contestants who successfully solved the first
series of puzzles, cast any complexion upon the venture different from that cast by the original advertisements themselves.
"We think that the advertisements before us fairly
urged contestants to read the Rules'and that the
Rules stated fairly, in style of type, placement. and
terms, what was proposed. That being so,and there
being no ambiguity in or departure from the proposals stated, a finding of false pretenses, representations, or promises could not properly be made,."
Hannegan v. Read Magazine, 81 U. S. App. D. C.
339, 341-343, 158 F. 2d 542, 544, 545-546.
Not only do I fail to find adequate reason to overrule
the findings and conclusions of the two lower courts but,
3n examination of the record, I agree with them. I believe that the Postmaster General exceeded his authority
when he applied his drastic censorship and fraud order
to this particular program. There was no compulsion on
anyone to enter this contest. Everyone who did so received, as advertised, certain reprints of classical literature
and, until the contest was stopped, each contestant had
the advertised opportunity to win certain cash prizes.
Anyone who entered this contest to win substantial
prizes by doing so little to win them should at least
examine the exact terms of the contest and make himself
responsible for meeting the rules prescribed by those offering to make the gifts he sought. The contestants rendered no services for which they had a right to compensation. They merely paid a small entrance fee. For that
they were entitled to have the contest conducted in accordance with the rules stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

196

Syllabus.

333 U. S.

The findings of the lower courts make it clear that there
has been no claim of failure or impending failure by the
sponsor'to carry out the terms of the contest. The record
shows no complaint from any contestant. Nevertheless,
the Postmaster General took it upon himself to stop the
contest. On the evidence before him and before the
courts, this was an abuse of his discretion. It was
"palpably wrong and therefore arbitrary." See-Leach v.
Carlile, 258 U. S. 138, 140.

COLE

ET .AL.

v. ARKANSAS.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 373.

Argued February 4-5, 1948.-Decided March 8, 1948.

Petitioners were tried in a state court under an information charging
them only with a violation of § 2 of a state statute, making it an
offense to promote an unlawful assemblage. The trial court instructed the jury that they were charged with an offense under
§ 2; and they were convicted. They appealed to the State Supreme
Court, contending, inter alia, that § 2 was contrary to the Federal
Constitution. ,Withoutpassing on that question, the State Supreme
Court sustained their convictions on the ground that the information charged and the evidence showed that petitioners had violated
§ 1 of the same statute, which describes the distinct offense of using
force and violence. Held.: Petitioners were denied due process of
law and the judgment is reversed and remanded to the State.
Supreme Ccnrt for further proceedings. Pp. 197-202.
(a) It is as much a violation of.due process to.send an accused
to prison following a conviction of a charge on which he was never
tried as it would be to convict him upon a charge that was never
made. "P..201.
(b) To conform to due process of law, petitioners were entitled
..to have the validity'of theii convictions appraised on consideration
of the case as it was tried and as the issues were determined in
the trial court. P. 202.
21i Ark. 836, 202 .. W. 2d 770, reversed.

