UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
163

Syllabus.

may not be deemed to have waived their venue objections. As we have held, their co-defendant, Highway Insurance Underwriters, may not be regarded as a resident
of the Eastern District of Louisiana in which suit was
brought. It follows, therefore, that respondents' objections to venue were well taken, and that, in sustaining
those objections, the District Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals reached a result in accord with the requirements of the federal venue statutes as consistently construed by this Court. If those requirements are to be
altered, it is a task which must be undertaken by
Congress.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. BALTIMORE & OHIO
RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 223.

Argued February 3-4, 148.-Decided 'March 8, 1948.

1. The Interstate Commerce Commission has power under the Interstate Commerce Act to order a railroad to make deliveries of
interstate carload shipments of livestock without discrimination
to a.shipper on the shipper's private sidetrack, even though compliance with that order will require the railroad to use an intermediate segment of track maintained and operated by the railroad
but owned by and leased from a competing shipper. whose lease
to the railroad precludes use of such track for the purpose of
making .such deliveries to its competitors. Pp. 175-178.

(a) The definitions contained in §§ 1 (1) (a) and 1 (3) (a) of
the Interstate Commerce Act make all trackage "in use by any
common carrier" subject to the regulatory provisions of the Act,
even though not. owned by the carrier but only used by it under
a lease. P. 176.
(b) The command of Congress against discrimination cannot
be subordinated to the command of a track owner that a railroad
using the-track practice discrimination. P. 177.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Counsel for Parties.

333 U. S.

2. It does not deprive an owner of hi; property without due process
of law to deny him the right to enforce conditions upon its use
which conflict with the power of Congress to regulate railroads
so as to secure equality of treatment of shippers. P. 177.
3. Under § 2 of the Elkins Act, the Commission was justified in
including, in an order against certain railroads to cease discriminatory practices, a non-carrier owner of a segment of track who
required such discriminatory practices pursuant to the contract
leasing such track to one of the railroads. P. 171, n. 2.
71 F. Supp. 499, reversed.

The Interstate Commerce Commission issued a cease
and desist order requiring certain interstate railroads and
the owner of a segment of railroad track leased to one
of the railroads to desist from certain discriminatory practices in connection with interstate shipments. 266 I. C. C.
55. A federal district court enjoined enforcement of the
order. 71 F. Supp. 499. On appeal to this Court,
reversed, p. 178.
Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for the
United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
appellants. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Edward
Dumbauld, Daniel.W. Knowlton and Edward M. Reidy.
William N. Strack and John P. Staley submitted on
brief for Swift & Co., appellant.
Robert R. Pierce argued the cause for the Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Co. et al., appellees. With him on the
brief were Harold H. McLean, Leo P. Day, George H. P.
Lacey, Willis T. Pierson, John A. Duncan and Francis R.

Cross.
Ashley Sellers argued the cause for the Cleveland
Union Stock Yards Co., appellee. With him on the brief
were Matthew S. Farmerand CarlMcFarland.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
169

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is properly here on appeal, 28 U. S. C. § 345,
from a district court decree enjoining enforcement, of a
cease and desist order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. 71 F. Supp. 499. The order enjoined
required the five railroad appellees' to abstain from refusing to deliver interstate shipments of livestock to the
sidetrack of Swift & Company's packing plant at Cleveland, Ohio, and to establish tariffs for such deliveries.
Swift's sidetrack has only one connection with a railroad.
That connection is with the main line of the New York
Central by way of a spur track, known as "Spur No. 245,"
operated by that railroad. One end of this spur owned by
the New York Central connects with its main line; the
other end of the spur, also owned by the railroad, connects
with Swift's sidetrack and with other private sidetracks.
A 1619-foot middle segment of the spur, known as
"Track 1619," is owned by the Cleveland Union Stock
Yards Company. Under the terms of a trackage agreement with Stock Yards, New York Central uses Track
1619 for deliveries to Swift's sidetrack and other private
sidetracks connected with Spur No. 245. Thus all interstate railroad shipments to Swift's siding and to others
similarly located can be made only over the segment
of track owned by Stock Yards. Because of its interest
in Track 1619, Stock Yards was made a party to the
proceedings before the Commission and was included
in its cease and desist order along with the railroads.!
'The railroad appellees are Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company,
the Erie Railroad Company, the Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad
Company, the New York Central Railroad Company, and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
2 Appellees argue that Stock Yards was improperly made a party

and that the Commission was without power to include Stock Yards
in its cease and desist order.. We think § 2 of the Elkins Act, 32

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

So long as Stock Yards continues to own Track 1619, delivery of livestock and other freight by New York Central
to Swift and others similarly located depends upon
whether and to what extent Stock Yards will grant or
has granted New York Central a right to operate over
Track 1619. This present case involves the question of
whether the railroads, and particularly New York Central,
in making deliveries of livestock over Track 1619 to
Swift's sidetrack must comply with certain conditions
imposed by Stock Yards in its present agreement with
New York Central.
Track 1619 was constructed in 1899 on Stock Yards'
property by Stock Yards and Ne'w York Central's predecessor in interest. A contemporaneous written agreement, cancellable on 60-days' written notice by the railroad, gave the railroad a right to use the track for railroad
purposes, provided the use did not interfere with Stock
Yards' business. In 1910, after negotiations with the
railroad, Swift built its sidetrack, and the railroad extended its Spur No. 245 by a track which connected Track
1619 with Swift's siding. The 1899 written trackage
agreement was superseded by another in 1924. This one
was cancellable by either party on 30-days' written notice.
It provided that the railroad should maintain the tracks
at its own expense, and it granted to the railroad "the
free and uninterrupted use of any and all tracks or portions thereof belonging to the Industry and located on its
land." From 1910, when Swift's siding was constructed,
Stat. 848, 49 U. S. C. § 42, justified the Commission's action and find
no merit to the contention that we should by interpretation restrict
that section's broad language authorizing inclusion as parties of "all
persons interested in or affected by the rate, regulation, or practice
under consideration" by the Commission or by a court, and which
provides that decrees may be made with reference to such additional
parties to the same extent as though they were carriers.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
169

Opinion of the Court.

to 1924, and for many years thereafter, the railroad continued to deliver all kinds of commodities to Swift and
to other packers likewise served only by way of Spur No.
245 and Track 1619.
In the early 1930's Stock Yards concluded that it was
losing patronage and fees because of delivery of livestock
to Swift at its siding. A large part of Stock Yards'
income comes from fees it charges for unloading and delivering interstate shipments of livestock to pens within its
yard. Stock carried over Track 1619 to Swift's siding
and to other private sidings are unloaded at those sidings;
as a result Stock Yards loses the fees it would receive if
livestock consigned to Swift and to other packers were
unloaded at the Stock Yards. With a view toward collecting unloading fees from Swift and other packers served
by Spur No. 245, Stock Yards instituted negotiations with
the New York Central which in 1935 resulted in a modification of their 1924 agreement. The old 1924 agreement
had unconditionally granted "Railroad, (a) the free and
uninterrupted use of any and all tracks .... ",, The 1935
modified agreement also granted New York Central "the
free and uninterrupted use" of Stock Yards' tracks, but
added "except for competitive traffic a charge for which
use shall be the subject of a separate agreement."
After this 1935 restrictive modification Stock Yards demanded that the railroad adopt one of two courses with
regard to livestock, which the parties agreed was the
"competitive traffic" the modified agreement was designed
to suppress. The railroad must either stop carrying livestock over Track 1619 to Swift and other packers or pay
Stock Yards, for use of Track 1619 in carrying livestock to
these packers, an amount equivalent to fees Stock Yards
would have collected had the livestock consigned to them
-been unloaded and delivered in the yard. This amount
was considered exorbitant by New York Central and thp

OCTOBER TERM. 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

other railroads for whom New York Central performed
switching charges, and they therefore refused to pay it.
The result was that in 1938 the railroads ceased delivering
livestock to the sidings of Swift and other packers served
by Spur No. 245, " although they have under agreement
with Stock Yards continued to use the spur for delivery
of all other kinds of commodity shipments to these sidings. Swift demanded that the railroads deliver livestock
to its siding, and in 1941 filed- a compiaiht with the Interstate Commerce Commission upon their refusal to make
deliveries.
After notice and hearing the Commission concluded
that the railroad's refusal to carry livestock to Swift vio-,
lated several provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
It was found to violate § 3 (1) because of the discrimination against a single commodity, livestock, and because
New York Central's deliveries of livestock to the sidetracks of some of Swift's nearby competitors, whose sidings were served without using Tr.ck 1619, subjected
Swift to undue prejudice and gave those competitors an
undue preference. The Commission also found that the
failure to deliver under the circumstances shown was a
violation of § 1 (6) which forbids unreasonable practices
affecting the manner and method of delivering freight,
and also a violation of § 1 (9) which requires railroads
to operate switch connections with private side tracks
3 In 1938 New York Central ceased to switch livestock carloads of
other carriers over Spur No. 245 to Swift's siding, and it canceled
its tariffs for this service. Since that time there has been no specific
tariff authority for movement of livestock to Swift's siding when
shipped to Cleveland over lines other than the New York Central.
Although New York Central has never canceled its tariff for livestock
shipments to Swift's Cleveland siding from points of origin on its
own lines, it has delivered all livestock consigned to Swift's siding
to Stock Yards since 1938. Swift has been forced to pay charges to
Stock Yards to 0btain possession of livestock unloaded at the yards.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
169

Opinion of the Court.

without discrimination under such conditions as the Commission found to exist here.
The Commission's findings of fact are not challenged.
There can be no doubt that those facts found would constitute a violation of the sections referred to if Spur No. 245
were wholly owned by the railroad. Ownership of Track
1619 by Stock Yards and its objection to livestock deliveries is, in fact, the only reason suggested for the railroads'
failure to deliver shipments of livestock to.Swift as they
do to neighboring packers, and for their failure to provide
switching connections for livestock shipments. From
what has been said our question is this: Can the noncarrier owner of a segment of railroad track who contracts
for an interstate railroad's use of the segment as part
of its line reserve a right to regulate the type of commodities that the railroad may transport over the segment,
or would-such a reservation be invalid under the Interstate
Commerce Act?
The Interstate Commerce Act is one of the most comprehensive regulatory plans that Congress has ever
undertaken. The first Act, and all amendments to it,
have aimed at wiping out discriminations of all types,
New York v. United States, 331 U. S. 284, 296, and language of the broadest scope has been used to accomplish
all the purposes of the Act. United States v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 323 U. S. 612, 616. It would be strange
had this legislation left a way open whereby carriers could
engage in discriminations merely by entering into contracts for the use of trackage. In fact this Court has
long recognized that the purpose of Congress to prevent
certain types of discriminations and prejudicial practices
could not be frustrated by contracts, even though the contracts were executed before enactment of the legislation.
See Philadelphia,Balt. & Wash. R. Co. v. Schubert, 224
U. S. 603, 61.3-614; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 483, 485-86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
333 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We think the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act plainly empowered the Commission to enter this

order against the discriminatory practices found, despite
ownership of Track 1619 by Stock Yards. Section 1 (1)
(a) makes the Interstate Commerce Act applicable to
common carriers "wholly by railroad." Section 1 (3) (a)
defines the term "railroad" as including "all the road in
use by any common carrier operating a railroad, whether
owned or operated under a contract, agreement, or lease,
and also all switches, spurs, tracks .

. . ."

As one of

the many other indications that Congress did not intend
its railroad regulatory provisions-to depend on who had
legal title to transportation instrumentalities, § 1 (3) (a)
also provides that the word "transportation" as used in
the Act shall broadly include "l6comotives . . . and all

instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage,
irrespective of ownership or of any contract, express or
implied, for the use thereof . .

. ."

It is true, as appel-

lees argue, that the above language of § 1 (3) (a) is definitional only. Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237
U. S.434. But it is also true that these definitions by

their unambiguous language make all trackage "in use by
any common carrier" subject to the regulatory provisions
of the Act, even though not owned by the carrier but only
used by it under a contract or agreement. Thus Tr4ck
1619, though owned by Stock Yards, was subject to the
Act because of its use by the New York Central under
trackage agreements.
It is just as prejudicial to shippers and the public for
a railroad that uses a portion of track under lease or
contract todiscriminate as it is for the discrimination
to be inflicted by a railroad that owns its entire track.
Practically the only argument suggested to justify discriminatory practices under the circumstances here is that.
an owner has a right to let others use his land subject

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
169

177

Opinion of the Court.

to whatsoever conditions the owner chooses to impose.
It is even argued that to construe the Interstate Commerce Act as limiting that right would result in depriving
an owner of his property without due process of law.
But no such broad generalization can be accepted. Property can be used even by its owner only in accordance
with law, and conditions its owner places on its use by
another are subject to like limitations. Of course it does
not deprive an owner of his property without due process
of law to deny him the right to enforce conditions upon its
use which conflict with the power of Congress to regulate
railroads so as to secure equality of treatment of those
whom the railroads serve.
Here Congress under its constitutional authority has
provided that no railroad shall engage in certain types
of discriminatory conduct in violation of three provisions
of the Act. The Commission found that discriminatory
conduct here. The excuse offered by the railroads is that
the owner of Track 1619 required them to do the prohibited things. But the command of Congress against discrimination cannot be subordinated to the command of
a track owner that a railroad using the track practice
discrimination.
We hold that the Commission's order was authorized
by statute and that it does not deprive Stock Yards of
its property without due process of law. In doing so we
do not-pass up'n apy questions in relation to the dedication of Track 1619 tor-Mailroad use. Neither do' we
decide what are the relative financial rights of Stock
Yards and New York Central under their contracts, nor
whether Stock Yards can cancel the contract with New
York Central, nor what would be the duty of New York
Central should Stock Yards attempt to terminate its right
to use Track 1619. We only hold that Stock Yards' ownership of Track 1619 does not vest it with power to compel

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

the railroads to operate in a way which violates the
Interstate Commerce Act.
The Commission's order is valid and should 1.
3 enforced.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

dissenting.

For the reasons stated in the opinion of the District
Court in this case, 71 F. Supp. 499, I believe that the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission exceeded its
jurisdiction and that the judgment permanently enjoining
the enforcement of such order should have been
affirmed.
DONALDSON, POSTMASTER GENERAL, v. READ
MAGAZINE, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 50.

Argued October 24, 1947. Reargued January 5, 1948.Decided March 8, 1948.

1. Where the Postmaster General has issued a fraud order under
39 U. S. C. §§ 259., 732, and later concludes that it is broader than
necessary to protect the public, he has power to modify the order
so as to make it less inclusive-even though there be pending
in this Court at the time a review of a judgment of a federal court
of appeals affirming a judgment of a district court enjoining enforcement of the order. Pp. 183-185.
2. The evidence in this case was sufficient to support the finding
of the Postmaster General that respondents' advertisements of a
so-called "puzzle contest" had been deliberately contrived to divert
readers' attention from material but adroitly obscured facts and
that respondents were conducting a scheme to obtain money
through the mails by means of false and fraudulent representations
in violation of 39 U. S. C. §§ 259,732. Pp. 185-189.
3. The fraud order statutes, 39 U. S. C. §§'259, 732, as interpreted
and. applied by the Postmaster General in this case, are constitutional. Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497. Pp.
189-192.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 339, 158 F. 2d 542, reversed.

