BAKERY DRIVERS UNION v. WAGSHAL.
426

437

Syllabus.

tection, now. See Columbia Broadcasting System v.
United States, 316 U. S.407, a case where prematurity
was clearer than here.
I would decide this case on the merits.

BAKERY SALES DRIVERS LOCAL UNION NO. 33
ET AL.

v. WAGSHAL,

TRADING AS

WAGSHAL'S DELI-

CATESSEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 225.

Argued December 17-18, 1947.-Decided March 15, 1948.

In a suit by a delicatessen store to enjoin a boycott of its business
by a labor union, the pleadings and supporting affidavits alleged
that: Because the hours of delivery were inconvenient, the store
stopped buying bread from one bakery and started buying from
another; although the store had always made payments for the
bread difect to the first bakery and not to the driver employed
by the bakery, a representative of the bakery drivers' union demanded that payment of the balance due for bread previously
bought from the first bakery be made to the driver who had
delivered it and that the store discontinue the sale of a certain
non-union product; there was a dispute about the amount of the
bill; the store discontinued the sale of the non-union product but
refused to make payment for the bread to the driver; and the
union instituted a boycott which prevented the store from obtaining bread from other bakeries or retail stores. The District Court
denied the union's motion to dismiss the suit and granted an injunction pendente lite. The Court of Appeals dismissed an appeal.
Held:
1. The boycott did not grow out of a "labor dispute" within the
meaning of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, and the order granting an
injunction pendente lite was therefore not appealable as of right.
Pp.442-445.
(a) The controversy over the hour of delivery was not a
"labor dispute," since it was between the store and the bakery and
not between the store and the driver or his union. Moreover, it
was a dead controversy. Pp. 442-443.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
333 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

(b) The controversy over the amount of the bill was between
the store and the bakery, and it did not become a "labor dispute"
merely because a representative of the union undertook to collect
the bill. Pp. 443-444.
(c) Since it appears from the record before this Court that
the boycott was addressed only to the question of payment of the
bill and that the incidental controversy over the sale of a nonunion item (which had been discontinued) was a mere pretext, the
latter is not sufficient to make the case one growing out of a "labor
dispute." P.444.
. 2. The Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 136,
§ 10 (h), did not remove the limitations of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act upon the power to issue an injunction against a secondary
boycott where the injunction is sought by a private party. P. 442.
3. Since the record does not show that a stay was granted pending review here, it must be assumed that the union's action in lifting the boycott was merely obedience to the judgment here for
review; and the case cannot be considered to have become moot
by reason of the lifting of the boycott. P. 442.
4. A contention that a determination whether there is a labor
dispute 'should not rest upon affidavits is not ruled upon, because
the affidavits in this case were merely a gloss on the complaint,
constituted an informal amendment, and served only as allegations
and not proof. Pp. 444--445.
82 U. S. App. D. C. 138, 161 F. 2d 380, affirmed.

The United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia dismissed an appeal from a judgment of the

District Court granting an injunction

pendente lite

againsta boycott .by a labor union and denying a motion
to dismiss the suit. 82 U. S. App. D. C. 138, 161 F. 2d 380.

This Court-granted certiorari.

332 U. S. 756:

Affirmed,

p. 445.

Herbert S. Thatcher argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were J. Albert Woll and Jacqueline

Wemple.
William E. Leahy argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were William J. Hughes, Jr. and
Nicholas J. Chase.

BAKERY DRIVERS UNION v. WAGSHAL.
437

MR.

439

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought in a United States District
Court to enjoin interference with a business, and the
question is whether the complaint subjects that court to
the limitations imposed by the Norris-LaGuardia Act
upon its equity jurisdiction.
This is the substance of the complaint. Respondent
owns a delicatessen store Which sells food and serves meals.
She obtained bread for the delicatessen store from Hinkle's
bakery. Deliveries were made, by a driver, an employee
of Hinkle and a member of Local Union No. 33, one of the
petitioners. The driver delivered the bread at noon,
which inconvenienced the respondent, since the checking
of deliveries at that hour interfered with the serving of
lunches. Respondent "required" the driver to bring the
bread at another hour. Shortly thereafter, Hinkle informed the respondent that it would no longer furnish her
with bakery products. And so, respondent made arrangements with another bakery, which delivered at a more
convenient hour.
Three weeks later, the petitioner Andre, president of
the union, visited the delicatessen store and stated that
the respondent owed the driver approximately $150 and
requested immediate payment. Respondent replied that
she had never had dealings with the driver, but had paid
Hinkle directly by check, and would pay the bill in due
course. Andre replied that the payment would have to
be made to the driver in full; furthermore, that if the
respondent did not ' cease carrying a certain non-union
article of food he noticed on, display, delivery of bread,
milk, and other products necessary to the respondent's
business would be cut off. Shortly thereafter the respondent sent a check to Hinkle for the balance of her
bill. It was returned by the union, with a letter signed
by Andre asserting. that the payment wa& owed to its

.440

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

member, the driver, and could not be accet~ted. The
following day, the bakery which had been serving respondent after Hinkle had stopped doing so, ceased to
deal with her, explaining that the union had threatened
otherwise "to pull out all its drivers." Through an effective boycott, the union kept the respondent from obtaining bread from other bakeries or retail stores. The delicatessen store was also picketed.
The €omplaint prayed for temporary and permanent
injunctions against the boycott and other interference
with respondent's business, the payment of damages, and
the usual catch-all relief. Petitioners moved to dismiss
the action 'on the ground that the controversy as set
forth in the complaint involved a "labor dispute" under
the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70,29 U. S. C. §§ 101
et seq. Respondent filed an "answer to motion to dismiss," attached to which were affidavits, including one
of Benjamin Wagshal, manager of the delicatessen store,
elaborating the incidents narrated in the complaint.
Among other matters set forth, he stated. that payment
for bread purchased from Hinkle had.always been made
by check sent directly to Hinkleand was never made to a
driver, and that neither the union nor any of its drivers
had ever previously questioned this practice; that Andre
had asserted by mail and at the delicatessen store that the
check which the respondent had sent to Hinkle was $12.22
short of the amount owed; and that the non-union item
on sale to which Andre had objected was not a subject
of controversy but merely an excuse for Andre's attempt,
on his visit to the delicatessen store, to enforce his demands concerning the bill, and that in any event its sale
had been discontinued.
The District Court granted an injunction pendente
lite, restraining the petitioners from interfering with
respondent's business or preventing sale and delivery of
bakery products to the respoadent, by boycott and picket-

BAKERY DRIVERS UNION v. WAGSHAL.
437

441

Opinion of the Court.,

ing. At the same time, it denied the petitioners' motion
to dismiss. Petitioners filed a notice of appeal to the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Iand
respondents moved to dismiss the appeal.
If this case does not involve a "labor dispute" under
the Norris-LaGuardia Act,,'an appeal as of right could
not be had in the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia. 31 Stat. 1189, 1225, as amended, D. C. Code
(1940) § 17-101. However, § 10 of the Norris-La-.
Guardia Act, 47 Stat. 70, 72, 29 U. S. C. § 110, provides
for immediate revie~v of an order granting or denying
"ianytemporary injunction in a case involving or growing out of a labor dispute .
The Court of ApSection 13 of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70, 73, 29
U. S. C. § 113, reads as follows:
'SEc. 13. When used in this Act, and for- the purposes of this
Act-(a) A case shall be held to involve or to grow out of a labor
dispute when the case involves persons who are engaged in the same
industry, trade, craft,, or occupation; or have direct or indirect
interests therein; or who are employees of the same employer; or
who are members of the same or an affiliated organization of employers, or employees; whether such dispute is (1) between one
or more employers or associations of employers and one or more
employees or associations of employees;. (2) between one or more
employers or associations of employers and one or more employers
or associations of employers; or (3) between one or more employees
or associations of employees and one or more-'employees or associations of( employees; br when the case involves any conflicting or competing interests in a 'labor dispute' (as hereinafter defined) of 'persons participating or. interested' therein (as hereinafter defined).
"(b) A person'or association shall be held to be a person participating or interested in a labor dispute if relief is sought against him or it,
and if he or it is engaged in the same industry, trade, craft, or occupation in which such dispute occurs, or has a direct or indirect interest
therein, or is a member, officer, or agent of any association composed
in whole or in part of employers or employees engaged in'such
industry, trade, craft, or occupation.
"(c) The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy concerning
terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the association or

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

peals, one justice dissenting, held that this was not such
a case, and dismissed the appeal. 161 F. 2d 380. Because of asserted conflict between this decision and prior
decisions of this Court. on the scope of "labor dispute"
within the meaning of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, we
granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 756.
A preliminary claim must be met, that the case has
oecome moot. The short answer to the argument that
the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, 61 Stat.
136, 149, § 10 (h), has removed the limitations of the
Norris-LaGuardia Act upon the power to issue injunctions against what are known as secondary boycotts,
is that the law has been changed only where an injunction is sought by the National Labor Relations Board,
not where proceedings are instituted by a private party.
The claim of mootness is also based on an affidavit
stating that after dismissal of the appeal by the Court
of Appeals, the union lifted its boycott. Since the record does not show that a stay of the injunction was
granted pending action in this Court, we must assume
that the union's action was merely obedience to the judgment now here for review. We,therefore turn to the
merits.
The petitioners attach significance to three incidents
for their claim that a "labor dispute" is here involved.
1. The controversy over the hour of delivery. The
petitioners claim that this was a dispute ."concerning
terms or conditions of [the driver's] employment,"
representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing,
or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless
of whether or not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of"
employer and employee.
"(d) The tirm 'court of the United States' means any court of the
United States whose jurisdiction has been or may be conferred or
defined or limited by Act of Congress; including the courts of the
District of Columbia."

BAKERY DRIVERS UNION v.. WAGSHAL.
437

443

Opinion. of the Court.

thereby raising a labor dispute, "whether or not the
disputants stand in the proximate relation of employer
and employee." § 13 (c). of the Norris-LaGuardia Act.But the respondent had nothing to do with the working
conditions of Hinkle's enployees, individually or collectively. Her only desire was to have the bread come at
an hour suitable for her business, and she had no interest
in what arrangements Hinkle made to satisfy that desire rather than run the risk of iosing her trade-to have
the bread delivered by the sanie driver at a different hour,
or by another driver, by an independent cbntractor, or
through some other resourceful contrivance. To hold
that under su-h circumstances a failure of two btsinessmen to comt to terms created a labor -dispute merely
because what one of them sought might have affected
the work of a particular employee of the other, would
be to turn almost every controversy between sellers and
buyers over price, quantity, quality, delivery, payment,
credit, or any other business transaction into a "labor
dispute." Cf. Columbia River Packers Assn. v. Hinton,
315 U. S. 143. Furthermore, on the basis of what we
have before us, respondent's disagreement with Hinkle
over the delivery hour was a dead controversy, not involved in the subsequent dispute with the union, or in
the boycott against which the injunction was directed.
2. The controversy, over the bill. The petitioners
regard both the question whether payment was to be
made to the driver rather than to Hinkle, and the disagreement over the disputed sum of $12.22,::as a matter
concerning the driver's wages, and therefore a condition
of his employment. But, on the allegations now here,
respondent had nothing to do with the payment of the
driver's wages. The delicatessen store was Hinkle's customek. On the basis of the allegations to be considered,
the driver would receive his pay whether or not respond-

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

ent paid her bill. It is immaterial that the driver may
have been the conduit for payment-as drivers who
deliver packages normally are. The same is true as to
the disputed item of $12.22. The mere fact that it is
a labor union representative rather than a bill collector
who, with or without the creditor's consent, seeks to
obtain payment of an obligation, does not transmute a
business controversy into a Norris-LaGuardia "labor
dispute." Cf. Dorchy v. Kansas,'272 U. S. 306, 311.
3. The non-union item on sale in the delicatessen store.
Sale by a merchant of non-union commodities is, no doubt,
.a traditional source of labor disputes within the scope of
the Norris-LaGuardia Act. While the complaint itself
did not indicate the history of this matter after Andre's
visit, the affidavit attached to the "answer to motion
to dismiss" sets forth that' it was not a bona fide bone
of contention, but a mere pretext, and,. further, that
the respondent thereafter withdrew the itei from sale.
While the conclusion of the incident giving rise to a controversy may not necessarily terminate a*labor dispute
(cf. Hunt v. Crumboch, 325 U. S. 821), what is before us
leaves no doubt that the subsequent boycott was addressed
only to the question of payment of the bill. Petitioners
suggest that since no injunction may issue in a case growing out of a labor dispute, except upon oral testimony,
determination whether there is a labor dispute should
not rest on affidavits. But in this case the affidavits were
*merely a gloss on the complaint and as such constituted
an informal amendment. They serve here as allegations,
not proof.
This case was decided on a motion to dismiss. All that
was determined was that on the basis of the respondent's claims, which the petitioners chose not to controvert,
the Norris-LaGuardia Act did not apply. Since the dnly
issue before the court below, and therefore before us, was
the appealability of the order for an injunction pendente

FRANCIS v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.

445

Syllabus.

437

lite, which in turn depended on the applicability of the
Norris-LaGuardia Act, other questions raised are not now
open here.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY dissent. MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

FRANCIS ET AL. v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO..
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPILALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 400.

Argued February 5, 1948.-Decided March 15, 1948.

1. Basing jurisdiction on diversity of. citizenship, certain minor children sued an interstate railroad in a federal-court in Utah to recover
damages -for the death of their father, an employee of the railroad,
who was killed in Utah while riding the railroad as an interstate
passenger on a free pass, not in connection with his duties as an
emiloyee. The pass provided that the user assumed all risk of
injury and absolved the railroad from any liability therefor. Under
instructions withholding an issue of the railroad's ordinary negligence and submitting only an issue of its wanton negligence,.,the
jury found for the railroad. Held: Judgment for the railroad
affirmed. Pp. 446-450.
(a) In view of a subsequent decision of the Supreme Court of
Utah to similar effect, this-Court cannot say that the Circuit Court
of Appeals committed plain error in holding that defenses which
would have been available in a suit by the decedent were available
in a suit by the heirs on a separate and distinct cause of action
created by Utah law; and, therefore, this Court will not overrule
that holding under Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64. Pp.
447-448.
(b) Under the Hepburn Act, as amended by.the Transportation
Act of 1940, the right of an employee of an interstate railroad to
recover damages for injuries sustained while riding on a free pass
is governed by federal law. Pp. 448-450.

