ANDERSON v. ATCHISON, T.-& S. F. R. CO.

821

Opinion of the Court.
ANDERSON, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. ATCHISON,
TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 620.

Decided April 26, 1948.

In a suit against a railroad in a state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover damages for the wrongful death
of a conductor, a complaint alleging that he disappeared from a
moving train in very cold weather at a time when his duty required
his presence on the rear vestibule, that his absence was discovered
by other trainmen, that they negligently failed to make prompt
efforts to have him rescued, and that he died from the resulting
exposure, held sufficient to support a judgment for plaintiff, if a
jury should find under appropriate instructions that the death
resulted "in whole or in part" from failure of the railroad's agents
to do what "a reasonable and prudent man would ordinarily have
done under the circumstances." Pp. 821-823.
31 Cal. 2d 117, 187 P, 2d 729, reversed.

In a suit against a railroad under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover damages for the alleged
wrongful death of an employee, a state court held that the
allegations of the complaint, even if true, were insufficient
to support a judgment for plaintiff, and entered judgment
for defendant. The state supreme court affirmed. 31
Cal. 2d 117, 187 P. 2d 729. Certiorarigranted,judgment
reversed, and cause remanded,p. 823.
Clifton Hildebrand filed a brief for petitioner.
Frank R. Belcher filed a brief for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner, as administratrix, filed a complaint in a California state court under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, 45 U. S. C. ยง 51, to recover damages for the alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

wrongful death of one L. C. Bristow. The trial court
held that the allegations of the complaint, even if true,
were totally insufficient to support a judgment for plaintiff, and entered judgment for the defendant. The State
Supreme Court, two judges dissenting, affirmed on the
.same ground. 31 Cal. 2d 117, 187 P. 2d 729.'
The complaint's allegations and the inferences fairly
drawn from them in summary are as follows: November
24, 1942, the deceased was a conductor on,respondent's
passenger train westbound from Amarillo, Texas, to
Belen, New Mexico. At about 5:30 a. m., while the
train was moving approximately opposite defendant's
station at Gallaher, New Mexico, decedent fell from the
train's rear vestibule where it was necessary for him to
be in order properly to perform the duty in which he
was then engaged, "checking a certain train order signal
at said station" of Gallaher. Decedent's fhll resulted in
injuries which made it impossible for him to secure help
by his own efforts. At the next station where the train
stopped, St. Vrain, respondent's employees "made note of
the absence of decedent," but passed by it and three
other station stops, Melrose, Taiban, and Fort Sumner,
without taking any steps of any kind to ascertain the
whereabouts of decedent or what had happened to him.
Finally, however, at Yeso, New Mexico, the regular train
conductor directed respondent's employees there to wire
other. employees along the route the train had traversed
to ascertain decedent's whereabouts. The Yeso employees "carelessly and negligently" failed to transmit any
message "for an unnecessarily long period of time," and
The sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of action was
raised under California. procedure by an objection of respondent to
he.aring evidence. Such a procedure, the State Supreme Court held,
i; in the nature of a general demurrer under which allegations of
the'complaint aredeerned true.

ANDERSON v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. R. CO.
821

823

Opinion of the Court.

when the message was finally received by other of respondent's employees at Clovis, New Mexico, they "carelessly and negligently failed to institute and pursue a
search for decedent within a reasonable period of time."
When search was ultimately made decedent was found
lying alongside the track adjacent to the point where he
had fallen while performing his duties on the rear vestibule opposite the station at Gallaher. Three days later
decedent died, due to exposure to the very cold weather
from the time he fell until he was finally rescued.
It thus appears that we have a complaint which
charges that a conductor disappears from a moving train
in bitter cold weather at a time when his duty requires
him to be on the rear vestibule, his absence is discovered,
and efforts of any kind to ascertain and save him from
his probable peril are not promptly made by other train
employees, the only persons likely to know of his disappearance and 'he probable dangers incident to it. We
are unable to agree that had petitioner been permitted
to introduce all evidence relevant under her allegations,
the facts Would have revealed a situation as to which a
jury under appropriate instructions could not have found
that decedent's exposure and consequent death were due
"in whole or in part" to failure of respondent's agents
to do what "a reasonable and prudent man would ordinarily have done under the circumstances of the situation." Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. ,
54, 67. See also Jamison v. Encarnacion, 281 U. S. 63,
640, 641; Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319 U. S.
350, 353; Blair v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 323 U. S. 600,
604; Lillie v. Thompson, 332 U. S. 459, 461-462.
Certiorari is granted, the judgment is reversed, and the
cause is remanded to the State Supreme Court for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

