MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.

611

Syllabus.

MASSACHUSETTS

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 157.

Argued December 10, 1947.-Decided April 19, 1948.

1. Under R. S. § 3466, the United States has priority for payment
from an insolvent debtor's estate of federal insurance contribution
taxes under Title 8 and unemployment compensation taxes under
Title 9 of the Social Security Act, as against a state's claim for
unemployment compensation taxes imposed by a state statute
conforming to the' federal act's requirements, Illinois v. United
States, 328 U. S.8; Illinois v. Campbell, 329 U. S. 362--even though
the fund available for distribution was more than sufficient to pay
either the Title 8 or Title 9 taxes to the United States but insufficient to pay both and the debtor's assignee had paid to the state
the full amount of its claim. Pp. 6i2-623.
(a) Upon the intervention of an act of bankruptcy, R. S. § 3466
cut off the taxpayer's right under Title'9 of the Social Security
Act to pay the state 90% of the unemployment compensation tax
and take federal credit therefor. Pp. 615-617.
2. Where the total assets of an insolvent debtor were not sufficient
to pay all claims of the United States entitled to priority under
R. S. § 3466, the part remaining for application to its claim under
Title 9 of the Social Security Act after all other claims have been
satisfied cannot be allocated between the United States and the
state, but must be applied in settlement of the claim of the United
States. Pp. 623-629.
(a) The effect of It. S. § 3466 depends on the fact of insolvency,
not on the degree of it. P. 625.
(b) The priority given to the United States by R. S. § 3466
is abolute, not conditional; once attaching it is final and conclusive,
and' not subject to defeasance. Pp. 625-628.
(c) Section 902 of the Social Security Act neither created an
exception to R. S. § 3466 in favor of state claims for unemployment
compensation taxes -,or gives the state a claim prior to that of
the United States for 90% of the amount of such taxes. Pp..
628-629.
3. Illinois v. United States, 328 U. S.8, and Illinois v. Campbell,
329 U. S.362, considered and reaffirmed. Pp. 629-635,
160 F. 2d 614, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

In-a suit by the United States to recover from an insolvent debtor's estate federal insurance contribution
taxes under Title 8 and unemployment compensation
taxes under Title 9 of the Social Security Act, the District
Court held that, under R. S. § 3466, the United States
had priority as to the full amount of the Title 8 taxes
due it and as to 10% of the Title 9 taxes due it. 65 F.
Supp. 763. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
United States was entitled to priority for the full amount
of all its claims, including the Title 9 taxes. 160F. 2d
614. This Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 754.
Affirmed, p. 635.
Alfred E. LoPrestz, Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts, argued the cause for petitioners. With him
on the brief were Clarence A. Barnes, Attorney General,
and John A. Brennan.
'Helen Goodner argued the cause for the United States.
With her on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Caudle, Helen R. Carloss and
Lee A,Jackson.
By special leave of Court, Albert E. Hallett, Assistant
Attorney General, argued the cause for the State of Illi.nois, as amicus curiae, urging reversal. With him on the
brief was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.
MR. JUSTiCE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is for all.practical purposes a renewal of the
litigation recently here in Illinois v. United States, 328
U. S. 8, and the companion case of Illinois v. Campbell,
329 U. S. 362. The former unanimously held that the
United States has priority, by virtue of Rev. Stat. § 3466,
31 U. S. C. § 191, for payment from an insolvent debtor's
estate of federal insurance contribution taxes under Title 8

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

613

Opinion of the Court.

and unemployment compensation taxes under Title 9 of
the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 620, as against a state's
claim for unemployment compensation taxes imposed by
its statute conforming to the federal act's requirements.
The Campbell case, which was reargued on other issues,
rested on this ruling for disposition of the common issue
concerning the effect of § 3466.
The facts are substantially identical with those in Illinois v. UnitedStates,' except in two respects. One is that
the fund available here for distribution is more than
sufficient to pay either the Title 8 or the Title 9 taxes,
though inadequate to pay both, while in Illinois v. United
States the fund was not large enough to satisfy either tax
in full. Here too the debtor's assignee has paid to the
commonwealth the full amount of its claim, while in the
Illinois cases the fund remained in the assignee's hands
for distribution.
The District Court sustained the federal priority for
capital stock and Title 8 taxes in full, and for 10 per cent
of the Title 9 claim. It therefore deferred payment of
any part of the state's claim until those claims were
fully paid. But the court held the United States not
'Here, as in that case, the debtor made a common-law assignment
for the benefit of creditors. The assignee here realized S1,135.11
from sale of the assets. The claim of the United States for Title 9
taxes amounted to $963.08; for Title 8 taxes, $690.05; and for capital
stock taxes, $21. The commonwealth's claim was for $803.72 in
unemployment taxes. Within the time allowed, but for interventiof
of the insolvency, the assignee paid the state's claim in full and
then paid the remaining assets of $331.39 to the collector. He
applied this sum on account of the Title 8 taxes, thus leaving unpaid
the federal claims for capital stock and Title 9 taxes as well as
$358.66 plus interest on the Title 8 claim.
2 The commonwealth in effect has undertaken to indemnify the
assignee, by paying over to the United States the $803.72, if the
payment to the state should turn out to have been erroneously
made. The United States has agreed that if it prevails the judgment shall be limited to $803.72.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

entitled to priority for the remaining 90 per cent of the
Title 9 claim, on the ground that Title 9, § 902,' gives the
assignee "the alternative right" to pay that amount to
an approved state unemployment fund. Accordingly
the judgment ordered Massachusetts to pay over to the
United States, from the $803.72 received from the assignee, sufficient funds to satisfy in full the federal priorities sustained, and to retain the small balance remaining after making those payments to apply on its
claim for 90 per cent of the Title 9 taxes. 65 F. Supp.
763. This action was taken in the view that, while our
previous decisions had sustained the federal priority for
the capital stock and Title 8 taxes, they had not determined the question for Title 9 claims.'
However, on appeal by both parties, the Circuit Court
of Appeals held the United States entitled, under the
Illinois rulings, to priority for the full amount of all its
claims, including the Title 9 taxes. That court therefore affirmed the District Court's judgment except insofar
as it denied the Government's Title 9 claim. As to this
it reversed the District Court's ruling. 160 F. 2d 614.
S The original § 902, 49 Stat. 639, provided that the taxpayer might
credit against Title 9 taxes 90 per cent of his contributions under
an approved state program. Subsequent amendments did not alter
the conception of a basic 90 per cent credit. See, e. g., notes 13, 15.
The present "credit against tax" section is incorporated in the
Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. § 1601.
' The District Court thought that in Illinois v. United States, the
Title 9 issue had become moot either before or as of the time the
case reached this Court, and that therefore we "had no occasion to
consider the problem whether as to 90 per cent of the amount due for
Title IX taxes the United States [by § 902] had not given the taxpayer the option to make payment to Illinois instead of to the
United States." 65 F. Supp. 763, 765. The court thus regarded the

Title 9 question as left open and "nicely analyzed . . .to be one not

of'priority but of alternative obligation."

Id. at 764.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

615

Opinion of the Court.

Because of the obvious confusion concerning the effects
of our prior decisions and the asserted differences between
this case and the Illinois cases, certiorari was granted.
332 U. S. 754.
I.

Massachusetts seeks to retain the entire $803.72 she
has received, in priority to all the federal claims. She
agrees with the district court that § 902 gives the taxpayer an "optional right" of payment but does not accept
its allocation creating priorities for all federal claims
except 90 per cent of the Title 9 taxes. To sustain this
broad claim would require reversal of both of the Illinois
decisions. In no other way, on the facts, could Massachusetts retain the whole amount she was paid.'
Illinois as amicus curiae takes a narrower position,
conceding that the Illinois cases stand as decisive adjudications of priority for Title 8 taxes but disputing that
effect for Title 9 claims.' This position seeks an allocation paying the state's claim after the Title 8 and
other federal claims, including 10 per cent of the Title 9
taxes, but before or rather in "satisfaction" of the remaining 90 per cent of them.'
5Since the insolvent's assets are not large enough to pay either
the Title 8 or the Title 9 claim and leave enough to pay the state
claim in full. See note 1.
In the brief Massachusetts states the federal question as being
whether the assignee may "make payment of the State unemployment
tax to the exclusion of the Federal Government claim for Title IX
taxes or any other taxes due the Federal Government from the taxpayer?" (Emphasis added.)
8 Illinois has appeared with leave, both by brief and in the oral
argument. It neither expressly disclaims nor expressly supports
Massachusetts' broad position for reversal.
7 On the facts, see note 1, after paying the capital stock claim, the
Title 8 claim and 10 per cent of the Title 9 claim, this would leave
$327.75 to apply on the. state's claim; and hence require Massachu-

OCTORER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Notwithstanding their substantial differences, the two,
states rest their respective positions on the same basic
arguments, which upon examination turn out to be identical with those vigorously presented by Illinois in the
earlier cases, except for wording and detail. Much is
made of the fact that here the debtor's assignee has paid
to the commonwealth the full amount of its claim, while
in Illinois v. United States the fund remained in the
assignee's hands. Both states urge that § 902 gives the
taxpayer, and here his assignee, the "optional right" of
payment to the state. Moreover, with respect to the
requirement of Rev. Stat. § 3466 that "the debts due to
the United States shall be first satisfied," it is said that
payment to the state with resulting credit to the United
States for 90 per cent of the Title 9 claim "satisfies" the
Government's debt as much as payment to it in cash.
In the Illinois cases the foundation for the state's claim
to be paid in preference to any of the federal claims lay
in the credit provision of § 902, which is the identical
provision for "optional payment." There was "no question whatever that § 902 gave the taxpayer the "alternate
right." But the precise issue in both cases was whether
that ,right had been cut off by Rev. Stat. § 3466 when he
became insolvent.
Obviously there could have been but little point or
effect to our decisions if, despite them, the assignee could
have turned around immediately and deprived the Government of the priorities established simply by exercising
a right to make the optional payment to the state. Nor
would the decisions have been much more sensible or
setts to pay over to the United States $475.97 plus interest from the
$803.72 she has received, in order to complete the payment in full
of the Title 8 claim.
Actually this represents the District Court's specific allocation,
not exactly that of either Massachusetts or Illinois. Each would
apply a somewhat different method of allocation. See note 20.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

617

Opinion of the Court.

effective, had they purported to sustain the federal priorities when the assignee has retained the fund, but to
disallow them if he has paid the state before the federal
claims are filed. We made no such ineffective or capricious rulings. The decision was broadly that by intervention of the insolvency and the consequent bringing
of Rev. Stat. § 3466 into play, the taxpayer's right to
pay the state and .take federal credit had been cut off.8
Our decisions went to the merits of that right and not
merely to rule that the state was not a'proper party
to enforce its exercise. The taxes due the United States
were held to be debts; and by virtue of § 3466 the debtor's
prior obligation attaching as of the date of his insolvency
was to the. Government, not to the state. It followed
necessarily that 'the assignee could not "satisfy" it by
paying the state and giving the Government "credit."
This was the very question at issue and the one adjudicated. The "alternate right" contention and the one that
"satisfied" in § 3466 means "credit" are only verbal
redressings of the basic issue decided in the Illinois
cases.
II.
This is as true of the argument's bearing on Illinois'
narrower position as it is for Massachusetts' broader one.
But Illinois, apparently with Massachusetts' support,
brings forward to sustain the less sweeping attack the
additional contention that the Illinois decisions did not
adjudicate Title 9 priority, although purporting to do
so. Moreover, the facts present this narrower issue of
distinguishing between Title 9 and other federal claims
in sharper factual focus than did the Illinois cases. For
8

See Part III. The federal priority under § 3466 attaches from
the time the insolvent debtor transfers or loses control over his property. Illinois v. Campbell, 329 U. S. 362, 370; United States v. Waddill Co., 323 U. S. 353, 355-358; United States v. Oklahoma, 261
U. S. 253,260..'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

3 3 U. S.

if the capital stock and Title 8 claims are first paid in
full, as the District Court required, a small balance of
the fund will remain, to be applied either in part payment
of the federal Title 9 claim or in some form of allocation
between it and Massachusetts' claim. This was not true
of Illinois v. United States, or indeed of Illinois v. Campbell, in the posture in which that case was brought here.
The principal argument is that the Title 9 taxes, though
litigated in the Illinois courts, were not involved on the
facts in the Illinois cases as they came to and were decided
by this Court. Hence it is said we did not acquire jurisdiction over 'the Title 9 claims. The argument is correct
concerning Illinois v. Campbelt.' But it is surprising as
applied to Illinois v. United States, in view of the state
supreme court's adverse decision on the Title 9 issue;
Illinois' explicit application for certiorari on that issue
and argument on the merits here to reverse the state
court's decision; " the necessity on the facts for the state
9 The state supreme court's judgment had sustained the federal

priority for Title 8 taxes, ordering them paid first and the. small
remaining balance of about $150 to be paid to the state. This left
the Title 9 taxes unpaid. The court denied priqrity for that claim
because it fell within the explicit exception of §602 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1943.. See text infra at notes 13, 14. The Government's
failure to apply for certiorari as to the $150 eliminated the Title 9
issue from the case in this Court.
10Illinois almost uniformly put the issues as involving Title 8 and
Title 9 taxes indiscriminately. Thus, in stating "The Questions Presented," the petition for certiorari spoke of priority for "Social
.Security excise taxes and Capital Stock taxes," necessarily- encompassing Title 8 and Title 9 levies. This was repeatedly true of the
state's brief. Further, the petition at one point said: "In holding that
the claim of the petitioner was subordinate to the clainid of the United.
States for capital stock tax and f6r taxes arising under Titles VIII
and IX of the Social* Security Act, the Supreme Court of Illinois
looked to form, not substance, and disregarded the character and
significance of petitioner's claim." The Government's briefs were
equally positive in-seeking disposition of the Title 9 claim.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

619

Opinion of the Court.

to bring the question up and secure reversal in order to
establish its claim; " and finally our opinion's *clear and
explicit terms, indeed emphasis, in deciding the Title 9
issue, together with the Title 8 one, against Illinois."
The idea that the state court decided only the Title 8
issue completely misconceives its action, and serves only
to confuse the judgment in that case with the one in
Illinois v. Campbell. Indeed it seeks to infuse into the
former the latter's denial of Title 9 priority. Not only
is this wholly incompatible with Illinois' earlier position;
it ignores the fact that the state court disposed of the
Title 9 issue in both cases, but in opposite ways on entirely different facts and legal issues.
n The federal claims asserted were as follows: Capital stock taxes,
$58.73; Title 8 taxes, $1,065.52; Title 9 taxes, $1,284.36; all plus
interest from the date due. The Illinois claim for state unemployment compensation contributions was $721.29. And the fund available to satisfy all these claims was $1,010.81.
Since the assets were insufficient to pay in full either the Title 8 or

the Title 9 claim, Illinois had to override both to establish her claim.
Illinois recognized this both by her application for review and by
the broad argument that the state claimt was tantamount to a federal
tax and the credit provisions of § 902 exempted it completely from
the priority of Rev. Stat. § 3466 for all federal taxes, not simply one.
12 The opinion in Illinois v. United States explicitly stated:
"The claim of the United States is for federal unemployment compensation taxes under Title 9 and federal insurance contributions taxes
under Title 8 of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 620." 328 U. S.

8, 9. The opinion throughout treated Title 9 taxes on a parity
with those under Title 8. We accepted fully the state's view that
the credit or "optional payment" provision of § 902 was designed to
stimulate the creation of sound state systems. 328 .U. S. 8, 10. See
Illinois v. Campbell, 329 U. S.362, 367, n. 5. But we rejected the
argument that the state claim was tantamount to a federal one and
said: "But we cannot agree that Congress thereby intended in effect
to amend § 3466, by making its priority provisions inapplicable
to state unemployment tax claims."

328 U. S. 8, 11.

applied to both types of tax without distinction.

The ruling

820

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

In Illinois v. Campbell, the state court did not reach
the basic question of the force of Rev. Stat. § 3466 to
create priority for federal Title 9 claims; rather, it expressly avoided deciding that question. 391 Ill. 29, 32.
This was because the insolvent's assets were in the hands
of a court-appointed receiver, id. 31, and in that situation
§ 602 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1943, 58 Stat. 77,2
expressly allowed the receiver to pay the state and
take credit up to 90 per cent of the Title 9 tax. The
Illinois Supreme Court expressly so held, and on this
ground alone denied the federal Title 9 claim. 391 Ill. 29,
34. The effect was to rule that § 602 (b) created a
legislative exception to § 3466, limited to payments by
such receivers, within the times and for the tax periods
specified, up to 90 per cent of the Title 9 taxes. 4
13 This section was one of the relaxing amendments, see Part IV,
to Title 9, § 902, of the Social Security Act. For Title 9 taxes due
for the years 1939, 1940, 1941 and 1942 it allowed credit up to 90
per cent, without regard to previous failure to pay as required, if the
assets of the debtor had been, during the period specified, "in the
custody or control of a receiver, trustee, or other fiduciary appointed
by, or under the control of, a court of competent jurisdiction*"
Section 602 (a) of the 1943 Act, 58 Stat. 77, also created a similar
relaxation of § 902, for Title 9 taxes due for the years 1936, 1937 and
1938, with credit limited howeverto 81 per cent, when the state
payments for those years were made after December 6, 1940. This
section formed the basis for a claim to credit in Illinois v., United
States rejected by the Illinois court. See note 15.
11 See also Part IV. The court, however, in giving directions for
the decree to be entered by the trial court ordered the federal Title
8 claim paid first in full "and any balance remaining" to the state.
391 Ill. at 46; see also id. 42. Thus apparently it inadvertently lost
sight of the fact, earlier expressly noted, id. 34, 39, that § 602 (b)
allowed the receiver to take credit only up to 90 per cent of the
Title 9 taxes.
This oversight 'seemingly was responsible for the court's failure to
award priority to the United States for 10 per cent of its Title 9
claim, from the small balance remaining after paying the Title 8
taxes. Cf. note 9. Had this amount, some $128, also been awarded

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

621

Opinion of the Court.

But § 602 (b) did not apply in Illinois v. United States,
because the insolvent's assets were held by a common-law
assignee, not a court-appointed official. 5 So holding, 391
Ill. at 37, the Illinois court went on to rule that the
federal claims for Title 8 and Title 9 taxes were debts
within the meaning of § 3466 and were therefore entitledto priority over the state's claim. It not only rejected
the argument that the credit provision of Title 9, § 902,
made that claim "in reality a claim of the Nation . . .
tantamount to a claim of the United States," 1 but also
carefully guarded the wording of the opinion's dispositive
paragraphs 17 and the directions given the trial court for
entering the judgments on remand so as to differentiate
to the United States, roughly only $22 would have been left for the
state. The opinion gave no consideration to this question, and by
the Government's failure to apply for certiorari regarding it we were
prevented from considering it.
15An additional reason was that the taxes against which credit
was claimed were not taxes for the years to which § 602 (b) expressly
limited the credit it allowed. Instead § 602 (a) of the 1943 Act,
see note 13, allowed conditional credit for the tax years involved in
Illinois v. United States and the state sought to secure it. But the
Illinois court held § 602 (a) also inapplicable on the facts and denied
the 81 per cent credit because the assets were in the hands of a
common-law assignee, not in the custody or control of a courtappointed receiver or other official as the section required for the
at 37.
credit to be available. 391 Ill.
18391 Ill.
at 39, 40; cf. 328 U. S. at 11. The Illinois court held
"the full amount" of the payroll (Title 9) taxes to be "taxes due the
Federal government." In the first instance, it said, this was true
of "100 per cent of the taxes levied," which "continues to be taxes
due the Federal government either until it is all paid to the Federal
government, or 90 per cent is paid to the State and the balance to
the Federal government." The provisions for credit, the opinion
continued, "do not change the character of the taxes imposed. They
are still taxes due the Federal government and constitute a debt due
to the United States within the purview of section 3466 of the Revised
8tatutes." Id. 40, 41.
42, 46.
"1391 Ill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the two cases and to avoid any direction that the fund
in Illinois v. United States apply on only one of the
federal claims."8 The judgment thus left the United.
States free to apply it in partial satisfaction of either
claim or both.
This was also the effect of our own decision and judgment. It generally and without distinction between the
Title 8 and Title 9 claims adjudicated priority for both.
As in the Illinois court's decision, no restriction was placed
upon allocation of the fund, nor is any hint to be found
in the opinion that such an allocation was intended.
Indeed we were not asked to make one and to have done
so would have disregarded the basic position of both
parties, each of which sought a full and favorable disposition of the controversy including decision upon all
the issues presented."9
It is true that, as.in the Illinois Supreme Court, the
decision and judgment- could' have been made on the
narrower basis that the Title 8 claim was more than
sufficient to exhaust the fund, and therefore to sustain
the priority for that claim alone would dispose of the
case. But this would have been equally true of the
Title 9 claim. Neither claim was either more or less
essential to decision than the other, indeed decision upon
both was necessary to a judgment favorable to Illinois.
To have ,eliminated either would have required some in-

is
Ibid. The order for judgment in Illinois v. United States merely
reversed the trial court's judgment and remanded the cause "with
directions to enter a decree finAding that the United States is entitled
to priority of payment to'the extent of the funds on deposit, and
at 46. .See note 14 for
ordering distribution accordingly." 391 Ill.
the directions in the Campbellcase.,
19See notes 10, 11. The cases were obviously test cases designed
to settle the question of priority generally, i. e., not*merely for one
but for all federal taxes'and thus provide a certain basis for administration of the Social Security Act in both its insurance and its unemployment compensation features.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

623

Opinion of the Court.

dication of that purpose. Since none was given, it cannot be said that the judgment rested on the one ground
or claim more than the other.
While therefore the case is one which might have been
decided on either of two independent grounds favorably to
the Government, it is neither one in which that course was
followed nor one which could have been determined the
opposite way in that manner. Instead, as we were asked
to do and rightly could do on the record and the issues,
we decided both issues, and the judgment rested as much
upon the one determination as the other. In such a case
the adjudication is effective for both. United States v.
Title Ins. Co., 265 U. S.472; Uniodi Pacific Co. v. Mason
City Co., 199 U. S. 160; see Richmond Co. v. United
States, 275 U. S.331,340.
III.
Finally, it is urged that in Illinois v. United States we
had no occasion to consider and hence our opinion did not
discuss whether in a case like this, where the fund is more
than sufficient to pay all federal claims except 100 per
cent of the Title 9 claim, the balance remaining after paying those other claims must go first to pay the federal
Title 9 claim in full, or may be allocated between that
claim and the state claim to pay 10 per cent of the federal
claim first and then to apply what remains on the state
claim.2"
Cf. the District Court's view, note 4 supra; and note 7. Illinois
and Massachusetts in fact urge different methods of allocation, each
differing from the one applied by the District Court. From the funds
available for Title 9 distributipn, Massachusetts would pay the state
claim first and correspondingly reduce the federal claim. Illinois
would make a pro rata distribution of 10 per cent of the available
funds to the Federal Government and 90 per cent to the state, while
the District Court would pay the federal 10 per cent first and apply.
the balance remaining on the state claim.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Closely related to this, though not involved on the facts
in Illinois v. United States or here, 1 is the Government's
apparent concession that if all the federal claims are paid
in full, including 100 per cent of the Title 9 claim, and
any balance then remains in the fund, the insolvent
taxpayer is nevertheless given the right by § 902 to pay
that balance to the state and receive credit on his, federal
Title 9 tax. In such a case, it is said, the Government
would be overpaid on Title 9 taxes and obligated to
refund the excess. Then the taxpayer could apply the
amount received in further payment of the state claim,
with corresponding federal credit, overpayment and refund, only to start the cycle again and repeat it until
he had paid the state its claim in full and received the
entire 90 per cent credit." Hence in this situation, it
is said, short-cut distribution might well be made to the
state in the first place, to eliminate the cycle.
The effect of the concession, if it is valid, goes far toward cutting the ground from beneath the Government's
basic position. 3 That effect is heightened by the further
surprising statement in its brief that in a case like this,
not covered by the concession, compliance with the credit
conditions of § 902 becomes- impossible "not because
Section 3466 .operates to exclude Section 902 or to nullify
it, but because the terms of Section 902 itself deny it
[credit] where nc payment can be made." The stateSince the fund was not large enough in either case to pay all
the federal claims in full.
Hypothetical examples arelstated in the District Court's opinion,
65 F. Supp. 763, and in the briefs filed here.
23Possibly the concession was intended as an argumentative alternative to other and broader positions. In any event, we are not bound
to accept it as either sound or conclusive of the litigation. It is not,
even in terms, a confession of error.
These observations apply equally to the Government's further
damaging statement set forth in the sentence following the one to
which this footnote is appended.
21

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

625

Opinion of the Court.

ment would be understandable, if it had been that § 3466
and § 902 both work to deny the credit in this situation.
But to say that § 3466 has no effect to cut off the right to
credit either in the present situation or in the different
hypothetical one stated is to take away the basic grounding of all federal priority as against the state's claim.
The concessions cannot be accepted. In the first place,
the effect of § 3466 depends on the fact of insolvency,
not on the degree of it as the first concession seems to
contemplate. And it is only by force of § 3466 that the
Government has any priority at all. Section 902 may
work to deny credit, if its conditions for credit are not
fulfilled. But it does not give federal priority over valid
state claims. Moreover, both concessions are altogether
inconsistent with the basic decisions in the Illinois cases
and the grounds on which they rested. The matter requires brief restatement. It is one which goes fundamentally to the effect of Rev. Stat. § 3466, as distinguished
from, though not unrelated to, § 902 of the Social Security
Act. These of course are entirely distinct statutes, with
different functions.
Rev. Stat. § 3466 gives priority explicitly for "debts due
to the United States" and the priority given is in terms
absolute, not conditional. Once attaching, it is final and
conclusive. A long line of decisions has held that taxes
due the Governnent are "debts" within the meaning of
the section. ' In the Illinois cases we applied this ruling
to Title 8 and Title 9 taxes as against the state's claim,!
The federal priority has been uniformiy sustained for tax efaims.
United States v. Waddill Co., 323 U. S. 353 (unemployment compensation taxes and a debt arising out of a Federal Housing Administration transaction); United States v. Texas, 314 U. S. 480 (gasoline
taxes); New York v. Maclay, 288 U. S. 290 (income taxes and a claim
for expenses incurred in the replacement of a buoy damaged by the insolvent); Spokane County v. United States, 279 U. S. 80 (income
taxes -and penalties); Price v. United States, 269 U. S. 492 (income
24

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

for "contributions." Prior decisions also have held that25
the priority attaches 'as of the time of the insolvency,
a ruling also applied in the Illinois cases.
But if credit can be taken after § 3466 attaches, i. e.,
after insolvency, effective to set aside the federal priority
up to 90 per cent of the Title 9 claim, the priority to that
extent becomes conditional, not absolute. Its effectiveness then becomes contingent upon the happening of
subsequent events, namely, the concurrence of the conditions of § 902 for paying the state and taking the credit
together with the taxpayer's election to do this. In short,
§ 3466 never conclusively attached and § 902 works retroactively on occurrence of those contingencies to upset the
priority.
A further effect might be to make the statute applicable
beybnd the scope of the term "debts due to the United.
States." For if the taxpayer's subsequent election can
destroy the priority retroactively, not only the priority
but the "debt" itself becomes contingent. And it is at
taxes and custbms duties) ; Stripe v. United States, 269 U. S. 503 (income, excess profits, and capital stock taxes).
Judgments recovered by the United States also are debts entitled
to priority. United States v. Knott, 298 U. S. 544 (against surety on
estreated bail bonds); Hunter v. United States, 5 Pet. 173 (against
surety).
Other debts for which the Government has been held to have priority under § 3466 are:. United States v. Remund, 330 U. S. 539 (emergency loans made by Farm Credit Administration).; United States
v. Emory, 314 U. S. 423 (sum due on note held under the National
Housing Act); Bramwell v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 269 U. S. 483 (Indian
funds deposited in bank); United States v. National Surety Co., 254
U. S. 73 (losses where contractor defaulted); Bayne v. United States,
93 U. S. 642 (misappropriated Army paymaster funds); Lewis v.
United States, 92 U. S. 618 (funds held by Navy disbursing agents);
United States v. State Bank of North Carolina, 6 Pet. 29 (bonds
for customs duties); United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch 358 (claim
against endorser of protested bill of exchange).
25

See note 8 supra.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

627

Opinion of the Court.

least doubtful on the statute's wording that obligations
wholly contingent for ultimate maturity and obligation
upon the happening of events after insolvency can be
said to fall within the reach of "debts due" as of the time
of insolvency."
However this may be, we know of no previous application of § 3466 creating such a conditional priority." Nor
do',we see how one could be made consistentlywith the
section's terms or purposes. The only such consistent
application would seem to be one giving the Government
the prior and indefeasible right to take the fund available,
up to the amount necessary to pay its claim as of the date
the priority attaches, not as it may be affected by later
In enacting § 3466
contingencies other than payment.'
Congress gave no indication whatever of intent to create
defeasible priorities.
The defeasance conceded possible by the Government,
therefore, together with the further conceded ineffectiveIt has been held that the term "debts due to the United States"
should be construed with some liberality. See, e. g., Price v. United
States, 269 U. S. 492, 500; United States v. Emory, 314 U. S. 423,
426. And there is apparently no decision expressly ruling thematters of contingency of the obligation or of the priority upon subsequent events not certain. Cf. United States v. Marxen, 307 U. S. 200.
But the fact that the problem has not squarely arisen in the long
history of § 3466 and that all of the decisions sustaining the priority
were for debts clearly due and owing, adds force to the clear inferences implicit in the statute's wording, viz., that Congress not
only created a conclusive priority attaching as of the time of insolvency but in doing so drew the line for its operation close to, if
not at, the commonly accepted meaning of "debt" as distinguished
from other forms of obligation.
26

27

See notes 24, 26.

Again the distinction between "payment" and "satisfaction"
becomes pertinent. To construe the term "satisfied" in § 3466. as
being fulfilled by taking subsequent credit, as the states urge, would
be to qualify the Word "debts" so as to make -it include conditional
obligations.
8

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

ness.of § 3466 (though not of § 902) in circumstances.
like these to deny the right to credit, destroys the fundamental character of the priority created by § 3466 and
thereby removes the foundation from the Government's

basic position, which is that § 3466 applies as of the time
of insolvency to create the priority it contemplates.

Through these concessions the section is made, by virtue
of the effect of § 902, to create only a defeasible federal
priority as against claims for credit. This actually is but
another way of making §902 effective as an exception
to Rev. Stat. §3466, like § 602 (a) and (b) of the Revenue
Act of 1943, noted above in Part II.
This of course was Illinois' earlier position, rejected
by this Court. If that position is now to be accepted,
we do not see how § 3466 can be regarded as applying
to Title 9 taxes or, indeed, how the effect of treating
§ 902 as an exception can be limited to Title 9 taxes.
For if § 902 works as an exception to § 3466, then Illinois was right in the first place, and the exception would
seem to apply to all federal taxes, not just the one. 9
Accordingly, the Government's concessions cannot be
accepted as consistent either with our prior decisions or
with its own basic position in the Illinois cases and this
one. That position, apart from the concessions, rests
ultimately on §3466 and its applicability to these claims.
29 Congress, of course, could provide for federal priority as to all
taxes except Title 9 claims. But, apart from the explicit exceptions
created by § 602 (a) and (b) of the Revenue Act of 1943 with reference to funds of insolvents in the hands of court-appointed officials,
see Part II, notes 13, 15, Congress has not done so either by any
wording or intent of Rev. Stat. § 3466, nor in our view by § 902 of
the Social Security Act. We do not think that it intended to make
the state's'claim subject to all other federal taxes, but prior to all
but 10 per cent of the Title 9 taxes. See text infre Part IV. No
instance has been found where § 3466 has been applied to create
such a selective priority as among federal claims qualifying as "debts"
within the meaning of § 3466.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

629

Opinion of the Court.

This necessarily denies that § 902 creates an exception
to § 3466 or a qualification inconsistent with its terms.
The qualifications now conceded are not consistent with
those terms, for they do not contemplate the tenuous,
destructible sort of "priority" the concessions involve.
Moreover, the fact that in Illinois v. United States we
did not discuss expressly the 10-90 per cent distribution
of Title 9 taxes now suggested does not mean that our
decision did not encompass that possibility. It extended
generally to all cases where credit is sought after insolvency. It was federal priority attaching as of the time
of insolvency that we adjudicated, not something less.
As we have indicated, in making the adjudication we
neither were nor could have been ignorant of § 902's allowance of the taxpayer's election. Our decision held that
right cut off by the incidence of § 3466 at the time of
insolvency. Any other would have been wholly inconsistent with the ruling that § 3466 applies as against the
state's claim for "contributions" or the taxpayer's right
to make them after the incidence of his insolvency.
IV.
We have taken pains-to state the effect of our previous
decisions, because of the confusion concerning them and
the fact that two-states have earnestly presented the questions. Ordinarily this would end the matter. But, again
for those reasons, we turn briefly to the merits and to the
question whether the Illinois decisions should now be
reversed.
Apart from the arguments already discussed, two stand
out as reasons for the change sought. Both reiterate
contentions rejected in the Illinois cases. The primary
one is that the objects of the legislation will be defeated
unless the change is made, namely, the encouragement
of the state systems and correspondirigly of taxpayers to
make "contributions" tostate funds, thereby insaring that

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

the moneys so paid in will go out for unemployment
benefits rather than into the Treasury as revenue. The
second is a heightened emphasis on the subsequent amendments to § 902 as showing Congress' intent to waive, in
progressively broadening scope though still only in spedfled situations, the original limitations of § 902 upon
securing credit.30
From the second contention is drawn the conclusion
that Congress, by its carefully, even meticulously drawn
relaxations, meant. credit to be given not only in the
circumstances so carefully prescribed but also in other
situations not within those prescriptions. This conclusion when added to the first argument amounts in sum to
reiterating that the state exaction is "tantamount to a
claim of the United States," and that not to disregard the
tax and credit structure in which Congress molded the Act
would be, to "observe the form and ignore the substance
of the legislation."
We shall not repeat the answers made in Illinois v.
United States, except to say that "while the state and
federal governments were to cooperate, the underlying
philosophy of the Federal Act was to keep the state and
federal systems separately administered." 328 U. S. 8,11.
To the considerations there stated, however, we now add
the following ones, not expressly mentioned in the earlier
opinion, prefaced however with the observation that the
grounding of each plea for reversal affords, basis for
conclusion against that action as well as in its favor.
Thus the many relaxations which Congress has made
respecting the conditions permitted for taking credit,
by force of their very number and careful limitation, show
30

Of the, several amendments, none is applicable to this case.

The only ones relating expressly to insclvents' estates are those noted
in, Part II, see notes 13, 15 and text, 31, applying to payments by

court-appointed receivers, etc.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

631

Opinion of the Court.

that Congress was not offering a broadside exemption to be
applied in situations, such as this case, other than those
specifically defined.'
Rather the intention disclosed is
to limit the credit to the precise situations specified for
allowing it.. That view accords with Congress' deliberate
choice of the tax and conditional credit devices for framing the Act's structure. These are well-known techniques, adopted apparently in this instance for constitutional ;as well as administrative reasons.32 But those
very motivations warn us to be wary of disregarding the
form which Congress has chosen advisedly, in order to
substitute a substance we can only be doubtful it may
have intended.'
But it is said that if payment to the state is not allowed
and the right to receive credit is cut off, the money will
not be paid out in unemployment benefits but will go
into the .Treasury as general revenue; the states will be
compelled to make payments to the insolvent's employees;
31 Thus, as has been noted, the provision for payment and credit
given by the Revenue Act of Mq43, §§ 602 (a) (3) and (b), 5E Stat.
77, is limited to situations where an insolvent's assets were under the
control of a court or its appointed official. Congress quite obviously
had the insolvent taxpayer in mind. But even .so it excluded nonjudicial custodians of his assets by its failure to extend the relaxation
to them. The omission cannot be taken to have been unintentional
The necessary effect in the one case was to create a legislative exception to § 3466, in the other to deny it by the withholding of the like
privilege. So also with the other easing amendments.
32 Cf. Steward Machine Co. v..Davis, 301 U. S. 548.
33 It is precisely in matters where Congress hs used the tax and
credit technique that disregarding the form chosen offers the gravest
dangers of perverting a statute's purposes. We' think that possibility is equally as great here from ignoring Congress' expressed
intent, both in liraiting the right of credit to defined situations and
in its failure expressly to qualify the broad policy of § 3466, as
would be the other one of reaching its pu'rpose by giving, effect to
its explicit limitations.

.632

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

and thus the primary purposes of the Act will be defeated.
There are several answers.
One is that Congress has guaranteed the solvency of
the state funds and, if need be, the revenues thus paid
into the Treasury will be available for that purpose."
Moreover, but especially in view of this guaranty, it
may be more likely that the funds, if paid into the
'Treasury rather than to the state, will be saved for application to the Act's purposes. For there is no assurance,
if the state's prior right to them is once established, that
they will go for the payment.of unemployment benefits.
It must be remembered' that we are dealing with an
insolvent's assets. And the states have statutes by which
such assets are distributed according to local priorities
Whenever .§ 3466 is not operative. Only a few of them
place unemployment benefits at the top." Depending
therefore upon the number and the amounts of claims'
standing ahead of the unemployment benefit claims in
the particular state would be the certainty or probability
of payment of the latter. In short, reversing our decisions
and conceding the validity of the state's position, either
as -to Title 9 taxes alone or as to all federal taxes, would"
give no definite and certain assurance that the funds
tlrus acquired by the states would go to satisfy the Act's
3

Sections 904 and 1201 of the Social Security Act, 58 Stat. 789,,50

U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946) §§ 1666-1667, as amended, 61 Stat.
793, 794, §§ 4-5. Section' 904 established a federal employment account in the United States Treasury, and appropriated the.excess
of Title 9 taxes over unemployment administrative expenses to such
account. Section 1201 authorized loans from such account to the
states for unemployment insurance payments :when a state's unemployment insurance fund becomes dangerously low, repayment of
such advances not being required unless the state fund regains a
stable condition. See S. Rep. No. 477, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 9-10.
5
3' See, &. g., Mass. Ann. Laws, c. 151A, § 17 (1942); Cal. Gen.
Laws, Act 8780d, § 46 (1944) ; Iowa Code, §96.14 (3) (1946); Okla.
Stat., ti.. 40, § 224.(c) (1941).

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

-

633

Opinion of the Court.

purposes.' In many cases payment to the state Would
be the means of diverting them to wholly extraneous objects. Especially' would this be true when smaller
employers within the Act's terms are involved, as they
seem to be much more often than others.37 In the absence
of any explicit or clearly implied direction we 'do not
believe that Congress intended, to require that the state's
claim for unemployment contributions take precedence
over all other debts of the insolvent or to authorize-us to
make this a condition of allowing payment to the state to
be made from his estate. There was no evident purpose
thus broadly to upset state schemes of priority.
These examples are enough to show that the premises
of the states' contentions are capable of supporting other
conclusions than they draw from them. Other examples
might be stated. But in each instance the inferences
drawn by the states are counterbalanced with opposing
ones quite or nearly as tenable. In some they are of
greater weight.
It follows that Massachusetts and Illinois have not
shown the clear inconsistency between the Act's explicit
36 Unless in this case we should undertake to say, as we have not
been asked or authorized to do, that by implied force of § 902, state
priorities are relegated to a position inferior to the taxpayer's right
to pay the state and take federal credit. Nothing in the statute
suggests that Congress intended to give the taxpayer or this Court
the power thus to disorder the states' schemes of priorities.
31 If the .litigated cases, of which the ones that have come here
seem to be typical, and common observation may be taken as fairly
accurate bases for judgment.
It is-true that in some cases of insolvency the business continues
without being wound up. But this perhaps is much more often the
case when operation is continued under judicial control than otherwise. And 'when that is the situation, insofar as ,te1943 amendment applies the payment may be made and credit obtained. -Insofar
as it does not apply the amendment is a clear mandate against allowing that to be done.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

terms and our previous decisions, on the one hand, and
achieving the Act's purposes, on the other, which is necessary to make out a case for reversal and thus for negating the force of Rev. Stat. § 3466 as creating federal priorities for Title 9 or other federal tax claims. The Illinois
decisions were advisedly made, after full deliberation.
There was no dissent on the basic question of priority,
even though the issue seemed close. No substantially
new argument or consideration of policy has been put
forward. The case for reversal is no more clear or convincing than Illinois' position on the merits in the earlier
litigation.
Nor are we persuaded that our former decisions were
erroneous. For the strict policy of § 3466 had permitted
few exceptions " and, as we repeated in Illinois v. United
States, quoting United States v. Emory, 314 U. S. 423,
433, "only the plainest inconsistency would warrant our
finding an implie,&I-xception to the operation of so clear
a command as that of § 3466." 328 U. S. 8,12. See also
United States v. Remund, 330 U. S.539, 544-545. There
is no such inconsistency here.
Until the federal claims for taxes, whether under Title
8, Title 9 or other taxing provision, are paid in full, the
38The original departures indeed did not contemplate that exceptions were being made. They conceived that the funds or property
affected, being covered by mortgage, belonged in fact to third persons,
not to the insolvent debtor. Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396, 426;
Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386; Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596, 611; see Savings Society v. Multnomah County,
169 U. 8. 421, 428; cf. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch 358;
United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch 73. The Court has been loath to
expand these exceptions, ci. Illinois v. Campbell, 329 U. S. 362, 370,
to include other types of lien. The claims of Massachusetts and
Illinois do nqt fall within the scope of those exceptions or of others
as to which the Court has felt that subsequent legislation authorized
them. Cf. Cook County National Bank v. United States, 107 U. S
445; United States v. Guaranty Trust Co., 280 U. S 478.

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

JACKSON,

635

J., dissenting.

states are not entitled either to collect or to retain any
part of the insolvent debtor's assets. We do not anticipate that any of the state unemployment insurance programs will fail or be seriously impaired by reason' of this
decision, or their consequent failure to secure the small
sums characteristically at stake in this extended litigation
and, apparently, in other cases most likely to produce
similar controversy. Nor would the Federal Treasury
have been rendered. bankrupt by a contrary result.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, with whom MR. JUSTicE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE BURTON
join, dissenting.

This decision announces an unnecessarily ruthless interpretation of a statute that at its best is an arbitrary
one. The statute by which the Federal Government
gives its own claims against an insolvent priority over
claims in favorof a state government must be applied by
courts, not because federal claims are more meritorious
or equitable, but only because that Government has more
power. But the priority statute is an assertion of federal
supremacy as against any contrary state policy. It is
not a limitation on the Federal Governm~nt itself, not
an assertion that the priority pQlicy shall prevail over all
other federal policies. Its generalities should not lightly
be construed to frustrate a specific policy embodrid in
a later federal statute.
The Federal Government has sued to enforce a personal
liability against one who, as assignee, paid. to the State of
Massachusetts funds which the Federal Government
claims by virtue of its statutory priority. Defendant
was the assignee of a small concern under a common-law
assignment for benefit of creditors. The assets did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

realize enough to pay both federal and state tax claims.
The United States filed a claim, among other things, for
100% of the taxes laid by Title 9 of the Social Security
Act, which, however, provides for a 90% credit against the
federal tax if that amount has been paid into an approved
state unemployment compensation fund. Believing that
he was entitled thereby to pay the State and to claim the
credit against the federal tax, this assignee paid $803.72
on the claim of Massachusetts for taxes under the Massachusetts Unemployment Compensation Act. This is the
sum now demanded by the Federal Government.
The reasoning on which the assignee is held liableand the State is required to turn this amount over to the
Federal Government is this: True § 902 gives a 90%
credit. But: literally, it is only for actual payment to the
State. On insolvency, the federal priority statute, so it is
held, intervenes and freezes the funds in the assignee's
hands so that he cannot pay the State until he has first
paid the Federal Governmen:t. Hence, unless he has
enough money to pay both claims in full, the priority statute prevents him from taking the credit which the Social
Security Act grants him, the Federal Government collects
a windfall ten times what would normally be its due, and
the State government gets nothing on its tax claim. This
Court now so construes the priority statute as not merely
to prefer net claims-of the Federal Government, but also
as a prohibition against courts marshaling the assets of
an insolvent in an equitable manner.
The District Judge declined to support this harsh reasoning. He is one whose views ef the meaning of the
Social Security Act are entitled to great weight, because of
his experience with it. See Steward Machine Co. v.
Davis, 301 U. S. 548, at 553. He considered that as to
90% of the federal tax, the taxpayer in effect was given
an option to pay it to the approved state fund or to the
Federal.Government. He said:

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
311

JACKSON,

637

J., dissenting.

"The force of that analysis seemed to me the more
persuasive when the true nature of Title IX of the
Social Security Act as portrayed in Charles C. Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U.. S. 548, . . . was
stressed. As to 90 per cent of the taxes under that
title the objective of Congress was not to collect
federal revenues but to stimulate the creation of and
payment to state unemployment compensation funds.
It would defeat obvious Congressional intent to lay
down a rule which required that this 90 per cent
should go to satisfy a Title IX tax claim instead of
going to the direct benefit of claimants under state
unemployment compensation plans."
The consequences of this Court's refusal to follow his
reasoning are so inconsistent with the purposes of the
Social Security Act that they could not have been intended by a reasonable Congress. What the Court is
doing practically is this:
1. The Court is giving the Federal Treasury a payment
from an insolvent taxpayer ten times as large as Congress
exacted from a solvent taxpayer under like circumstances.
The 90% was never contemplated as federal revenue, but
credit for that amount was intended to be availed of, to
induce states to create unemployment compensation
funds and to maintain them in solvent condition.
2. The Court is depriving the State of a revenue Congress not only tried to assure it, but one which it used
the tax and credit device to impel the state to collect.
See Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548.
3. This unjust enrichment of the Federal Government
and the depletion of state unemployment funds is accomplished by holding that the priority statute prohibits
simultaneous distribution to each, State and Federal
Government, of the net amount actually due, taking into
account such simultaneous payments, and by requiring

OCTOBER TERM; 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

instead that the total federal tax be paid in full and first
in point of time, which in this case depletes the estate so
that the assignee cannot thereafter make the state payment to obtain the federal credit. It seems to me that the
federal priority statute cannot have been intended to do
more thai secure to the Federal Government what becomes fairly due it on a marshaling of assets as courts of
equityT usually do.
4. '1,his interpretation prejudices general creditors by
placing ahead of them $190 of tax claims for every $100
actually owing. For example, the maximum tax for both
the State and Federal Governments is that laid by the
Federal Act-let us say it amounts to $1,000. It can
be discharged by payment of $1',000, $900 paid to the
approved state fund and $100 to the Federal Government. But under this ruling the insolvent must pay
the $1,000 in full to the Federal Government. That, of
course, leaves the state tax undischarged, which calls for
payment of another $900 before anything can be left
for the general creditors. Thus, where an equitable marshaling of assets to pay just claims would put $1,000 of
taxes ahead of general creditors, the Court's ruling puts
$1,900 ahead of general creditors. The Court even goes
so far as to reject concessions by the Government designed to mitigate, in this respect at least, the harshness
of this rule.
The interpretation of the Priority Act to thus gouge
the states and private creditors is contrary to the purpose
and spirit of the Act itself. Over a century ago Mr.
Justice Story defined the "motives of public policy"
which underlie the priority statutes of the Federal Government to be "in order to secure an adequate revenue
to sustain the public burthens and discharge the public
debts. . . ." United States v. State Bank of North CaroZina (1832), 6 Pet. 29, 35. It is obvious that asto the

MASSACHUSETTS v. UNITED STATES.
611

JACKSON,

639

J., dissenting.

90% of the Social Security tax here involved, it was not
contemplated as federal revenue to meet federal burdens
but was laid to induce and to enable the State to assume
specific obligations. to the unemployed. The priority
statute is now invoked to deny, in this class of cases, the
aid promised in meeting these obligations.
When a later statute has enacted a comprehensive federal policy in another field and created a federal interest
in the adverse claimant's solvency or function, this Court
has rarely, and never until recently, hesitated to interpret
the old and general priority statute as yielding to the
newer and specific statutory scheme. Cook County National Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; United
States v. Guaranty Trust Co., 280 U. S. 478; cf. Callahan
v. United States, 285 U. S. 515. See also dissent in United
States v. Emory, 314 U. S. 423 at 433. The problem here is
not whether a mere state claim can defeat one of the Federal Government, but whether one federal statute will be
so construed as to defeat the manifest policy of another.
The Court's opinion, however, goes to some lengths to
show that the Court as a whole and without dissent on this
point has become committed to the interpretation it
adopts, and by unusual deference to the doctrine of stare
decisis declates itself bound hand and foot to full federal
priority. I am unable to detect the commitment which
the Court so clearly sees. But if I have agreed to any
prior decision which forecloses what now seems to be a
sensible construction of this Act, I must frankly admit that
I was unaware of it. However, no rights have vested and
no prejudicial action has been taken in reliance upon such
a ruling. It does not appear to,/have been called to the
attention of Congress and in effect approved by failure
to act. Under these circumstances, except for any personal humiliation involved in admitting that I do not
always understand the opinions of this Court, I see no

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

reason why I should be consciously wrong today because
I was unconsciously wrong yesterday.
I would reverse the judgment and allow federal priority
only subject to the 90% credit for sums disbursed to the
State on account of its .unemployment compensation
tax.
BUTE v. ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT .F

ILLINOIS.-

No. 398. Argued February 12, 1948.-Decided April 19, 1948.
1. Petitioner, a 57-year-old man, pleaded guilty in a state court to
two indictments for the noncapital offense of "taking indecent
liberties! with children" and was sentenced to prison'for one to 20
oets for each offense. The indictments were in simple language
and leasy to understand; and there was no claim that petitioner
*failed to understand them or that he was incapable of intelligently
• and competently pleading guilty. The records showed that petitioner appeared "in his own proper person" and that, before
accepting his pleas of guilty, the court explained the consequences
and penalties; but the records were silent on the subject of counsel
for his defense. Held:
(a) In the circijmstances of this case, such silence in the records
as to counsel for' the 'defense does not 'suffice to invalidate the
sentences under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 644,670-,677.
(b), In the absence of any showing beyond that in the records in
this case, the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment did
not requite the state court to inquire as to petitioner's desire
*to be represented. by counsel, his ability to procure counsel, or his
desire to have counsel assigned .to him; nor did it require the state
court to offer or assign counsel to him. Pp. 644, 670-677.
2. The due. process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
require the several states to confohn the procedure of-their state
criminal trials to the precise procedure of the federal courts, even
to the extent that the procedure of the federal courts is prescribed
.by the Federal Constitution or Bill of Rights. Pp. 649, 656.

