OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

WOODS, HOUSING EXPEDITER, v. STONE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 392.

Argued February 4, 1948.--Decided March 15, 1948.

1. The one-year period of limitations prescribed by § 205 (e) of the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 as amended, on an action
against a landlord on account of an overcharge in rent of property
which the landlord had failed to register as required by rent
regulations, begins to run not from the date of payment of the rent
but from the date of the landlord's failure to comply with a refund
order. Pp. 473-478.

2. Failure of the landlord to make refund in accordance with the
.refund order is a violation of an "order .

.

. prescribing a maxi-

mum" rent under § 205 (e) and gives rise to the cause of action
created by that section. P. 477.
3. The -landlord's own failure to register the property having ren-Adered the payments of rent subject to revision and to refund, under
-legislation and regulations in force when the payments were made,
the objection to the refund order as retroactive can not be sustained. Pp. 477-478.
163 F. 2d 393, reversed.

The P ice Administrator, predecessor of the Housing
Expediter, brought ai, action against the respondent
under § 205 (e) of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942 as amended, on account of an overcharge in the
rental of property. The District Court held that the
period of limitations under the Act began to run from the
time of the overcharge, and not from the time of the
respondent's failure to make refund pursuant to a refund
order. "The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 163 F.
2d 393. This Court granted certiorari, limited to the
question of the statute of limitations. 332 U. S. 835.
Reversed, p. 478.
Stanley M. Silverberg argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Solcitor General Perlman,
Irving M. Gruber and Ed Dupree.

WOODS v. STONE.
472

473

Opinion of the Court.

James F. Brennan argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Carl M. Weideman.
Norma L. Comstock filed a brief, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Respondent Stone owned a house in Mooresville, Indiana which he rented to one Locke for $75 per month
beginning on or about August 1, 1944. As this was jhp,
first rental of the premises, the applicable law1 and relations 2 imposed on the owner a duty to file a registration
statement within thirty days.
The respondent failed to register the property. He
sold it in April 1945 and registration by the new. owner
brought notice to the Area Rent Director of respondent's
prior renting of the property without complying with the
registration requirement. On June 28, 1945, the Director, pursuant to the regulations, reduced ;the rental from
$75 to $45 per month, effective from the first rental, and
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 23, as amended
by Stabilization Extension Act of 1944, 58 Stat. 632, 50 U. S. C.
App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 901 et seq.
2 Section 7, Rent Regulations for Housing, 8 Fed. Reg. 14663, 10
Fed. Reg. 3436, providing in part as follows: "Registration- (a) Registration statement. On or before the date specified in Schedule A
of this regulation, or within 30 days after the property is first rented,
whichever date is the later, every landlord of housing accommodations
rented or offered for rent shall file in triplicate a written, statement
on the form provided therefor to be known as a registration statement. The statement shall identify each dwelling unit and specify
the maximum rent provided by this regulation for such dwelling
unit and shall contain such other information as the Administrator
shall require. The original shall remain on file with the Administrator and he shall cause one copy to be delivered to the tenant
and 'one copy, stamped to indicate that it is a correct copy of the
original, to be returned to the landlord ......

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

ordered the excess refunded within thirty days thereafter. Respondent failed to refund, the tepant did not
sue and this action was instituted by the Price Administrator. The District Court and the Court of Appeals,
among other things, held that the one-year statute
of limitations ran from the dates of payment of the
rentals. 163 F. 2d 393. This conflicted with the holding
of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit which,
under similar circumstances, held that the limitation
period started upon default in refunding the excess within
thirty days after the refund order. Creedon v. Babcock,
163 F. 2d 480. We granted certiorari limited to this
question. 332 U. S. 835.
No question is raised, and none could have been raised
in this proceeding, as to the validity of the relevant regulations and the refund order, either on the ground of
retroactivity or otherwise, because any challenge to the
validity of either would have to go to the .Emergency
Court of Appeals. 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946)
§ 924; Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503. See also
Woods v. Cloyd W. Miller Co., 333 U. S. 138. Taking
the leiislation, the regulations and the order to be valid
exercises of governmental power, as we are thus required
to do, the only question before us is when do excessive
collections by the landlord begin to enjoy the shelter of
theUnder
statute of limitations?
the system of rent control as established, a landlord is required to register rented accommodations within
thirty days after they are first devoted to that use. This
brings notice to the control authority that the premises
are within its official responsibility and provides data for
quick, if tentative, determination as to whether the rental
exacted exceeds the level permitted by the policy of Congress set out in the statute.
But when, as in this case, the landlord does not comply
with this requirement, there is likelihood that, as hap-

WOODS- v. STONE.
472

475

Opinion of the Court.

pened here, his transaction will be overlooked for some
time or perhaps escape scrutiny entirely.. But the landlord is not allowed thus to profit from his own disobedience of the law. If he could keep the excess collections
by thus retarding or preventing scrutiny of his contract,
he would gain an advantage over all landlords who complied with the Act as well as over tenants whose necessity
for shelter is too pressing to admit of bargaining over
price. The plan therefore provides that, despite his failure to register, the landlord may continue to collect his
unapprQved price, but only on condition that it is subject to revision by the public authority and to a refund
of anything then found to have been excessive.'
3 Section

4, Rent Regulations for Housing, 8 Fed. Reg. 14663, 10
Fed. Reg. 3436, providing in part as follows: "Maximum rents...
(e) First rent after effective date. For (1) newly constructed housing accommodations without priority rating first rented on or after
the effective date of regulation, or (2) housing accommodations
changed on or after such effective date so as to result in an increase
or decrease of the number of dwelling units in such housing accommodations, or (3) housing accommodations not rented at any time
during the two months ending on the maximum rent date nor between
that date and the effective date, the first rent for such accommodations after the change or the effective date, as the case may be, but in
no event more than the maximum rent provided for such accommodations by any order of the Administrator issued prior to September
22, 1942. Within 30 days after so renting the landlord shall register
the accommodations as provided in section 7. The Administrator
may order a decrease in the maximum rent as provided in sec-"
tion 5 (c).
"If the landlord fails to file a proper registration statement within
the time specified (except where a registration statement was.filed
prior to October 1, 1943), the rent received for any rental period
commencing on or after the date of the first renting or October 1,
.1943, whichever is the later, shall be received subject to refund to
the tenant of any amount in excess of the maximum rent which
may later be fixed by an order under section 5 (c) (1). Such amount
shall be refunded to the tenant within 30 days'after the date of
issuance of the order. . ."

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

The plan of the statute and the regulations issued pursuant to it was applied in this case. The landlord fatljd
to register the property. His rental operations escaped
notice of the authorities until fortuitously disclosed. He
-collected as he had a right to do, but subject to readjustment, a rental fixed by himself that was found on inquiry
to exceed by 66-2/3% what was fair rental value of the
property. He was ordered to refund the excess. He now
contends that he can keep all of it that he collected upwards of a year before the action was commenced, upon
the ground that the one-year Statute of limitations runs,"
not from the date of his default in obeying the refund

order, but from the date of each collection of rental.
We cannot sustain his contention.

The statute and

regulations made his rentals tentative but not unlawful.

Until the contingency of readjustment occurred, the tenant could have had no cause of action for recovery of

any part of the rental exacted by the landlord.

The cause

4 Section 205 (e) of the Act as amended, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V,
1946) § 925 (e) provides: "If any person selling a commodity violates
a' regulation, order, or price schedule prescribing a maximum price
or maximum prices, the person who buys such commodity for use
or consumption other than in the course of trade or business may,
within one year from the date of the occurrence of the 'violation,
except as hereinafter provided, bring an action against the seller
on account of the overcharge ....
For the purposes of this section the payment or receipt of rent for defense-area housing accommodations shall be deemed the buying or selling of. a commodity,
as the case may be ....
If any person selling a commodity violates a regulation, order, or price schedule prescribing a'maximum
*price or maximum prices, and the buyer either fails to institute an
action under this subsection within thirty days from the date of
the occurrence of the violation or is not entitled for any reason to
bring the action, the Administrator may institute such action on behalf of the United States within such one-year period. . ....
The functions of the Administrator were subsequently transferred
- to the Housing Expediter who appears as petitioner here.

WOODS v. STONE.
472

Opiniok.of the Court.

of action now does not rest upon, and hence cannot date
from, mere collection. The duty to refund was created
and measured by the refund order and was not breached
until that order was disobeyed. It would be unusual, to
say the least, if a statutory scheme were to be construed
to include a period during which an action could not be
commenced as a part of the, time within which it would
become barred. United States v. Wurts, 303 U. S. 414.
We think no such result was expressed or intended. It
was from the violation which occurred when the order was
not. obeyed within the required time that the statute of
limitations commenced to run. Cf. Rawlings v. Ray, 312
U. S. 96; Fisher v. Whiton, 317 U. S. 217; Cope v. Anderson, 331 U. S. 461.

It is now suggested that no cause of action can be based
on a refund order, irrespective of its validity. As we have
pointed out, the validity of the regulation and order
are conclusive upon us here. This cause of actioi is
based upon violation of an "order . . . prescribing *a
maximum [rent] *

.

.

."

The command to refund can-

not be treated as a thing apart, but must be taken in its
setting as an integral and necessary part of the order fixing the maximum rent. It was this order that was disobeyed. It would be a strange situation if there were
authority to order the landlord to make a refund but no
legal obligation on his part to pay it. We think it clear
that default in obedience to the requirement of refund
gives rise to the cause of action sued upon herein.
It is also suggested that the refund order appliPA the
law to the landlord retroactively. Quite apart front the
fact that this is an objection to the order itself rather than
to the question of limitation of time, we think the suggestion to be without merit. This is not the case of a
new law reaching backwards to make payments illegal
that were free of infirmity when made. By legislation

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

and regulation in force before the collections were made,
the landlord's own default in registering had rendered
these payments conditional, subject to revision and to
refund. Readjustment under these conditions cannot be
said to be retroactive law making.
We hold that the one-year statute of limitations began
to run on the date that a duty to refund was breached,
and on this point only we reverse the judgment of the
court below.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

I had supposed that no rule of judicial administration
was better settled than that the Court should -restrict
itself to the questions presented in a petition for certiorari.
This is especially true where, as here, the petition was
granted but. "limited to the question as to the statute of
limitations presented by the petition for the writ," 332
U. S. 835, and the case was transferred to the summary
docket. The exceptions to thisrule are rare, as where the
jurisdiction of this Court or of the lower courts is plainly.
wanting, or where a patent error in favorem vitae is to
be noted. In any event, it is clear that this case could
not be one of them. The exclusive jurisdiction provisions of the Emergency Price Control Act may well preclude our consideration of the validity of the "retroactive
order." But since an issue other than'that pertaining
to the statute of limitations has been dealt with, I would
like to add a few words to MR. JUSTICE JACKSON'S opinion,
inasmuch as his immoderate restraint does not lay bare
the "merits" of the controversy.
The crux of the matter is that where a landlord rents
new housing accommodations but, as here, disobeys the
regulatory scheme and fails to file a registration statement, if he chooses to collect the rent that he himself has

WOODS v. STONE.
472

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

fixed, he can do so only contingently. The Administrator
may catch up with him and fix what was the proper
amount from the beginning. The excess is illegal and
must therefore be refunded.
There is nothing novel about a regulatory scheme
whereby landlords who violate the law are denied the
right to profit thereby. It has consistently been upheld
by the Emergency Court of Appeals. 150 EastthStreet
Corp. v. Creedon, 162 F. 2d 206; see Senderowitz v. Clark,

162 F. 2d 912, 917; cf. Easley v. Fleming, 159 F. 2d 422.
When Congress provided in §2 (g) of the Act that regulations "may contain such proyisions as the Administrator deems necessary to prevent the circumvention or
evasion thereof," 56 Stat. 23, 27, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. V,
1946) § 902 (g), it plainly authorized effective administrative remedies for dealing with evasion.
If such an order is to be termed "retroactive," it comes
within, the Court's recent ruling that "such retroactivity
must be balanced against the mischief of producing a
result which is contrary to a statutory design or to legal
and equitable principles. If that mischief is greater than
the ill effect of the retroactive application of a new standard, it is not the type of retroactivity which is condemned
by law."

Securities & Exchange Commission v. Chenery

Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 203.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.

I think it is plain that a "refund order" is not a maximum rent order since it does more than fix a rent ceiling.
I would not stretch a point to call it such, in view of
the aversion our law has to the creation of retroactive
liabilities: The Court finds fairness in the result because
of the special circumstances of the case. Yet it recognizes a cause of action created not by Congress but by
those who administer the law. That cause of action is

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

written into the statute through the addition of retroactive liabilities.
The rent collected by this landlord was the maximum
rent which he could at the time lawfully collect. At no
time did he collect rent in excess of the ceiling then prevailing.1 Almost a year later the ceiling was reducedfrom $75 a month to $45 a month-and the reduction
was made retroactive by a "refund order." The landlord
is now sued by the government for treble the amount of
the so-called overcharge.
The statute gives a right of action against anyone who
collects more than the prescribed maximum price or rent.
§ 205 (e).2 No right of action to sue for overcharges prescribed by a "refund order" is contained in § 205 (e) which
defines the cause of action and the statute of limitations
with which we are presently concerned.' The cause of
action there described is based on -a violation of a maxiThe maximum rent for the type of housing involved here was
the first rent after the effective date of the regulations, viz., $75 a
month. See Rent Regulation for Housing, § 4 (e) (3), 8 F. R. 14663,
10 F. R. 3436.
2 Section 205 (e) provides, so far as here material, as follows:
"If any person selling a commodity violates a regulation, order, or
I

price schedule. prescribinga maximum price .

.

. the person who buys

such commodity . .. may, within one year from the date of the occurrence of the violation, . . . bring an action against the seller on account of the overcharge ....
For the purposes of this section the
payment or receipt of rent . . . shall be deemed the buying or selling

of a commodity, as the case may be; and the word 'overcharge' shall
mean the amount by which the consideration exceeds the applicable
maximum price." (Italics added.)
3
It may be that the Administrator could sue to compel compliance
with. the refund order under § 205 (a). See Porter v. Warner Co.,
328 U,, $. 395. There may be other remedies arising from respondent's .failure to file a registration statement. Thus § 4 (e) of the
Rent Regulations for Housing states: "The foregoing provisions
and any refund thereunder do not affect any civil or criminal lia-

WOODS v. STONE.
472

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

mum rent order. The statute of limitations runs "from
the date of the occurrence of the violation." It will
not do to say that the date of the violation in this situation must relate to the "refund order" because prior
thereto there was no violation. Such an interpretation
rewrites § 205 (e) and creates a cause of action not
only for violating a rent ceiling but also for violating
a "refund order." That changes" the scheme of the section. The right to obtain a return of money paid nbrmally turns on conditions existing when it was paid.
The statute of limitations usually starts to run then and
not at some later time. Certainly it is novel law which
makes the legality of rent payments turn on the unpredictable .future action of an official who in the exercise
of his discretion determines that a lower rental should
have been paid. Yet the Court has to enter that field
of retroactive law in order to make a "refund order" a
maximum rent order for the purposes of § 205 (e).
Congress here said in effect that all payments for housing and commodities in excess of the prevailing ceiling
were unlawful; and all payments at the ceiling were
lawful. The Court in its construction of § 205 (e) does
violence to that policy. For it expands the statutory
cause of action so" as to penalize those who in yesterday's
transactions exacted no more than the law and regulations permitted. Any such use of retroactive law to construe § 205 (e) makes it most doubtful that Congress ever
adopted the meaning now given the section. I would
conclude that Congress had taken that course only if
it had said so in unambiguous terms. But one who reads
bility provided by the Act for failure to file the registration state-

ment required by section 7." There is no need to canvass those possibilities here as § 205 (e) supplies the only basis for petitioner's
judgment in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

§ 205 (e) to find any reference to liabilities based on "refund orders" reads in vain. Arid it is only violations of
the orders described in that section which give rise to
the cause of action under it.
It is said, however, that no question concerning the
validity of the "refund order" can be considered here be-'
cause any challenge to its validity would have to go to the
Emergency Court of Appeals. I do not dispute that view.
See Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503; Yakus v. United
States, 321 U. S. 414. For Congress in § 203 and § 204
of the Act provided a special administrative procedure
for testing the validity of any provision of a "regulation,
order, or price schedule," a procedure the constitutionality
of which we have sustained. See Lockerty v. Phillips,
319 U. S. 182; Yakus v. United States, supra. But we
are not here concerned with the power of the Administrator to issue a "refund order." Our question is different
and involves only a question of law turning on the meaning of § 205 (e). What we have to decide is whether
a "refund order" is a "regulation, order, or price schedule prescribing a maximum price" within the meaning
of § 205 (e). That is the first step in determining the
time from which the statutory period of limitations is
measured.
In short, the cause of action here at issue can be created
only by the statute, not by regulations. The question
is,'not one of validity of the regulations but of statutory interpretation; not an interpretation to determine
whether the statute authorizes* the regulations, but
whether it authorizes the suit.

