UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.

795

Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORPORATION
OFAMERICA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 41.

Argued January 12-13, 1948.-Decided April 26, 1948.

A British corporation with its principal place of business in London
engaged in the Southern District of New York in various but continuing efforts to conserve and exploit its television inventions and
patents. This was done through a series of complex contractual
arrangements made with certain American corporations and
involved the British company's constant intervention and supervision. The company was represented in -the New York district by
two of its directors, one of whom held a comprehensive power of
attorney to protect its interests in the United States. Held: The
company was "transacting business" and was "found" in the
Southern District of New York, within the meaning of § 12 of the
Clayton Act, so that it could be sued and served there in a civil
proceeding charging violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act.
Pp. 796-818.
(a) The venue provision of § 12 of the Clayton Act permitting
suit in any district wherein a corporation "transacts business" is
met by the carrying on of business "of any substantial character."
Practical, nontechnical business or commercial standards are to
be applied in determining whether the requirement is satisfied.
P. 810.
(b) Section 12 of the Clayton Act is not to be construed in a
manner to bring back the obstacles to enforcement of antitrust
policies and remedies which it was enacted to eliminate. In this
case, the determination whether the British corporation was "found"
within the Southern District of New York so that it could be served
there is not to be made by atomizing the enterprise into minute
parts or events, in disregard of the unity and continuity of the
whole course of conduct. P. 817.
69 F. Supp. 666, reversed.

In a civil proceeding brought in the Southern District
of New York under § 12 of the Clayton Act and charging
violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.,
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Court quashed service of process arid dismissed the complaint as to a British corporation having its principal
place of business in London. 69 F. Supp. 666. On
direct appeal to this Court, reversed and remanded,
p. 818.
Sigmund Timberg argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Charles H.
Weston and Robert L. Stern.
Edwin Foster Blair argued the cause and filed a brief
for Scophony, Ltd., appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellee Scophony, Limited is a British corporation which has its offices and principal place of business
in London, England. The question is whether that company "transacted business" and was "found" within the
Southern District of New York under § 12 of the Clayton
Act,' so that it could be sued and served there in a civil
proceeding charging violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sher.
man Act. 26 Stat. 209, 50 Stat. 693. 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2.
The violations stated were that Scophony and the other
defendants 2 had monopolized, attempted to monopolize,
and conspired to restrain and monopolize interstate and
$"SEc. 12. That any suit, action, or proceeding under the antitrust
laws against a corporation may be brought not only in the judicial
district whereof it is an inhabitant, but also in any district wherein
it may be found or transacts business; and all process in such cases
may be served in the district of which it is an inhabitant, or wherever
it may be found." 38 Stht. 736, 15 U..S. C. § 22.
2 The suit was instituted against Scophony, Limited (desigr2I:.ed
in this opinion as "Scophony"), Scophony Corporation of America
(designated 'American Scophony"), General Precision Equipment
Corporation (designated "General Precision'), Television Produc-

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.

797

Opinion of the Court.

795

foreign commerce in products, patents
ful in television and allied industries.
on direct appeal I from an order of
granting Scophony's motion to quash
ess and dismiss the complaint as to it.

and inventions useThe cause is here
the District Court
the service of proc69 F. Supp. 666.

Scophony manufactures and sells television apparatus
and is the owner and licensor of inventions and patents
covering television reception and transmission." With
the outbreak of the European War in 1939, the British
Broadcasting Corporation stopped television broadcast-

ing.

Consequently it became impossible for Scophony

to continue in the commercial development, manufacture

and sale of television equipment in England.

It therefore

sent personnel to the United States, opened an office in
New York City, and began demonstrations of its product
and other activities preliminary to establishing a manu-

facturing and selling business in this country.
Late in 1941 Scophony found itself in financial distress,

in part because of restrictions imposed by the British
Government on the export of currency. It became imperative that new capital from American sources be found

for the enterprise.

Accordingly, Arthur Levey, a director

tions, Inc. (designated "Productions"), Paramount Pictures, Inc.
(designated "Paramount"), and three individual defendants, Arthur
Levey and the presidents of General Precision and Productions.
The corporations, except Scophony, are incorporated in the United
States.
I Pursuant to § 2 of the Expediting Act of February 11, 1903, 32
Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C. § 29, and § 238 of the Judicial Code, 43 Stat.
938, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
4 The inventions and patents in the main relate to two systems of
television transmission and reception, one known as! the "supersonic"
system and the other as the "skiatron" system. We shall at times
refer to the present and future patents, processes, designs, technical
data, etc., relating to these two systems as the Scophony inventions.
A third system, the cathode-fluorescent system, was developed early
in this century and is the principal method of television transmission
and reception used in the United States today.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

of Scophony and one of its founders, undertook negotiations in New York with American motion picture and
television interests, including. Paramount and General
Precision. They culminated in the execution of three
interlacing contracts, the so-called master agreement of
July 31, 1942, and two supplemental agreements of
August 11, 1942. Copies of the latter had been attached
to the master agreement, which provided for their later
execution, and they, when executed in effect carried out
its terms. The alleged violations of the Sherman Act
center round these agreements.
The master agreement was executed by Scophony,
William George Elcock, as mortgagee of all of Scophony's
assets, General Precision, and Productions, the latter
-a wholly owned subsidiary of Paramount. It provided
for the formation of a new Delaware corporation, American Scophony, with an authorized capital stock of 1,000
Class "A" shares and 'a like number of Class "B" shares.
Scophony and individuals interested in it 5 were to be
given the Class "A" shares. Under the agreement. ownership of those shares, conferred the right to elect three
of American Scophony's five directors and its president,
vice president and'treasurer. The Class "B" shares were
allotted to General Precision and Productions. By virtue
of such ownership those two corporations were entitled
to name the remaining two directors and the secretary
and assistant, secretary of American Scophony. Levey
was named in the agreement as the president and a
director of the new corporation.
Tlhe -magter agreement set forth the general desire of
the parties 'to promote the utilization of the 'Scophony
inventions "particularly. in the United States of America

~'A* . greement of February 4, 1943, amended the original agreement so as to give two-thirds of. the "'A" shares to Scophony, the
remainder to lndividuals.

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

799

Opinion of the Court.

and generally in the Western Hemisphere." It then
stated that American Scophony had been organized "as a
means therefor." Scophony agreed to transfer all its
television equipmTent then in the United States to American Scophony and to enter into the first supplemental
agreement. Scophony, with the other parties, also undertook to cause American Scophony to enter into both supplemental agreements. For the "B" stock in American
Scophony and other rights acquired, General Precision.
and Productions agreed to enter into the second supplemental agreement and to pay specified sums in cash to
Scophony or for its benefit in liquidation of listed obligations.
Pursuant to the master agreement's terms, the first
supplemental agreement was executed by Scophony, Elcock, as mortgagee of its assets, and American Scophony;
the other, by American Scophony, General Precision, and
Productions. For present purposes it is necessary to set
forth only the general effect of the agreements taken
together. Scophony transferred to American Scophony
not only all of its equipment in the United States, but
also all patents and other interests in the Scophony
inventions within the Western Hemisphere. General
Precision and Productions were granted exclusive licenses
under American Scophony's patents. They agreed to pay
royalties on the products produced under the licenses and
American Scophony undertook to transmit fifty per cent
of such royalties to Scophony. American Scophony gave
Scophony an exclusive sublicense for the Eastern Hemisphere on a royalty basis under all patents licensed to
American Scophony by General Precision and Productions. Provision was also made for the interchange of
technical data and information respecting the Scophony
inventions. Finally, it was agreed that Scophony would
not market any product involving the Scophony inven-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

tions in the Western Hemisphere and that General Precision and Productions would not export any such product
to the Eastern Hemisphere.'
This rather complex plan soon fell of its own weight.
Starting in 1943, an impasse developed in the affairs of
American Scophony. It stemmed from the failure and
unwillingness of Gener al Precision and Productions to
exploit the Scophony inventions themselves and their
refusal to modify the agreements to permit the licensing
of other American firms under -the inventions. Several
manufacturers expressed an interest in obtaining licenses.
But in each instance the directors representing the American interests holding the Class "B" shares were unwilling
to approve the necessary modifications in the existing
arrangements. In July, 1945, the directors representing
the "B" interests resigned. This made it impossible for
American Scophony to transact business, since charter
and by-law provisions adopted pursuant to the master
and supplemental agreements required the presence of
at least one Class "B" director for a quorum. Adding to
,the difficulties were American Scophony's shortage of
funds and the apparent reluctance of the American interests to cooperate in efforts to place American Scophony
on firmer financial footing. American Scophony's affairs
were further complicated by the institution of the present
antitrust proceeding on December 18, 1945.
Levey kept Scophony advised of developments in the
dispute between the "A" and "B" factions and otherwise
6 The

complaint alleged that the effects of the agreements and

understandings were to create a territorial division of the manufacture and sale of television products, assigning the Eastern Hemisphere
to Scophony and the Western Hemisphere to General Precision and
Productions; to suppress and restrain competition in the manufacture
and sale of television equipment, both in the domestic and in the
export markets; and to give General Precision and Productions
monopoly power over the Scophony inventions which enabled them
to suppress their exploitation and deprive others of their use.

. UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

801

Opinion of the Court.

made progress reports to Scophony on its interests in the
United States. As the impasse heightened, other individuals were authorized by Scophony to act in its behalf in
the United States.' Service of process as to Scophony
was made first on Levey in New York City on December
20, 1945.8
On April 5, 1946, a summons and a copy of the complaint directed to Scophony were also served on Elcock
in New York City. He was a dominant figure in Scophony. He arrived in this country in March, 1946, with
the mission of investigating and ending the impasse and
disposing of Scophony's interest in American Scophony.
Elcock' not only was mortgagee of Scophony's assets by
virtue of having made a large loan to the company., He
was also its financial comptroller and a member of its
board. At the time of service on him, he held a comprehensive power of attorney, irrevocable until March, 1947,
giving him complete power to act with regard to Scophony's interests in the United States, including those
in American Scophony 9
The District Court, in granting the motion to quash
service and dismiss the complaint as to Scophony, held
These included at various times two American attorneys, a member of the British Parliament, and an English officer.
8
Levey immediately informed Scophony in England of this action
and advised it to designate appropriate counsel. On December 21,
1945, he sent a copy of the complaint to Scophony by airmail.
The power of attorney set forth Scophony's desire to appoint
Elcock to act "and bind the Company in all or any matters affecting
the Company's interests in the United States ....
" , It then authorized Elcock to institute and prosecute all proceedings necessary to
conserve Scophcny's interests; to defend or compromise any suits
brought against Scophony; to settle accounts; to engage or dismiss
subagents; to borrow money; to dispose of any and all of Scophony's
property and interests in the United States; and "generally to represent the Company in the United States of America in all matters
in any way affecting or pertaining to the Company . ... "

OCTOBER TERM. 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333

I.

S.

that it was not "found" in the Southern District of New
York within the meaning of § 12. The court rejected the
contention that Scophony was within the jurisdiction by
reason of the activities of its agents. It concluded that
none of those activities related to Scophony's ordinary
business of manufacturing, selling and licensing television
apparatus, but all were confined to protecting Scophony's
interest in American Scophony. It also found that the
conduct of American Scophony did not serve to bring
Scophony within the jurisdiction. 69 F. Supp. 666.
I.
Section 12 of the Clayton Act has two functions, first,
to fix the venue for antitrust suits against corporations;
second, to determine where process in such suits may be
served. Venue may be had "not only in the judicial
district whereof it is an inhabitant, but also in any district
wherein it may be found or transacts business." And all
process may be served "in the district of which it is an
inhabitant, or wherever it may be found." (Emphasis
added.)
A plain and literal reading of the section's words gives
it deceptively simple appearance. The source of trouble
lies in the use of verbs descriptive of the behavior of
human beings to describe that of entities characterized
by Chief Justice Marshall as "artificial . . . , invisible,
intangible, and existing only in contemplation of law."
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 636.10
10More

than once Marshall had difficulty in transferring to corporations or other institutions legal conceptions and relations shaped in
nomenclature and in fact from normative evolution in relation to
persons of flesh and blood.
See, e. g., Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch 61, where he was unable to
adapt the concept of corporate "inhabitancy," applied in decisions
he cited, for fitting the corporation into the constitutional scheme of
diversity jurisdiction. His individualistic solution brought difficulties

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

803

Opinion of the Court.

The process of translating group or institutional relations in terms of individual ones, and so keeping them

distinct from the nongroup relations of the people whose
group rights are thus integrated, is perennial, not only
because the law's norm is so much the individual man, but
also because the continuing evolution of institutions more

and more compels fitting them into individualistically
conceived legal patterns. Perhaps in no other field have
the vagaries of this process been exemplified more or
more often than in the determination

of matters of

jurisdiction, venue and liability to service of process in
our federal system." It has gone on from Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch 61, and Baptist Association v. Hart's
Executors, 4 Wheat. 1, to InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S. 310, and now this case. "
The translation, or rather the necessity for it, permeates
every significant word of § 12, not wholly excluding "or

transacts business." If the statutory slate were clean, one
might readily conclude that the words "inhabitant" and
"found" would have the same meaning for locating both
which lasted for decades. See Henderson, The Position of Foreign
Corporations in American Constitutional Law 50-76; Harris, A Corporation As a Citizen, 1 Va. L. Rev. 507. Cf. Baptist Association v.
Hart'sExecutors, 4 Wheat. 1.
See, e. g., Cahill, Jurisdiction over Foreign Corporations and individuals Who Carry on Business within the Territory, 30 Harv. L.
Rev. 676; Scott, Jurisdiction over Nonresidents Doing Business
within a State, 32 Harv. L. Rev. 871; Bullington, Jurisdiction over
Foreign Corporations, 6 N. C. L. Rev. 147; Note, What Constitutes
Doing Business by a Foreign Corporation for Purposes of Jurisdiction, 29 Col. L. Rev. 187.
12 The very federalism of our structure magnifies the problem, by
multiplying state and other governmental boundaries across which
corporate activity runs with the greatest freedom. The problem
arises on constitutional as well as statutory and common-law levels.
Cf. InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S. 310; Puerto Rico
v. Russell & Co., 288 U. S. 476.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

venue and the proper place for serving process. But even
so, each of those terms and indeed the term "transacts
business" would have to be given specific content actually
descriptive of corporate events taking place within specified areas. Because all corporate action must be vicarious, that content could be determined only by an act
of judgment which selects and attributes to the corporation, from the mass of activity done or purporting to
be done on its behalf, those acts of individuals which
are relevant for the particular statutory purposes and
policies in hand.
. The statutory slate, however, is neither entirely new
nor clean. Both legislative and judicial hands have
written upon it. The writing is meandering, unclear in
part, and partly erased. But it cannot be disregarded.
What is legible must furnish guidance to decision. We
deal here with a problem of statutory construction, not
one of constitutional import. 3 Nor do we have any
question of the exercise of Congress' power to its farthest
limit. The issue is simply how far Congress meant to
go, and specifically whether it intended to create venue
and liability to service of process through the occurrence
within a district of the kinds of acts done here on Scophony's behalf.
Section 12 of the Clayton Act is an enlargement of
§ 7 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Eastman Co. v.
Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359. The earlier statute
':,Appellee makes no suggestion of a constitutional issue. *The
Government, however, suggests that, in view of our recent decision
in International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326. U. S. 310, which was
concerned with the jurisdiction of a state over a foreign corporation
for purposes of suit and service of process, and in view of aspects
of. similarity between that problem and the one now presented,
w extend to this case and to § 12 the criteria there formulated and
applied. There is no necessity for doing so. The facts of the two
cases are considerably different and, as we have said, we are not
concerned here with finding the utmost reach of Congress' power.

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

805

Opinion of the Court.

provided for suit in the district in which the defendant
"resides or is found." 26 Stat. 210. That wording controlled for both venue and fixing the places for service
of process.
We do not stop to review the decisions construing § 7
and similar statutes, cf. Suttle v. Reich Bros., 333 U. S.
163; see InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, supra, at
317-319, except to refer to People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79. There the foreign corporation was sued in a district in which it did not "reside." Because the Court found that the company had
withdrawn from the state in which the district was
located and had revoked the authority of its principal agents there, it held that the defendant was not
"found" in the district, although certain corporate activities continued.
The conventional rationalization applied equated
"found" in sequence to "presence," to "doing business
by its agents there," to "of a character warranting inference of subjection to the local jurisdiction." 14 The facts
that the company continued to advertise its goods in the
state and district, to make interstate sales to jobbers there,
to send in drummers who solicited retail orders to be
turned over to the jobbers, and finally to own stock in
local subsidiaries, were held not to constitute the sort of
"doing business" warranting the inference of subjection
to the local jurisdiction for the statute's purposes. International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S._ 579, was
narrowly distinguished. 246 U. S. at 87.
14

The Court said: "The general rule deducible from all our deci-

sions is that the business- must be of such nature and character as
to warrant the inference that the 'corporation has subjected itself
to the local jurisdiction, and is by its duly authorized officers or
agents present within the State or district where service is attempted.
Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264; St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218, 226." 246
U. S. 79, 87.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

The suit in the People's Tobacco case was begun in
1912, but the decision was not rendered until 1918.
Meanwhile, in 1914, Congress had enacted the Clayton
Act, including § 12. The following year the Eastman
case, supra, was begun in the Northern District of Georgia.
Process issued and was served under § 12 on the defendant, a New York corporation, at its principal place of
business in Rochester. In 1927 this Court sustained both
the venue and the service, as against objections that § 12
had not- broadened § 7 of the Sherman Act, but merely
made explicit what had been decided under it. 5
The argument was certainly plausible, but for the fact
that it made the addition of "or transacts business" to
"inhabitant" and "found" in § 12 redundant and meaningless. The Court refused to accept the argument, because doing so would have defeated the plain remedial
purpose of § 12.6 That section was enacted, it held, to
enlarge the jurisdiction given by § 7 of the Sherman Act
15 Counsel for the defendant equated the words "inhabitant" and
"found" of § 12 to "resides or is found" of § 7 of the Sherman Act.
They then went on to argue that the addition of "or transacts business" in the venue clause of § 12 did not broaden the section, but
merely made explicit what the Court had already decided under the
earlier statute. 273 U. SI at 361. This, because "or transacts
business" was said to be nothing more than "carrying on business,"
which was the content the Court had given to "is found" in § 7, by
the People's Tobacco case and others.
16Rather, the Court said, the section supplements "the remedial
provision of the Anti-Trust Act for the redress of injuries resulting
from illegal restraints upon interstate trade, by relieving the injured
person from the necessity of resorting for the redress of wrongs
committed by a non-resident corporation, to a district, however
distant, in which it resides or may be 'found'--often an insuperable
obstacle-, and.enabling him to institute the suit in a district, frequently that of his own residence, in which the corporation in fact
transacts business, and bring it before the- court by the service of
process in a district in which it resides or may be 'found.' " 273
U.S. 359,373. (Emphasis added.)

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.

807

Opinion of the Court.

795

over corporations by adding those words, "so as to establish the venue of such a suit not only, as theretofore, in a
district in which the corporation resides or is 'found,' but
also in any district in which it 'transacts business'although neither residing nor 'found' therein-in which
case the process may be issued to and served in a district
in which the corporation either resides or is 'found.'"
273 U. S. at 372.17
This construction gave the words "transacts business"
a much broader meaning for establishing venue than the
concept of "carrying on business" denoted by "found"
under the preexisting statute and decisions. The scope
of the addition was indicated by the statement "that a
corporation is engaged in transacting business in a district . . . if in fact, in the ordinary and usual sense, it
'transacts business' therein of any substantialcharacter."
Id. at 373. (Emphasis added.)
In other words, for venue purposes, the Court sloughed
off the highly technical distinctions theretofore glossed
upon "found" for filling that term with particularized
meaning, or emptying it, under the translation of "carrying on business." In their stead it substituted the practical and broader business conception of engaging in any
substantial business operations. Cf. Frene v. Louisville
Cement Co., 77 U. S. App. D. C. 129, 134 F. 2d 511; International Shoe Co. v. Washington, supra. Refinements
such as previously were made under the "mere solicitation" and "solicitation plus" criteria, cf. Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., supra, and like those drawn, e. g.,
between the People's Tobacco and International Harvester cases, supra, were no longer determinative. The
practical, everyday business or commercial concept of
doing or carrying on business "of any substantial character" became the test of venue.
17

See also note 16.

808

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

Applying it,

333 U. S.

the Court stated that "manifestly"

the

Eastman Company was not "present" in the Georgia district under the earlier tests of § 7 of the Sherman Act,
either for the purpose of venue or as being amenable to
service of process. P. 371. It thus aligned the case
under those tests with the People's Tobacco' decision

rather than the InternationalHarvester one. But, under
the broader room given by § 12, venue was held to have
been established."8

Thus, by substituting practical, business conceptions
for the previous hair-splitting legal technicalities

en-

crusted upon the "found"-"present"-"carrying-on-business" sequence, the Court yielded to and made effective

Congress' remedial purpose. Thereby it 'relieved persons
injured through corporate violations of the antitrust laws
from the "often insuperable obstacle" of resorting to distant forums for redress of wrongs done in the places of

their business or residence. A foreign corporation no
longer could come to a district, perpetrate there the injuries outlawed, and then by retreating or even without
retreating " to its
retribution due.

headquarters

defeat or

delay the

18The concrete facts held to sustain the venue were that the Eastman Company was engaged "not only in selling and shipping its goods
to dealers within the 'Georgia district, but also in soliciting orders
therein through its salesmen and promoting the demand for its goods
through its demonstrators for the purpose of increasing its
sales . . . ." 273 U. S. at 374.
The Court also expressly stated that, in contrast to prior limitations, the company was "none the less engaged in transacting business . . . because of the fact that such business may be entirely
interstate in character and be transacted by agents who do not reside
within the district," referring in this connection to International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 2:34 U. S. 579, 587, and Davis v. Farmers
Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312, 316. 273 U. S. 359, 373.
P 1. e., by artful arrangement of agents' authority, or of their
comings and goings, or of the geography of minute incidents in contracting. Cf. People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

809

Opinion of the Court.

With venue established under the new and broader
approach, the Eastman case presented no problem regarding the service of process, except possibly for the ruling
that process might run to another district than the one
in which suit was brought. 273 U. S. at 374. For by
whatever test, whether of the old § 7 or the new § 12,
the service was good. As we have noted, the process had
been directed to and served in the district where the
Eastman Company was an "inhabitant." 20 There was
therefore no necessity for ruling upon the meaning of
"found" as relating to any other district. Any such ruling necessarily could be no more than dictum, since no
such issue was presented by the facts.
Nevertheless, for service of process § 12 had specified
"the district of which it is an inhabitant, or wherever it
may be found" without adding "or transacts business,"
as was done in the venue clause. Accordingly the Court
took account of this difference and went on tQ indicate
that for purposes of liability to service the section merely
carried forward the preexisting law, so that in some situations service in a district would not be valid, even though
venue were clearly established under § 12.
U. S. 79. Such artifice saw its day end for creating substantive
liability through a course of dealing contrary to the antitrust statutes,
but without thereby also creating venue to enforce it, with the advent
of § 12.
20As has been stated, the company was incorporated in New York
and had its principal office and place of business in R6chester.
21Although difference of that sort may appear to be generally incongruous, since ordinarily it would seem that susceptibility to suit in
a district should be accompanied by amenability to process there,
such things of course are for Congress' determination as matters of
policy relating to the scope and correlation, or lack of it, of venue
and service provisions. There is certainly no constitutional requirement that the two be coextensive. And to support the dictum, if it
were now necessary to rule on the matter, considerations beyond the
verbal difference to which the Eastman opinion pointed might be
stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

But regardless of the pronouncement's effect, the
decision, by resolving the venue problem, substantially
removed the serious obstacles and practical immunities to
suit which had grawn up under § 7 of the Sherman Act,
in by far the larger number of antitrust cases, i. e., for
those not involving companies incorporated outside the
United States. In them the fact that service may be
dubious in the district of suit and can be assured only by
causing process to run to another district, as in the Eastvian case, presents no such obstacle to bringing and main-

taining the suit as existed prior to § 12. The necessity, if
it is that, for directing process to another district, creates at most some slight inconvenience and additional
expense.
II.
In this case, however, we deal with a company incorporated outside the United States. But there can be no
question of the existence of "jurisdiction," in the sense of
venue under § 12, over Scophony in the Southern District
of New York. To say that on the facts presented Scophony transacted no business "of any substantial character" there during the period covered by institution of
the suit and the times of serving process would be to disregard the practical, nontechnical, business standard supplied by "or transacts business" in the venue provision.
It would be also to ignore the fact that Scophony then
and there was carrying on largely, if not exclusively, the
only business in which it could engage at the time.
Scophony's operations in New York were a continuous
course of business before and throughout the period in
question here. They consisted in strenuous efforts not
simply to save an American "investment," as is urged, but
to salvage and resuscitate Scophony's whole enterprise
from the disasters brought upon it by the war. As with

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

811

Opinion of the Court.

such efforts generally, changes in method and immediate
objective took place as each on, tried in turn failed to
work out. But those changes brought none in ultimate
objective, namely, to find a mode of saving and profitably
exploiting the Scophony inventions; and none in the
intensity or continuity with which that object was pursued in New York.
First was the phase of attempting to set up in this
country as manufacturer and seller of television equipment. When that failed, the company turned to licensing
and exploiting its patents by other means. This was done,
through the complicated arrangements for what practically if not also technically was a joint adventure with
other companies. That project was carried out not
merely through corporate forms and arrangements but
by contracts binding the participating companies to the
con~mon enterprise, as well as the special medium of executing it, American Scophony. In this each corporate
participant had its special functions, controls and restrictions created in part by share ownership in American Scophony, but also in important respects by contract both
beyond the stock controls and dictating their character."
Finally, as the affairs of the keystone of the structure,
2 E. g., the hemispheric division of territories between the British and American interests; the exclusive licensing agreements which
prevented Scophony from granting licenses to interested American
companies; and the arrangements for the interchange of technical
information were contractual, not charter limitations on corporate
powers. The particular corporate medium used, American Scophony,
and the refinements in its charter and by-laws giving General Precision
and Productions an effective veto power over its operations were
themselves aspects of the contractual undertakings embodied in the
master agreement and the two supplemental agreements. The master
agreement also designated the persons.to become officers and directors
of American Scophony, as representatives of both the British and
the American interests.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

American Scophony, came to and continued in stalemate,
the immediate objective shifted once more, to getting out
of the trap. Again the shift was in direct and constant pursuit of Scophony's primary and continuing
object, to find a way to save and to exploit its patents.
This is a story of business in trouble, even desperate.
We may have sympathy for the company's plight. But
it does not follow that such continuing, intensive activities to save the business and put it on a normal course,
even though shifting as they did in the successive winds
that blew, did not constitute "transacting business" of
"any substantial character." Nor can we say that any
of the major shifts in tacking toward the ultimate end
stopped or interrupted the course of the company's business activity. At no time was the drive toward achieving
its basic objects suspended.
Appellee would avoid this view and its consequences
by taking an entirely different conception of what
took place. It emphasizes that Scophony's corporate objects, as stated in its charter, were to manufacture and
sell television equipment. Hence it concludes that when
all New York activity directly pointing to that end ceased,
and was followed by the phase of seeking to exploit the
patents through the arrangements centering around
American Scophony, the British company ceased to be engaged in promoting its corporate objects and thus in carrying on or doing business in New York for the relevant
statutory purposes. From then on, it is claimed, Scophony became concerned solely with creating and protecting an "investment," namely, in American Scophony's
shares. Nor did Scophony resume the doing of business
when that effort also failed and the final stage of seeking
to break the impasse arrived, because manufacturing and'
sale of equipment were not revived.
To this view of the sequence of events appellee then
seeks to apply this Court's decisions interpreting "found"

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.

813

Opinion of the Court.

795

under § 7 and similar requirements in application to
manufacturing and selling companies,23 and also the like
Eastman dictum concerning § 12. In doing this it seeks
especially to invalidate the service by casting up from
those decisions a check list of specific and often minor
incidents of that sort of business done or not done as
relevant to whether business is being carried on, andthen matching against the list Scophony's New York
activities as of the times of service. 4
Obviously this view of the facts and of the determinative legal approach is at wide variance from the ones
we have taken in dealing with the question of venue.
But we do not find it necessary, in order to reject it for
purposes of sustaining the service, to consider whether
the process clause of § 12 should be given scope beyond
that indicated by the Eastman dictum. For in any
event we think that appellee and the District Court have
misconceived the effects of the facts and of the decisions
on which they rely, for determining the validity of the
service in this case.
Certainly appellee's conclusionary premise cannot be
accepted, that its sole authorized or actual busines was
manufacturing and selling equipment; or therefore the
2

3 E.

g., Cannon Mfg. Co. v. Cudahy Co., 267 U. S. 333; Consolidated Textile Corp. v. Gregqry, 289 U. S. 85; People'$ Tobacco Co.
v. America. Tobacc5 Co., 2,t6 U. S. 79.
24 The catalogue emphasizes things not being done as of the dates of
service, e. g., maintaining an office, warehouse or place of business; owning realty or other physical property; keeping a staff of
employees; having agents "other than counsel in this case and ...
Elcock"; keeping a telephone or a listing; making sales; conduoting
research; soliciting orders. Correspondingly appellee atomizes the
things then being done into separate, disconnected events, viz., stock
ownership (in American Scophony); contracting with American Scophony and the co her corporations for transfer and licensing of patents;
activities to protect Scoplhny's American "interests" by resolving the
impasse.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

further one that no other activity on its behalf could constitute doing or engaging in business. Indeed it was authorized to take out, hold and exploit television patents,
and doing this was certainly as much part of its business as
manufacturing and selling the equipment they covered.
There is nothing to show that Scophony was restricted by
its charter or otherwise to exploiting its patents exclusively by direct manufacture and sale. When therefore,
after that method had failed, the company chose another,
it was not ceasing to do business. That consequence did
not follow merely because it discontinued the activities
incident to continuing the discarded method.
The alternative one chosen was not a matter simply
of licensing patents to others, for active exploitation by
them. Nor was it only a casual act or acts of contracting. The whole framework of this phase of the New York
activities was dictated by the master and supplemental
agreements. These were not mere licensing arrangements, nor did they make Scophony nothing more than
a shareholder for investment purposes, with only such a
shareholder's voting rights and control in American Scophony. The contracts created controls in Scophony, and
in the American interests as well, which taken in conjunction with the stock controls called for continuing exercise
of supervision over and intervention in American Scophony's affairs. 5 We need not decide whether, in view
of the agreements' continuing and pervasive effects,
they could be considered as sufficing in themselves to
make Scophony "found" within the New York district."6
25 See note 22 supra. Indeed the contracts shaped the nature of
the corporate distribution of powers and voting rights, so as to make
them conform to the over-all character and objects of the larger
common enterprise. The charter and by-law provisions of American Scophony therefore not only were governed by the contractual
arrangements but carried them into execution.
26 Especially in view of the fact that § 12 fixes venue and the places
for serving process in antitrust suits, there would seem to be sound

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

815

Opinion of the Court.

Whether so or not, they set the pattern for a regular and
continuing program of patent exploitation requiring, as
we have said, Scophony's constant supervision and intervention.
That necessity was shown, among other ways, by the
contractual provisions for interchange of data and information, arid further by the fact that there was sustained
interchange of correspondence between Levey and Scophony devoted to Scophony's affairs and interests in this
country. Levey kept Scophony informed fully of all that
went on here, and in turn received and carried out its
instructions respecting American Scophony's affairs and
its own.
In all this he was not acting merely as an officer of
American Scophony. Rather he was also Scophony's director and representative, authorized to act in its behalf
and interest. Indeed it was as Scophony's representative
that he was named as president of American Scophony.
His position was a dual one. He was not a mere shareholder's or investor's agent seeking information about
that corporation's affairs for purposes of dealing with the
stock. His functions and activities were much broader
and related to Scophony's interests as much as to American Scophony's. Scophony's New York activities therefore were not confined to negotiation and execution of the
agreements. Neither were they concerned only with
mere stock ownership or "investment" as is urged, nor
were they simply occasional acts of contracting, like those
in the decisions appellee cites.
Moreover, other individuals carried on for Scophony
in continuing efforts 17 to resolve the impasse. Apart
basis for differentiating the execution of agreements so all-pervasive
and far-reaching in their effects upon the statutory policies from runof-mine casual or intermittent sales of commodities by a manufacturing or selling company, for the section's purposes.
27

See note 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

from what was done by others, Elcock came to New York
with unrestricted and irrevocable power to act on Scophony's behalf. Indeed it might almost be said, in view
of his triple position as. mortgagee, corporate officer and
attorney-in-fact, that for all relevant purposes at this
phase of Scophony's activity, he was the company. The
stalemate put Scophony's affairs in this country at a
standstill along with those of American Scophony. And
Scophony's efforts to extricate itself were both strenuous
and continuous.
Those efforts were not cessation of engaging in business.
They were directed entirely to warding off that fate.
Their object was not to liquidate, it was to resuscitate
the business of Scophony and, as in all previous stages,
put it on a normal course again. In doing all this, Scophony was engaging in business constantly and continuously, not retiring from it or interrupting it. Cf. Mutual
Life Insurance Co. .v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Insurance Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S.
407; St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218.
The interruptions were only in .particular phases of its
authorized adventure, not in the continuity, intensity or
totality of the adventure itself.
In sum, we have no such situation as was presented
in the manufacturing and selling cases on which appellee
reli~s. They concerned entirely different facts and enterprises. In none was there a shifting from a course of
business in pursuit of one corporate object or objects,
viz., manufacturing and selling, to another continuing
mode of achieving a basic corporate objective, namely, the
exploiting of patents by complex working arrangements
partaking practically of the character of a common enterprise with others and requiring constant supervision and
intervention beyond normal exercise of z-hareholders'
rights by the participating companies' representatives qua
such.

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

817

Opinion of the Court.

We know of no decision which has held or indicated
that on such facts the process clause of § 12 is not adequate to confer power to make valid service. Such a
continuing and far-reaching enterprise is not to be governed in this respect by rules evolved with reference to
the very different businesses and activities of manufacturing and selling. Nor, what comes to the same thing, is
the determination to be made for such an enterprise by
atomizing it into minute parts or events, in disregard of
the actual unity and continuity of the whole course of
conduct, by the process' sometimes applied in borderline
cases involving manufacturing and selling activities.
For present purposes those decisions may be left untouched for the facts and situations in which they have
arisen and to which they have been applied. But there
could be no valid object in expanding their pulverizing
approach to situations as different and distinct as this one,
comprehended within neither their rulings nor their effects. More especially would such an extension be in.appropriate, when it is recalled that § 12 governs venue and
service in antitrust suits against corporations. For, in
cases against companies incorporated outside the United
States, that extension would bring back all the obstacles
to enforcement of antitrust policies and remedies which
existed for domestic corporations before § 12 was enacted
to give relief from those obstacles. Even though venue
were clearly established, as here, the extension often
would make valid service impossible, since process could
not be issued to run for such corporations to the foreign
countries of which they are "inhabitants." We are unwilling to construe § 12 in a manner to bring back the
evils it abolished, for situations Aot foreclosed by prior
decisions, and thus to defeat its policy together with that
of the antitrust laws, so as to make another amendment
necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER, .J., concurring.

333 U. S.

We think that Scophony not only was "transacting
business" of a substantial character in the New York
district at the times of service, so as to establish venue
there, but also on the sum of the facts regarding its
activities was "found" there within the meaning of the
service-of-process clause of § 12. Of course such a ruling
presents no conceivable element of offense to "traditional
notion)s of fair play and substantial justice." See InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, supra, at 316; cf. Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert, 45 F. 2d 139, 141.
It remains only to say that we do not stop to consider
whether, as is argued, Levey's authority to act for Scophony had expired or beenrevoked at the time service
was made by delivery of process to him. For when
service was made by delivery to Elcock, he had unrevoked
and irrevocable authority to act in Scophony's behalf in
the New York district, and that service was valid to confer
personal jurisdiction over Scophony.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed and the cause
is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

I deem it appropriate to state why I concur merely in
the Court's result.
The only question in this case is whether Scophony
Limited, a 2British corporation, which has its offices and'
principal place of business in London, may be made a
party"defendant in a suit by the United States for violation of the Sherman Law pending in the Southern District of New York. The corporation may be brought into
court in that District if its activities there satisfy the
requirements of § 12 of the Clayton Act. According to

UNITED STATES v. SCOPHONY CORP.
795

FRANKFURTER,

819

J., concurring.

this provision, Scophony Limited is properly a party
defendant in this suit only if, by virtue of its activities,
it is "found or transacts business" in the Southern District
of New York, and it may be served in that District if it
is "found" there.
Whether a corporation "transacts business" in a particular district is a question of fact in its ordinary untechnical meaning. The answer turns on an appraisal
of the unique circumstances of a particular situation.
And a corporation can be "found" anywhere, whenever
the needs of law make it appropriate to attribute location to a corporation, only if activities on its behalf that
are more than episodic are carried on by its agents in a
particular place. This again presents a question of fact
turning on the unique circumstances of a particular situation, to be ascertained as such questions of fact are
every day decided by judges.
What was done in the Southern District of New York
on behalf of Scophony Limited, as detailed in the Court's
opinion, establishes that the corporation was there transacting business and was found there in the only sense in
which a. corporation ever "fransacts business" or is
"found." Accordingly, Scophony Limited was amenable
to suit and service in the District within the requirements
of § 12 of the Clayton Act.
To reach this result, however, I do not find it necessary
to open up difficult and subtle problems regarding the
law's attitude toward corporations. I abstain from joining the Court's opinion not because I am in disagreement
with what is said but because I am not prepared to agree.
And I am not prepared to agree because I do not wish to
forecast, which agreement would entail, the bearing of
the Court's discussion upon situations not now before us
but as to which such theoretical discussion is bound to
be influential. Law, no doubt, is concerned with "practical and substantial rights, not to maintain theories."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

333 U. S.

Davis v. Mills, 194 IT. S. 451, 457. But theories often
determine rights. Since I do not know where the opinion
in this case will take me in the future, I prefer to reach'
its destination by the much shorter route of recognizing
that a corporation, as such never transacts business and
is never found anywhere, but does "transact business" and
is "found" somewhere by attribution to the corporation
of what human beings do for it. No doubt legal reasoning
must be on its guard not to oversimplify. Dangers also
lurk in overcomplicating.
From earliest times the law has enforced rights and
exacted liabilities by utilizing a corporate concept-by
recognizing, that is, juristic persons other than human
beings. The theories by which this mode of legal operation has developed, has been justified, qualified, and defined are the subject-matter of a very sizable library. The
historic roots of a particular society, economic pressures,
philosophic notions, all have had their share in the law's
response to the ways of men in carrying on their affairs
through what is now the familiar device of the corporation. Law has also responded to religious needs in recognizing juristic persons other than human beings. Thus,
in the Hindu law an idol has standing in court to enforce its rights. See, e. g., Pranatha Nath Mullick v.
Pradyumna Kunmar Mullick, 52 L. R. I. A. 245 (1925).
Attribution of legal fights and duties to a juristic person
other than man is necessarily a metaphorical process.
And none the worse for it. No doubt, "metaphors in law
are to be narrowly watched," Cardozo, J., in Berkey v.
Third Avenue R. Co., 244 N. Y. 84, 94. But all instruments of thought should be narrowly watched lest they
be abused and fail in their service to reason.

