FISHER v. HURST.
138

Opinion of the Court.

relate to the management of the war itself, the constitutional basis should be scrutinized with care.
I think we can hardly deny that the war power is as
valid a ground for federal rent control now as it has been
at any time. We still are technically in a state of war.
I would not be willing to hold that war powers may be
indefinitely prolonged merely by keeping legally alive a
state of war that had in fact ended. I cannot accept the
argument that war powers last as long as the effects and
consequences of war, for if so they are permanent-as
permanent as the war debts. But I find no reason to
conclude that we could find fairly thatthe present state
of war is merely technical. We have armies abroad exercising our war power and have made no peace terms with
our allies, not to mention our principal enemies. I think
the conclusion that the war power has been applicable
during the lifetime of this legislation. is unavoidable.

FISHER v. HURST, CHIEF JUSTICE, ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR. LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

'No. 325, Misc.

Decided February 16, 1948.

The order of the state district court quoted in the opinion did not
depart from the mandate issued by this Court in Sipuel v. Board
of Regents, 332 j.S. 631; and a motion for 1eave to file a petition
for a writ of mandamus to compel compliance with that mandate
is denied. Pp. 147-151.

Thurgood Marshall, Amos T. Hall, William H. Hastie
and Marian Wynn Perry filed a brief for petitioner.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner moves for leave to file a petition for a writ
of -mandamus to cdnpol compliane with our mandate

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

issued January 12, 1948, in Sipuel v. Board of Regents,
332 U. S.631. We there said:
"The petitioner is entitled to secure legal education afforded by a state institution. To this time,
it has been denied her although during the same
period many white applicants have been afforded
legal education by the State. The State must provide it for her in conformity with the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and provide it
as soon as it does for applicants of any other group.
Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada, 305 U. S. 337
(1938)."
Petitioner states that on January 17, 1948, the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma rendered an opinion in which it was
said:
"Said Board of Regents is hereby directed, under
the authority conferred upon it by the provisions of
Art. 13-A, Constitution of the State of Oklahoma,
and Title 70 0. S. 1941, Secs. 1976, 1979, to afford
to plaintiff, and all others similarly situated, an oppdrtunity to commence the study of law at a state
institution as soon as citizens of other groups are
afforded such opportunity, in conformity with the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution and with the provisions of the Constitution and statutes of this state
requiring segregation.of the races "n the schools bf
this state. Art. 13, Sec. 3, Constitution of Oklahoma; 70 0.S. 1941, Secs. 451-457.
"Reversed with directions to the trial court to take
such proceedings as may be necessary to fully carry
out the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United
States and this opinion. The mandate is ordered to
issue forthwith."

FISHER v. HURST
147

Opinion of the Court.

It is further stated by petitioner that the District Court
of Cleveland County of Oklahoma entered an order on
January 22, 1948, as follows:
"IT

IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED

BY THIS COURT

that unless and until the separate

school of law for negroes, which the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma in effect directed the Oklahoma State
Regents for Higher Education to establish
'with advantages for education substantially equal
to the advantages afforded to white students,'
is established and readyto function at the designated
time applicants of any other 'group may hereafter
apply for admission to the first-year class of the
School of Law of the University of Oklahoma, and
if the plaintiff herein makes timely and proper application to enroll in said class, the defendants, Board
of Regents of the University of Oklahoma, et al., be,
and the same are hereby ordered and directed to
either:
"(1) enroll plaintiff, if she is otherwise qualified,
in the first-year class of the School of Law of the
University of Oklahoma, in which school she will
be entitled to remain on the same scholastic basis
as other students thereof until such a separate law
school for negroes is established and ready to function, or
"(2) not enroll any applicant of any group in said
class until said separate school is established and
ready to function.
"IT

IS

FURTHER ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED

that if such a separate law school is so established
and ready to function, the defendants, Board of
Regents of the University of Oklahoma,. et al., be,
and the same are hereby ordered and directed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

not enroll plaintiff in the first-year class of the
School of Law of the University of Oklahoma.
"The cost of this case is taxed to defendants.
"This court retains jurisdiction of this cause to
hear and determine any question which may arise
concerning the application of and performance of
the duties prescribed by this order."
The only question before us on this petition for a writ
of mandamus is whether or not our mandate has been
followed. It is clear that the District Court of Cleveland
County did not depart from our mandate.
The petition for certiorari in Sipuel v. Board of Regents,
did not present the issue, whether a state might not satisfy
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amend ment
by establishing a separate law school for Negroes. On
submission, we were clear it was not an issue here. The
Oklahoma Supreme Court upheld the refusal to admit.
petitioner on the ground that she had failed to demand
establishment of a separate school and admission to it.
On remand, the district court correctly understood our
decision to hold that the equal protection clause permits
no such defense.
Nothing which may have transpired since the orders
of the Oklahoma courts were issued is in the record before
us, nor could we consider it on this petition for writ of
mandamus if it were. The Oklahoma District Court has
retained jurisdiction to hear and determine any question
arising under its order. Whether or not the order is followed or disobeyed should be determined by it in the first
instance. The manner in which, or the method by which,
Oklahoma may have satisfied, or could satisfy, the requirements of the mandate of this Court, as applied by
the District Court of Cleveland County in its order of
January 22, 1948, is not before us.

FISHER v. HURST.
147

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Motion for leave to file petttion for writ of mandamus
is denied.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY is of the opinion that a hearing
should be had in order to determine whether the action
of the Oklahoma courts subsequent to the issuance of
this Court's mandate constitutes an evasion of that
mandate.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, dissenting.

I am unable to join in the Court's opinion or in its
disposition of the petition. In my judgment neither the
action taken by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma nor
that of the District Court of Cleveland County, following
upon the decision and issuance of our mandate in No.
369, Sipuel v. Board of Regents, 332 U. S. 631, -is consistent with our. opinion in that cause or therefore with
1
our mandate which issued forthwith.
It is possible under those orders for the state's officials
to dispose of petitioner's demand for a legal education
equal to that afforded to white students by establishing
overnight a separate law school for Negroes or to continue affording the present advantages to white students
while denying them to petitioner. The latter could be
done either by excluding all applicants for admission to
the first-year class of the state university law school after
the date of the District Court's order or, depending upon
the meaning of that order, by excluding such applicants
and asking all first-year students enrolled prior to that
order's date to withdraw from school.
Neither of those courses, in my opinion, would comply with our mandate. It plainly meant, to me at iny
1 The

mandate reversed the Oklaboma Supreme Court's judgment

and remanded the cause to it "for proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

rate, that Oklahoma should end the discrimination practiced against petitioner at once, not at some later time,
near or remote: It also meant that this should be done,
if not by excluding all students, then by affording petitioner the advantages of a legal education equal to those
afforded to white students. And in my comprehension
the equality required was equality in fact, not in legal

fiction.
Obviously no separate law school could be established
elsewhere overnight capable of giving petitioner a legal
education equal to that afforded by the state's longestablished and well-known state university law school.
Nor could the necessary time be taken to create such
facilities, while continuing to deny them to petitioner,
without incurring the delay which would continue the
discrimination our mandate required to end at once.
Neither would the state comply with it by continuing
to deny the required legal education to petitioner while
affording it to any other student, as it could do by excluding only students in the first-year class from the state
university law school.
Since the state courts' orders allow the state authorities
at their election to pursue alternative courses, some of
which do not comply with our mandate, I think those
orders inconsistent with it. Accordingly I dissent from
the Court's opinion and decision in this case.

