Ex

PARTE WOOLLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

tion to pay debts cannot enlarge it. The case of Smith v. Bell
(supra) is precisely in point against the application of the rule
to this case.
We have no doubt about the true construction of this will.
Edith J. Dawson took under it an estate for life in the testator's lands, subject to be divested on her ceasing to be his
widow, with power to convey her qualified life-estate only. Her
estate in the land and that of her grantees determined on her
marriage with Pickering.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions
to proceed in the case in conformity with this opinion; and
it is
So ordered.

EX PARTE

WOOLLEN.

The Circuit Court was authorized to dismiss an appeal thereto, which, at a term
thereof then holding, was not entered therein within ten days after it had
been taken from a decision of the District Court sitting in bankruptcy.

for a writ of mandamus.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
PETITION

Mr. Philip Phillips,Mr. Joseph E. McDonald, and Mr. John
X/. Butler in support of the petition.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Mr. Jeremiah M. Wilson in
opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The petition in this case shows that a claim against a bankrupt estate was rejected by the District Court for the District
of Indiana on the 19th of December, 1879, and that on the
same day the creditor took an appeal to the Circuit Court under
sect. 4980 of the Revised Statutes. When the appeal was
taken the Circuit Court was in session. The term began on
the first Tuesday of the preceding November, and continued
without a final adjournment until late in April, 1880. The next

Oct. 1881.]

EX PARTE WOOLLEN.

term did not begin until the first Tuesday in May. On the
28th of March the assignee moved the Circuit Court to dismiss
the appeal because it had not been entered in that court.
This motion was resisted by the creditor on the ground that he
had until the next term to enter the case. The court, after
hearing, granted the motion, and we are now asked to require,
by mandamus, a reinstatement of the appeal.
Many objections are made to this application, but as it is
conceded that if the question which lies at the foundation of
the whole proceeding is decided adversely to the petitioners the
writ must be denied, we pass everything else by and proceed
at once to the consideration of that question, which is, whether,
under the law, the creditor had until the May Term, 1880, to
enter his appeal in the Circuit Court.
The eighth section of the original bankrupt law of March 2,
1867, c.176, required the appeal to "b e entered at the term of
the Circuit Court which shall be first held within and for the
district next after the expiration of ten days from the time of
14 Stat. 520. The tenth section proclaiming the same."
vided (id. p. 521) that the justices of this court should, subject to the provisions of the act, frame "general orders," among
other things, "for regulating the practice and procedure upon
appeals." Under this authority, the justices could not by their
orders alter or amend the law, but they could prescribe rules
and regulations to aid in carrying it into effect. Anything
not inconsistent with it might be ordered for the despatch
of business. It was not in so many words provided that appeals might be entered in the Circuit Court at the first term
which began its session after the expiration of ten days from
the time they were claimed, and so the justices, in framing
their orders at the December Term, 1866 (May 16, 1867),
provided (No. 26) that appeals by a creditor from a decision
of the District Court rejecting his claim should be filed in the
clerk's office of the Circuit Court within ten days after they
were taken. As this was evidently done to promote the speedy
settlement of bankrupt estates, which we have often said was
the obvious policy of the law (Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.
342; Wiswall v. Campbell, 93 U. S. 347), there would, in our
opinion, be no difficulty in sustaining the regulation if the mat-

Ex

PARTE WOOLLEN.

[Sup. (3t.

ter stood as it was originally. The law and the regulation are
perfectly consistent with each other. In effect it was judicially determined that sect. 8 required appeals to be filed during the first term which happened to be in session after the
expiration of the ten days, and the regulation simply fixed the
time in that term when the filing must be done. Undoubtedly
the provisions of the regulation were directory rather than
mandatory. If the entry of the cause was not made in the
Circuit Court within the prescribed time, it would be within
the power of that court, in the exercise of its discretion, to
allow it to be done afterwards, but after the time had gone
by the assignee could appear and ask to have the appeal dismissed.
But whatever may have been the condition of the law in this
particular originally, there can be no doubt what it has been
since the Revised Statutes, sect. 4990 of which is as follows:
" The general orders in bankruptcy heretofore adopted by the
justices of the Supreme Court, as now existing, may be followed
in proceedings under this title; and the justices may, from
time to time, subject to the provisions of this title, rescind or
vary any of those general orders, and may frame, rescind, or
vary other general orders for the following purposes:...
Fourth. For regulating the practice and procedure upon appeals."
Order No. 26 was then in force, and there was in this section
a distinct legislative recognition of its validity. In sect. 4982
the word "first," where it occurs in that part of sect. 8 of
the original act quoted above, was omitted, so that the provision in the Revised Statutes is that "such appeal shall be
entered at the term of the Circuit Court which shall be held
within the district next after the expiration'of ten days from
the time of claiming the same." By this change the original
meaning was not materially altered; but if it had been, the
result would be the same, so far as the question now under
consideration is concerned, because in so many words it was
provided (sect. 4990) that the old orders as they stood should
be applicable to the revision. In amending the general orders
at the October Term, 1874, the justices continued No. 26 in
the same form it was originally adopted.

Oct. 1881.]

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

Such being the condition of the law when the proceedings
now complained of were had in the Circuit Court, we think it
was clearly in the power of that court to dismiss the appeal
because it had not been entered in time.
Petition denied.

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.
1. "Mutual debts" and "mutual credits," where they occur in sect. 20 of the act
of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14 Stat. 617), and sect. 5013 of the Revised Statutes, are correlative. Credits do not include a trust, and in case of bankruptcy only such credits as must in their nature terminate merely in debts
are the subject-matter of set-off.
2. A. being indebted to B. by note secured by mortgage, and on an account, sent
him money with instructions to credit it on the note. A. was shortly thereafter adjudged to be a bankrupt. Held, that the money was received by
B. in trust to apply it pursuant to instructions, and, having refused to conform to them, he cannot set off against it the account, but is liable therefor
to A.'s assignee in bankruptcy.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
The suit was brought in the Superior Court of Cincinnati
by A. T. Stewart & Co., of which firm the plaintiffs in error
are the survivors, against Lewis C. Hopkins and wife, and Isaac
M. Jordan, trustee in bankruptcy of Hopkins.
It appears from the record that A. T. Stewart & Co., merchants, of the city of New York, loaned, June 6, 1866, Hopkins, a merchant of Cincinnati, Ohio, $100,000, and took his
promissory note of that date therefor, payable on demand
with interest from date, to secure the payment of which he executed and delivered to them several mortgages on real estate in
Cincinnati and its vicinity. Both before and after that date
he bought of them large quantities of goods, and as a matter
of convenience kept with them two accounts, - one a cash
and the other a merchandise account. They were his bankers.
All his remittances were sent to them and credited to him
in the cash account. By drafts thereon he paid his debts
for merchandise to them and other New York merchants,
and in order to replenish it he borrowed the 100,000 above

