Oct. 1881.]

WILLIAMS V. NOTTAWA.

WILLIAMS V. NOTTAWA.
1. Under the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 8,
p. 470), it is the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss a suit when it appears that the parties thereto have been improperly or collusively made or
joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable under that act.
2. A., a citizen of Indiana, sued in the Circuit Court a township of Michigan
upon certain bonds issued by it and payable to bearer. Ile owned some
of them, and the others were transferred to him by citizens of Michigan
solely for the purpose of collection. Judgment was rendered in favor of
the township on the bonds so transferred, and in his favor for the residue. This court,, on his removing the case here, reverses the judgment,
and directs, as the court below should on its own motion have done, that
the suit be dismissed at his costs.
8. Qucere, Could the defendant, not a party to such collusion, take advantage, for
the first time, on appeal or writ of error, of such objection.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Submitted on printed arguments by Messrs. Tughes, O'Brien,
Smiley for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Charles Upson
for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This suit was brought by Williams, a citizen of Indiana,
against the township of Nottawa, a municipal corporation of
Michigan, to recover the amount alleged to be due on certain
of its bonds, negotiable by the law merchant, and payable to
Samuel Kline, or bearer. A trial was had by a jury, which
resulted in a verdict, by the direction of the court, in favor of
Williams for six of the bonds, and in favor of the township for
the remainder. This writ of error has been brought by Williams to reverse the judgment against him ; and, as the court
directed the verdict which was rendered, the whole of the
evidence has been embodied in the bill of exceptions, and is
properly before us for consideration.
From the testimony of Williams himself, it distinctly appears he was personally the owner of only three of the bonds
VOL. XIV.

14

WILLIAMS V. NOTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

sued on of $100 each. One Bracey Tobey was the owner of
three others of the same amount. The judgment in favor of
Williams was upon these six bonds, and for $994.57 only. All
the other bonds, being those on which the judgment was rendered in favor of the township, were owned by Samuel Kline
and William Connor, both of whom were residents of the
township and citizens of Michigan when the bonds were issued.
There is no evidence of any change of citizenship by Kline
since the bonds were delivered, and Connor, who was a witness at the trial, testified that he continued to be a citizen
of Michigan. The bonds were transferred by Kline and Connor to Williams simply for the purpose of collection with his
own. The same is true of those belonging to Tobey, but
there is nothing in the evidence to show of what State he
was a citizen, though he testified that he bought his bonds in
Michigan.
By sect. 11 of the Judiciary Act of Sept. 24, 1789, c. 20
(1 Stat. 78), it was expressly provided that the District and
Circuit Courts of the United States should not "have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of foreign bills of exchange." By sect. 1 of the act of March
3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), this provision was so
far modified as to extend the exception to " promissory notes
negotiable by the law merchant and bills of exchange," but in
sect. 5 it was expressly enacted "that if in any suit commenced
in a Circuit Court . . . it shall appear to the satisfaction of
said Circuit Court, at any time after such suit has been brought,
. . . that such suit does not really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of
said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have been
improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or
defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable . . .
under this act; the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further
and shall make such
therein, but shall dismiss the suit, ...
order as to costs as shall be just."
This case, so far as the bonds owned by Kline and Connor

Oct. 1881.]

WILLIAMS

V. NOTTAWA.

are concerned, comes clearly within this prohibition. As the
actual owners of the bonds were citizens of Michigan, they
could not sute in the courts of the United States, and Williams
distinctly testifies that he received and held their bonds solely
for the purpose of collection with his own, and for their account. It cannot for a moment be doubted that this was done
"for the purpose of creating a case" for Kline and Connor
cognizable in the courts of the United States. That being so,
it was the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss the suit as to
these bonds, and proceed no further; for as to them the controversy was clearly between citizens of the same State, Kline
and Connor being the real plaintiffs. The transfer to Williams was colorable only, and never intended to change the
ownership. This both Williams and Kline and Connor knew.
Under the act of 1789, it was held in Smith v. Kernoehan
(7 flow. 198) that this objection was one which could only
be taken by plea in abatement; but in Barney v. Baltimore
(6 Wall. 280) there was no such plea, and the bill was dismissed in this court without prejudice, because it appeared in
evidence that certain conveyances, by means of which the citizenship of the parties was changed so as to give the courts of
the United States jurisdiction, did not transfer the real interest
of the grantors. But whatever may have been the practice in
this particular under the act of 1789, there can be no doubt
what it should be under that of 1875. In extending a long
way the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, Congress was specially careful to guard against the consequences
of collusive transfers to make parties, and imposed the duty on
the court, on its own motion, without waiting for the parties,
to stop all further proceedings and dismiss the suit the moment
anything of the kind appeared. This was for the protection
of the court as well as parties against frauds upon its jurisdiction; for as was very properly said by Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, in Barney v. Baltimore (supra), such
transfers for such purposes are frauds upon the court, and
nothing more.
It is clearly shown, also, that Williams and Tobey were
collusively joined as plaintiffs, to create a case cognizable in
the Circuit Court; for when the suit was begun the amount

WILLIAMS v. NOTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

due them respectively was less than $500. Neither one of
them could then have sued alone in the courts of the United
States, because the value of the matter in dispute was not
sufficient.
Since the judgment below was rendered, the amount due
Williams and Tobey respectively has, by reason of the accumulation of interest, exceeded $500. The citizenship of Tobey
is not disclosed by the record. Whether he can sue in the
courts of the United States we do not know. Williams can
sue at this time if he still continues to be a citizen of some
State other than Michigan, but without a false averment in
his pleadings he could not have done so when this suit was
begun. If he had in his pleadings falsely overstated the
amount of his claim, he could not, when his judgment was
obtained, have recovered costs, and at the discretion of the
court might have been adjudged to pay costs. Gordon v.
Longest, 16 Pet. 97. He was as much guilty of collusion as
the other parties, and is no more entitled to consideration here
than they are.
Inasmuch, therefore, as it was the duty of the Circuit Court,
on its own motion, as soon as the evidence was in and the collusive character of the case shown, to stop all further proceedings and dismiss the suit, the judgment is reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the suit at the
costs of the plaintiff in error, because it did not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction of that court, leaving the parties in interest to such
remedies as they may each be entitled to for the recovery of
any amount that may be due them respectively on the bonds
they severally own. In this connection we deem it proper to
say that this provision of the act of 1875 is a salutary one, and
that it is the duty of the Circuit Courts to exercise their power
under it in proper cases. If they improperly dismiss a cause,
their action in that behalf is expressly made reviewable here.
Whether, if a defendant allows a case to go on until judgment
has been rendered against him, he can take advantage of the
objection on appeal, or writ of error, we need not now decide.
That would be a different case from this. Here the party
guilty of the collusion asks relief from a judgment against

Oct. 1.881.]

MonRISON V. STALNAKER.

himself. In such a case we deem it our duty to stop the suit
just where it should have been stopped in the court below, and
remit the parties to their original rights.
Judgment reversed.

MORRISON V.

STALNAKER.

On Jan. 18, 1871, A., a pre-emptor, settled upon part of an even-numbered section of land, which, although previously offered at public sale, was at that
date withdrawn from private entry, it being within the grant to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company. Held, that, under the second
section of the act of July 14, 1870, c. 272 (16 Stat. 279), he was entitled to the
period of eighteen months from the time limited for filing his declaratory
statement, within which to make payment and proof.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska.

This was an action brought in the District Court of Cass
County, Nebraska, by Morrison, to recover the possession of a
tract of eighty acres, being part of an even-numbered section
of land situate in that county.
Morrison claimed under a patent from the United States
dated May 10, 1873, conveying to him the demanded premises.
Stalnaker, the defendant, settled upon them, they being
public land, Jan. 18, 1871. On the sixteenth day of the following month his declaratory statement required by the preemption law was filed in the proper office, and he continuously
thereafter resided upon them. They had, prior to those dates,
been offered at public sale, and are within the limits of the
lands which, under the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120 (12 Stat.
489), and the acts amendatory thereof, the Land Department
withdrew from market to cover the grant made to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company.
The act of March 6, 1868, c. 20 (15 Stat. 39), provides that
nothing in those acts shall be held to authorize the withdrawal
or exclusion from settlement and entry, under the provisions
of the pre-emption or homestead laws, the even-numbered

