FoRT v. ROUSH.

[Sup. Ct.

FORT V. JIOUSH.
1. At a sale of mortgaged lands in Montana Territory, pursuant to a decree of
foreclosure in a proceeding wherein A. was complainant, he became the
purchaser of a part of them; but, on account of his fraudulent conduct,
the sale to him was set aside. B., the mortgagor, now seeks to charge him
with the value of the use and occupation of such part while it was in his
possession under his purchase, and with damages for waste. Held, 1. That
the satisfaction of the decree caused by the sale was vacated when that
sale was set aside. 2. That a judgment should be rendered against A. for
only so much of the sum found to be due for such value and damages as
exceeds the amount necessary to satisfy the decree.
2. Qucere, if the sum so found is insufficient to satisfy the decree, will A., in
order to secure an execution against B., be compelled to proceed under
sect. 286 of the Revised Statutes of the Territory for the revival of the
decree.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Montana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John F. Phillips,Mr. Thomas W. Bartley, and Mr. M. I.
Southard for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This record shows that, in 1871, Fort, the appellant, sued
the appellees in the District Court of Lewis and Clarke County,
Montana Territory, to foreclose a mortgage executed by them
to him, and obtained a decree finding that there was due on
the mortgage debt $2,895, and ordering a sale of the property.
Under this decree an order of sale was issued and the property
sold, part to Isaac W. Stoner, part to Frederick Reece, and
the remainder to Fort himself. After this sale the appellees
filed the present bill in the same court to set aside the sales
on account of alleged fraudulent conduct of Fort. Under this
bill the sales to Stoner and Reece were in all respects confirmed, but that to Fort set aside. Roush and wife then filed
an amended and supplemental bill, in which they sought to
charge Fort with the value of the use and occupation of the
property whereof he was in possession under his purchase, and

Oct. 1881.]

FORT v. RousH.

with alleged damages for waste. In this bill the claim is
stated as follows: " And the said plaintiffs say that by reason of the premises
the said Fort is chargeable with the damage done to said
premises, with the value of the foregoing use and occupation,
and the amount of said rents and profits, and that the same
should be set off against any balance that may be due upon
the said decree."
Fort in his answer set forth the amount he claimed to be
due on his decree after the amount paid by Stoner and Reece
had been credited thereon, and asked that, as the sale to him
had been set aside, he might have a revival of his decree for
the balance that should be found his due. On motion of
Roush and wife, this part of the answer was stricken out, and
leave was refused Fort to make such amendments as seemed to
be necessary to meet that part of his case. The case was then
sent to a referee to ascertain and report the amount for which
Fort was chargeable on account of his use and occupation,
and for damages by waste while in possession. His request to
have the referee directed to ascertain the amount due him on
his decree was refused. The referee reported, and exceptions
were taken by Fort. These exceptions were in part sustained
and in part overruled, the result being a personal judgment
against Fort and in favor of the appellees for $1,836,31, with
interest from June 30, 1877. The case was then taken to the
Supreme Court of the Territory on appeal, where the judgment
of the District Court was modified by striking therefrom the
sum of $618.51, but in all other respects affirmed. From this
action of the Supreme Court the present appeal has been taken.
The amount with which Fort was charged by the Supreme
Court was exclusively for the value of the use and occupation
of the property purchased by him while he was in possession
under the sale, and a small amount for damages done to the
freehold. While the amount charged seems to us to be somewhat large, we have on the whole concluded not to disturb the
judgment on that account. Another reference might reduce
the amount somewhat, but the error in that particular is not
so manifest as to make it proper for us to interfere with what
has been done by two courts below.

FORT V. ROUSH.

[Sup. Ct.

The refusal of the court, however, to apply the amount
found due towards the satisfaction of the mortgage debt, we
think, was erroneous. The very object of the bill of Roush
and wife, as amended, was to have that done. If we understand correctly the position of the court below upon this part
of the case, it is that, as Fort had not proceeded under sect.
286 of the Codified Statutes of Montana, and caused his decree
to be revived after the sale to him had been set aside, the
satisfaction growing out of the sale still remained in force, and
there was no outstanding mortgage debt on which the application could be made. This we do not think is the law. The
statute referred to is as follows : " SECT. 286. If the purchaser of real property, sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or
of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the
price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor. If the pur-

chaser of property at sheriff's sale, or his successor in interest, fail

to recover possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale or because the property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof
shall, on petition of such party in interest or his attorney, revive
the original judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at
the sale, with interest thereon from the time of payment, at the
same rate that the original judgment bore; and when so revived,
the said judgment shall have the same effect as an original judgment of the said court of that date, and bearing interest as aforesaid ; and any other or after-acquired property, rents, issues, or
profits of the said debtor shall be liable to levy and sale under
execution in satisfaction of such debt: Provided, that no property
of such debtor sold bonafide before the filing of such petition shall
be subject to lien of said judgment: And provided further, that
notice of the filing of such petition shall be made by filing a notice
thereof in the recorder's office of the county where such property
may be situated, and that said judgment shall be revived in the
name of the original plaintiff or plaintiffs for the use of said petitioner, the party in interest."
The question here is not whether Fort shall have execution
of his decree by a resale of the property bought by him, but

Oct. 1881.]

'FORT v. RousH.

whether the mortgage debt, as a debt, still remains satisfied
by reason of the former sale. When the sale was set aside and
Roush and wife got back their land, the satisfaction of the
debt caused by the sale was vacated. Fort received no money
on account of his purchase. He simply took the land as and
for money. So long as be kept the land the satisfaction was
effectual, but when the sale was set aside and he was compelled to give back the land, the case stood, in respect to the
satisfaction of the debt, precisely as it would if Roush had
demanded back money he bad once banded Fort to be applied
on the debt, and Fort had acceded to his request. We do not
decide whether, if Fort asks execution of his decree for any
balance that may remain his due, he may not be compelled to
proceed under the statute, and get his decree revived, but we
are clearly of the opinion that, for all the purposes of this suit,
the satisfaction of the mortgage debt, brought about by the
sale to Fort, was vacated when the sale was set aside, and
that Roush and wife cannot in this suit have a personal judgment against Fort, except for any balance that may be found
due them for rents, &c., after the mortgage debt has been
satisfied.
We are unable to determine from this record what amount
is actually due on the original decree. The personal judgment
against Fort will, therefore, be set aside and reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to take an account of the
amount due Fort on his original decree, and apply the amount
which has been ascertained to be due from him for rents,
profits, and damages towards the satisfaction thereof, rendering
a personal judgment against him only for any balance of the
ascertained rents that may remain after the mortgage debt
and costs in the original suit for foreclosure have been actually
satisfied.
So ordered.
VOL. XIV.

