Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD CO. v. KOONTZ.

by a general law, might require their restoration. After that
act the power of abandonment by the company was restricted,
but the State retained all its old authority. The commissioners were given no power to contract for the State or the
public. All they could do was to say yes or no to a simple
request by the company for leave to abandon an old station.
If they said yes, the abandonment might be made; if no, the
station must be continued. In this case the commissioners said,
"Yes, when the new accommodations are furnished." The
new accommodations were furnished, and the station was
abandoned accordingly. Such, in the case last cited, was the
view which the court of errors took of what had been done,
and we think it is correct. The commissioners entered into
no agreement with the company. They simply said, complete
your proposed accommodations at the new station, and we, for
the State, will assent to your abandonment of the old one. It
follows that the new law impaired no contract obligation of
the State, and the judgment of the court of errors is consequently
Affirmed.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. KOONTZ.
RAILROAD

COMPANY V. FUNIKHOUSER.

1. A., a corporation of Maryland, having assumed the right to take, and B., a
corporation of Virginia, the right to grant, a lease of the railroad and franchises of the latter in Virginia, A., with the implied assent of both States,
took possession, and is in the actual use of the road and franchises. Held,
that A. did not thereby forfeit or surrender its right to remove into the
Circuit Court a suit instituted against it in a court of Virginia by a citizen
of that State.
2. When the petitioner presents to the State court a sufficient case for removal
it is the duty of that court to proceed no further in the suit. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court then attaches, and is not lost by his failure to enter
the record and docket the cause on the first day of the next term. Upon
good cause being shown, the entry at a subsequent day may be permitted.
3. Good cause for such entry is presented where the petition for removal having
been overruled by the State court, and the petitioner there forced to trial
upon the merits, he, in the regular course of procedure, obtains a reversal
of the judgment and an order for the allowance of the removal.
4. Where the removal is denied, the petitioner loses no right by contesting in the
State court the suit on its merits.

RAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
These cases are substantially alike, and present the following
facts The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company was incorporated
by the State of Maryland on the 28th of February, 1827, to
build and operate a railroad from Baltimore, in Maryland, to
some suitable point on the Ohio River. By the terms of the
charter the annual elections of directors were to be held in
Baltimore. On the 2d of March following, the State of Virginia granted the company the same rights and privileges in
Virginia that had been granted to it in Maryland, except that
no lateral road could be built in Virginia without the consent
of the legislature, and the road was not to strike the Ohio at
a point lower than the mouth of the Little Kanawha. Under
this authority from the two States a road was built from Baltimore to Wheeling, in Virginia. When the State of West
Virginia was formed, it took from Virginia all the territory
occupied by the road in that State, and from that time no
part of the original line has been within the present State of
Virginia.
On the 20th of August, 1873, under a lease from the Washington City, Virginia Midland, and Great Southern Railroad
Company, a Virginia corporation, of all its railroad lying
between Strasburg and Harrisonburg, in Virginia, the Baltimore and Ohio company took the exclusive possession of and
operated the leased property, using for that purpose the powers
and franchises of the Virginia corporation. While so operating the leased road an accident happened to one of the passenger trains, which resulted in the death of several persons,
whose administrators, the defendants in error, each of whom
was a citizen of Virginia, thereupon brought in a State court
of that State, under her statute, these suits to recover of the
company damages for such death.
On the 2d of September, 1876, which is conceded to have
been in time, the company filed its petitions in the State court
for the removal of the cases to the proper Circuit Court of the
United States, on the ground that the company was a citizen
of Maryland and the several plaintiffs citizens of Virginia.

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

The plaintiffs answered the petition in each case, denying that
the company was a citizen of Maryland, and claiming that for
all the purposes of these suits it was a citizen of Virginia.
After hearing, the court refused to recognize the removal,
because, as was held, by leasing and operating the road of the
Virginia corporation under the Virginia charter, the company
became, for all the purposes of that business, a citizen of
Virginia. To this ruling exceptions were taken in due form
and made part of the several records.
It nowhere appears that copies of the records of the State
court were ever entered in the Circuit Court; but on the 19th
of December, 1876, the company asked and obtained from the
State court leave to plead, and in due time thereafter pleas of
not guilty were put in. One case was tried in the State court
on the 6th of April, 1877, another on the 10th of April, 1878,
and the other on the 9th of December afterwards. Judgment
was given in each case for the plaintiff. The company was
represented at the trials, and exceptions of various kinds were
taken. The causes were all carried to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State, where the judgments were affirmed.
The record in each case shows distinctly that errors were assigned on the ruling upon the petition for removal, and that
the decision was adverse to the company. The cases are now
here on writs of error.
Mr. Hugh W. Sheffey and Mr. E. J. D. Cross for the plaintiffs in error.
For the purpose of suing and being sued, a corporation is
a citizen of the State which created it, and it has no legal
existence beyond her bounds. The presumption of law is
that its members are all citizens of that State, and a suit by
or against it is conclusively presumed to be by or against such
citizens. No averment or evidence to the contrary is, therefore, admissible in order to defeat the jurisdiction of a court
of the United States. It follows that a suit by or against the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company must, so far as the
question of jurisdiction is involved, be considered as a suit by
or against citizens of the State of Maryland. The Louisville,
Cincinnati, a Charleston Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497;
Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 16 id. 314; Ohio

RAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

& Mississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286; Railroad
Company v. Harris, 12 Wall. 65; Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 id. 270. That company, by leasing and operating the
road of a company incorporated by Virginia, did not become
a citizen of that State. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v.
Cary, 28 Ohio St. 208. Its right of removing a suit brought
against it cannot be defeated by State enactments nor waived
by implication, nor was it in this instance forfeited by the
imputed laches of the company in regard to the filing in
the Circuit Court of copies of the record. The laches of
which the defendants in error complain are the result of their
efforts to defeat the acceptance by the State court of the
petitions for removal. Their position is, therefore, inconsistent
with their own acts.
A party entitled to removal who, notwithstanding his protests and exceptions, is held for the trial of his case in the
State court loses none of his rights by his defence upon the
merits. Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet. 97; Kanouse v. Martin,
15 How. 198; Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214;
Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457; Railroad Company v. Mississippi, 102 id. 135 ; Kern v. Huidelooper, 103 id. 485.
Mr. John Randolph Tucker and Mr. Moses Walton, contra.
The prayer for the removal of these actions was properly
denied. The plaintiff in error, by leasing and operating the
road and exercising the fianchises of a Virginia corporation,
became a corporation of that State so far as the duties and
responsibilities of the lessor and its liability to suit are concerned. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Gallahue's Adm'rs,
12 Gratt. (Va.) 655.
The doctrine of license and comity places a foreign corporation enjoying the license in a particular State upon substantially the same ground as if it were actually and originally
created by such State, and determines its citizenship in respect
to its right of removal of a suit pending against it. Lafayette
Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Bank of Augusta v.
-Earle,13 Pet. 519; State v. Northern Central Railway Co., 18
Md. 193; Sprague v. Hartford, &c. Railroad Co., 5 R. I. 233;
Pomeroy v. New York & New Haven Railroad Co., 4 Blatcbf.
120; Continental Insurance Co. v. Kasey, 27 Gratt. (Va.) 216.

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

The right to remove these cases, if it ever existed, was lost
by the failure of the company to file in the Circuit Court, on
the " first day of its then next session," a copy of the records.
Cobb v. Globe Mutual Insurance Co., 3 Hughes, 452; Removal
Cases, 100 U. S. 457; Kern v. Iuidelcoper, 103 id. 485;
Dillon, Removal of Causes, pp. 102-105.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITPE, after stating the facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions presented for our consideration are: 1. Whether
a case for removal was made by the company ; and, 2, if it 'was,
whether, as it does not appear affirmatively that copies of the
records have been entered in the Circuit Court, the company
has lost its right to have the judgments reversed for the original errors in that behalf.
The Court of Appeals in Virginia held, as early as 1855, in
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Gallahue's Adm'rs (12 Gratt.
(Va.) 655), that the Baltimore and Ohio company could be
sued in Virginia, and in the course of the opinion said that the
effect of the Enabling Act of Virginia was to make the company
a Virginia corporation as to its road within the territory of
Virginia. Afterwards, in 1870, this court decided, in Railroad
Company v. Harris (12 Wall. 65), that the company could be
sued in the District of Columbia, into which a lateral road had
been built wilh the consent of Congress, given through an
enabling act much like that of Virginia. In that case we held
the company to be a Maryland corporation only, and that no
new corporation had been created by the Enabling Act either
of Virginia or the District of Columbia. The ruling in the Virginia case was followed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia in Goshorn v. Supervisors (1 W. Va. 308) and
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Supervisors (3 id. 319), both
of which cases were decided before Railroad Company v.
Harris,in this court. That question is, however, unimportant
here, as it is conceded that the part of the road originally in
Virginia is now in West Virginia, and that the company no
longer uses in Virginia any of the franchises conferred by the
Enabling Act of that State. Neither the Court of Appeals nor
counsel here make any claim on account of that legislation.

RAILROAD Co. v. KOONTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Even conceding that the company was once a Virginia corporation, so far as its original road in that State was concerned,
the most that can be said of it now is, that, in common with all
citizens of the old State residing on the ceded territory, its
citizenship was transferred by the organization of West Virginia from the old State to the new. Consequently, if it was
once a corporation of Maryland and Virginia, it is now a corporation of Maryland and West Virginia. Any citizenship it
may have had in Virginia has been lost.
It is not contended that this Enabling Act gave the company
a right to lease another Virginia road and operate it as a lateral
road, nor that in running the leased road the company uses
any of the franchises conferred by the original grant. The present claim is that, by Using the franchises of another Virginia
corporation to run its leased road, it made itself a corporation
of Virginia for all the purposes of that business, just as the
lessor was and is.
It is well settled that a corporation of one State doing business in another is suable where its business is done, if the laws
make provision to that effect. We have so held many times.
Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Railroad
Company v. Harris, supra; -Ex parte Sehollenberger, 96 U. S.
369. This company concedes that it was properly sued in Virginia. What it asks is, that, being sued there, it may avail itself
of the privilege it has under an act of Congress, as a corporation
of Maryland, and remove into the proper court of the United
States exercising jurisdiction within Virginia a suit which has
been instituted against it by a citizen of the latter State.
The litigation is not to be taken out of Virginia, but only from
one court to another within that State. So that the single
question presented is, whether, by taking a lease of the road
of a Virginia corporation, the Maryland corporation made
itself also a corporation of Virginia, for all purposes connected
with the use of the leased property.
It is not denied that the Maryland company derived all its
power, so far as the operation of the Virginia road was concerned, from the Virginia corporation; nor that, in respect of
the business of that road, it nmust do just what Was required of
the Virginia corporation by the laws of Virginia; but that

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD Co. v. KOONTZ.

does not, in our opinion, make it a corporation of Virginia. It
may be sued in Virginia, because with the implied assent of
that State it does business there ; but, as we said substantially
in Schollenberger's case, the question of suability and jurisdiction is not so much one of citizenship as of finding. If a citizen of one State is found, for the purposes of the lawful service
of judicial process, in another, he may ordinarily be sued there.
A citizen of Maine may be sued in California, if he happens to
be there in person, and the proper officer serves him personally
with the lawful process of a California court. He is still a
citizen of Maine, although, in the exercise of one of the privileges of a citizen of the United States, lie has been found in
California. An individual may, without asking permission of
State authorities, do business where he pleases, and, if a citizen of one State, he is entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States. Const., art. 4, sect. 2.
Not so with corporations. Their rights outside the State,
under the authority of which they were created, depend primarily on their charters. If the charter allows it, they may
exercise their chartered privileges and carry on their chartered
business in any other State which, by express grant or by implication, permits them to do so. They have no absolute right of
recognition in any other State than their own. Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 168. And the State which recognizes them can impose
such conditions on its recognition as it chooses, not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the United States. If they
are recognized and permitted to do business without limitation,
express or implied, they carry with them wherever they go all
their chartered rights, and may claim all their chartered privileges which can be used away from their legal home. Their
charters are the law of their existence, and are taken wherever
they go. By doing business away from their legal residence
they do not change their citizenship, but simply extend the
field of their operations. They reside at home, but do business
abroad.
In this case, a Maryland corporation leased the railroad and
the franchises of a Virginia corporation. Neither State legislature acted specially on the subject, so far as the record discloses. The Maryland corporation assumed the right tp take,

RAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

[sup. Ct.

and the Virginia corporation to grant, the lease which lies at
the foundation of the rights of the parties. Under this lease
possession was given and taken without objection from the
authorities of either State, and the Maryland corporation actually uses the franchises of that of Virginia. The question,
therefore, presented to us is not one of ultra vires. No complaint is made that Maryland has never given its corporation
the right to go to Virginia and take a lease, nor that Virginia
has never authorized its corporation to grant such a lease.
For all the purposes of these cases, we must assume that the
Maryland corporation is rightfully using the leased road, and
with the consent of both States.
We can hardly believe if an individual, a citizen of a State
other than Virginia, went into that State and leased the property of a Virginia corporation, to use as the corporation did, it
would be claimed that he made himself thereby a citizen of
Virginia, within the meaning of the Constitution and laws of
the United States. Citizenship in this connection has a special
signification. All persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens
of the United States, and of the State wherein they reside.
Amend. 14, sect. 1. A corporation may for the purposes of
suit be said to be born where by law it is created and organized, and to reside where, by or under the authority of its
charter, its principal office is. A corporation, therefore,
created by and organized under the laws of a particular State,
and having its principal office there, is, under the Constitution
and laws, for the purpose of suing and being sued, a citizen of
that State, possessing all the rights and having all the powers
its charter confers. It cannot migrate nor change its residence
without the consent, express or implied, of its State ; but it
may transact business wherever its charter allows, unless prohibited by local laws. Such has been for a long time the settled doctrine of this court. " It must dwell in the place of its
creation, and cannot migrate to another sovereignty;" "but
its residence in one State creates no insuperable objection to
Banle of Augusta v. Earle, 13
its contracting in another."
Pet. 519, 520. With a long line of authorities in this court to
the same effect before us, we cannot hesitate to say, with all

Oct. 1881.1

ORAILROAD Co. v.

KOONTZ.

due respect for the Court of Appeals of Virginia, that the
Maryland corporation, by taking from the Virginia corporation, with the unconditional assent of Virginia, a lease of a
railroad which could only be operated by the use in Virginia
of the corporate franchises of the lessor, did not make itself a
corporation of Virginia, or part with any of the rights it had
under the Constitution and laws of the United States as a corporation of Maryland. The State of Virginia has not granted
to it any special powers or privileges, beyond allowing it to
transact its corporate business in Virginia. Its powers within
the State come from its Maryland charter and the Virginia
corporation.
That corporation had certain franchises and
privileges which it held by grant from its State. These franchises and privileges were a species of property which, we
must presume for all the purposes of this case, it had the right
to allow the corporation of another State to use. The Virginia
authorities have impliedly assented to all that has been done.
This assent having been given and the contract entered into
between the companies, all Virginia can now require is that
the Maryland company, in carrying on its business under the
contract and using the franchises of the Virginia company,
shall be subject to all obligations which the charter imposes
on that corporation. The Maryland corporation simply occupies the position of a company carrying on an authorized business away from its home, with the consent of its own State
and of that of the State in which its business is done. For
these reasons we must hold that the Court of Appeals erred in
deciding that the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court was
properly refused, because the company, by taking the lease
and using the road in Virginia, became, for all the purposes of
that lease, a corporatlon of Virginia.
The only remaining question is whether the company can
now claim a reversal of the judgments below on account of
this error, since it does not appear that copies of the records
in the State court have been entered in the Circuit Court.
The State court of original jurisdiction directly decided, in
accordance with the claims of the several defendants in error,
that upon the showing made the company was not entitled to
a removal, but must remain and defend the suits in that court.

IAILROAD

Co. v.

KOONTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

It was conceded on the argument that if the judgment had
been rendered before the first day of the next term of the
Circuit Court of the United States, there could be a reversal
if the case was in fact removable. The position of the defendants in error seems to be, that as the company appeared
and went on with the causes in the State court after the next
term in the 'Circuit Court, without showing that the copies
of the records had been entered in that court, it in effect
waived its right to a removal and submitted itself again voluntarily to the jurisdiction of the State court.
We have uniformly held that if a State court wrongfully
refuses to give up its jurisdiction on a petition for removal,
and forces a party to trial, le loses none of his rights by
remaining and contesting the case on its merits. Insurance
Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214; Removal Cases, 100 U. S.
457; Railroad Company v. Mississippi, 102 id. 135. It is
also a well-settled rule of decision in this court, that, when
a sufficient case for removal is made in the State court, the
rightful jurisdiction of that court comes to an end, and no
further proceedings can properly be had there, unless in some
form its jurisdiction is restored. Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet.
97; Kanouse v. Martin, 15 How. 198; Insurance Company v.
Dunn, supra ; Railroad Company v. Mississippi, supra. The
entering of the copy of the record in the Circuit Court is
necessary to enable that court to proceed, but its jurisdiction
attaches when, under the law, it becomes the duty of the
State court to " proceed no further." The provision of the
act of 1875 is in this respect substantially the same as that of
the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and requires
the State court, when the petition and a sufficient bond are
presented, to proceed no further with the suit ; and the Circuit Court, when the record is entered there, to deal with the
cause as if it had been originally commenced in that court.
The jurisdiction is changed when the removal is demanded in
proper form and a case for removal made. Proceedings in the
Circuit Court may begin when the copy is entered. Such
is clearly the effect of the cases of Gordon v. Longest and
Kanouse v. Martin, where it does not appear that the record'
was ever entered in the Circuit Court. In Insurance Corn-

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. KOONTZ.

pany v. -Dunn and Railroad Company v. Mississippi, the
records were entered, but no point was made of this in the
opinions. We are aware that in Removal Cases (supra) and
Kern v. Huidekoper (103 U. S. 485) it is said, in substance,
that after the petition for removal and the entering of the
record the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is complete; but
this evidently refers to the right of the Circuit Court to proceed with the cause. The entering of the record is necessary
for that, but not for the transfer of jurisdiction. The State
court must stop when the petition and security are presented,
and the Circuit Court go on -when the record is entered there,
which is in effect docketing the cause. The question then
is, whether, if the State court refuses to let go its jurisdiction and forces the petitioning party to trial, he must, in
order to prevent his appearance from operating as a waiver,
show to the State court that he is not in default in respect
to entering the record and docketing the cause in the Circuit Court on the first day of the next term following the
removal.
As has just been seen, when the State court has once lost
its jurisdiction it is prohibited from proceeding until in some
way jurisdiction has been restored. The right to remove is
derived from a law of the United States, and whether a case
is made for removal is a Federal question. If, after a case
has been made, the State court forces the petitioning party to
trial and judgment, and the highest court of the State sustains
the judgment, he is entitled to his writ of error to this court
if he saves the question on the record. If a reversal is had
here on account of that error, the case is sent back to the
State court, with instructions to recognize the removal, and
proceed no further. Such was, in effect, the order in Gordon v.
Longest, supra. The petitioning party has the right to remain
in the State court under protest, and rely on this form of
remedy if he chooses, or he may enter the record in the Circuit Court and require the adverse party to litigate with him
there, even while the State court is going on. This was
actually done in Removal Cases. When the suit is docketed
in the Circuit Court, the adverse party may move to remand.
If his motion is decided against him, he may save his point on

RAILROAD

Co. v. KOONTZ.

[Sup, Ct.

the record, and after final judgment bring the case here for
review, if the amount involved is sufficient for our jurisdiction.
If, in such a case, we think his motion should have been granted,
we reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, and direct that
the suit be sent back to the State court to be proceeded with
/ there as if no removal had been had. If the motion to remand
is decided by the Circuit Court against the petitioning party,
he can at once bring the case here by writ of error or appeal
for a review of that decision, without regard to the amorint in
controversy. Babbitt v. Clark, 103 U. S. 606. If, in such a
case, we reverse the order of the Circuit Court to remand,
our instructions to that court are, as in Relfe v. Rundle (id.
222), to proceed according to law, as with a pending suit
within its jurisdiction by removal. Should the petitioning
party neglect to enter the record and docket the cause in the
Circuit Court in time, we see no reason why his adversary
may not go into the Circuit Court and have the cause remanded on that account. This being done, and no writ of
error or appeal to this court taken, the jurisdiction of the
State court is restored, and it may rightfully proceed as though
no removal had ever been attempted.
It is contended, however, that if the petitioner fails to enter
the record and docket the cause in the Circuit Court on the
first day of the next term, the jurisdiction of that court is lost,
and there can be no entry on a subsequent day. Such we do
not understand to be the law. The petitioner must give security that he will enter the record on that day, but there is
nothing in the act of Congress which prohibits the court from
allowing it to be entered on a subsequent day, if good cause
is shown. In Removal Cases (supra) we used this language:
" While the act of Congress requires security that the transcript shall be filed on the first day of the next term, it nowhere appears that the Circuit Court is to be deprived of
its jurisdiction if, by accident, the party is delayed until a
later day in the term. If the Circuit Court, for good cause
shown, accepts the transfer after the day and during the term,
its jurisdiction will, as a general rule, be complete and the
removal properly effected." This was as far as it was necessary to go in that case, and in entering, as we did then, on the

Oct. 1881.]

ORAILROAD Co. v.

KOONTZ.

construction of the act of 1875, it was deemed advisable to
confine our decision to the facts we had then before us. Now
the question arises whether, if the petitioning party is kept by
his adversary, and against his will, in the State court, and
forced to a trial there on the merits, he may, after having
obtained in the regular course of procedure a reversal of the
judgment and an order for the allowance of the removal, enter
the cause in the Circuit Court, notwithstanding the term of
that court has gone by during which, under other circumstances, the record should have been entered. We have no
hesitation in saying that in our opinion he can. As has been
already seen, the jurisdiction was changed from one court to
the other when the case for removal was actually made in the
State court. The entering of the record in the Circuit Court
after that was mere procedure, and in its nature not unlike
the pleadings which follow service of process, the filing of
which is ordinarily reghlated by statute or rules of practice.
The failure to file pleadings in time does not deprive the court
of the jurisdiction it got though the service of process, but
inexcusable delay may be good ground for dismissing the
cause for want of prosecution. So here, if the petitioning
party, without sufficient cause, fails to enter the record and
docket the cause, the suit may be properly remanded for want
of due prosecution under the removal ; but if sufficient cause is
shown for the delay, there is nothing in the statute to prevent
the court from taking the case after the first day of the term
and exercising its jurisdiction. Clearly it is within the judicial discretion of every court, on good cause shown, to set
aside a default in filing pleadings on a statutory rule-day, and
allow the omission to be supplied. This case seems to be
analogous to that. Undoubtedly promptness should be insisted
on by the courts of the United States, and no excuse should
be accepted for delay in entering a record after removal, unless
it amounts to a clear justification or a waiver by the opposite
party. It seems to us manifest that if the petitioning party
is forced by his adversary to remain in the State court until
he can, in a proper way, secure a reversal of the order which
keeps him there, the requirement of the law for entering the
record in the Circuit Court at any time before the reversal
VOL. xIv.
2

SHANKS V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

actually takes place must be deemed to have been waived, and
that for all the purposes of procedure in that court the time
when the State court lets go its jurisdiction may be taken as
the time according to which the docketing of the cause is to
take place. Certainly the petitioning party ought not to be
required to carry on his litigation in two courts at the same
time. He may do so if he chooses; but if he elects to go on
in the State court after his petition for removal is disregarded,
and take his chances of obtaining a reversal of any judgment
that may be obtained against him because he was wrongfully
kept there, he ought not to be deprived of a trial in the proper
jurisdiction because of the unwarranted act of his adversary,
or of the State court.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals in each of these
cases will be reversed, and the causes remanded to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia with directions to reverse
the judgments of the Circuit Court of the county, and transmit
the cases to' that court with instructions to vacate all orders
and judgments made or entered subsequently to the filing of the
several petitions for removal and approval of the bonds, and
proceed no further therein unless its jurisdiction be restored
by the action of the Circuit Court of the United States or
this court.
So ordered.

SHANKS

v.

KLEIN.

1. Real estate purchased with partnership funds for partnership uses, though
the title be taken in the name of one partner, is in equity treated as
personal property, so far as is necessary to pay the debts of the partnership and adjust the equities of the partners.
2. For this purpose, in case of the death of such partner, the survivor can sell
the real estate; and, though he cannot transfer the legal title which passed
to the heirs or the devisees of the deceased, the sale vests the equitable

ownership, and the purchaser can, in a court of equity, compel them to
convey that title.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

