BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

which, if it had been sued on alone, would be removable.
But that, we think, does not meet the requirements of this
case. This suit presents but a single cause of action, that is
to say, a single controversy. The issues made by the pleadings do not create separate controversies, but only show the
questions which are in dispute between the parties as to their
one controversy.
The suit is, therefore, governed by the principles applied in
Removal Cases and Blake v. MeKim, rather than those in Barney v. Latham, and was properly remanded.
The second clause of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes was,
as we think, repealed by the act of 1875, and as the second
petition for removal was not filed in time under the act of
1875, it was of no avail. The whole case depends on the
first petition.
The order to remand is
Affirmed.

BRO:NSO

v. SCHULTEN.

1. During the term when it is rendered or entered of record, a judgment or an
order, however conclusive in its character, is under the control of the court
pronouncing it, and may then be set aside, vacated, or modified.
2. After that term, unless steps be taken during its continuance, by motion or
otherwise, errors in a final judgment can only be corrected by an appellate
court.
3. To this rule there is an exception. The writ of error coram vobis brought
before the court of original jurisdiction certain mistakes of fact not put in
issue or passed upon, such as that a party died before judgment, or was a
married woman, or was an infant and no guardian appeared or was appointed, or that there was error in the process through the default of the
clerk. It did not lie, however, to correct errors in the judgment itself.
The relief thereby sought is, in modern practice, attained by motion, supported, when necessary, by affidavits.
4. Neither the practice of the State courts in exercising a control over their own
judgments and administering equitable relief in a summary way, nor the
statutes of the States, can determine the action of the courts of the United
States on this subject.
5. In this case the carelessness and laches of the plaintiffs preclude, under any
rule, the setting aside of the judgment after the term at which it was
rendered.

Oct. 1881.]

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. Samuel Shellabarger, Mr. Jeremiah
Almon W. Griswold, contra.

. Wilson, and Mr.

M R. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the twenty-sixth day of January, 1877, the following
order was made of record in the court below:
"J. W.

SClIULTEN ET AL.
V.

GRENE

4

-

C. BRoNsoN and 22 other Causes.

"A motion having come on to be heard before this court in the
above-entitled causes to open the judgments therein:
"Now, on reading and filing notice of motion dated Dec. 27,
1876, and affidavits annexed of Almon W. Griswold and A. Heydenreich, on the part of the plaintiffs, and Almon W. Griswold
having been heard for the motion on the part of' the plaintiffs, and
George Bliss, Esq., U. S. District Attorney, in opposition thereto,
and due deliberation had, it is ordered that the judgments entered
in the above-entitled causes upon the verdicts therein be vacated,
and that the assessment of the plaintiffs' damages under the verdicts
in said causes be referred to John I. Davenport, Esq., as sole referee.
"And it is further ordered that the referee proceed to adjust de
novo the plaintiffs' damages under said verdicts in accordance
therewith, and from the amounts found due, if any, he deduct the
sums paid upon the judgment heretofore entered in each of said
cases, respectively, and that he report the balance, if any, found
due tile plaintiffs in each of said cases.
" The said referee shall give notice to the attorneys of the respective parties of the time and place of hearing therein, and either
party may, on the hearing, raise objections, and said referee shall
decide thereon, and either party may file exceptions to such
decision of the referee within two days after the filing of the
referee's report, and bring them to a hearing before the court upon
ibur days' notice.
"Dated Jan. 26, 1877."
March 8, 1877, another order was made that the action be

continued in the name of Lucretia Bronson, executrix of the

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

will of Greene C. Bronson, who had died in 1863. March 10,
the referee's report was filed, in which it was found that there
was due plaintiffs, in addition to what had been paid under
the judgment set aside, the sum of $1,205.90, and on this sum
interest was allowed to the amount of $2,017.21. For these
sums, with added costs, a judgment was rendered in their favor.
To reverse this judgment the present writ of error is brought.
Enough of the record of the original suit, the judgment in
which is thus set aside, is produced before us to show that the
action was against Bronson, as collector of customs for the
port of New York, and the claim was for duties in excess of
what was authorized by law on a large number of separate
importations; that a verdict was given on the trial for plaintiffs for "the amount, with interest, of the difference between
duties levied and paid under protest, on commissions at two
and one-half per cent, and such duties if levied on commissions
at two per cent," on the class of importations in question. The
commissions alluded to were those paid by the importers before
shipment to this country. As the amount to be recovered
under this verdict was matter of computation and inspection
of the custom-house papers, it was referred to Samuel Ogden
to make report.
Neither the judgment of the court which was set aside, nor
the report of Ogden, on which that judgment must have been
entered, nor the plaintiffs' bill of particulars, on which the
action was based, is found in the transcript of the record on
which we are to consider this case. Nor is there any bill of
exceptions, as there should have been, embodying the evidence
on which the court acted in setting aside the former judgment.
Nor is the date of that judgment to be ascertained from anything in this record, unless we can look at certain affidavits
found in the transcript ; for neither the notice of the motion
to set it aside nor the order granting that motion mention the
date of that judgment. It would seem that a party seeking to
open or set aside a judgment seventeen years after it had been
entered and the amount of it paid, in order that another judgment for a larger amount might be rendered in the same suit,
was not very anxious to call attention to dates.
This imperfect state of the record has made us hesitate to

Oct. 1881.]

BRONSON v. SCHULTEN.

enter upon a review of the case, but as the order setting aside
the original judgment refers to the notice of motion and the
annexed affidavits as the foundation of that order, and identifies those papers as they are found in the transcript, we are
of opinion that they may be considered as part of the record,
so far as the question of the authority of the court to make
that order is involved.
Looking to these affidavits, in connection with what is
more strictly a part of the record, it appears that the original
suit was commenced in one of the State courts, Sept. 2, 1858,

and afterwards removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States, where plaintiffs filed a declaration containing the
common counts. It appears that they also served a bill of particulars, setting out seventy-four entries of goods at the customhouse, on which they had been charged excessive duties by the
defendant Bronson, which they had paid under protest. The
affidavit of Murray, a refund clerk in the custom-house, states
that in thirty-four of these entries the sums which should have
been allowed plaintiffs were omitted in the adjustment. It was
on this statement that the judgment rendered on the report of
the first referee, Ogden, without objection or exception on
either side, on the fifth day of August, 1860, was set aside,
and a new reference made. This judgment, it appears, was
also paid and accepted by plaintiffs in a few days, we may suppose, after it was rendered. The affidavit of plaintiffs' attorney, who attended to the original action, and on whose motion
the original judgment was set aside, states that the adjustments
were made by Ogden, who was an auditor at the custom-house,
and by the collector of customs, and by the clerk of the court;
that in 1864 lie discovered that certain errors had been committed in fourteen other cases of a similar character, in which
other persons were plaintiffs, to their prejudice, for which new
actions were commenced, and held barred by the Statute of
Limitations ; that as to other cases, including the one now before us, he did not discover that items embraced in the bill of
particulars had been omitted, until an investigation of certain
recent cases of like character against Collector Redfield ; that
in the readjustment of these latter cases his attention was
turned to the source of the errors in the one now in question.

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

The affidavits of Heinrich and Murray tend to show that all
was not included in the adjustment under the verdict that
ought to have been.
We have thus a case in which plaintiffs sue for excessive
charges on account of these commissions paid on seventy-four
entries of goods, specifically set out in their bill of particulars.
A verdict is rendered in their favor fixing the precise error
under which the exessive duty had been exacted, and leaving
to a referee to ascertain the amount due on each of these
entries. The referee reports as to all but thirty-four, nearly
half, of these entries, and as to them makes no report. A
judgment is rendered in conformity to the report, the money
paid and accepted, and seventeen years afterwards the judgment is opened to correct the omission of these thirty-four
entries.
We are of opinion that, if there was any mistake in the
report of the referee and in the judgment rendered thereon, it
was so clearly due to the negligence and inattention of plaintiffs or their attorney, that no case is made for relief in any of
the modes known to the law, of correcting an erroneous judgment after the term at which it was rendered.
Stress is laid upon the fact in argument that the referee was
one of the clerks in the custom-house, who bad access to all
the books and papers of the office. It is probable he was
selected by both parties because of his familiarity with those
accounts, but lie is not mentioned in the order of reference as
such clerk or officer. Any other person so appointed would
have been permitted to examine the necessary books and papers, and in this matter he must be held to be, as no doubt he
was, an impartial referee, representing neither the collector nor
the government which was to pay the sum found due.
The plaintiffs had the same right to appear before him,
examine his report and the evidence on which it was founded,
to take and urge to the court exceptions to it, as in case of any
other reference. Nothing of the kind was done, and though it
is here said that no report at all was made as to thirty-four
out of seventy-four entries set out in plaintiffs' bill of particulars, no exception was made to the report on that ground, nor
any inquiry made as to the reason for such omission. It is

Oct. 1881.]

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

415

obvious that if this had been done, the error which is now
complained of would have been corrected before the report of
the referee was confirmed and judgment rendered on it.
If, then, there was no question of lapse of time, or of the
power of the court over its own judgments after the term at
which they are rendered, and if this were a bill in chancery
to set aside this judgment on the ground of mistake, it is clear
that no relief could be granted, because of the negligence,
carelessness, and inattention and laches of the plaintiffs, or of
their attorney, in the matter.
Does the power of the court over its own judgment, exercised in a summary manner on motion, after the term at which
it was rendered, extend beyond this?
In this country all courts have terms and vacations. The
time of the commencement of every term, if there be half a
dozen a year, is fixed by statute, and the end of it by the final
adjournment of the court for that term. This is the case with
regard to all the courts of the United States, and if there be
exceptions in the State courts, they are unimportant. It is a
general rule of the law that all the judgments, decrees, or other
orders of the courts, however conclusive in their character, are
under the control of the court which pronounces them during
the term at which they are rendered or entered of record,
and they may then be set aside, vacated, modified, or annulled
by that court.
But it is a rule equally well established, that after the term
has ended all final judgments and decrees of the court pass
beyond its control, unless steps be taken during that term, by
motion or otherwise, to set aside, modify, or correct them; and
if errors exist, they can only be corrected by such proceeding
by a writ of error or appeal as may be allowed in a court
which, by law, can review the decision. So strongly has this
principle been upheld by this court, that while realizing that
there is no court which can review its decisions, it has invariably refused all applications for rehearing made after the adjournment of the court for the term at which the judgment
was rendered. And this is placed upon the ground that the
case has passed beyond the control of the court. Brooks v.
Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 107; Public Schools v. Walker,

416

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

9 Wall. 603; Brown v. Aspden, 14 How. 25; Cameron v. MeRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488;
United States v. The Brig Glamorgan, 2 Curt. C. C. 236; Bradford v. Patterson, 1 A. K. Marsh. (Ky.) 464; Ballard v. Davis,
3 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 656.
But to this general rule an exception has crept into practice
in a large number of the State courts in a class of cases not
well defined, and about which and about the limit of this
exception these courts are much at variance. An attempt to
reconcile them would be entirely futile. The exception, however, has its foundation in the English writ of error coram
vobis, a writ which was allowed to bring before the same court
in which the error was committed some matter of fact which
bad escaped attention, and which was material in the proceeding. These were limited generally to the facts that one of the
parties to the judgment had died before it was rendered, or was
an infant and no guardian had appeared or been appointed,
or was a feme covert and the like, or error in the process
through default of the clerk. See Archbold's Practice.
In Rolle's Abridgment, p. 749, it is said that if the error be
in the judgment itself, a writ of error does not lie in the same,
but in another and superior court.
In Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood (7 Pet. 144), this court said
that the same end sought by that writ is now in practice
generally attained by motion, sustained, if the court require it,
by affidavits ; and it was added, this latter mode had so far
superseded the former in the British practice, that Blackstone
did not even notice the writ as a remedy.
It is quite clear upon the examination of many cases of the
exercise of this writ of error eoran vobis found in the reported
cases in this country, and as defined in the case in this court
above mentioned, and in England, that it does not reach to
facts submitted to a jury, or found by a referee, or by the
court sitting to try the issues; and therefore it does not include the present case.
There has grown up, however, in the courts of law a tendency to apply to this control over their own judgments some
of the principles of the courts of equity in cases which go a
little further in administering summary relief than the old-

Oct. 1881.]

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

fashioned writ of error coram vobis did. This practice has
been founded in the courts of many of the States on statutes
which conferred a prescribed and limited control over the jndgment of a court after the expiration of the term at which it
was rendered. In other cases the summary remedy by motion
has been granted as founded in the inherent power of the
court over its own judgments, and to avoid the expense and
delay of a formal suit in chancery. It can easily be seen how
this practice is justified in courts of the States where a system
has been adopted which amalgamates the equitable and common-law jurisdiction in one form of action, as most of the rules
of procedure do.
It is a profitless task to follow the research of counsel for
the defendants in error through the numerous decisions of the
State courts cited by them on this point in support of the
action of the Circuit Court. The cases from the New York
courts, which go farthest in that direction, are largely founded
on the statute of that State, and we are of opinion that on this
point neither the statute of that State nor the decisions of its
courts are binding on the courts of the United States held
there.
The question relates to the power of the courts and not to
the mode of procedure. It is whether there exists in the court
the authority to set aside, vacate, and modify its final judgments after the term at which they were rendered; and this
authority can neither be conferred upon nor withheld from the
courts of the United States by the statutes of a State or the
practice of its courts.
We are also of opinion that the general current of authority
in the courts of this country fixes the line beyond which they
cannot go in setting aside their final judgments and decrees, on
motion made after the term at which they were rendered, far
within the case made out here. If it is an equitable power supposed to be here exercised, we have shown that a court of
equity, on the most formal proceeding, taken in due time, could
not, according to its established principles, have granted the
relief which was given in this case.
It is also one of the principles of equity most frequently
relied upon that the party seeking relief in a case like this
VOL. XIV.

27

418

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

must use due diligence in asserting his rights, and that negligence and laches in that regard are equally effectual bars to
relief.
As we have already seen, nothing hindered the plaintiffs
from discovering the mistake of which they complain for
seventeen years but the most careless inattention to the proceeding in which they had claimed these rights and had them
adjudicated.
There was here an acquiescence for that length of time in
the correctness of a judgment which had been paid to them,
when the error, if any existed, only needed a comparison of
their own bill of particulars with the report of the referee, to
be seen, or at least to be suggested. Having been negligent
originally, and having slept on their rights for many years,
they show no right, under any sound practice of the control of
courts over their own judgments, to have that in this case

set aside.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
reversed, with directions that the order vacating the former
judgment be set aside, and the motion of plaintiffs in that
matter be overruled.
So ordered.
NOTE. - Bronson v. Loeschlqk, Bronson v. Warburg, Bronson v. Grossman, Redfield
v. La Chaise, and Redfield v. Mitchell were brought by writ of error to the same
court and argued at the same time as was the preceding case.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, in giving the opinion of the court, stated that they
were governed by the principles announced in that case, and that in each a judgment would be entered reversing that of the Circuit Court, with directions to
set aside the order vacating the original judgment, and to overrule the motion
on which that order was made.

