KO0N V. INSURANCE CO.

KooN

[Sup. Ct.

V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

1. A stipulation that the jury, if the court be not in session when they agree
upon their verdict, may sign, seal, and deliver it to the officer in charge
and disperse, is equivalent to an agreement that the court may open the
sealed verdict in their absence, and, if necessary, reduce it to proper form.
2. It is also a waiver of the right to poll the jury if they be not in court.
3. The entry of the verdict in the proper form is allowed by sect. 954 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States and by the Practice Act of Illinois.

ERnoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action of debt brought by the Phoenix Mutual
Life Insurance Company against Henry II. Koon as principal,
and the other defendants as sureties, on a bond in the penal
sum of $10,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties as agent of the company. The defendants pleaded nil
debet.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that upon the retirement of the jury " it was agreed by the parties that the jury
might, when they had agreed upon their verdict, if the court
should not then be in session, sign and seal the same, and deliver
the same to the officer in charge and disperse."
The jury, having agreed upon their verdict when the court
was not in session, signed, sealed, and delivered it to the officer
in charge, who returned it into court, where it was ordered to
be opened and read. It was in the following words and figures, to wit: " We, the jury, find for the plaintiffs, and fix the
sum due on the bond at $7,500, and damages at one cent."
The envelope in which it was enclosed also contained another
paper, on which was the following writing: " The undersigned
jury signed the enclosed verdict as a compromise, being the
largest amount we can get; " signed by five of the jurors.
Thereupon the court directed the clerk to put the verdict
in the following form: " We, the jury, find the issue for the
plaintiff, and find the debt ten thousand dollars, and assess
the damages at seven thousand five hundred dollars; the said
debt to be discharged on payment of said damages."
To which action, in ordering the verdict to be opened and
read in the absence of the jury and in changing its form, the

Oct. 1881.]

KoON V. INSURANCE CO.

defendants excepted, anid moved the court to correct the entry
so as to make it conform to the verdict as returned. The
motion was overruled, and judgment rendered on the verdict
as recorded. The defendants sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Robert G. Ingersoll for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lewis H. Boutell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The stipulation " that the jury might, when they had agreed
on their verdict, if the court should not then be in session,
sign and seal the same, and deliver the same to the officer in,
charge and disperse," was equivalent to an agreement by both
parties, on the retirement of the jury, that the court might,
when the sealed verdict was handed in by the officer, open it
in the absence of the jury and reduce it to proper form, if
necessary. The stipulation was also a waiver of the right to
poll the jury if they should not be in court.
The issue to be tried was on a plea of nil debet. This admitted the execution of the bond, and required the jury only
to find the amount due. If anything was found to be due, the
law fixed the form of the verdict and judgment. The jury
found there was $7,500 due on the debt and one cent damages
for the detention. That finding, reduced to proper form, was
in favor of the plaintiff for the penalty of the bond, to be discharged on payment of $7,500. All the court did was to enter
the verdict in that form. In doing so it only gave legal effect
to what the jury unmistakably found. This was allowable,
both under sect. 954 of the Revised Statutes and the Practice
Act of Illinois.
Judgment affirmed.

