Oct. 1881.]

BANK v. TENNESSEE.

the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was right,
and must be
Affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE MATTHEWS did not sit in this case nor take
any part in its decision.

BANK v.

TENNESSEE.

A bank, by its charter, is required to "pay to the State an annual tax of one-half
of one per cent on each share of capital stock, which shall be in lieu of all
other taxes," and is authorized to "purchase and hold a lot of ground" for its
use "as a place of business," and hold such real property as may be conveyed to it to secure its debts. With a portion of its capital stock it purchased at lot with a building thereon, a portion of which it occupies as a
place of business. It took, to secure money loaned, a deed of trust upon
three city lots, which it subsequently purchased under this deed, and now
owns. IHeld, that the immunity from taxation extends only to so much of
the building, the use whereof is required by the actual wants of the bank in
carrying on its business. The remainder of its real estate is subject to taxation.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
lr.
William Y. C. Humes for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin J. Lea, Attorney-General of Tennessee,
contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The Bank of. Commerce, plaintiff in this case, is a corporation created in 1856 by the legislature of Tennessee to engage
in the business of discounting notes, buying and selling stock,
dealing in exchange and gold and silver bullion, and receiving
moneys on deposit. Its charter provides that it " may purchase
and hold a lot of ground for the use of the institution as a
place of business, and at pleasure sell and exchange the same,
and may hold such real or personal property and estate as may
be conveyed to it to secure debts due the institution, and may
sell and convey the same." The charter also declares that the

BANK v. TENNESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

institution 4'shall pay to the State an annual tax of one-half
of one per cent on each share of capital stock, which shall be
in lieu of all other taxes."
Previous to 1879 the bank purchased with a portion of its
capital stock a lot of ground in the city of Memphis, with the
improvements thereon, as a place of business, and has held the
same ever since. The improvements consist of a three-story
brick building, but the bank only uses the first floor for its
business, and leases out the cellar and the second and third
stories to other parties for a money rent.
On the 1st of January, 1880, the bank was, and ever since
has been, the owner of three other lots in the city of Memphis.
It had previously made loans to different parties, and taken as
security for their payment a deed of the lots executed to a
trustee. The loans not being paid, the lots were sold under
the deed and purchased by the bank. The purchase was
made solely to secure a part of the debt; and the bank now
holds the lots for sale, and will sell them when practicable to
restore to its legitimate business so much of its capital as is
invested in them.
In March, 1875, the legislature of the State passed an act
defining what property was exempt from taxation by the Constitution, what the legislature had the power to exempt and
did exempt, and what was taxable; and declaring that all
other property should be assessed and taxed. In the list of
property designated as exempt from taxation, that held by the
Bank of Commerce was not mentioned, and the act repealed
all inconsistent laws.
Under this act, the lot of ground in the city of Memphis,
purchased by the plaintiff, with the building upon it and used
as a place of business, was assessed and taxed in the years
1879, 1880, and 1881, for State and county purposes. The
three lots were also taxed in like manner for the years 1880
and 1881. The taxes were paid under protest, and the bank
commenced the present suit to recover back the money. It
appears to have been treated in the State court as a suit in
equity, and the Chancellor sustained a demurrer to the bill and
dismissed the suit. The Supreme Court of the State reversed
the decree in part, holding that the bank was not liable for the

Oct. 1881.]

BANK

v. TENNESSEE.

taxes on so much of the lot and building as was used for its
business, but was liable for the taxes on the remainder, and on
the three lots. From this latter decree the case is brought to
this court by the bank, claiming exemption of the entire property from taxation under its charter.
That statutes imposing restrictions upon the taxing power of
a State, except so far as they tend to secure uniformity and
equality of assessment, are to be strictly construed is a familiar
rule. Against the power nothing is to be taken by inference
and presumption. Where a doubt arises as to the existence of
the restriction, it is to be decided in favor of the State. The
restriction here, consisting in the declaration that a specific
tax on each share of the capital stock shall be in lieu of all
other taxes, is accompanied with authority to purchase certain
real property, " for the use of the institution as a place of
business." The bank had no express authority to invest its
capital in real property not required for that use. And it is to
be presumed that the exemption from other than the designated tax was in consideration that the capital would be employed for its legitimate purposes. It certainly would not be
pretended that the corporation, by turning its whole capital
into real property and engaging in real-estate bqsiness, could
then, by force of the charter, escape liability to taxation for it
Lnder the general laws. But if the exemption could not be
carried to that extent, it is difficult to fix any limit to the
amount of real property which it may hold thus exempt,
unless we take that prescribed by the charter. In our judgment, the limited exemption cannot be extended to property
used beyond the actual wants of the corporation in carrying
out the purposes of its creation. As well observed by the
Supreme Court of the State, the contract of exemption, beyond the extent prescribed, ceased when taxable property was
held for any other purpose.
It is true that the capital stock of a corporation may in a general sense be said to be all the property in which the capital is
invested, so that an exemption of the capital stock, without
other words of limitation, may operate to exempt all the propRailroad Companies v. Gaines,. 97
erty of the corporation.
U. S. 697. But where the purposes for which a corporation

496

BANK v. TENNESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

may hold property is specified in connection with the exemption, the limitation of taxation designated must be held to
apply only to property acquired for such purposes. This we
consider to be the general doctrine established by the numerous cases cited by counsel. The case of State v. Commissioners
of Mlansfield (22 N. J. L. 510), decided by the Supreme Court
of New Jersey, is a leading one. There it appeared that
the charter of the Camden and Amboy Railroad and Transportation Company, after reserving certain imposts, declared
that "no other tax or impost shall be levied or assessed upon
the said company." The charter conferred upon the company
the general power to purchase, receive, and hold real and
personal estate ; and it had acquired certain houses and lots in
the township of Mansfield, which it let to its workmen and
employ6s. These houses and lots having been assessed for taxes
by the authorities of the town, the corporation sued out a writ
of certiorari to revise their action, claiming that houses and
lots were exempt under the provisions of the charter stated.
The court, in deciding the case, said that the general power of
purchasing, receiving, and holding real and personal estate
could only be exercised to effect the purpose for which it was
conferred by.the government; that the power to construct a
railroad and establish transportation lines upon it necessarily
included the essential appendages required to complete and
maintain such a work and carry on such a business, such as
suitable depots, car-houses, water-tanks, houses for switch and
bridge tenders, and coal and wood yards for the fuel used in the
locomotives ; that these were within a fair construction of the
exempting clause, because they were necessary and indispensable to the operations of the company, and to the accomplishment of the objects of their charter, but that there must be a
limit somewhere to the incidental power of the company to
enlarge its operations and extend its property without taxation
under the exempting clause, and the court concluded that the
limitation must be fixed where the necessity ends and mere convenience begins; that the necessary appendages of a railroad
and transportation company were one thing, and that those
appendages which might be convenient means of increasing
the advantages and profits of the company were another thing;

Oct. 1881.]

BANK V. TENNESSEE.

that it might be advantageous for the company to purchase
land and erect houses for their employgs, and establish factories for making their own rails, engines, and cars, and even
to purchase coal-mines and supply itself with fuel, but these
are not among the necessary appendages of the company ; and
that the legislature, in exempting the company from all other
taxes except those mentioned, only intended to include so much
property as was necessary and essential to a railroad and a
transportation business such as the corporation was created to
construct and carry on. The court, therefore, sustained the
validity of the taxes on the houses and lots in question.
Numerous other cases to the same purport might be cited.
The State v. Newark, 25 N. J. L. 315, 317; Vermont Central
Railroad Co. v. Burlington, 28 Vt. 193 ; Railroad v. Berks
County, 6 Pa. St. 70; Inhabitants of Worcester v. The Western Railroad Corporation,4 Mete. (Mass.) 564. The doctrine
declared in them, that the exemption in cases like the one in
the charter before us extends only to the property necessary
for the business of the company, is founded in the wisest reasons of public policy. It would lead to infinite mischief if a
corporation, simply by investing its funds in property not
required for the purposes of its creation, could extend its
immunity from taxation, and thus escape the common burden of government.
As to the property which was purchased by the bank upon
the sale under the trust deed, there is less reason to contend
for its exemption from taxation. The express authority conferred upon the corporation to hold real property, except that
acquired for the use of the institution as a place of business,
was limited to such as might be taken as security for debts;
while held for that purpose it was subject to taxation as the
property of the debtors. Its liability in this respect, to bear
its proportion of the common burden of government, was not
lessened because the bank, deeming it might be more readily
disposed of if freed from the debtor's right of redemption,
thought proper to purchase in the title.
Judgment affrmed.
VOL. XIV.

