BRADLEY V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

pose of the suit is to establish a trust, and get back the property in that way. The answer denies every allegation of fraud
and trust, and insists that the deed was intended as an absolute
conveyance, and not as security. This is responsive to the
bill, and before the relief can be granted which is asked, these
denials must be overcome by the satisfactory testimony of two
witnesses, or of one witness corroborated by circumstances
which are equivalent in weight to another. 2 Story, Eq.,
sect. 1528. The appellee is the only witness in support of
the bill, and the corroboratingcircumstances are not, in our
opinion, sufficient to overcome the answer. It will serve no
useful purpose to enter into analysis of the testimony.
-Decreereversed, and cause remanded with
instructions to dismiss the bill.

BRADLEY

V. UNITED

STATES.

It is no objection to the competency of a witness for the government in the
Court of Claims that his interest is adverse to that of the claimants, and that
a judgment against them may have the effect of establishing his right to the
money claimed.

from the Court of Claims.
Certain sugars imported in the year 1869 and seized for
the owner's alleged violation of the revenue laws, were duly
libelled, condemned, and sold. In the District Court, where
the proceedings were had, no party appeared praying for an
informer's share of the net proceeds, or for the distribution of
them. They were paid into the treasury, and by the Secretary
of the Treasury in part distributed, that is to say, one-half to
the United States, which was covered into the treasury, and
one-fourth in equal shares to the collector, the surveyor, and
the naval officer of the port. Those officers claimed also the
remaining fourth. Bradley and others, each claiming as informer or seizing officer, asserted a right thereto. Bradley
brought this suit therefor, April 27, 1872. On May 9 of that
year the Secretary ordered that the one-fourth so undistributed
APPEAL

Oct. 1881;]

BRADLEY V. UNITED

STATES.

be paid in equal parts to those officers, but that each of them
should first give a bond with surety for his returning to the
treasury, on demand, the money so paid to him, should the
Court of Claims, or this court on appeal, decide that any other
claimant was entitled to the fund. The required bond was
given and the money paid.
The United States took the depositions of Dillingham, the
collector of the port, and Sheldon, the surety on his bond.
Bradley moved to suppress them, on the ground that the deponents were interested in the event of the suit. The court
overruled the motion.
The court expressed "no final opinion on the subject " of its
jurisdiction ; but, holding that on the merits the claimant had
no cause of action, dismissed his petition, and he appealed.
Mr. Charles B. Hovey and Mr. Alexander Porter Morse for
the appellant.
The Solicitor- General, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Sect. 1079 of the Revised Statutes provides that no claimant suing the United States in the Court of Claims, nor any
person from or through whom such claimant derives his alleged
title, claim, or right, nor any person interested in any such title,
claim, or right, shall be a competent witness in supporting the
same, but under sect. 1080 the United States may make a
claimant a witness.
We agree with the court below that this does not prevent
the United States from using as a witness to defeat the claim
one whose interest is adverse to the claimant, and that, too,
when a judgment in favor of the United States may have the
effect of establishing the right of the witness to the same
claim.
The objections urged against the competency of the witness
under the provisions of sect. 858 of the Revised Statutes are
disposed of by Potter v. National Bankc, 102 U. S.163.

Judgment affirmed.

