Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE FERRY Co.

whether, since the common-law courts in England, and to a
large extent in the United States, are permitted to estimate
the damages which a particular person has sustained by the
wrongful killing of another, the courts of admiralty may not
do the same thing. If the District Court entertains such a
suit, an appeal lies from its decree to the Circuit Court, and
from there here, if the value of the matter in dispute is sufficient. Under these circumstances, it seems to us clear that
the admiralty courts are competent to determine all the questions involved, and that we ought not to issue the prohibition
asked for.
Petition denied.

EX PAlRTE FERRY COMPANY.
Lx parte Gordon (supra, p. 515) reaffirmed, the doctrines there announced being
applicable, although the amount involved in the suit below is not sufficient to
give this court appellate jurisdiction.

PETITION for a writ of prohibition.
James H. Cuddy exhibited his libel against the steamer
Garland," her engines, &c., in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, alleging
that he was the father of David Cuddy and William H. Cuddy,
aged respectively ten and thirteen years, passengers on board
a steam yacht bound up the Detroit River, when she was
sunk by the " Garland," whereby they were drowned, and
he was deprived of their earnings, services, and society. The
sinking of the yacht and their death are charged to be the
direct result of the negligence and unskilfulness of the " Garland."
In a supplemental libel he alleges that he was duly appointed administrator of the estate of each of his sons, and he
charges that he is entitled to damages in the sum of $4,000 for
their death, not only by virtue of his relationship, but as their
personal representative, his right in that behalf being created
by the law of Michigan.

EX PARTE HAGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

The " Garland" was seized. On the application of the Detroit River Ferry Company, the claimant, she was appraised
and surrendered. The company now prays for a writ from
this court to prohibit the proceedings, as beyond the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Mr. Henry C. Wisner for the petitioner.
Mr. Alfred Russell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is, in all its material facts, like that of lixparte Gordon, supra, p. 515. It matters not that the amount demanded
in the libel is less than $5,000, and that consequently no appeal
will lie to this court. An appeal will lie to the Circuit Court
in favor of the libellant if he is defeated, and in favor of the
respondent if the recovery exceeds $50. It is no ground for
relief by prohibition that provision has not been made for a
review of the decision of the court of original jurisdiction, by
appeal or otherwise. A prohibition cannot be made to perform
the office of a proceeding for the correction of mere errors and
irregularities. If there is jurisdiction, and no provision for
appeal or writ of error, the judgment of the trial court is the
judgment of the court of last resort, and concludes the parties.
It rests with Congress to decide whether a case shall be reviewed or not.
Writ denied.

EX PARTE HAGAR.

The District Court sitting in admiralty will not be restrained from proceeding in
a suit to recover pilotage.

for a writ of prohibition.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Henry G. Ward and Hr. Richard E. MeMurtrie for the petitioner, and by Mr. Edward G.
Bradford and Mr. Thomas _i. Bayard, contra.
PETITION

