Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HousE

v.

TRUSTEES.

PRINTING HOUSE

v.

TRUSTEES.

1. A corporation was created in one State to promote a benevolent enterprise,
and its charter provided that the presidents of institutions organized in
other States of the Union to collect funds to aid it should constitute a
board of visitors, with absolute supervisory control over its affairs. In
another State such an institution was formed. The trustees thereof reserved the right, in conjunction with the presidents of other similar boards,
to supervise and administer the affairs of the original corporation in accordance with its charter, and collected a fund to be applied in aid of it.
A fundamental change was subsequently made in the charter, whereby the
visitorial rights of the auxiliary institutions were materially changed. The
contributors to the fund demanded a return of it, upon the ground that
the conditions upon which it had been advanced were not performed, and
the corporation brought suit against the institution to recover it. Held,
that the suit could not be maintained.
2. Section 9 of the amended charter of the corporation (inf-a, p. 721) changed
essentially the constitution and powers of the board of visitors, as created
and defined by sect. 10 of the original charter (infra, p. 717).
3. The general doctrine relating to charities, and to the jurisdiction of a Court
of Chancery over them, has no application to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J. -D. Rouse and Mr. William Grant for the appellant.
Mr. Edwin T. Merriclk, Mr. George W. Race, and Mr. John
A. Campbell for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was instituted in May, 1876, by a bill in equity
filed by the American Printing House for the Blind, a Kentucky corporation, against the Louisiana Board of Trustees of
the American Printing House for the Blind, a Louisiana corporation, praying for an account and payment of moneys alleged
to be in the hands of the defendant, which had been raised by
contributions for the benefit of the complainant. An amended
bill was filed in December, 1876, adding as defendants Henry
B. Foley, Valsin J. Dupuy, Nathaniel Cropper, of Louisiana,
who, claiming to be original contributors to the fund in question, had sued the defendant corporation for a return of their
several contributions; also, Magruder and Richardson, a law

PRINTING

HOUSE v.

TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

firm, who represented other contributors making the like claim;
also, the Attorney-General of the State of Louisiana, which had
contributed to the same fund, and had brought suit to recover
its contribution; also, finally, the American Printing House
for the Blind and the American University for the Blind, a
corporation of the District of Columbia, which made some
claim to the fund.
The claim of the original and amended bills was based upon
an allegation to the effect that in the year 1858 the complainant received a charter from the State of Kentucky to enable it
to raise and collect funds for establishing at Louisville, Ky., a
publishing house for printing and publishing books in raised
letters for the use of the blind in the United States; that said
charter contemplated, and was granted in expectation of aid
and co-operation from other States, particularly Tennessee,
Mississippi, and Louisiana; that the original defendant was
chartered by the legislature of Louisiana in 1859 for the express purpose of collecting funds to aid the Kentucky corporation to carry out its benevolent enterprise; and that the funds
in question had been collected and were held for that purpose,
and no other, and ought in equity to be paid over to the complainant, who, it was alleged, had complied with all the conditions required to entitle it to the money.
The Louisiana board filed an answer, in which the principal
point of defence set up was, that, although the moneys in question had indeed been collected for the purpose indicated by the
bill, yet that after their collection, and in the year 1861, the
Kentucky corporation obtained a new charter materially different from the original one, and subversive of the rights which
the Louisiana board were to enjoy in the administration of
the scheme, and which were expressly named in their own
(Louisiana) charter as a condition of entering into said scheme
and contributing to it. They also set up the delay of fifteen
or sixteen years in making any demand for the fund as a fatal
objection to any such demand being sustained now. The rights
referred to as having been abrogated by the new charter are
specially set forth in the answer; being the right of visitation,
supervision, and control over the affairs and management of the
central institution at Louisville, to be exercised by the presi-

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING

HousE v.

TRUSTEES.

dents of the several State boards of trustees contributing to
the general scheme, who were to constitute a board of visitors,
with the right to visit the printing house, examine' the books,
and investigate the proceedings of the trustees, and of discharging them and vacating their offices and appointing new
trustees in case of finding them guilty of mismanagement,
malfeasance in office, or neglect of duty. The answer alleges
that all this was abrogated by the new charter of 1861, and
the right of visitation, instead of being left to the presidents
of the State boards of trustees, was given to governors of States
of North America contributing the smallest aid in sustaining
the printing house, and superintendents of institutions devoted
exclusively to the education of the blind, and State auxiliary
boards. The answer also contended that the new charter
created a new and different corporation by the substitution of
new names of corporators in place of those contained in the
original charter.
The allegations of the answer, in point of fact, are clearly
proven; but the complainant contends that, in point of law, no
such change was made in the new charter as to exonerate the
defendants from the duty of paying over the funds collected
by them; and that the defendants, in their litigation with the
original contributors, acknowledged the rights of the complainant, and are estopped from denying them.
The other defendants filed answers and cross-bills, in which
they contend that the complainant failed to perform the conditions on which the money was contributed,- as, that the
sum of $25,000 should be raised within seven years, and that
a permanent printing establishment should be erected and in
operation within nine years, from the date of the charter; and
they claimed to have their several contributions restored to
them with interest.
This is a general description of the litigation. Considerable
evidence was taken, much of it being directed to the supposed
admissions of the Louisiana board as to the right of the coinplainant to the money. On final hearing the court below dismissed the bill. The complainant appealed from that decree.
In order to a proper understanding of the controversy, it
will be necessary to examine somewhat more minutely the

PRINTING HOUSE

v.

TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

charters of the respective parties, and the acts and proceedings
which led to their formation, and to the collection of the fund
sought to be recovered.
The scheme for establishing a general printing house for
printing books for the blind of the United States, which led
to the organizations referred to, originated in Mississippi as
early as 1857, if not earlier. A Mr. Dempsey B. Sherrod
took much interest in the subject, and visited several of the
Southwestern States, for the purpose of getting up organizations and collecting funds. His operations were commenced
in Mississippi, and extended thence to Kentucky, Tennessee,
Louisiana, and other States. In December, 1859, he was appointed by the Kentucky board agent to organize auxiliaries
in Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio; and acted as such
during the year 1860. But he had previously been appointed
agent for the Mississippi board, which was the first organized, and afterwards by the Louisiana board. The Mississippi
board was chartered Nov. 14, 1857. The preamble of the
charter recites as follows: " Whereas it is contemplated to
establish at Louisville, Kentucky, a publishing house to print
books in raised letters for the use of the blind in the United
States; and whereas, to establish said publishing house upon
a permanent basis, and with a sufficient capital, contributions
from various States of the Union will be necessary; to effect
which object acts of incorporation like this will be applied for
in other States, the object of which incorporation will be to
aid in collecting and effectually securing for such object the
money which may be contributed in each State: " therefore
it was declared (sect. 1), that the Hon. C. P. Smith, Ion.
William L. Sharkey, and three others named, and their successors, &c., should be a body corporate under the name of the
"Board of Trustees to aid in establishing a publishing house
to print books, &c., for the benefit of the blind," with power
to use a common seal, and to make such contracts as might
be necessary to effect the objects of their corporation. By
sect. 3, Dempsey Sherrod was appointed general agent of said
board to solicit subscriptions and contributions for the above
purpose in this and other States of the Union, and to apply
to other States for similar acts of incorporation. Upon his

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

death or resignation the board should have power to appoint
another. By sect. 6, the board of trustees were authorized to
receive contributions in money, &c., for the purpose aforesaid,
and, until $25,000 should be raised in this and other States,
were to invest the same at interest. By sect. 7, if the sum
named should not be raised within seven years, and the publishing house should not be established within nine years, the
contributions should be returned to the contributors with interest. By sect. 8, it was declared that, so soon as the legislature of Kentucky should pass an act incorporating trustees for
establishing said publishing house in Louisville, and this board
had evidence that $25,000 were raised, the fund in the hands
of this board should be transferred to the board of trustees
incorporated by the State of Kentucky, in such sums as might
be needed to carry on the business; provided, if Kentucky
should not pass such a law incorporating said board, the Mississippi board might select some other place for publication in
such State as might pass such act.
At the same time the legislature of Mississippi passed an
act, by which, after reciting that $12,000 had been subscribed
by private individuals, they appropriated $2,000 to the board
of trustees in aid of the object.
It may be remarked here that only about $1,000 of the
money raised in Mississippi were ever paid to the Kentucky
institution. What was the cause of this does not clearly
appear. From the evidence of Mr. Bullock, the president of
the complainant, it appears that the Kentucky board became
dissatisfied with Sherrod after 1860, and lie was no longer employed as their agent. Mr. Foster, a witness for the defendant
corporation, and one of its trustees from its organization, testifies that after the war they learned from Mr. Sherrod that the
trustees at Louisville had changed their charter, making material changes which affected the whole institution, and he,
Mr. Sherrod, had withdrawn entirely his connection from it;
so had the parent society, organized in Mississippi, and he had
established another institution called the American Publishing
House and American University for the Blind, in the District
of Columbia. It may be that this explains the discontinuance
of co-operation on the part of the Mississippi board.

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

Although a board of trustees was chartered in Tennessee, and
an appropriation of $2,000 was made by the legislature of that
State in 1858, and a law was passed making an annual appropriation of ,$10 for every blind person in the State, according
to the census, which amounted in seven years to the sum of
$38,780; yet, for some unexplained reason, no money was ever
contributed from that State to the Kentucky institution, and
in 1867 the .law was repealed.
The first charter granted by Kentucky, and under which the
complainant claims to have been organized, was an act of the
legislature, passed Jan. 26, 1858. As this charter is important,

because it was in force when that of the Louisiana board of
trustees was adopted, and when the funds in question were
mostly contributed, it will be proper to give the exact language
of its most important provisions. It commenced with the following recital: "Whereas the State of Mississippi has by law made an appropriation of 2,000 dollars to aid in establishing in Kentucky a national institution to print and circulate books in raised letters for
the blind; and whereas said State has incorporated a board of
trustees to receive said money, and 12,000 dollars which have been
subscribed for the afbresaid purpose by citizens of Mississippi, and
to transfer said fund to said institution in Kentucky ; and whereas
it is anticipated that other States will make donations and incorporate trustees to aid in this enterprise."
It then enacted, " SECT. 1. That an institution under the name of the American
Printing House for the Blind be established in Louisville, Kentucky,
or its vicinity, and that James Guthrie, William F. Bullock, Theodore S. Bell, Bryce M. Patten, John Milton, I-. T. Curd, and A. 0.
Brannin, and their successors, be, and they are hereby, declared a

body corporate under the name and style of the Trustees of the
American Printing House for the Blind, with the right as such to
use a common seal, to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded,
in all courts of justice and in all cases in which the interests of the
institution are involved. The said trustees are hereby fully empowered to receive, by legacies, conveyances, or otherwise, lands,
money, and other property, and the same to retain, use, and apply
to the publishing of books in raised letters -for the blind in the

Oct. 1881.]

'PRINTING HOUSE V. TRUSTEES.

United States. Said trustees are authorized to purchase land and
erect, purchase, or rent buildings for the use of said institution, and
to make all such contracts as may be necessary to accomplish the
purposes of their incorporation ...
" SECT. 2. The trustees shall elect, annually, a president, a treasurer, and a secretary, who shall hold their offices until their successors shall be elected and duly qualified. Said trustees may
prescribe the duties and fix the compensation of said officers...
" SFCT. 6. It shall be the duty of the board of trustees, before
commencing the publication of any book, to request the superintendent of every institution for the education of the blind in the
United States to make out and send to the trustees of the printing
house a list of such books as he may deem most desirable for the
use of the blind; and said trustees shall select for publication the
book that shall have received the greatest number of superintendents in its favor. This mode of selecting books for publication
shall be repeated at least once every year.
" SECT. 7. Every school for the blind located in a State whose
legislature or citizens contribute to the funds of the American
Printing House shall, in proportion to the funds, be entitled to
copies of every book published by said house, to be distributed
gratuitously to such blind persons as are unable to purchase them.
And the superintendents of said schools shall be required to report
to the trustees of said house the names and residences of all persons
to whom books may be thus distributed. The prices of books published by this institution shall be made so low as merely to cover
the cost of publication and other incidental expenses of the institution.
"SECT. 8. It shall be the duty of the board of trustees to make
an annual report of its proceedings, which shall embrace a full
account of the receipts and disbursements, the funds on hand, the
number of books sold, and the number distributed gratuitously, and
a general statement of the condition of the institution ; and they
shall transmit copies of said reports to the General Assembly of
Kentucky, to the governors of the several States of the Union, the
president of each State board of trustees, to the superintendent of
every institution of the blind in the United States, and to every
person who shall have made to the institution a donation of more
than five dollars the previous year.
" SECT. 10. The presidents of the State boards of trustees shall,
ex officio, constitute a board of visitors, each member of which shall

PRINTING HOUSE

v.

TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

at all times be authorized to visit the printing house, examine the
books, and investigate the proceedings of' the trustees; and the
president of the oldest State board of trustees shall, at the written
request of a majority of the visitors, call a meeting of the board of
visitors, who shall be fully empowered to investigate the proceedings of the trustees of the institution, and in case they shall find
said board or any member thereof has mismanaged the affairs of
said institution, by malfeasance in office or neglect of duty, they
may, a majority of three-fourths of all the members concurring,
declare the office or offices of said trustee or trustees vacant, and
proceed to fill such vacancy by election from the citizens of Louisville or its vicinity. Notice of all meetings of the board of visitors
shall be sent by mail to all the presidents of the State boards and
to all the trustees of the printing house at least one month before
the time appointed for said meetings.
" SECT. 11. The trustees of said printing house shall continue in
office until their offices shall become vacant by resignation, death,
or removal from office as hereinbefore provided for. All vacancies
caused by resignation or death shall be filled by the remaining mombers of' the board.
" SECT. 12. Be it further enacted, that each donor shall be entitled to his donation, with the interest, after the deduction of the
necessary expenses are paid, provided said publishing house is not
established within nine years from the passage of this act; and
should the board refuse to make said distribution among the donors
according to their respective interests, then, and in that event, said
donors may have the right to proceed to recover the same by legal
proceedings instituted in any of the courts of this Commonwealth
having jurisdiction thereof."
The provisions of the tenth section of this act are especially
material in the determination of this cause. It was the change
made therein by the subsequent act of 1861, as will hereafter
appear, on which the defendants principally rely for refusing
to pay over to the complainant the moneys in controversy. It
will be seen that direct reference was made to it in the Louisiana charter. This charter was taken out under the general
corporation law of the State of Louisiana, and is dated Jan. 3,
1859. It recites as follows: "Whereas, it is contemplated to establish at Louisville, in the
State of Kentucky, a publishing house, to print and publish books

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

in raised letters for the use of the blind in the United States; and
whereas, to establish said publishing house on a permanent basis,
and with sufficient capital, contributions from various States of the
Union are anticipated ; and whereas, it is proper and just that a
portion of said funds should be contributed by the citizens of the
State of Louisiana, and believing the object to be worthy the consideration and liberality of a generous public, and desiring to cooperate in the accomplishment of the proposed enterprise, we, the
undersigned citizens of Louisiana, do hereby associate ourselves
together, and constitute ourselves and our successors a body corporate, under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the
State of Louisiana, approved March 14, 1855, entitled ' An Act for
the organization of corporations for literary, scientific, religious, and
charitable purposes,' and we do hereby agree to the following article
of corporation: "1. The name and style of this corporation shall be ' The Louisiana Board of Trustees of the American Printing House for the
Blind,' by which name it shall be known, and be capable to sue and
be sued, and the domicile of this corporation shall be in the city of
New Orleans.
"2. The object of this association and corporation shall be to
raise funds for, and otherwise to aid in, the permanent establishment and successful management at Louisville, Kentucky, of a publishing house for the printing and publication of books in raised
letters for the use of the blind in the United States.
"3. The trustees shall annually elect, by ballot, from their own
number, a president, on whom all legal process shall be served,
a treasurer and secretary, provided that said officers shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected and
qualified.
"4. The trustees shall have power to fill all vacancies occurring
in the board by death, resignation, or otherwise; to adopt by-laws
for their own government, and prescribe the duties of its officers
and members, and they shall be empowered to receive by donation, bequest, purchase, or otherwise, and to hold and use properties, real and personal, to the amount of one hundred thousand
dollars.
"5. The trustees shall hold the funds and properties of the corporation for the purposes thereof, and until the sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars is raised in this State and other States of the
Union, the same may be safely invested at the discretion of the
trustees; that so soon as the trustees are officially informed by

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

the trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind, at
Louisville, Kentucky, that the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars
has been raised, they shall then remit the funds and properties
received by them to said trustees at Louisville, in such sums as
may from time to time be required to establish and carry on said
publishing house; provided that should said sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars not be raised within seven years from the date
of this incorporation, or said publishing house not be established
within nine years from said date, then the donations and contributions received, together with the interest thereon accrued, after
deducting expenses of the incorporation, shall be returned to the
contributors and donors thereof.
"6. The trustees reserve to themselves at all times the right,
through their president, of visiting the establishment, or printing
and publishing house, at Louisville, and inspecting the books and
management of the same, and, in conjunction with the presidents of
other boards that may be formed, the supervision and administration of the affairs thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the
tenth section of the charter of 'The Trustees of the American
Printing House for the Blind,' as incorporated by the General
Assembly of the State of Kentucky."
From the sixth article, above quoted, it clearly appears that
the Louisiana board regarded the provisions of the tenth section of the Kentucky charter as material and fundamental. It
gave them, through their president, in conjunction with the other
State boards, through their presidents, the ultimate control and
management of the central institution; and they expressly
reserve to themselves at all times this vital prerogative. It
may be fairly presumed that without it they would never
have engaged to pay over their contributions to the Kentucky
board.
The question then is, whether this provision has been materially altered by the Kentucky legislature in the new or
amended charter which was granted to the Kentucky board
in April, 1861.
A glance at this amended charter is sufficient to decide the
question. It is a recast of the whole incorporating act. After
copying the preamble of the original charter, it proceeds to
name the corporators, substituting two new names in place of
two others in the original. Perhaps this is a change of but

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

little moment; though the defendants regard it as a change of
The general objects of the association and
the corporation.
duties of the trustees are substantially the same as those contained in the original act. It is observable, however, that in
referring to States that may become interested in the institution, and to institutions for the education of the blind which it
is anticipated will share in its benefits, the States of North
America are named instead of the States of the Union, or of
the United States; and institutions for the education of the
blind in North America, instead of institutions in the United
States, - evidently contemplating the possibility of a disintegration of the United States, and the establishment of another
government in its territories. But without further reference
to this noticeable change, we proceed to copy the ninth section,
which replaces the tenth of the original act. It is in these
words: "The superintendents of State institutions devoted exclusively
to the education of the blind, and'the governors of the States that
aid in sustaining the American Printing House for the Blind, and
the presidents of the State auxiliary boards of trustees, shall, ex
officio, constitute a board of visitors, each member of which shall
be at all times authorized to visit the printing house, examine the
books, and investigate the proceedings of the trustees; and the
president of any State board may, at the request of a majority of
the visitors, call a meeting of the board of visitors, who shall be
fully empowered to investigate the proceedings of the trustees of
the institution, and in case they shall find that said board, or any
member thereof, has mismanaged the affairs of the institution by
malfeasance in office or neglect of duty, they may, a majority of
three-fourths of all the members present concurring, declare the
offices or office of said trustees or trustee vacant, and proceed to fill
the vacancy, by election from the citizens of Louisville or its vicinity.
Representatives from a majority of the States that contribute to
the support of the American Printing House for the Blind shall
constitute a quorum of the board of visitors, and each State represented shall be allowed one vote in the action of the board. Notice
of every meeting of the board of visitors shall be sent by mail to
all the members of the board, and to the trustees of the American
Printing House for the Blind, at least one month before the time
appointed for the meeting."
46
VOL. xIv.

PRINTING HousE V. TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

This is certainly a material change in the supervisory government and control of the institution; indeed, it may be
denominated a subversion of the original constitution. By
the original charter, the State boards of trustees, through
their presidents, were constituted the board of visitors, with
absolute supervisory control, even to the extent of discharging from office the entire board of trustees of the central
institution for mismanagement of its affairs, malfeasance in
office, or neglect of duty. By the new charter, the presidents
of the State boards have a seat in the board of visitors, it
is true ; but their power, which before was exclusive, is now
in effect taken from them, and shared by the governors of
all the States that aid in sustaining the institution, and the
superintendents of all State institutions devoted exclusively
to the education of the blind. In a matter so important as
the government of the institution, such a change cannot be
said to be immaterial, or anything less than fundamental.
It is more especially important in this case because made
the subject of an express reservation in the charter of the
defendants.
In view of the facts above detailed, the question still remains, whether, after such a fundamental change in the constitution of the central organization, affecting so materially
the rights of the auxiliary boards in regard to the control
of the institution, they are bound to pay over to that institution the funds committed to their charge. If an individual
should subscribe to a charitable scheme upon certain conditions as to its organization and control, and those conditions
are violated before the payment of his subscription, it can
hardly be doubted, that he would be discharged from his obligation to pay it. Whatever power the legislature may possess
to modify the organization of an established charity in point
of form, it cannot change an executory contract to contribute
to such charity. The power to do this would, in effect, be a
power to make a contract for a party which he is himself unwilling to make. The authorities which affirm the legislative
power to modify the forms of public and charitable institutions, do not apply to such a case.
The position of the defendants is somewhat anomalous.

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HOUSE v. TRUSTEES.

They are not themselves the original contributors; but they
represent them. They are their trustees, as well as trustees for
the benefit of the proposed foundation. The money of the
contributors has been deposited in their hands to be applied
to a proposed charity on certain conditions. The defendant
board, as the representatives of the contributors, occupy a
relation to the general foundation similar to that of a subscriber to its funds. They stand upon the terms of an agreement, or contract, by which, in effect, they engage, upon certain
conditions, to contribute and pay over to the central institution the money intrusted to them. They cannot be considered
as bound, in law, to pay it over at all events, They certainly
would not be so bound if the character of the charity should
be materially changed.
It is difficult to see how they can be
so bound if its constitution and government are so changed as
to deprive the defendants of that participation in the control
which it was stipulated they should have. If the original contributors were all willing to waive the objection, the case
might be different; but the original contributors are claiming
a return of their contributions; and if they were not doing this,
it would nevertheless be difficult to ascertain their united will.
The duty and only safe course of the defendant trustees is,
to withhold the contributions in their hands if they see that
there has been a clear violation of those conditions upon which
such contributions were made. By their own constitution,
they have certain distinct rights and duties, - rights which
they not only may, but ought to, insist on; because they are not
only theirs, but, representatively, those of their constituents,
the donors of the fund. They are not part and parcel of the
Kentucky institution; though they were to have had an important share in its control. They are a separate organization,
existing under distinct laws. It is apparent from the evidence
in the case that the several State contributions, and incorporations of trustees, whilst looking to a common and general foundation, or charity, for the benefit of the blind in the United
States, had also special reference to the benefit of that class
in the particular State. The legislative appropriations which
were graduated by the number of blind in the State, which
were made in most of the States interested, indicate this. The

PRINTING HOUSE

v.

TRUSTEES.

[Sup. Ct.

provision of the Kentucky charter securing to schools for the
blind in a contributing State a gratuitous distribution of books
in proportion to the amount contributed, indicates the same
thing. Reciprocal benefits were evidently expected in consideration of the amount of aid to be contributed. This is
shown by the entire testimony. Mr. Bullock, president of
the complainants, whilst complaining of the unwillingness of
the Louisiana board to pay over their fund, says: "From the
beneficial agencies of our institution the blind of Louisiana
have been almost entirely shut off through the unwillingness
of the Louisiana board to give up the money in their hands."
Again: " It is easy to see that if the Louisiana board gives
us the money raised for us, every dollar will be returned to
the blind of Louisiana in the shape of books and apparatus
for their education, undiminished by any tax for the expenses
incurred in starting our enterprise. The institution for the
education of the blind in Baton Rouge, La., is in need of
books, maps, slates, models, and educational appliances of all
kinds. The funds held by the Louisiana board should be sent
to us to supply these wants." The testimony of the defendants'
witnesses, Adams and Foster, who were members of the Louisiana board from its first organization, is to the same effect in
regard to the special advantages expected to accrue to the
blind of Louisiana by joining with the boards of other States
in the establishment of a general institution. In fine, the
Louisiana board, by virtue of their distinct organization, their
separate position, the local character of their operations, and
their just expectations of special benefit to the blind of their
own State, not only had a right, but were under an obligation,
to take due care that the institution to which their fund should
be intrusted was such an institution in its objects and constitution as was contemplated when the scheme was undertaken
and entered into, and not one materially different therefrom in
either respect.
We think, therefore, that the defendants, when they found
that the constitution of the Kentucky corporation had been
materially changed, and their share in its management and
control had been superseded by a totally different arrangement, in which their influence was, or might be, totally anni-

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HousE v. TRUSTEES.

hilated, were justified in refusing to pay over to such alleged
body the funds in their hands.
The complainants, however, contend that the actual trustees
of the Louisiana board have admitted the rightof the complainants, and are therefore estopped from setting up the defence which we have been considering. It is very questionable
whether the personal admissions of the individual trustees are
entitled to any weight in such a case. But a careful examination of the whole evidence convinces us that no admissions of
the kind, made under a full and fair knowledge of the circumstances, have been made by the Louisiana trustees. Indeed,
the argument might well be retorted, that the complainants, by
their great delay in demanding the fund, -a delay of fourteen
or fifteen years, or, throwing out the period of the civil war,
a delay of eleven years,- are estopped from prosecuting for it
now. No formal demand was made until the year 1876. An
agent was sent to New Orleans in 1871, it is true, to get aid
from the Louisiana board, and to inquire into their mutual relations. But the latter always referred to legal impediments
which would at least require the aid of legislation to remove.
What the nature of these impediments were does not clearly
appear. But we may presume that the Louisiana board had in
view the change which Mr. Sherrod reported to them had been
made in the Kentucky charter, the nature of which, however,
had not been distinctly explained to them. In answer to a
communication from Mr. Huntoon, secretary of the Kentucky
board, Mr. Foster, the secretary of the Louisiana board, wrote
the following letter in 1872, which seems to throw some light
on the subject :
"DECEurm 22, 1872.
"B. II. HUNTOON, Esq.,
Se'et'y Am. Printing house for the Blind, Louisville, Ify.:
DEut Sm, -Your
favor of Dec. 11th is at hand, and contents
noted, but board of trustees are not in condition at present to
appropriate funds to any purpose. When the board meets, your
communication will be laid before them. Though not authorized
to speak on their behalf, I may add that the change in your
charter may be found upon examination, probably, to seriously
change the relations of our board to yours.

PRINTING HoUSE v. TRUSTEES.

Lsup. Ct.

"Our board will probably have a meeting in course of the
FOSTE R,
"W. H.
coming spring.
C Secretary,

&c."

This was certainly a very pregnant intimation of the objection which lies at the foundation of the defence in the present
case.

It is true that in 1876, when the defendants were sued by
several of their original donors for the recovery of their contributions, on the ground that the conditions of raising $25,000
within seven years, and of establishing a printing house within
nine years, from the date of the charter, had not been complied with, the Louisiana trustees made inquiry as to these
They also had, or some of
points from the complainants.
them had, a conference with Mr. Barrett, the treasurer of the
Kentucky corporation, and inquired of him as to the change in
their charter, which had been reported by Mr. Sherrod. They
testify that Mr. Barrett assured them that Sherrod was entirely mistaken; that no material change had been made in
their charter, and that they were acting under the original charter of 1858 ; at least, so he was understood by them. The
defendants' counsel, acting on the supposition that these representations were correct, prepared the defence of the board
accordingly; and being satisfied that the amount of $25,000
had been raised within the seven years, and that an establishment sufficient to answer the requirements of the charter had
been started within the nine years, on that basis contested the
suits brought by the donors. During the progress of that litigation, however, having procured and examined the amended
Kentucky charter of 1861, his views were entirely changed
on the subject of the right of the Kentucky corporation to
demand the fund.
This is, in substance, the admission which is relied on by
the complainants. We think it is quite satisfactorily explained
in the testimony of Judge Merrick and Mr. Adams ; and that
it cannot, in the slightest degree, affect the rights of the
parties in this case.

It is unnecessary to inquire what should be done with the
The
The original scheme has failed.
fund in question.

Oct. 1881.]

PRINTING HOUSE

v.

TRUSTEES.

cross-bills of the donors, who were made defendants in the
case, were dismissed without prejudice, and they have not
appealed. The legislature of Louisiana, by an act passed May
14, 1878, authorized the trustees, in their own exoneration, to
pay the whole fund into the State treasury so far as the same
remained in their hands unclaimed by the contributors ; and
appropriated the same as a special and inviolable fund for the
sole and exclusive benefit of the Louisiana Institution for the
Blind and the Industrial Home for the Blind, domiciled at
Baton Rouge in said State. An additional section provides
for paying to any original contributor, on judicial proof of
his claim, the amount contributed by him, with interest. We
have no doubt that the fund will be properly administered
and disposed of under the laws of Louisiana, to whose superintending care the matter rightfully belongs.
It is proper to add that, in our view of this case, the general
doctrine of charities has nothing to do with its decision. When
a charitable trust has been fully constituted, and the funds
have passed out of the hands and control of the donors, and
into the hands of the proper institution, or organization, intended for its administration, the Court of Chancery, or some
analogous jurisdiction, becomes its legal guardian and protector, and will take care that the objects of the trust are duly
pursued, and the funds rightfully appropriated.
But where
contributions to a charity are proposed to be made upon certain express conditions, the rights of the donors stand upon
contract ; and if the conditions are not performed, their obligation to contribute is discharged.
-Decree affirmed.

