Oct. 1881.]

STEWART v. LANSING.

STEWART v. LANSING.

1. The indorsee of negotiable paper which has a fraudulent or illegal inception
must, in order to recover thereon, prove that he is a bona fide holder thereof
for value.
2. Coupon bonds of a town in New York were by commissioners executed to a
railroad company pursuant to an order of a county judge, which was annulled and reversed by the judgment of the Supreme Court in a proceeding
whereof, before they were issued, the commissioners and the company had
due notice. Held, 1. That, as between the company and the town, the
bonds are invalid. 2. That, in an action on coupons detached therefrom,
the plaintiff must, to make out his right to recover against the town, establish his bona fide ownership of them. 3. That upon the question of such
ownership a judgment in his favor upon other coupons detached from the
same bonds does not estop the town.
8. Upon the evidence in this case it was not error to charge the jury to find for
the town.

ERroR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. James R. Cox for the plaintiff.
Mr. Francis Kernan for the defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a suit by John J. Stewart to recover the interest
due on coupons which matured July 1, 1872, Jan. 1, 1873,
Jan. 1, 1874, July 1, 1874, Jan. 1, 1875, July 1, 1875, Jan. 1,
1876, and July 1, 1876. They were attached to seventy-five
bonds of $1,000 each, purporting to have been issued by the
town of Lansing, under the authority of a statute of New York,
passed May 18, 1869, to permit municipal corporations to aid in
the construction of railroads. The defence, stated generally,
was that the bonds had been issued without authority of law.
At the trial, after the testimony on both sides was in, the court
instructed the jury to find a verdict for the town, which was
This ruling furdone, and judgment entered accordingly.
nishes the principal ground of error assigned here.
The testimony is all set out in the bill of exceptions. The
undisputed facts are that the county judge of Tompkins

STEWART v. LANSING.

[Sup. Ct.

County, within which the town is situated, assuming to act
under the authority of that statute, rendered, March 21, 1871,
a judgment appointing commissioners to execute bonds of the
town to the amount of $75,000, and invest them in the capital
stock of the Cayuga Lake Railroad Company. On the 27th of
the same month, at the instance of the opposing taxpayers of
the town, a writ of certiorari,directed to the county judge, was
issued from the Supreme Court of the State for a review of
this judgment. This writ was, at or about its date, served
on the judge, who, on the 1st of September, made his return
thereto, sending up, as required by law, a transcript of the
record of the proceedings before him which were brought
under review. Of this writ, and what was done thereunder,
both the commissioners appointed by the judge and the railroad company had full notice; but the commissioners, on or
about the 14th of October, 1871, executed the bonds which
had been authorized, payable to bearer on the first day of
January, 1902, with coupons for semi-annual instalments of
interest attached, and delivered them to the company in exchange for seven hundred and fifty shares of its capital stock.
At the same time the commissioners took from the company a
bond of indemnity to save them harmless from all costs, liabilities, or expenses on account of what had been done.
The bonds, as soon as delivered, were taken by the company
to New York, and there pledged as collateral security for
money borrowed. On the 27th of May, 1872, the Supreme
Court in general term reversed and in all things held for
naught the judgment of the county judge appointing commissioners and authorizing the issue of the bonds. This judgment of the Supreme Court still remains in force.
On the 26th of November, 1872, the company arranged with
Elliott, Collins, & Co., a banking firm in Philadelphia, for the
money to take up the bonds in New York, and they again
pledged the bonds to that firm as security for the advances
made. On the 8th of February, 1873, this debt to Elliott,
Collins, & Co. was paid, and they parted with the bonds.
The entire testimony as to what took place at this time is as
follows :William Elliott, the senior member of the firm, examined as

Oct. 1881.]

STEWART V. LANSING.

a witness, said: "We did not sell the bonds at all. The
bonds, on the 8th of February, 1873, we parted with. The cash
we received on parting with them was $54,337.50. I have
never seen any of the bonds since. The loan negotiated by
us was paid in this way. Up to this time the loan had not
been paid. It was paid by this money."
On cross-examination, he said: "I cannot tell through whom
personally we received the bonds. Think we received them by
express. They were negotiated by Mr. Delafield, either personally or by letter. All our transactions with that company
have been done through Mr. Delafield. . . . I am not acquainted with John J. Stewart, the plaintiff in this action. I
do not know where he lives, or in what State he lives. Neither
myself or my banking firm ever had any transactions with him
to my knowledge." This testimony was taken on behalf of
the plaintiff, by deposition, on the 18th of July, 1876.
Afterwards, on the 18th of August in the same year, another
deposition of the same witness was taken in behalf of the
plaintiff. In this deposition, looking at Exhibit D, which was
as follows:
"PHILADELPIA, Feb'y 8, 1873,
"Cayuga Lake R. R. Co.
.$54,337
50
........
75,000 Town of Lansing bonds ...
Notes March 29, $50,000; 49 days' interest, $408.33 . 49,591 67
Credit Cayuga Lake ...

.........

..

$4,745 83"

he said: "This is a statement of the sale of said town of Lansing bonds by the firm of Elliott, Collins, & Co.' The sale was
made at the time it bears date, Feb. 8, 1873; it was made out
and sent to the Cayuga Lake R. R. Co. at that date. I said in my
previous examination that we did not sell the bonds in question.
I intended by that to say that we did not make the negotiation
for the sale of them, but they passed through our hands, on
terms which were agreed on by others. The price at which
they were sold we were consulted about, and our advice asked.
We received the money and delivered the bonds on that day."
On cross-examination, he said: "I do not wish to change, but
merely explain my testimony given at the previous examination. Exhibit D is in the handwriting of my son, who gener-

STEWAIT V. LANSING.

[Sup. Ct.

ally makes out the accounts, Adolphus William Elliott. He is
still living in this city. To my present recollection, the first
time I saw Exhibit D is to-day. I have no recollection of ever
having seen it before. The statement first credits the Cayuga
Lake R. R. Co. with $54,337.50, under date of Feb. 8, 1873,
that being the avails of the bonds. . . . It was sent to the
Cayuga Lake R. R. Co. at the time, as I have stated before.
I have no personal knowledge of Mr. Stewart; I mean the Mr.
Stewart who is plaintiff in this action. I have no personal
knowledge of any business transaction whatever between myself
or my house and Mr. Stewart. I have no personal knowledge
whether these bonds ever passed into the hands of Mr. Stewart,
the plaintiff in this action, nor whether he ever paid anything
for them. Somebody paid for them and we got the money."
Talmadge Delafield, the treasurer of the company, a witness
called on the part of the plaintiff, testified that Elliott, Collins,
& Co. held the bonds after the transfer to them until Feb. 8,
1873, when they rendered an account of the sale. On crossexamination he said, "I have no personal knowledge of the
sale of the bonds. Never saw Mr. Stewart; don't know that
there is such a man. I have never corresponded with him, nor
he with me. Whatever occurred between them and him was
entirely without my knowledge."
On the 30th of May, 1874, a suit was brought in the name
of Stewart, the present plaintiff in error, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York,
to recover the coupons due July 1, 1873, averring his ownership thereof. *
On the 20th of July, 1872, Manassah Bailey brought suit in
the same court to recover the coupons of July 1, 1872. In
each of the suits the defences were that the bonds and coupons
were issued without the authority of law, and that the plaintiffs
respectively were not bona fide holders. The suits were tried
together, and upon the same evidence, so far as applicable.
In both cases it was decided that the bonds were invalid, and
in that of Bailey judgment was given for the defendant, because
it had not been satisfactorily shown that he was a bona fide
holder. In the Stewart case, however, the court used this
language in its opinion: "The suit of Stewart differs from the

Oct. 1881.]

STEWART V. LANSING.

one by Bailey, in that it appears that the bonds were pledged
as collateral in February, 1873, to Elliott, Collins, & Co., of
Philadelphia, and sold by them after consultation with the
officers of the railroad company. Elliott, Collins, & Co. were
holders for value before maturity, and their sale to satisfy the
pledge conveyed their title to the purchaser. Whether the
plaintiff was the purchaser from them directly or not is not
clear, but, however this may be, he succeeds to all the rights
of Elliott, Collins, & Co., and occupies the position of a bona
fide purchaser. As against a bona fide holder of the coupons,
none of the defences interposed are tenable." Acting on this
principle, the court gave judgment in favor of Stewart for the
coupons he held.
Upon the trial of the present action, the record of the first
Stewart judgment was given in evidence, and the counsel for
the plaintiff, who bad also been counsel for Stewart and Bailey
in the former suits, was examined as a witness. He testified
that after the judgment against Bailey, he gave the coupons
sued for in that action to a Mr. Tryon, in New York. He
was unable to say from whom he got them back, nor when.
Neither did he tell from whom he got the bonds and coupons
which were used in evidence at the present trial.
As between the railroad company and the town, the judgment of the Supreme Court reversing and annulling the order
of the county judge invalidated the bonds. If the bonds had
not been delivered before, they could not have been afterwards. The judgment of reversal was equivalent between
these parties to a refusal by the county judge to make the
original order.
The next inquiry is whether, on the evidence, Stewart occupied in this suit a better position than the town. That
depends on whether the testimony was such as to make it the
duty of the court to submit to the jury, under proper instructions, the determination of the question whether he was in a
commercial sense the bona fide holder of the coupons sued
for.
It is an elementary rule that if fraud or illegality in the
inception of negotiable paper is shown, an indorsee, before he
can recover, must prove that he is a holder for value. The

STEWART V. LANSING.

[Sup. Ct.

mere possession of the paper, under such circumstances, is not
enough. Smith v. Sac County1 , 11 Wall. 139.
Here the actual illegality of the paper was established. It
was incumbent, therefore, on the plaintiff to show that he
occupied the position of a bona fide holder before he could recover. This, it is contended, was conclusively established by
the judgment in the suit on the coupons of July, 1873. The
issue in that case was as to the ownership of those coupons,
and did not necessarily involve an ownership of the bonds.
We have often held that coupons detached from bonds are
negotiable instruments, and capable of separate ownership and
transfer. Clark v. Iowa City, 20 Wall. 583. While the court
in its opinion, when'rendering the former judgment, used language broad enough to cover the bonds, this language must be
confined in its effect to the issues on trial, that is to say, the
ownership of the coupons alone. In Cromwell v. County of Sac
(94 U. S. 351), it was distinctly held that a determination in
one action, that a plaintiff was not an owner for value of certain coupons sued on, did not estop him from proving in
another action that he was such an owner of other coupons
detachec from the same bonds. The proposition in this case
is but the converse of that.
This makes it necessary to inquire whether upon the testimony the burden of establishing a bona fide ownership was so
far overcome at the trial as to make it improper for the court
to take that question from the jury. The testimony is noticeable rather for what is omitted than for what was introduced.
It would seem to have been easy to prove the exact facts as
to the "parting with" the bonds by Elliott, Collins, & Co.
Although the bonds had been pledged in New York before,
Elliott, Collins, & Co. took them from the company, not from
the New York holders. The company negotiated the loan
from them, and on taking up the bonds in New York made a
new pledge. This was all done after the judgment of the
Supreme Court upon the certiorari. In the former suit a
judgment had been secured only by proving a bona fide ownership in the plaintiff. Notice of the necessity of establishing
the same fact in this case was, therefore, given the plaintiff
and his counsel. Acting on this notice, the same counsel who

Oct. 1881.]

STEWART v. LANSING.

appeared in the former case went to Philadelphia to get the
necessary testimony. He called on the senior member of the
firm of Elliott, Collins, & Co. and took his deposition. In this
deposition it was clearly shown that although that firm had
"parted with" the bonds, and got some money when they did
so, which was put to the credit of the company, they did not
sell the bonds. That was done, if done at all, by some one
else. Not satisfied with this testimony, the same counsel went
again to Philadelphia to make another effort. He took with
him a paper he had found in the handwriting of the junior
member of the firm, now known as Exhibit D. Instead of
examining the junior partner, he went again to the senior
partner, who evidently knew but little personally about the
transaction, and stopped with him, although it appears that
the witness who made out the exhibit was then in the city,
and it was again stated that the sale was not negotiated by
the firm, but that the bonds only passed through their hands
under terms which had been agreed on by others. Who those
others were is not stated. Neither the actual purchaser nor
his representative in the negotiation was named. Stewart, the
plaintiff, was not known to any of the witnesses examined. No
one had ever seen him. His counsel, though examined as
a witness, gave no information in respect to him, and was also
unable to tell from whom the Bailey coupons were received.
It is by no means certain from the testimony whether such
a man as the plaintiff is actually in existence. Even the
witness Elliott was not asked whether he knew of the decision of the Supreme Court when his firm took the bonds.
The sale, if actually made, was at an enormous discount.
Although the Bailey coupons are included in this suit, another
action for their recovery was pending at the time Elliott, Collins, & Co. parted with the bonds, in which the same defences
now relied on were set up. The counsel now appearing for the
present plaintiff was also the counsel for Bailey in that action,
and for the railroad company when the bonds were got from
the commissioners. It would have been apparently so easy to
make the necessary proof, if it could have safely been done,
that we are unable to account for its absence, except on the
theory that a disclosure of the whole truth would be fatal to a

STRONG V. WILLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

recovery. While it would not, perhaps, have been improper
for the court, in the exercise of its rightful discretion, to leave
the case to the jury on the evidence, we cannot say it was
error not to do so. In Pleasants v. J7ant (22 Wall. 116), it
was held that "if the court is satisfied that, conceding all the
inferences which the jury could justifiably draw from the testimony, the evidence was not sufficient to warrant" a particular
verdict, the jury might be so instructed. Railroad Company v.
Praloff, 100 U. S. 24; Oseanyon v. Arms Company, 103 id. 261.
This case, in our opinion, comes under that rule.
The record in the Bailey suit was certainly admissible in
evidence upon the issue as to the bona fide ownership of the
coupons of July, 1872.
Without, therefore, considering any of the other questions
presented for our consideration, on the argument, the judgment is
Affirmed.

STRONG V. WILLEY.
SAME v. SAME.
A case in equity, wherein an account and an injunction were prayed for, was at
issue upon bill, answer, and replication. fHeld, that the parties, by referring
the matter in controversy to aln arbitrator, with tile stipulation that his report
should be the basis of a decree, waived the objection that the complainant's
remedy was at law.
APPEALS from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Strong, in 1873, entered into a contract with the Board of
Public Works of the District of Columbia for the construction
of a sewer in Washington City. On the 6th of May Willey
agreed with him to build a portion of it according to the specifications set forth in that contract with the board, and to receive payment therefor at a stipulated price per foot in his
orders on the board, payable in sewer bonds. Disputes having
arisen, Willey filed his bill, Sept. 7, 1874, in the court below
against Strong, and also made defendants the Board of Audit

