Oct. 1881.]

MASON

v. SARGENT.

We are unable to agree with this view, for the reasons
already stated. That act was not intended to apply to the case
of contracts previously made for a term of years, not expired
when it took effect.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to render
a judgment in favor of the claimants for the full amount of
their claim; and it is
So ordered.

MASON v. SARGENT.
A testator who died Dec. 4, 1867, bequeathed certain personal property to trustees, to be held by them in trust for his widow during her life, and on her
death to his children. She died June 17, 1872. Held, that a legacy tax upon
the property was, without authority of law, assessed in April, 1873, as no
right to the payment thereof had accrued at the date when the act of July
14, 1870, c. 255 (16 Stat. 256), repealing such tax, took effect.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George Putnam for the plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

The action was brought by William P. Mason and Walter
C. Cabot, to recover back the amount of a legacy tax, paid,
under protest, by them to John Sargent, the defendant, as
collector of internal revenue for the Fourth Massachusetts
District.
The facts upon which the judgment was rendered in the
court below, it was agreed, were as follows: William P. Mason,
the plaintiffs' testator, died Dec. 4, 1867. By his will, duly
proved and allowed, the personal property upon which the tax
in question was levied was bequeathed to plaintiffs in trust
for his widow for her life, and upon her death one-half to the
plaintiff, William P. Mason, and one-half to Elizabeth R. Cabot,
VOL. xIv.

44

MASON V. SARGENT.

[Sup. Ct.

children of the testator of full age at his death. The widow
died on June 17, 1872. In April, 1873, the tax in question was
assessed by Jonathan H. Mann, assessor of said district; and,
May 13, 1873, plaintiffs paid defendant said tax under protest,
to avoid distraint or other forcible process to collect the same.
May 19, 1873, plaintiffs duly made claim upon the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue for the refunding of said tax, for the
reason that the said property did not vest in possession in
the plaintiffs' eestuis que trust, until the death of the testator's
widow, which occurred after Oct. 1, 1870, the date at which the
repeal of the legacy succession tax went into effect, and that
the tax had not accrued at said date so as to come within the
saving clause of the act of repeal. Act of July 14, 1870, sect.
17. Aug. 5, 1873, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
rejected the appeal, " for the reason that the tax accrued under
the 124th section of the act of June 30, 1864, and was saved
by section 17 of the act of July 14, 1870, and, still existing,
was properly assessed." Judgment was rendered in favor of
the collector, and the plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
The tax in question was imposed by sect. 124 of the act
of June 30, 1864, c. 173 (13 Stat. 223, 285), upon legacies or
distributive shares of personal property exceeding the sum of
$1,000, passing, after the passage of the act, from a decedent,
either testate or intestate, in the hands of an executor, administrator, or trustee, varying in rate, as the party beneficially entitled was less or more remote in consanguinity, or a
stranger in blood, to the person from whom it passed; with
a proviso that legacies or distributive interests in intestate
estates, passing to husband or wife, should be exempt from
such tax.
Section 125 of the same act, as amended by the act of July
13, 1866, c. 184 (14 id. 98, 140), provides that this legacy tax or
duty "shall be due and payable whenever the party interested
in such legacy or distributive share or property or interest
aforesaid shall become entitled to the possession or enjoyment
thereof, or to the beneficial interest in the profits accruing
therefrom," &c. It also provides that it shall be a lien for
twenty years, unless sooner paid, upon the property taxed; and
the executor, administrator, or trustee, having charge of the

Oct. 1881.]

MASON v. SARGENT.

property, is required, within thirty days after he shall have
taken charge of the trust, to give notice thereof to the assessor
of the district in which the deceased last resided. He is also
required, before payment of the legacy to the legatee, to pay
the tax to the collector. As a preliminary to the payment
of the tax to the collector, he is further required to make out
in duplicate a schedule, list, or statement, containing the names
of every person entitled to any beneficial interest in the property, together with the clear value of such interest, the original
of which he renders to the assessor, and the duplicate of which
"shall be by him immediately delivered, and the tax thereon
paid to such collector." The collector gives him a receipt,
which is his voucher for that much paid on account of the
legacy in his settlement with the legatee.
By the third section of the act of July 14, 1870, c. 255 (16 id.
256), the taxes imposed by the laws then in force on legacies
and successions, among others, were repealed "on and after the
first day of October, eighteen hundred and seventy;" and by
the seventeenth section of that act (p. 261) it was enacted that
"all acts and parts of acts relating to the taxes herein repealed,
and all the provisions of said acts, shall continue in full force
for levying and collecting all taxes properly assessed, or liable
to be assessed, or accruing under the provisions of former acts,
or drawbacks the right to which has already accrued, or which
may hereafter accrue, under said acts, and for maintaining and
continuing liens, fines, penalties, and forfeitures incurred under
and by virtue thereof. And this act shall not be construed to
affect any act done, right accrued, or penalty incurred under
former acts, but every such right is hereby saved."
The court below decided that the tax in question had been
properly exacted and collected on the ground that the right to
it had accrued to the United States before Oct. 1, 1870, when
the repealing act took effect, and was within the saving clauses
of the seventeenth section.
The contention of the plaintiffs in error, on the other hand,
is that, until the legacy itself became payable, the tax upon
it did not become a claim in favor of the government; and as
the legacy was vested in the widow during her life and the
payment of it was postponed until her death, which occurred

MASON V. SARGENT.

[Sup. Ct.

June 17, 1872, after the repealing act had taken effect, no
right that could be saved by the exceptions had at that time
accrued.
It is our opinion that the tax was illegally demanded and
collected.
The property or fund which is the subject of the legacy
was expressly exempt from tax or duty, in the hands of the
trustee, during the life of the testator's widow. It seems to us
very plain that the trustee was not bound to make return of the
legacy upon the schedule, list, or statement specified in sect.
125 of the act of 1864, until, by the death of the owner of the
life-estate, the legacy became payable to those entitled in
remainder; for the delivery of that list or statement to the
assessor is to be followed immediately by a delivery by the
trustee of its duplicate to the collector, and the tax paid thereon to such collector; whereas, by the express *terms of the
section, as amended by the act of 1866, the tax or duty becomes
due and payable only when "the party interested in such legacy,
&c., shall become entitled to the possession or enjoyment thereof," &c. The return for assessment and the actual payment
of the tax, therefore, are made by the law so nearly simultaneous as that one follows the other in immediate succession ;
and it cannot well be said, upon the terms of the act, that
the right to the tax has become vested until the obligation
arises to list the property for taxation. The subject of the
tax is the interest of the legatees in remainder; but it is not
taxable as a remainder, for by the terms of the law it does
not become a subject of taxation until the right accrues to
Until then it is expressly exempt
reduce it to possession.
from taxation.
The amendment to sect. 125 of the act of 1864, made by the
act of 1866, which requires the trustee to give written notice
to the assessor of his trust within thirty days after lie shall
have taken charge of it, is not material to the argument,
because it does not appear that this requirement has any other
purpose than to give information to the officer for future use.
It does not seem to have any connection with the present
assessment and collection of the tax.
The provision in sect. 125 of the act of 1864, that the tax

Oct. 1881.]

MASON V. SARGENT.

or duty thereby imposed shall be a lien or charge upon the
property bequeathed for twenty years, or until the same is paid
within that period, determines nothing as to the time when the
tax accrues. It becomes a lien only from that time; for the lien
presupposes the existence of the tax, for which it is a security,
and is a charge upon the property, out of which it is payable
and upon which it is imposed. In the present case it is clear
beyond dispute that during the life-estate of the widow there
was no lien upon the fund, because during that period it was
expressly exempt from the tax.
In the case of Clapp v. Mason (94 U. S. 589), a similar question, as to the liability of these parties under the same will,
for a tax collected on their succession to the real estate of the
testator, devised upon the same limitations, was decided in
their favor. The court in that case said: "It is manifest that
the right does not accrue until the duty can be demanded, that
is, when it is made payable." p. 592.
The statement is equally applicable here, and leads to a
similar result.
No right to the payment of the tax had accrued at the date
when the repealing act took effect; and, therefore, none to
collect it can be deduced from its saving clauses.
Judgment reversed, with instructions to render a judgment
upon the agreed statement of facts, in favor of the plaintiffs,
for the amount therein specified.

