RAILROAD CO. v. MELLON.

[Sup, Ct.

and secured by mortgage on property in another State. That
seems to us conclusive of this case. The Nevada Bank was
incorporated and organized under the laws of one of the States
of the Union, and it had its principal place of business within
the United States. It was, therefore, subject to the sovereign
power of the United States, and a proper object of taxation.
The investments abroad are still the property of the bank and
part of its capital. In the absence of any averments to the
contrary, we must presume they were such as banks usually
make in doing a banking business, and that their legal situs
was at the home office of the corporation. We need not consider, therefore, whether, if they had been made in fixed property subject exclusively to another jurisdiction, a different rule
would apply. As the case is presented, it comes clearly within
the principle which was applied in Kirtland v. Hotch/ciss,
Judgment
affirmed.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. MELLON.

1. The scope of letters-patent must be limited to the invention covered by "the
claim," and the latter cannot be enlarged by the language used in other
parts of the specification.
2. So limited, the invention for which letters-patent No. 58,447 were granted,
Oct. 2, 1866, 'to Edward Mellon, for an improvement in the mode of
attaching tires to the wheels of locomotives, consists simply in rounding
off that corner of the inner side of the tire which fits into the re-entrant
corner made by the flange upon the rim of the wheel-centre, so as to prevent the corner of the tire from indenting and sinking into the periphery
of the wheel-centre.
3. Said letters are, therefore, not infringed by the use of an angular flange upon
the wheel-centre, that being expressly excluded by the claim.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
On Oct. 2, 1866, letters-patent No. 58,447 were granted to
Edward Mellon for an improvement in the mode of attaching
tires to the wheels of locomotives. For the purpose of illustration, three figures, numbered respectively 1, 2, and 3,were
appended to the specification on which the application for the
letters was based. The specification is as follows: -

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v. MELLON.

"Figures 1 and 2 are central sections Of a locomotive wheel
having a tire applied to it according to my invention. Figure 3, a
section of a portion of a locomotive wheel having its tire affected by
wear, drawn with a view of showing the advantage of one feature
of my invention. Similar letters of reference indicate like parts.
" This invention has fir its object the securing of tires on the
wheels of locomotives without the aid of bolts, and in such a manner that the tire, in case of becoming loose, cannot casually slip off
from the wheel.
"The invention consists in having the wheel, or the tire which is
to be fitted on the same, provided with a single flange, arranged in
such a manner that said flange, in connection with the usual flange
on the tire, will keep the latter on the wheel. The invention also
consists in constructing the tire with a rounded edge at one side of
its inner surface in order to prevent said edge from indenting and
sinking into the periphery of the wheel, a contingency which would
otherwise occur in consequence of the tire becoming stretched by
use.
"A represents a locomotive wheel which may be constructed in
the usual or any proper manner, and B is the tire fitted thereon.
The periphery of the wheel A is provided at the inner edge with a
flange a, as shown in Figures 1 and 2.
"The tire B is shrunk on the periphery of the wheel A, as usual,
and it will be seen that the flange a prevents the tire, should it
become loose on the wheel A, from slipping off at the inner side of
the wheel, and the flange b of the tire will of course prevent the
latter from slipping off at the outer side of the wheel.
"By this arrangement no bolts or set screws are required to aid
in fastening the tire on the wheel, for it is impossible for the tire to
leave the wheel either at the right or left side thereof.
"The same result may be attained by having the surface of the
tire at its outer edge provided with a flange, a', as shown at the
upper part of Figure 2.
"The inner surface of the tire at its inner edge is rounded, as
shown at c, in all the figures, in order to prevent said edge from
indenting or sinking into the periphery of the wheel. The tires of
locomotive wheels are, under the jars, concussions, and wear to
which they are subjected, considerably stretched, and they invariably become concave at their inner surface (see Figure 3), the edges
spreading over the sides of the wheel, and forming in a lock, in
some cases, so as to render the cutting of the tire necessary, in
order to detach it from the wheel. With my improvement the
VOL. XIV.

8

RAILROAD CO. V. MELLON.

[Sup. Ct.

flange a would cause the inner edge of the inner surface of the tire
to indent the periphery of the wheel, or form a crease in it if the
edge c were not rounded.
"The great feature in this invention is that I retain the tire on
the wheel without the employment of bolts, rivets, keys, or other
like attachments. I heat my tire until it has expanded sufficiently
to be slipped over the periphery of the wheel; it then cools and
contracts, and holds or binds the wheel firmly.
"After the wheel, as completed, has been in use a certain length
of time, the tire will stretch and thus become loose on the wheel ;
then the pressure of the resistance against the rail will bear or force
the tire inward against the flange a of the wheel.
"Now, it is not intended to run the engine unnecessarily with a
loose tire, but should this tire become loose while on the road,
there is sufficient safety in running the engine until the depot is
reached, or until it will be convenient to repair or replace it by a
new one.
"The tire can be readily slipped off, there being no rivets or
other fastenings to undo, and the convenience and utility of my
improvement is apparent.
"I am aware of the invention described in patent to N. Hodge,
Nov. 18, 1851, but I wish it to be understood that I do not claim
the invention therein described, viz. the angular flange upon the
inner edge of the wheel and the flange upon the outer edge of
the wheel, but I do claim as my invention the wheel with the
curved flange upon the inner edge in combination with a tire with
a rounded corner to fit said curved flange, as set forth."
The application for letters-patent, as is shown by the filewrapper, was made Oct. 6, 1865. It was twice rejected; the
last time on April 23, 1866.
The bill in this case charged that the letters-patent had
been infringed by the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, the
defendant, and it prayed for an injunction and an account of
profits.
The answer of the company denied that Mellon was the first
inventor of the mode of attaching tires to wheels of locomotives, described in his letters-patent, and it also set up former
letters-patent and publications, bearing date many years before'
his alleged invention, and showing, as was claimed, tires and
wheels such as the company use.

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MELLON.

Among them are letters-patent No. 8526, granted to Nehemiah Hodge, Nov. 18, 1851, for a new and useful improvement
in railroad car wheels. One of the drawings (that designated
as Figure 2) annexed to his specification on which the letterspatent were granted shows a flange or shoulder from the rim
of the wheel-centre projecting over and overlapping the tire.
The answer, by way of further defence, denied infringement.
The Circuit Court upon final hearing found against the
company upon both issues made by the answer, perpetually
enjoined it from further infringement, and directed an account
of profits to be taken. Upon the coming in of the mister's
report a decree was rendered in favor of Mellon for the suni
of $3,018.
This appeal was thereupon taken by the company.
Figures 1, 2, and 3 appended to Mellon's specification are as
follows S.

FIG.2.

z

RAILROAD CO. v. MELLON.

[Sup. Ct.

The following represents Figure 2 of the drawings annexed
to the specification of Hodge.

Mr. Alexander D. Campbell and Mr. Edward N. Dickerson
for the appellant.
Mr. Furman Sheppard, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the evidence that railroad locomotive wheels
are composed of two parts, - the body of the wheel, called the
wheel-centre, and a tire which surrounds it, substantially in
the same manner in which the tire surrounds the felloes of an
ordinary wagon wheel.
The invention of Mellon relates solely to a method of fastening tires upon locomotive wheel-centres. It appears from the
record that, generally speaking, there are two ways of fastening
these tires upon their wheel-centres ; one by making the tire a
little smaller in diameter than the wheel-centre, then heating
it so that it will expand somewhat more than the difference
between its diameter and the diameter of the wheel-centre,
and in that condition slipping it on the centre and allowing it
to cool, thus following the method of a blacksmith in shrinking
a wagon tire upon a wooden wheel. Another method is to
fasten the tire cold upon the wheel-centre by means of screws
or bolts.
The former method is now almost universally used. In
shrinking the tires on the wheels, the practice usually followed
at present is to turn the wheel-centre, bore the tire in a cylindrical form, and rely solely upon the contraction of the tire by
cooling to retain it upon the wheel.
A modification of this method is, in place of the wheelcentre and tire meeting each other in a cylindrical joint,
to have some kind of a flange, lip, or shoulder to project
either from the circumference of the wheel-centre or from

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD Co. v. MVELLON.

the bore of the tire, to fill a corresponding groove or recess
in the opposite part, so that when the tire has been shrunk
on the wheel-centre it cannot be driven sideways off the
wheel against the resistance of this flange. The wheels exhibited in the drawings of Mellon's patent belong to this
latter class.
The right of Mellon to the relief prayed for in the bill depends in part upon the construction to be placed on his letterspatent.
His counsel contends that they cover two things, which, it
is claimed, are in substance set forth in his specification as
follows: -

First, In having the wheel, or the tire which is to be fitted
on the same, provided with a single flange arranged in such a
manner that said flange, in connection with the ordinary flange
on the tire, will keep the latter on the wheel.
Second, In constructing the tire with a rounded edge at one
side of its inner surface, in order to prevent said edge from indenting and sinking into the periphery of the wheel, a contingency which would otherwise occur in consequence of the tire
being stretched by use.
Conceding that the patent is to be construed according to
the contention of the appellee, we are of opinion that he has
not shown himself entitled to relief.
An inspection of the specification and drawings which accompany the letters-patent granted to Nehemiah Hodge under
date of Nov. 18, 1851, shows precisely the contrivance first
described in the specification of the appellee's patent. The
drawing, representing a central cross-section of a car-wheel,
appended to Ilodge's specification, accurately illustrates the
first alleged invention described in the specification of appellee's patent. His patent cannot, therefore, be held to include
that contrivance. So far as that part of his alleged invention
is concerned, the defence of want of novelty is conclusively
established.
But there is another answer to this part of his case.
The act of July 4, 1836, c. 357 (5 Stat. 117), under which
this patent was issued, requires that an applicant for a patent
shall not only "deliver a written description of his invention

RAILROAD CO. v. MELLON.

[Sup. Ct.

or discovery," but " shall also particularly specify and point
out the part, improvement, or combination which he claims as
his own invention or discovery." This provision is substantially re-enacted in the act of July 8, 1870, c. 230 (16 Stat. 198),
Rev. Stat., sect. 4888, and remains in force.
As a rule, therefore, the specification filed with the application for letters-patent contains a general description of the
invention sought to be patented, which is followed by what is
technically called the " claim." In reference to this latter part
of the specification this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley,
has said: "It is well known that the terms of the claim in
letters-patent are carefully scrutinized in the Patent Office.
Over this part of the specification the chief contest generally
arises. It defines what the office, after a full examination of
previous intentions and the state of the art, determines the
applicant is entitled to." -Burns v. Meyer, 100 U. S. 671.
See also Keystone Bridge Co. v. Phoenix Iron Co.,' 95 id. 274,
278.
In view, therefore, of the statute, the practice of the Patent
Office, and the decisions of this court, we think that the scope
of letters-patent should be limited to the invention covered by
the claim, and that though the claim may be illustrated, it
cannot be enlarged by the language used in other parts of the
specification.
We are, therefore, justified in looking at the " claim" with
which the specification of the appellee's invention concludes,
to determine what is covered by his letters-patent.
The claim, so far from covering an angular flange upon the
wheel, expressly excludes such a flange, and embraces only a
flange with a curved or rounded corner.
In this case the description of the appellee's invention is
much broader than his claim. It seems quite clear from the
present form of his specification, and from the fact that his
application for a patent was twice rejected, that lie was compelled by the Patent Office to narrow his claim to its present
limits before the commissioner would grant him a patent. In
doing this he neglected to amend the descriptive part of his
specification. He cannot go beyond what lie has claimed and
insist that his patent covers somdthing not claimed, merely

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

CO. v. MELLON.

because it is to be found in the descriptive part of the specification.
The appellee is, therefore, precluded from claiming relief
against the appellant for the use of a flange with a square corner. He is, consequently, driven to the second branch of his
alleged invention, as set out in his bill of complaint, as the
basis of any relief against appellant.
This, as is clear from his claim, consists simply in rounding
off that corner of the inner side of the tire which fits into the
re-entrant corner made by the flange upon the rim of the
wheel-centre, so as to prevent the corner of the tire from indenting and sinking into the periphery of the wheel-centre.
The charge in the bill of infringement of this part of appellee's alleged invention is not sustained by the proof. The
answer, which is under oath, denies infringement. Infringement must, therefore, be shown by satisfactory proof ; it cannot be presumed. The evidence for the appellee entirely fails
to establish this part of his case. On the contrary, the proof
adduced by the appellant is not only persuasive, but conclusive
to show that it never made or used the flange with the rounded
corner.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the record discloses no
case against the appellant. The decree of the Circuit Court
must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill; and it is
So ordered.

