BONAPARTE

BONAPARTE

v.

TAX COURT.

v. TAX

[Sup. Ct.

COURT.

The Constitution does not prohibit a State from including in the taxable property of her citizens so much of the registered public debt of another State
as they respectively hold, although the debtor State may exempt it from
taxation or actually tax it.

E RloR to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.
Mrs. Elizabeth Patterson, a resident of Baltimore, Md.,
returned, in accordance with the law of that State, to the
proper board of assessors, the following property: City of New
York stock, six per cent; City of New York stock, seven per
cent; County of New York stock, seven per cent; County of
New York stock, six per cent; State of New York stock, six
per cent; State of Pennsylvania stock, six per cent; State
of Ohio stock, six per cent; and City of Philadelphia stock,
six per cent. She stated their several amounts, and claimed
their exemption from taxation because they were of a public
character, and, except a portion of the City of Philadelphia
stock, were exempt from taxation by the laws of the States
respectively authorizing their issue, while that portion had
always been subjected by Pennsylvania to a tax which she
had paid to that State. They were of the character known
as "registered ;" i. e., transferable only on the public record
books of the States and municipalities issuing them, and the
interest was paid only at places provided by the laws of those
States, and beyond the boundaries of Maryland. The board
of control and review by which this return was revised, disallowed her claim for exemption. She thereupon filed a petition
in the Baltimore City Court, praying that the above-described
property should be stricken from the lists. The order of the
court granting the relief prayed was reversed by the Court of
Appeals, whereupon she sued out this writ of error. She died
during its pendency, and her executor was substituted in her
stead.
Mr. I Nevitt Steele and Mr. Charles I Bonajparte, for the
plaintiff in error, submitted her following propositions : The asserted right of one State to tax the loans of its citizens to another State involves its right to prohibit such loans,

Oct. 1881.]

BONAPARTE v. TAX COURT.

and forbid all dealings on the part of its citizens with the
governments of other States. Such a right assumes the existence of a powerwhich is inconsistent with the mutual amity
imposed on all the States by the Constitution.
The registered public debt of a State is properly subject to
its sovereignty, and therefore to its taxing power ; and whenever this sovereignty is exercised by the public acts of the
State, either taxing or exempting from taxation this debt, they
must, under art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution, be recognized
by the courts of other States as giving it for taxation a situs
in the State by which it was incurred.
The same property cannot at the same time have more than
one situs for the purpose of taxation. It, therefore, follows,
and it is the only Federal question presented by this record,
that the proper situs for taxation of property of this description is, under the Constitution, in the State owing the
debt. This view finds support also in the following considerations: 1. It shuts the door to fraud and perjury. The ownership
of the debt of each State can be determined by an inspection of public records, always open to its fiscal officers; that
of the debt of other States can be learned only from the
returns of taxpayers. To say nothing of the gain to public
morality, the advantages to the treasury, in the narrowest
sense, of a mode of collection dependent in no wise upon the
consciences of contributors, would largely exceed the amount
raised by taxing foreign investments.
2. It simplifies the whole method of collection. The stock,
the thing taxed, remains within the State, subject to levy and
sale whenever the tax thereon is in arrear. If a resident of
one State, on the other view, invested all his property in the
debts of other States (a perfectly supposable contingency), it
is hard to see how the State where he resides could compel
him to pay taxes.
3. It gives the public debt of each State a fixed value for
all investors, and in each of the great financial centres of
the country. This is of almost incalculable advantage to the
States that borrow, and to the capitalists who wish the largest
choice of investments. The opposite construction would, in
VOL. XIV.

38

BONAPARTE

v.

TAX COURT.

[Sup. Ct.

the last resort, confine the loans of each State to its own
citizens.
4. Finally, it gives the citizens of one State a direct interest in the good order and prosperity of sister States; tends
to prevent sectional jealousies and antagonisms ; avoids the
danger of reciprocally hostile legislation by the several States
against the credit of their neighbors, and promotes the "more
perfect union " aimed at by the Constitution.
Mr. Charles J. A. Gwin, Attorney-General of Maryland,
contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question we are asked to decide in this case is whether
the registered public debt of one State, exempt from taxation
by the debtor State, or actually taxed there, is taxable by
another State when owned by a resident of the latter State.
We know of no provision of the Constitution of the United
States which prohibits such taxation. It is conceded that no
obligation of the contract of the debtor State is impaired.
The only agreement as to taxation was that the debt should
not be taxed by the State which created it.
It is insisted, however, that the immunity asked for arises
from art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution, which provides that
full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public
acts of every other State. We are enabled to give such an
effect to this provision.
No State can legislate except with
reference to its own jurisdiction. One State cannot exempt
property from taxation in another. Each State is independent
of all the others in this particular. We are referred to no
statute of the debtor State which attempts to separate the
situs of the debt from the person of the owner, even if that is
within the scope of the legislative power of the State. The
debt was registered ; but that did not prevent it from following the person of its owner. The debt still remained a chose
in action, with all the incidents which pertain to that species
of property. It was " movable " like other debts, and had
none of the attributes of "immovability."
The owner may
be compelled to go to the debtor State to get what is owing

Oct. 1881.]

BONAPARTE V. TAX COURT.

to him; but that does not affect his citizenship or his domicile. The debtor State is in no respect his sovereign, neither
has it any of the attributes of sovereignty as to the debt it
owes, except such as belong to it as a debtor. All the obligations which rest on the holder of the debt as a resident of
the State in which he dwells still remain, and as a member
of society he must contribute his just share towards supporting
the government whose protection he claims and to whose control he has submitted himself.
It is true, if a State could protect its securities from taxation
everywhere, it might succeed in borrowing money at reduced
interest; but, inasmuch as it cannot secure such exemption
outside of its own jurisdiction, it is compelled to go into the
market as a borrower, subject to the same disabilities in this
While the Constitution of the
particular as individuals.
United States might have been so framed as to afford relief
against such a disability, it has not been, and the States are
left free to extend the comity which is sought, or not, as they
please.
Taxation of the debt within the debtor State does not
change the legal situs of the debt for any other purpose than
that of the tax which is imposed. Neither does exemption
from taxation.
As the only Federal question involved was decided right in
the court below, we cannot look into ,the other errors which
have been assigned. Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall.
590.
Judgment affirmed.

