Pet. 1881.]

BLAIR V. GRAY.

BLAIR V. GRAY.
The charter of an insurance company in Illinois declares that, "in all cases of
losses exceeding the means of the corporation each stockholder shall be held
liable to the amount of unpaid stock held by him." An action at law was
brought against a stockholder, who had not paid his stock su4scription, to
recover the amount due upon the policy issued by the company to the plaintiff's intestate. Ifeld, that the declaration is bad in substance, as it fails to
aver that the losses of the company, or its liabilities, exceed its assets. t2uere,
If there was a deficiency of assets, could such an action be maintained to
enforce the liability of a stockholder.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action at law by Blair. The declaration alleges
that a policy of insurance was issued by the Republican Life
Insurance Company of Chicago on the life of his intestate, who
died while the policy was in full force and effect; that proof
of death and the adjustment of the loss were duly made, but
that the company failed to pay any part of the sum due by the
terms of the contract.
The declaration also avers that Gray, the defendant, was
a stockholder of the company to the amount of $10,000, of
which he had actually paid in only $2,000; and that under the
sixth section of the charter, which is set out in the opinion of
this court, he is, to the amount of his unpaid stock, liable to
the plaintiff.
The court sustained a demurrer to the declaration, and Blair
sued out this writ.
ERROR

Mr. . A. Otis for' the plaintiff in error.
Mr.FrancisKales, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The charter of the Republic Life Insurance Company of
Chicago contains the following section:" SECT. 6. The real and personal property of each individual stockholder shall be held liable for any and all liabilities of the company,
,tothe amount of stock subscribed and held by him and not actually
VOL. XIV.

49

POPPE v. LANGFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

paid in. In all cases of losses exceeding the means of the corporation, each stockholder shall be held liable to the amount of unpaid
stock held by him."
The defendant, Gray, subscribed $10,000 to the capital stock
of the company. He has paid only $2,000 on his subscription,
and still owes the company for the rest. Under the foregoing
section of 'the charter some appropriate action for the benefit of
creditors may undoubtedly be maintained against him for the
recovery of this unpaid balance, if the losses of the company
are in excess of its means.
This suit was at law by a policy-holder of the company,
against the defenctant as a stockholder, to recover an amount
claimed to be due on the policy. There is no averment in the
declaration to the effect that the losses of the company, or its
liabilities, exceed its assets. The case stands on demurrer to
Without, therefore, determining whether,
the declaration.
under the decisions of the courts of Illinois, if it appeared that
there was a deficiency of assets, an action like this might be
maintained, we affirm the judgment below, because we are all
of opinion that, until such contingency arises, a creditor cannot
sue a stockholder to enforce this liability.
Judgment affirmed.

PoPPr

v.

LANGFORD.

This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court
affirming that the title of the true owner of lands is extinguished by an adverse possession under color of right for the length of time that would bar
an action of ejectment.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of California.
Langford, the substituted plaintiff in an action of ejeetment,
against Poppe, inthe District Court of the Fifth Judicial District of California, for the County of San Joaquin, recovered
judgment for a tract of land in that county. The only real
question involved in the case, and passed upon by the Supreme

