Oct. 1881.]

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an application by the agent of the master, part-owner,
and claimant of the British ship "William Law," for a writ of
prohibition to restrain the District Court of the District of
Delaware, sitting in admiralty, from proceeding further in a
suit pending in that court against the vessel to recover the
half-pilotage, which is claimed to be due under the statutory
regulations of Delaware, for refusing to accept the services of
a pilot when tendered, outside of Cape Henlopen light-house,
to conduct the ship to the Delaware breakwater, where she
was bound for orders. It has long been settled that claims for
pilotage fees are within the jurisdiction of the admiralty. Ex
parte McNeil, 13 Wall. 236; Hobart v. Drogan, 10 Pet. 108.
Such being the case, under the decision just rendered in Ex
parte Gordon (supra, p. 515), the District Court can properly
hear and decide the matters in dispute, and the application
for the writ is accordingly
Denied.

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.
1. The right of a corporation to assign letters-patent, whereof it is the owner, is
not affected by an attachment whereunder shares of its capital stock, belonging to a stockholder, were seized, and the assignment may be made by
an instrument in writing not under seal.
2. A., on selling a machine containing a patented invention, warranted the title
to it and the right to use it. He afterwards acquired a part interest in the
letters-patent. Held, that the sale, so far as he is concerned, is a license to
the vendee to use the machine. Quure, Are the other part owners estopped
by the sale from setting up that by such use the letters-patent are infringed?
3. Under the contract between A. and the other part owners (infra, p. 525) all
licenses granted by him were in effect confirmed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The bill of complaint alleged that Frederick Miller, the
defendant, was infringing letters-patent No. 42,580, bearing
date May 3, 1864, and granted to the complainants, Matthew
Gottfried and John F. T. Holbeck, for an improvement in a

522

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

[Sup. Ct.

machine for pitching beer barrels. It prayed for an injunction
to restrain his further infringement, and for damages and an
account of profits.
The only defence relied on was that on Nov. 25, 1872, John
H. Stromberg, the owner of an undivided one-third of the
entire interest in the letters-patent sued on, sold and delivered
to the defendant, for his use forever, a machine for pitching
barrels, containing some of the improvements purporting to be
secured by said letters-patent; that the defendant paid for it ;
and since that date used, and was still using it; and that except
as aforesaid he never in any manner used or employed the
method or improvements, or the process or machine, set forth
in the letters-patent.
The controversy relates to Miller's right to use the machine.
The evidence establishes the following state of facts, about
which there seems to be no dispute: The letters-patent were, as above stated, granted to Gottfried
and Jlolbeck. On Nov. 25, 1872, Stromberg sold to Miller a
pitching machine containing, as the complainants asserted, the
improvements covered by their letters-patent. Miller claimed
the right to use it, and did use it from the time of his purchase
up to the date of filing this bill. This is the infringement
of which complaint is made. The controversy depends on several transfers and other transactions between the parties who
at different times had or claimed to have an interest in the patent. They were as follows: On Dec. 19, 1870, Gottfried, one
of the patentees, by written assignment, in consideration of five
dollars paid, and a royalty to be paid of ten dollars on every
machine to be manufactured by Holbeck, sold and transferred
all his interest in the letters-patent and the invention to Holbeck, reserving, however, in the same instrument, the right to
revoke it if the royalty should not be paid. On Jan. 3, 1871,
Holbeck, being then the sole owner of them, sold and assigned
to Charles F. Smith and Henry C. Comegys an undivided
two-thirds of all his title and interest therein ; on the 25th of
that month, the title to them being at that time in Holbeck,
Smith, and Comegys, they, by written assignment, transferred
to the "Barrel Pitching Machine Company" of Baltimore all
their right, title, and interest in and to various letters-patent,

Oct. 1881.]

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

including those to Gottfried and Holbeck. The assignment
contained this provision: "The same to be held and enjoyed
by the said company as fully and entirely as they would have
been held by us if this assignment and sale had not been made,
with the exception that the said company shall not assign to
any one but ourselves any or all the interest in and to the
above-named patents in the proportion as they are now held
by us, this assignment to hold good until the dissolution or
liquidation of the said company, when the said company shall
reassign to us in the same proportions as now assigned by us."
Afterwards, on June 1, 1871, Holbeck, Smith, and Comegys
made a further assignment to the company of their interest in
the letters-patent mentioned in the first assignment, which
contained the following clause: " And provided also that this
assignment shall continue in full force until the dissolution of
said company, in which event, or in the event of the liquidation of the affairs of said company, the several interests of each
grantor in said patents shall, subject to the lawful rights of the
creditors of said corporation, be reassigned to each grantor."
On Dec. 9, 1875, the directors of the company resolved that
all the right, title, and interest of the company acquired by
the assignment from Smith, Comegys, and Holbeck, should be
assigned and reconveyed to them for the sum of $500, and
directed Charles F. Smith, the president of the company, to
execute and deliver on its behalf an assignment to them.
On the 11th of that month, in pursuance of the resolution
just mentioned, an instrument, purporting to be an assignment,
for the consideration of $500, was executed by the company to
Smith, Comegys, and Holbeck, of all its right, title, and interest in and to the patent. The attestation clause and signature
were as follows: "In testimony whereof, and in pursuance of a resolution passed
by said company on the ninth day of December, 1875, a copy of
which is appended hereto, the said Charles F. Smith had hereto
set his hand, as the act of the said company, this eleventh day of
December, 1875.
(Signed)
" CHARLES

F.

SMITH,

"President Barrel Ptching Machine Company."

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

[Sup. Ct.

On the same day, Smith, for the alleged consideration of
$500, granted and assigned to Holbeck and Gottfried all his
right and title to the patent; and afterwards, on June 7, 1876,
Comegys transferred to Stromberg all his interest in the
patent.
It next appears that on Oct. 9, 1876, Gottfried, Holbeck,
and Stromberg, who are named as jointly interested in the patent, appointed, by a certain instrument in writing, J. H. B.
Latrobe, of Baltimore, their attorney, with authority to prosecute suits against infringers of the patent, and to compromise
or adjust the same. This instrument contained the following
clause: -

" And it is understood that all expenses, costs, and charges,
including counsel fees, attending the litigation, if any, shall be
deducted fiom the collections aforesaid, and the balance paid over
to the parties hereto in the proportion of their interest in the said
patents, and particularly it is understood that the said John II.
Stromberg shall be paid out of said collections, as fast as made, all
moneys that he may have advanced in the prosecution of claims
under said letters-patent."
This instrument bears the signatures and seals of Holbeck,
Gottfried, and Stromberg. During the years 1877 and 1878
bills in equity were filed by them against various defendants,
in which they averred themselves to be joint owners of the
letters-patent.
On Dec. 15, 1879, Stromberg, in consideration of the sum of
$5,000, assigned to Gottfried all his interest in the patent, and
in all claims of every kind or nature for past infringements,
and all rights of action arising out of, or connected with,
infringements. This instrument of assignment recited the fact
that Stromberg had theretofore disposed of rights and licenses
under the patent as a part owner under mesne assignments of
the same, and had caused suits to be instituted against infringers, and that it was a part of the consideration of the
assignment from him that he should be released from all claim
which Gottfried or Holbeck, or their assignees, might or could
have against him for or by reason of any collections theretofore made by him, or his attorneys, or against any person or

Oct. 1881.']

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

persons to whom he had granted licenses to use the patented
improvements; and it was then declared as follows "Now, therefore, the said Matthew Gottfried and the said John
F. T. Holbeck (the said Holbeck uniting herein for the purpose of
carrying out the agreement aforesaid), for and in consideration
of the premises, have released, and by these presents do hereby
release, the said John H. Stromberg from all claim that they or
either of' them might or could have against the said Stromberg for
or by reason of any collection he may have made from parties to
whom he or his attorneys . . . may have granted licenses to use
the said patented improvement, hereby ratifying and confirming all
such licenses, and all the acts of the said Stromberg and his attorneys in the premises. And the said Matthew Gottfried doth
hereby covenant and agree that he will save harmless the said
Stromberg and his attorneys from all claims that may be made
against them or either of them for or by reason of any interest
which the said Gottfried and Holbeck or either of them may have
given to any other party in the said letters-patent."
It appears also that in September, 1873, Charles F. Smith
brought a suit against Henry C. Comegys in the Superior Court
of Baltimore City, upon an indebtedness from Comegys to him,
in which an attachment was issued and a seizure made of the
shares of capital stock held by Comegys in the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, which proceedings, on October 27,
resulted in a judgment condemning the stock, according to
the laws of the State of Maryland, for the satisfaction of
Snith's claim.
On the day upon which Stromberg sold the machine to
Miller, he had no interest in the letters-patent and no license
under them, and it is admitted that he infringed them by
making and selling the machine to Miller.
At the January Term, 1881, on motion of both complainants, the court below dismissed the bill as to Holbeck.
Upon a final hearing, in June following, a decree was rendered dismissing the bill as to Gottfried, who thereupon
appealed.
Mr. Thomas A. Banning and Hr. Ephraim Banning for the
appellant.
Mr.Ef. I. Abbot for the appellee.

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE WOODs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The appellant rests his right to a decree in this case upon
these grounds: First,that Stromberg never owned any part of
the patent sued on; and, second, that if he did, his ownership
could not inure to the protection of the defendant Miller.
We shall consider these contentions in the order stated.
Upon the first point we remark that it is entirely clear that the
assignment of his interest in the patent by Comegys to Stromberg, dated June 7, 1876, transferred to the latter an interest
therein, provided the retransfer of the patent by the Barrel
Pitching Machine Company to Holbeck, Smith, and Comegys
vested the title to the patent in them. Briefly stated, the following is the chain of title: Gottfried and Holbeck are the
joint patentees; Gottfried conveys all his interest in the patent
to Holbeck, who, becoming thus the owner of the entire patent,
conveys one undivided third to Smith and another to Comegys.
Holbeck, Smith, and Comegys convey the entire interest in
the patent to the Barrel Pitching Machine Company. The
company reconveys its interest in the patent to its assignors,
Holbeek, Smith, and Comegys; Smith conveys his interest to
Gottfried and Holbeck, and Comegys conveys his to Stromberg.
The contention of the appellant is that the assignment of
Dec. 11, 1875, by the Barrel Pitching Machine Company to
Holbeck, Smith, and Comegys was not properly executed, and
was, therefore, ineffectual to pass any title.
The assignment declares that in pursuance of a resolution
passed by the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, and in consideration of $500 received by it from Smith, Holbeck, and
Comegys, the said company has granted to them all its title
and interest in said letters-patent. It is officially signed by
Smith as president of the company, who declares the setting
of his hand thereto to be the act of the company.
The resolution referred to in this assignment is in the
record, from which it appears that the company decided to
make the assignment, and directed Smith to execute and
deliver the same to Smith, Comegys, and Holbeck on behalf of
the company, on receiving from them the sum of $500.
On account of the want of the corporate seal and of the

Oct. 1881.]

GOTTFRIED V. MILLEIR.

manner of its execution, it is insisted by appellant that this
assignment was not the transfer of the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, but the personal deed of Smith.
There is no ground whatever for this contention to stand on.
Assignments of patents are not required to be under seal.
The statute regulating their transfer simply provides that
"every patent, or any interest therein, shall be assignable in
law by an instrument in writing." 16 Stat., p. 203, sect. 36;
Rev. Stat., sect. 4898.
A corporation may bind itself by a contract not under its
corporate seal, when the law does not require the contract to
be evidenced by a sealed instrument. BankJ of Columbia v.
Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299; Pilee/kner v. Banko of the United
States, 8 Wheat. 338: Andover, ft. Turnpike Corporation v.
Hay, 7 Mass. 102 ; Dunn v. The Rector, &e. of St. Andrew's
Church, 14 Johns. (N. Y.) 118; Kennedy v. Baltimore Ins. Co.,
3 Har. & J. (Md.) 367; Stanley v. Hotel Corporation,13 Me.
51. Even the parol contracts of a corporation made by its
duly authorized agent are binding. Panning v. Gregoire, 16
How. 524; Fleelcner v. Banko of the United States, supra. The
absence, therefore, of the corporate seal from the contract of
assignment does not render it invalid or void.
The assignment is executed in the manner required by law
of an agent when making a simple contract in writing for the
corporation and by its authority. The rule as laid down by
the authorities is that the agent should, in the body of the contract, name the corporation as the contracting party, and sign
as its agent or officer. This is the mode in which bank-bills,
policies of insurance, and many other contracts of corporations are ordinarily executed. Mott v. Hicks, 1 Cow. (N. Y.)
513; Bowen v. lMforris, 2 Taunt. 374; Shelton v. Darling,
2 Conn. 435; Brockway v. Allen, 17 Wend. (N. Y.) 40.
The assignment under consideration purports on its face to
be the contract of the Barrel Pitching Machine Company. It
declares that the consideration has been received by the coinpany; that it is executed in pursuance of a resolution passed
by the company; and it purports to be signed by Smith, president of the company, who declares that he signs it as the act
of the company.

GOTTFRIED V. MILLER.

[Sup. Ct.

It would be an absurdity to hold that this instrument is the
individual contract of Smith, and not of the Barrel Pitching
Machine Company.
It is not the company which asserts that this instrument was
ineffectual to divest it of title to the patent, and the record
shows that the assignees therein named acted upon the assumption that the assignment vested them jointly with the title.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the assignment was well
executed by the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, and transferred the letters-patent to Holbeck, Smith, and Comegys, and
that Stromberg, on Juie 7, 1876, by virtue of the assignment
made to him on that day by Comegys, became vested with an
undivided interest in the patent.
It is contended by counsel for appellant that the attachment
of the stock of Comegys in the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, at the suit of Smith, in the Superior Court of Baltimore
City, prevented Comegys from acquiring any interest in the
patent by the assignment thereof to Smith, Holbeck, and
Colnegys by the Barrel Pitching Machine Company, and,
therefore, Comegys could convey no interest in the patent to
Stromberg. This position seems to be founded on the clause
of the instrument by which the patent was transferred to the
Barrel Pitching Machine Company, to wit, that any reassignment of the patent to the assignors should be subject to the
lawful rights of the creditors of the company.
The answer to this contention is, that Smith was the creditor of Comegys, and not of the company, and the clause in the
instrument of transfer to the Barrel Pitching Machine Company gave Smith no claim on the patent to secure a debt due
him, not from the company, but from a stockholder in the
company.
The fact that Comegys held stock in the company gave him
no title to its property, and the attachment of his stock did
not in the least incumber the property of the company, or
prevent the assignment of the letters-patent by it to Smith,
Holbeck, and Comegys, or the transfer by Comegys to Stromberg. Morgan v. The Railroad Company, 1 Woods, 15; Bradley v. Holdsworth, 3 Mee. & W. 422; Arnold v. Ruggles, 1 R. I.
165.

Oct. 1881.]

V. MILLER.

GOTTFRIED

It remains to consider whether the sale by Stromberg to
the defendant, Miller, of one of the pitching machines, containing the improvement described in the patent, protects him
from liability for its use in this suit.
By the contract of sale, Stromberg warranted not only the
title to the machine itself, but the right to use it. If, at the
time of the sale, he had been the owner of the patent, the sale
would have constituted a license to Miller to use the machine
as long as it lasted. But Stromberg did not acquire any interest in the patent until long after the date of his sale to
Miller.
If he had subsequently become the sole owner of the patent,
his previous sale to Miller of a machine embodying his patented invention would have estopped him from prosecuting
Miller for an infringement of the patent by the use of the
machine. In analogy to estates in land by estoppel, Miller
would have acquired a right to use the machine which could
not have been controverted by Stromberg.
But having acquired only a part interest in the patent, we
do not undertake to decide that his previous sale of the machine to Miller bound the other joint owners of the patent.
It is clear, however, that such sale was a license to Miller to
use the machine so far as Stromberg could grant a license.
And in our opinion the covenants of Gottfried and Holbeek, in
the contract by which Stromberg assigned his interest in his
patent to them, are sufficient to protect Miller from this suit.
In that contract it is declared to be part of the consideration of the transfer by Stromberg of his interest in the patent
to Gottfried and Holbeck " that he should be released from all
claims which Gottfried or Holbeck, or either of them, or any
person to whom they, or either of them, may have assigned an
interest in said letters-patent, might or could have against
him. . . . or against any person or persons to whom Stromberg may have granted licenses to use the said patented improvement." And by said instrument Gottfried and Holbeck,
for and in consideration of the premises, declare that they do
release said Stromberg from all claims they or either of them
may have against him or the parties to whom he may have
granted licenses to use said patented improvement.
VOL. XIV.

84

Micou v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

We think there can be no doubt that it was the purpose of
all the parties to this instrument, and it is clearly expressed
therein, that, as a part of the consideration of the transfer,
Stromberg was released from claims against him arising out of
his transactions in reference to said patent, and that all licenses
granted by him were in effect confirmed. This contract, therefore, affords complete protection to Miller, the appellee, and is
an effectual bar to the prosecution of this suit.
Decree affirmed.

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

This case involves only disputed questions of fact, and the court, upon a consideration of the proofs, holds th-at certain decrees sgainst a guardian in favor
of his wards, whereunder his real estate was purchased by them, they being
his children and lie insolvent, were not procured by him to be rendered with
the intent thereby to hinder, delay, and defraud his creditors.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mr. William A. Gunter and Mr.
Philip Phillips, with whom was Mr. W. Hallett Phillips, for
the appellants, and by Mr. David Clopton and 34r. Ililary A.
Rerbert, with whom was lYr. Santuel P. Rice, for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed by the First National Bank of
Montgomery, to subject to the payment of a judgment recovered by it against Benjamin 1-. Micou, Thomas M. Barnett,
and Nicholas D. Barnett, partners, as Barnett, Micou, & Co.,
certain lands the legal title to which had been transferred to
Henry C. Semple, in trust for Lucy B. Micou, and Clara E.
Boykin, wife of Frank S. Boykin, all of whom, together with
Benjamin 1-. Micou, were defendants below, the conveyance
being, as charged, in fraud of the complainant's rights as a
creditor.
The indebtedness on which the judgment is founded existed

