Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES V. JACKSON..

UNITED

STATES V.

JACKSON.

1. This court will take judicial notice that, by law, the territory of the Unitee
States is, for internal revenue purposes, divided into collection districts,
with defined geographical boundaries.
2. Suit on a bond reciting that the President hath, pursuant to law, appointed
A. "collector of taxes, under an act entitled 'An Act to provide internal
revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the public debt, and
for other purposes,'
and conditioned that he "shall truly and faithfully
execute and discharge all the duties of the said office, according to law,
and shall justly and faithfully account for and pay over to the United
States . . . all public moneys which may come into his hands or possession." Held, that the bond is binding on the parties thereto, but that the
declaration is bad on demurrer, inasmuch as it does not aver A.'s appointment to the collectorship of any particular district.
3. Semble, that the bond with A.'s commission, or the public record thereof, would
be sufficient proof of such appointment, had the fact been averred.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Mr. Jeremiah M. Wilson,
contra.
MI. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The action in this case was brought by the United States
against Jackson and the other defendants, on a bond in which
he was principal, and they were his sureties. Judgment was
rendered for the defendants on a demurrer to the declaration,
which sets out the substance of the obligatory part of the
bond, namely, the acknowledgment of an indebtedness to the
United States in the sum of $50,000; to which it adds, there
was annexed the following condition: " Whereas the President
of the United States hath, pursuant to law, appointed the said
George W. Jackson collector of taxes, under an act entitled
'An Act to provide internal revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the public debt, and for other purposes:'
"Now, therefore, if the said George W. Jackson shall truly
and faithfully execute and discharge all the duties of the said

. UNITED STATES V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

office, according to law, and shall justly and faithfully account
for and pay over to the United States, in compliance with the
regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, all public moneys
which may come into his hands or possession, and if each and
every deputy collector appointed by said collector shall truly
and faithfully execute and discharge all the duties of such
deputy collector according to law, then the above obligation to
be void and of no effect; otherwise it shall remain and abide
in full force and virtue."
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the bond was absolutely void, because it did not state for what particular collection district Jackson was collector of taxes, and for the proper
discharge of the duties of which the defendants undertook to
be responsible.
It is a matter of which this court will take judicial notice,
that, by law, the country is divided into collection districts for
internal revenue purposes, and in some States there are several
of these districts, with defined geographical boundaries. A
collector is appointed for each district, and his duties relate to
the collection of internal revenue within it. Because, therefore, the bond did not bind the parties on its face for Jackson's
performance of the duties of any particular district, the Circuit
Court was of opinion that it was void.

But it does bind the signers for the faithful performance of
the duties of collector of taxes by George W. Jackson, according to law, and it avers that he had been duly appointed collector of taxes under the internal revenue act. The duties for
the performance of which these parties bound themselves were
well defined. The person who was to perform them, and for
whose default they consented to become liable, was named in
the obligation, and the only matter of importance omitted was
the place or district within which those duties were to be performed. He was collector for but one district. It is fairly to
be presumed that the obligors knew for what district he had
been appointed, since they say he had already been appointed
by the President when they signed the bond.
This appointment was a matter of public record. The evidence of it was the commission of Jackson signed by the President and duly sealed. The district, therefore, for which he

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. JACKSON.

was appointed was known to the obligors, and was a matter of
public record, and we do not see how such a bond can be held
to be void. In any issue that could arise as to the district for
which Jackson was appointed, and for the duties of which
they became liable, it could be made certain by the production of his commission or the record of it in the proper
department.
It would not depend on any parol proof. The production of
the bond and commission makes complete the obligation of
the defendants. That is certain in law which can be rendered
certain.
If, therefore, there had been an averment in the declaration
of the district for which Jackson was appointed, we do not see
why the declaration and the bond, taken together, would not
have been good, when it was further averred that, in regard to
the duties of that district, he had been guilty of a default
covered by the terms of the bond. If to such a declaration
non est factum or nil debet had been pleaded, the production of
the bond and commission would have been a sufficient answer,
because the commission would have shown by matter of record
that Jackson had been appointed internal revenue collector for
that district, and the undertaking of the defendants in his
behalf would have been held to apply to his duties under that
commission.
But there is no averment in the declaration anywhere that
he was or had ever been appointed collector of any partictlar
district. There is, therefore, no foundation for proof of that
fact by the production of the commission or by any other evidence. On a judgment by default no such commission could
be introduced, nor proof of non-performance in any district.
No issue could be taken on the declaration as to his appointment or his obligation to perform the duties of any district,
because there is no averment of any such obligation. The
declaration affords no opportunity to render more specific the
obligation of defendants by introducing the commission. It
does not aver that this obligation for Jackson as revenue collector related to the duties of any particular district, so as to
enable the court to apply the covenant of the defendants to
those duties.

KING V. WORTHINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

We are of opinion, therefore, that, regarding the demurrer
(as we must) as referring to the declaration and to the bond
set out on oyer, it was well decided that they were insufficient
to sustain the action.
Judgment affirmed.

KING v. WORTHINGTON.
1. A cause pending on appeal in the Supreme Court of a State at the date of
the passage of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470),
was remanded for a rehearing, the decree below having been reversed
solely upon the ground of the admission of the evidence of incompetent
witnesses. The transcript was filed in the court of original jurisdiction
at a term thereof which was within the time prescribed by the State
statute. Held, that a petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States filed at the same term and before such rehearing was filed in due season.
2. Where, touching the competency of witnesses, there is a conflict between the

law of a State and an act of Congress, the latter must govern the courts
of the United States.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Horace . Waite for the appellants.
Mr. Henry G. Miller, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity, brought originally in the Superior
Court of Cook County, in the State of Illinois, on July 22,
1870, by George W. Worthington and John T. Avery, citizens
of the State of Ohio, against Emily A. King, widow of John B.
King, deceased, and Vere Bates King, his only child, a minor,
and the said Emily A. King as guardian of said minor, the said
defendants being citizens of the State of Illinois. During the
progress of the case George W. Worthington died, and his
legal representatives, who were also citizens of Ohio, were
made parties complainant in his stead. The purpose of the
bill was to remove a cloud from the title to certain real estate
in that county, of which the original complainants alleged
MR. JUSTICE WOODS

