KOSHKONONG v. BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

do not feel at liberty to go outside of the agreed statement
of facts upon which it was submitted."
The case was not submitted to the Court of Claims in a way
to enable it to determine the question of fact; and upon a retrial, if the parties do not agree upon the amount or upon the
rule of computation, the compensation, at fair and reasonable
rates, must be determined upon a consideration of all facts
material to the issue, not to exceed the amounts paid by private parties for the same kind of service.
It will be just and necessary to include in that estimate and
finding an allowance for compensation for the transportation
of mail agents and clerks; not, however, as a separate item of
service, to be paid for, necessarily, at the rates which might
reasonably be charged if that were the whole; but as a part
of and incident to the entire service rendered in the transaction of the postal business required by the government, for
which, as an entirety, the compensation should be made, at
fair and reasonable rates, according to, and subject only to,
the limitation required by the sixth section of the act of
1862.
To this end, for the reasons assigned, the judgment of the
Court of Claims will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
instructions to proceed therein in conformity with this opinion;
and it is
So ordered.

KOSHKONONG

V. BURTON.

1. The Statute of Limitations of Wisconsin applies to the coupons of a municipal
bond, whether they be detached from it or not, and begins to run front the
time they respectively mature.
2. The legislature has the constitutional power to provide that existing causes
of action shall be barred, unless, within a shorter period than that prescribed
when they arose, suits to enforce them be brought, if a reasonable time is
given by the new law before the bar takes effect.
3. The right to interest upon interest, whether arising upon an express or an
implied agreement, if allowed by the statutes then in force, cannot be im-

paired by subsequent legislation declaring their true intent and meaning.
Such legislation can only be applied to future transactions.

Oct. 1881.1

KOSHKONONG v. BURTON.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. L. B. Caswell for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John A. Sleeper and Mr. Henry K. WTiton, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of this action, which was commenced on the twelfth
day of May, 1880, is to recover the amount due on bonds, with
interest coupons attached, issued on the first day of January,
1857, by the town of Koshkonong, a municipal corporation of
Wisconsin, pursuant to authority conferred by an act of the
legislature of that State. They were made payable to the
Chicago, St. Paul, and Fond du Lac Railroad Company, or its
assigns, on the first day of January, 1877, at the American
Exchange Bank, in the city of New York, with interest at the
rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, on the
presentation of the interest warrants at that bank on the first
day of each July and January, until the principal sum should
be paid. Of the bonds in suit, with their respective coupons,
Burton became the owner by written assignment from the railroad company, indorsed upon the bonds, under date of Nov. 16,
1857. None of the coupons have ever been detached from the
bonds nor paid, except those maturing July 1, 1857, and Jan. 1,
1858.
The coupons are all alike except as to dates of maturity.
They are complete instruments, capable of sustaining separate
actions, without reference to the maturity or ownership of the
bonds. Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall et al., 21
I-low. 539; Clarle v. Iowa City, 20 Wall. 583; Amy v. Dubuque,
98 U. S. 470. The following is a copy of the one last due:
" The town of Koshkonong will pay to the holder hereof, on
the first day of January, 1877, at the American Exchange
Bank, in the city of New York, forty dollars, being for halfyearly interest on the bond of said town No. 22, due on that
day. S. R. Crosby, clerk."
The main question is whether the action, as to coupons maturing more than six years prior to its commencement, is not
barred by the Statutes of Limitation of Wisconsin. The court

KOSHKONONG

v.

BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

below being of opinion that no part of plaintiff's demands was
barred, gave judgment for the principal of the bonds, with
interest from the first day of January, 1877, at the stipulated
rate of eight per cent per annum until paid, and also for the
amount of each coupon in suit, with interest from its maturity
at the rate of seven per cent per annum, the latter being
the rate established by the local law in the absence of a special
agreement by the parties.
The present writ of error questions the correctness of that
judgment, as well because it overrules the defence of limitation
to coupons maturing more than six years before the commencement of this action, as because it allows interest upon the
amount of each coupon from its maturity.
The statutes of Wisconsin, in force when the bonds and
coupons were issued, provided that " all actions of debt founded
upon any contract or liability, not under seal" (except such as
are brought upon the judgment or decree of some court of
record of the United States, or of a State or Territory of the
United States), shall be commenced within six years after the
cause of action accrued, and not afterwards; and that all personal actions on any contract, not otherwise limited by the laws
of the State, shall be brought within twenty years after the
accruing of the cause of action. Rev. Stat. Wis. 1849, sects.
14-22, pp. 644, 645.
We remark that the foregoing provisions, without substantial
change of language, were taken from the statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, adopted in 1839. Further, that the revision
of 1849 did not, in terms, prescribe any limitation to actions
upon sealed instruments. They were, therefore, embraced by
the limitation of twenty years as to personal actions on contracts not covered by other provisions.
The revision of 1849 was superseded by one made in 1858,
which went into operation on the first day of January, 1859.
By the latter, as modified by an act passed in 1861, civil actions,
other than for the recovery of real property, were required to
be commenced within the following periods: Actions upon
judgments or decrees of courts of record of the State, and
actions upon sealed instruments when the cause of action accrued in the State, within twenty years (Rev. Stat. Wis. 1858,

Oct. 1881.]

KOSHKONONG V. BURTON.

c. 138, sect. 15); actions upon the judgments or decrees of
courts of record of any State or Territory of the United States
6r of courts of the United States, and actions upon sealed instruments, when the cause of action accrued out of the State,
within ten years (sect. 16) ; and actions upon contracts, obligations, or liabilities, express or implied, excepting those mentioned in sects. 15 and 16, within six years, the time to be
computed, in each case, from the date where the cause of action
accrued. Gen. Laws Wis. 1861, p. 302. The revision of 1858
also contained the general clause that, " in any case where a
limitation or period of law prescribed in any of the acts hereby
repealed [which included the revision of 1849], for the acquiring of any right or barring of any remedy, or for any other
purpose, shall have begun to run, and the same or any similar
limitation is prescribed in the Revised Statutes, the time of
limitation shall continue to run, and shall have the like effect,
as if the whole period had begun and ended under the operation
of the Revised Statutes." Id., c. 191, sect. 13, p. 1038.
Thus stood the law of the State until the ninth day of March,
1872,-a little over fifteen years after these bonds and coupons
were issued, - when an act was passed entitled " An Act to
limit the time for the commencement of action against towns,
counties, cities, and villages on demands payable to bearer." It
provided that "no action brought to recover any sun of money,
on any bond, coupon, interest warrant, agreement, or promise in
writing, made or issued by any town, county, city, or villaye, or
up~on any instalment of the principal or interest thereof, shall be
maintained in any court, unless such action shall be commenced
within six years from the time when such sum of money has or
shall become due, when the same has been or shall be made
payable to bearer, or to some person or bearer, or to the order
of some person, or to some person or his order: Provided, that
any such action may be brought within one year after this act
shall take effect: Providedfurther, that this act shall in no case
be construed to extend the time within which an action may be
brought under the laws heretofore existing." Gen. Laws Wis.
1872, p. 56.
Our attention has also been called to certain sections in the
revision of the statutes of Wisconsin of 1878, which went into

KOSHKONONG v. BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

operation on the first day of November of that year, superseding that of 1858, as well as the act of 1872. Those sections
contain, in substance, the clauses first quoted from the revision
of 1858, with the modifications made by the act of 1872. Rev.
Stat. Wis. 1878, pp. 1015, 1016. It is to be observed in this
connection - for it has some bearing upon what we shall presently say-that sect. 4220 of the revision of 1878, in terms,
prescribed twenty years as the limitation for "an action upon a
sealed instrument when the cause of action accrues within this
State, except those mentioned in sect. 4222; " while the latter
section embraces, among others, " an action upon any bond,
coupon, interest warrant, or other contract for the payment of
money, whether sealed or otherwise, made or issued by any
town, county, city, village, or school district in this State,"thus indicating that the framers of the revision of 1878 regarded municipal securities for the payment of money as
belonging to the class of sealed instruments. We observe,
also, that the revision of 1878 contains a provision in reference to those cases in which limitation had commenced to
run, similar to that already quoted from the revision of 1858.
Rev Stat. 1878, sect. 4984; Rev. Stat. 1858, p. 1038.
From the foregoing summary it will be seen that by the
local law, when the bonds in suit were issued, all civil actions for debt, founded on contract or liability, not under seal
(except actions upon judgments or decrees of some court of
record of the United States, or of a State or Territory), could
be brought within six years after the cause of action accrued,
and not afterwards ; while such actions, if founded on contract
or liability, under seal, would not be barred until twenty years
after the cause of action accrued. If, as contended by plaintiff, the question of limitation is to be determined exclusively
by the revision of 1849, in force when the bonds were issued,
and if, as is further insisted, an action on municipal bonds and
coupons, such as are here in suit, is, within the meaning of
that revision, "founded on contract or liability not under seal,"
it is clear that, without reference to the statute of 1872, this
action is barred as to all coupons maturing more than six years
before its commencement, whether such coupons were separated
or not from the bonds to which they were originally attached.

Oct. 1881.]

KOSHKONONG

v. B URTON.

This, upon the authority of Amy v. Dubuque (98 U. S. 470),
with the doctrines of which we are entirely satisfied. We there
said, construing the statutes of Iowa, upon the subject of limitation, that suits upon unpaid coupons, such as those in suit,
might be maintained in advance of the maturity of the principal debt; that " upon the non-payment at maturity of each
coupon the holder had a complete cause of action. In other
words, he might have instituted his action to recover the
amount thereof at their respective maturities. From that date,
therefore, the statute commenced to run against them ...
Upon principle, his failure or neglect to detach the coupon and
present it for payment at the time when, by contract, he was
entitled to demand payment could not prevent the statute from
running."
But we are inclined to the opinion - although uninformed
upon the subject by any direct decision of the Supreme Court
of the State to which our attention has been called -that
municipal bonds and coupons were regarded by the framers
both of the revision of 1849 and that of 1858, as, alike, sealed
instruments to which the limitation of twenty years was applicable. The word " bond" at common law (and even now as
a general rule) imports a sealed instrument. And although,
under some circumstances, a municipal corporation issuing and
delivering bonds and coupons, in aid of railroad enterprises,
may be liable thereon, notwithstanding they are unattested by
its corporate seal, we are satisfied that the legislature of Wisconsin intended, by the revision of 1849, as well as that of
1858, to prescribe the same limitation for actions upon such
obligations as was, in terms, prescribed for actions upon what,
technically or in common legal parlance, are denominated
sealed instruments.
If this interpretation of the revision of 1849 and 1858 be
correct, it would follow that this action was not, at the passage
of the act of 1872, barred by limitation as to any of the coupons in suit. Twenty years had not then expired from the
maturity of any of them.
It remains now to inquire as to the effect of the act of 1872
upon municipal obligations executed and outstanding at the
date of its passage. Of the object of that statute there cannot,
VOL. XI V.

48

KoSHIONONG V. BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

it seems to us, be any reasonable doubt. The specific reference to coupons and interest warrants made or issued by towns,
counties, cities, and villages, without distinguishing such as
are scaled from those unsealed, and the express requirement
as to the time within which actions thereon must be brought
or be barred, indicates a purpose upon the part of the legislature to reverse the policy which had been pursued, by holders
of such securities, of postponing the collection of interest coupons until after the bonds, to which they were annexed, had
matured, -a delay which had the effect, in some instances, of
compelling municipal corporations to meet, all at once, a large
indebtedness, which the legislature intended, at least as to the
interest accruing thereon, should be provided for in instalments or through a series of years. Whatever considerations,
however, may have suggested that legislation, it is clear that
its object was such as we have indicated.
We are here met with the argument that the act of 1872,
neither in terms nor by necessary implication, applies to any
municipal obligations, except those " payable to bearer, or to
some person or bearer, or to the order of some person, or to
some person or his order;" whereas, the bonds in suit are payable to the railroad company or its assigns, and the coupons
are payable to the holder thereof. Waiving any expression
of opinion as to whether the phrases "payable . . . to the
order of some person," or "payable . . . to some person or his
order," do not, upon a reasonable construction of the act, embrace the case of a bond payable to a railroad company or its
assigns, -a
question which need not be determined, since it
is conceded that the action, as to the principal of the bonds,
are
is not, in any view of the case, barred by limitation, -we
of opinion that a coupon, payable to the holder thereof, is,
within the meaning of the act, and, according to the usages of
the commercial world, payable to bearer. Consequently the
suit, as it respects interest coupons, is embraced by the terms
of the act of 1872.
But the further contention of plaintiff's counsel is, that the
act of 1872 is unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of
the contract between the town and the holders of its securities.
This objection is founded upon the proviso, which declares

Oct. 1881.]

KOSHKONONG V. BURTON.

that " any such action [of the class specified in the act] may
be brought [only] within one year " after the act takes effect.
While that proviso is very obscurely worded, its meaning is,
that no action to recover money due upon a municipal bond,
coupon, interest-warrant, or written agreement or promise,
or upon any instalment of the principal or interest thereof,
whether such obligations were issued before or after the passage of the act, should be maintained, unless brought within
six years (not from the passage of the act, but) from the time
the money sued for became due; except - and no other exception is made - that when the six years from the maturity
of any past-due bond or coupon would expire within less than
a year after the act passed, the action should not be barred,
if brolght within that year. It was undoubtedly within the
constitutional power of the legislature to require, as to existing causes of action, that suits for their enforcement should be
barred unless brought within a period less than that prescribed
at the time the" contract was made or' the liability incurred
from which the cause of action arose. The exertion of this
power is, of course, subject to the fundamental condition that
a reasonable time, taking all the circumstances into consideration, be given by the new law for the commencement of an
Terry v. Anderson, 95
action before the bar takes effect.
U. S. 628; Ilawcins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 457 ; Jackson
v. Lamphire, 3 id. 280; Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596;
Christmas v. Russell, 5 id. 290; Sturges v. Crowninshlield,
4 Wheat. 122; Osborn v. Jaines, 17 Wis. 573; Parker v.
Kane, 4 id. 1; Fallkner v. Donman, 7 id. 388. Whether the
first proviso in the act of 1872, as to some causes of action,
especially in its application to citizens of other States holding
negotiable municipal securities, is or not in violation of that
condition, is a question of too much practical importance and
delicacy to justify us in considering it, unless its determination be essential to the disposition of the case in hand. And
we think it is not. For if the proviso, in its application to
some cases, is obnoxious to the objection that it does not allow
sufficient time within which to sue before the bar takes effect,
and is, therefore, unconstitutional, as impairing the obligation
of the contract between the town and its existing creditors, it

KOSHKONONG V. BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

does not follow that the entire act would fall and become inoperative. The result, in such case, would be, that the plaintiffs and other holders of the coupons would have not simply
one year, but - under the construction we have given to the
statutes in force prior to the act of 1872- to a reasonable
time after its passage within which to sue. And if a proper
construction of that act would give the full period of six years,
after its passage, within which to sue upon coupons maturing
before its passage, the judgment below cannot be sustained.
For this action was not instituted until more than eight years
after the passage of the act of 1872. It is, consequently,
barred by limitation as to all coupons falling due (and, therefore, collectible by suit without reference to the maturity of
the bonds) more than six years prior to its commencement.
The bar was complete more than six years before the revision
of 1878 took effect, even if that revision should be deeined to
have any application to this action. There is no escape from
this conclusion, unless we should hold that the legislature
could not, constitutionally, reduce limitation from twenty
to six years as to existing causes of action. But neither
upon principle nor authority could that position be sustained.
The question next to be considered relates to that portion
of the judgment allowing interest upon the amount of each
coupon from its maturity.
The general proposition suggested by this question seems to
have been determined, in 18635, in Mills v. Town of Jefferson,
20 Wis. 50. That was a suit upon interest coupons attached
to bonds issued by a municipal corporation to a railroad company, under the authority of an act passed in the year 185T.
The coupons were similar to those here in suit. While
recognizing the fact that many courts of high authority had
disallowed interest upon interest, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin expressed its approval of those cases in which it was
adjudged that an express agreement in a note or bond to pay
interest at a specified tim6, as annually or semi-annually, entitled the holder to interest upon interest from the time it
became due. "For," said the court, " when a person agrees
to pay interest at a specified time, and fails to keep his under-

Oct. 1881.]

KOSHKONONG v. BURTON.

taking, why should he not be compelled to pay interest upon
interest from the time he should have made the payment ? If
he undertakes to pay in a sum at a given time to the owner,
and makes default, the law allows interest on the sum wrongfully withheld from the time he should have made such payment." To the same effect is Pruyn v. The City of Milwaukee
(18 Wis. 367), where, without question, so far as we can
gather from the report of the case, interest upon interest was
given upon the amount of coupons from their respective maWe remark, in this connection, that among the
turities.
authorities cited by the State court in Mills v. Town of Jefferson, in support of its conclusion, is Gelpece v. City of Dubuque
(1 Wall. 175), where it was said (the suit being upon coupons
of municipal bonds) that, " if the plaintiffs recover in this
case, they will be entitled to the amount specified in the coupons, with interest and exchange as claimed." In harmony
with this view are Aurora Cit v. West, 7 Wall. 82, Town of
Genoa v. Woodruff, 92 U. S. 502, Amy v. Dubuque, 98 id. 470,
and Walnut v. Wade, 103 id. 683.
Another question arises upon this branch of the case. The
law of Wisconsin, as declared in Mills v. Town of Jefferson,
remained, without attempt to change it, until March 3, 1868,
when an act was passed entitled "An Act to construe sections
one and two of chapter 160 of the General Laws of 1859, and
to amend section 2 of said chapter." Its first and second sections are as follows:
"1. It was and is the true intent and meaning of sections one
and two of chap. 160 of the General Laws passed in the year 1859,
and of all other laws heretofore enacted in the State prescribing and
limiting the rate of interest, that interest should not be compounded or bear interest upon interest, unless an agreement to
that effect was clearly expressed in writing, and signed by the
party to be charged therewith.
"2. Section 2 of chap. 160 of the General Laws of 1859 is
hereby amended by adding thereto the following: 'And in the
computation of interest upon any bond, note, or other instrument
or agreement, interest shall not be compounded, nor shall the
Gen. Laws
interest thereon be construed to bear interest.'"
Wis. 1868, pp. 62, 63.

KOSHKONONG V. BURTON.

[Sup. Ct.

In the Revised Statutes of 1878 the following provision
appears: " SECT. 1689. . . . And in the computation of interest upon any
bond, note, or other instrument or agreement, interest shall not be
compounded, nor shall interest thereon be construed to bear interest, unless an agreement to that effect is clearly expressed in
writing, and signed by the party to be charged therewith."

It is contended that the foregoing enactments govern the
present case, and preclude recovery of interest upon the
amount of the respective coupons from their maturities. In
this view we do not concur. By the first section of the act
of 1868, the legislature assumed to declare what was the true
intent and meaning of previous legislation prescribing and
limiting the rate of interest. It was said by Chancellor Walworth, in Salters v. Tobias (3 Paige (N. Y.), 388, 344), that,
"in England, where there is no constitutional limit to the
powers of Parliament, a declaratory law forms a new rule of
decision, and is valid and binding upon the courts, not only as
to cases which may subsequently occur, but also as to preexisting and vested rights. But even then the courts will
not give it a retrospective operation, so as to deprive a party
of a vested right, unless the language of the law is so plain
and explicit as to render it impossible to put any other construction upon it. In this country, where the legislative power
is limited by written constitutions, declaratory laws, so far as
they operate upon vested rights, can have no legal effect in depriving an individual of his rights, or to change the rule of
construction as to a pre-existing law. Courts will treat such
laws with all the respect that is due to them as an expression
of the opinion of the individual members of the legislature as
to what the rule of law previously was. But beyond that they
can have no binding effect; and if the judge is satisfied the
legislative construction is wrong, he is bound to disregard it."
When counsel, in Ogden v. Blaelcledge (2 Cranch, 272, 277),
announced that, to declare what the law is, or has been, is
a judicial power, to declare what the law shall be is legislative, and that one of the fundamental principles of all our governments is that the legislative power shall be separate from

Oct. 1881.]

KOSHKONON(

V. BURTON.

the judicial, this court interrupted them with the observation
that it was unnecessary to argue that point. Prior to the
passage of the act of 1868, the highest judicial tribunal of the
State had adjudged, that when a sum was to be paid at a
specified time as interest, that sum bore interest from that
time until paid. This was an adjudication as to what was
the local law in that class of cases. And the utmost effect to
be given to a subsequent legislative declaration, as to what
was the proper meaning of the statutes which had thus been
the subject of judicial construction, would be to regard it as
an alteration of the existing law in its application to future
transactions, especially where, as was the case in the act of
1868, that declaration was accompanied by a distinct provision,
in terms, changing the pre-existing law. In Stoc/dale v. In&suranee Conmpany (20 Wall. 331), this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said, that " both on principle and authority it may
be taken to be true, that a legislative body may, by statute,
declare the construction of previous statutes so as to bind the
courts in reference to all transactions occurring after the passage of the law, and may, in many cases, thus furnish the rule
to govern the courts in transactions that are past, provided
no constitutional right of the party concerned is violated."
Sedgwich, Contr. Stat. and Const. Law (2d ed.), pp. 214, 227;
Cooley, Const. Lir. 93, 94. It is clear, therefore, that neither
the act of 1868 nor the provision quoted from the revision of
1878, which is but a continuation of the second section of the
act of 1868, can be deemed applicable to the case before us.
The contract between the town and the holders of its securities was entered into prior to those enactments, and the rights
of the parties must necessarily be determined by the law as
it was when the contract was made. It was not within the
constitutional power of the legislature to take from the plaintiff his right, whether arising on express or implied contract,
to interest upon interest, if, when the coupons were executed
and delivered, he, or the then holder thereof, had such right,
under the law of the State.
Without pursuing the case further, it is sufficient to say that
we do not concur with such of the views of the learned district
judge as are inconsistent with those here announced. The

680

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

judgment must be reversed, with directions to enter judgment in behalf of plaintiff for the amount of the bonds, with
interest at the stipulated rate, from their maturity until paid
(Spencer v. Maxfield, 16 Wis. 185; Pruyn v. City of Milwaukee, supra), and also for the respective amounts of those
coupons only which fell due within six years preceding the
commencement of this action, with interest thereon at the
rate established by the law of the State; and it is
So ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in this case.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN

RAILWAY COMPANY v.

UNITED STATES.
1. A railroad company, in aid of which Congress granted land, entered, September, 1875, into a contract with the United States to transport for four years
the mails over its road at a price which conformed to the statute then in
force. It received from the Postmaster-General due notice of his orders,
reducing the rates of compensation, pursuant to the act of July 12, 1876,
c. 179 (19 Stat. 78), and the act of July 17, 1878, c. 259. 20 id. 140. The
company protested against the order, but performed the stipulated service.
Held, that it is entitled to recover the contract price therefor.
2. Those acts apply only to contracts thereafter made, or to such as did not
require the performance of the service for a specific period.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company owns and
operates lines of railroad, of which parts were constructed by
companies which severally received from the United States,
to aid in their construction, grants of public lands, to which
was attached this condition: " The United States mail shall
be transported over such roads, under the direction of the
Post-Office Department, at such price as Congress may by
law direct: Provided, that, until such price is fixed by law,
the Postmaster-General shall have the power to determine
the same." Act of May 15, 1856, c. 28 (11 Stat. 9); Act of
June 3, 1856, c. 42, id. 18.
In September, 1875, the company entered into three contracts in writing with the United States, acting by the Post-

