SAVINGS BANK

v.

ARCHBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

SAVINGS BANK v. ARCHBOLD.
1. The last clause of sect. 3408 of the Revised Statutes exempts savings banks
of the character there mentioned from taxation on so much of their deposits
as they have invested in securities of the United States, and on all sums
not exceeding $2,000 which they have on deposit in the name of any one
person.
2. The act of March 1, 1879, c. 125 (20 Stat. 327), does not change the effect of
that clause.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Lewis Sanders and Mr. William M. Evarts for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff is a savings bank, incorporated by the legislature of New York, and the defendant was in 1876 a collector of internal revenue in the district in which the plaintiff
did business. The present action is brought to recover the
amount of certain taxes and penalties collected by him from
the bank in that year. Its determination involves the construction of the concluding clause of sect. 3408 of the Revised
Statutes, exempting deposits of money in savings banks, under
$2,000, from the tax imposed by the previous clause of the
same section on deposits generally. The section declares that
a tax of one twenty-fourth of one per cent shall be levied
each month on the average amount of deposits of money,
subject to payment by check or draft, with any person, association, company, or incorporation engaged in the banking
business. The concluding clause provides that deposits in
savings banks " having no capital stock, and doing no other
business than receiving deposits to be loaned or invested for

the sole benefit of the parties making such deposits, without
profit or compensation to the association or company, shall be
exempt from tax on so much of their deposits as they have
invested in securities of the United States, and on all deposits

not exceeding $2,000 made in the name of any one person."

Oct. 1881.]

SAVINGS BANK V. ARCHBOLD.

The plaintiff is a savings bank of the character here mentioned, but the language used in expressing the exemption is
not as happy as could be desired. "Deposits in . . . savings
banks . . . shall be exempt from the tax on so much thereof
as they have invested in securities of the United States, . . ,
and on all deposits not exceeding $2,000," is the form in
which the law is given. "Deposits on deposits" not exceeding a certain amount is not a felicitous mode of expressing the
legislative purpose. The bank, believing that the exemption
extended to $2,000 of all deposits, reported the balance as the
amount of its deposits subject to the tax, and paid the sum of
$253, assessable thereon. The collector of internal revenue
took a different view of the law, and held that the exemption
applied only to such deposits as amounted to $2,000 or under
that sum. He, accordingly, levied upon all other deposits a
tax, which amounted to $5,236; and although the savings
bank acted on the advice of counsel, and, as the court specifically finds, in good faith, without any fraudulent intent, and
readily informed the collector, at his request, of the amount of
all its deposits, that officer added to this $5,236, a penalty of
one hundred per cent, as though the return made by the bank
had been a false and fraudulent one; and, also, a further
penalty of five per cent, for a failure to pay the tax assessed
within the prescribed period, and interest upon the whole,
making the gross sum of $10,838.52. This amount being collected by distraint, the present action is brought to recover it.
The concluding clause of the section in question, in our judgment, intended to exempt from the tax all deposits to the extent in which they were invested in United States securities,
and also to the extent of $2,000. We think that the term
"deposits," as it is last used, is to be taken as equivalent to the
terms " sums deposited " or " sums," and the clause be read as
if the language were: "The deposits in . . . savings banks
. . . shall be exempt from tax on so much thereof as they
have invested in securities of the United States, and on all
sums not exceeding $2,000 deposited in the name of any one
person."
This construction gives a clear meaning to the clause and
avoids the inconsistency of holding that the addition of a

SAVINGS BANK V. ARCHBOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

single mill to $2,000 would subject the whole deposit to the
tax, even though such addition might be the accumulation of
interest. It upholds, also, the policy of encouraging and protecting savings by exempting those of each depositor to a certain amount; and is in harmony with the amendment made
by the act of March 1, 1879, c. 125, to obviate the possibility of the construction which the defendant adopted. That
amendment declares that savings banks shall be exempt from
tax on so much of their deposits "as they have invested in
securities of the United States, and on two thousand dollars of
savings deposits, and nothing in excess thereof, made in the
name of and belonging to any one person." 20 Stat. 827,
352.
But the section, as it originally tood, meant, in our judgment, the same thing. The interpretation we give to it
secures, equally with the amendment, uniformity in the tax,
and lays its burdens alike upon all. An interpretation which
accomplishes this end in the operation of tax laws should be
preferred to one leading to a different result.
It follows that the defendant erred in his construction of the
law; that the assessment of the tax on all deposits which exceeded $2,000, without any deduction of that amount, and the
imposition of a penalty for not making a return in accordance
with his views, were illegal, and that the moneys thus exacted
from the savings bank should be returned. We express no
opinion as to the legality of imposing a penalty where no fraud
was intended. As a general thing, the imposition of a penalty
implies delinquency by the party on whom it is imposed. Its
consideration, however, is immaterial, in view of the construction we give to the law.
Upon the agreed statement of facts, the plaintiff was entitled to recover the amount exacted from him, with interest.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to enter judgment in
his favor accordingly ; and it is
So ordered.

