Oct. 1881.]

LOUDON V. TAXING DISTRICT.

Court of the State to which an appeal was taken, is stated in
the opinion of this court.
Mr. C. T. Botts and Mr. James D. Coleman in support of the
motion.

Mr. C. R. Greathouse and Mr. A. Chester, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is clear we have no jurisdiction in this case. All the
court below decided was, that in California the title of the true
owner of lands is extinguished by an adverse possession under
color of right for the length of time which would be a bar to
a recovery in ejectment. This is not a Federal question. All
that was said about sect. 1007 of the Civil Code of California
was unnecessary and not required in the determination of the
cause.
Motion granted.

LOUDON

v.

TAXING DISTRICT.

1. Lawful interest is the only damages to which a party is entitled for the nonpayment of money due upon contract. His right is limited to the recovery
of the money so due and such interest.
2. A city entered into a contract with A., whereby it executed its bonds in dis
charge of certain indebtedness to him and agreed to appropriate a specific portion of the revenue derived from taxation to pay judgments in his
favor against it. The city did not apply the taxes pursuant to its contract,
and he was compelled to.pay exorbitant interest to raise money to meet
his engagements. The bonds were not worth more than fifty per cent of
their par value. Ield, that the failure of the city to make the stipulated
application of the taxes furnishes no ground for setting aside the contract,
and that A. is entitled to no other relief than a provision for paying the
balance due upon the judgments out of the taxes levied or to be levied in
that behalf.
3. A party whose appeal has been dismissed cannot be heard in opposition to
the decree.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The firm of J. & M. Loudon, of which James A. Loudon,
the appellant, is the surviving partner, entered in the year

772

LoUDON v. TAXING DISTRICT.

[Sup. Ct.

1867 into several contracts with the city of Memphis to pave
certain streets and alleys and part of the wharf and public
landing. The city was directly liable for a portion of the work,
and gave its negotiable notes therefor. It failed to meet them
at maturity, and the firm recovered four judgments thereon,
Nov. 4, 1871, aggregating $64,613.18. These judgments were,
as the notes had been, put in the hands of parties from whom
the firm borrowed money, for the use of which it was compelled to pay exorbitant interest, to meet its engagements, the
city having failed to make payment.
For another portion of the work the owners of the adjoining
property were liable, and the city guaranteed the payment.
The owners did not pay the assessments, and the city failed to
make good its guaranty. In May, 1872, the Supreme Court
decided that the law pursuant to which the contracts were
made that provided for charging upon the owners of the abutting property the cost of paving streets, was unconstitutional.
The firm and the city agreed Sept. 16, 1872, that the amount
due from the property-holders - for a part of which, however,
the city was not responsible- amounted to $45,367.89, and
that the city should execute to the firm forty-five six-per-cent
coupon bonds of $1,000 each, due thirty years after date. This
was done, the city paying in cash $367.89. It was further
agreed, that of the tax of one per cent on the assessed value of
the property within the city, subject to taxation, three tenths
of the sum levied for the year 1872 should be set apart to pay
the judgments due the firm.
The city bonds were worth but fifty per cent of their face
value, and that was the only amount which the firm realized
from such of them as it sold.
In the tax levy for 1874 no provision was made for the payment of the judgments, and nothing has been paid thereon
since January of that year. The firm was compelled to sell
two of them at an exorbitant rate of discount.
, The bill prays that the contract of September, 1872, so far
as it interferes with a recovery by the complainant of the debt
of $45,000, for which the bonds of the city were accepted, be
set aside and vacated; that the city may be decreed to pay

all that in justice and equity is due to him by reason of the

Oct. 1881.]

LOUDON V. TAXING DISTRICT.

exorbitant interest the firm was compelled to pay to raise
money in consequence of the refusal of the city to meet its engagements, and also by reason of the money lost by the sale
of the judgments; that accounts for the purpose of ascertaining the amounts so due may be taken and stated, and the city
compelled by proper process to pay it. The bill also prays
for general relief. The city answered, and the cause was heard
on the pleadings and proofs. A decree was rendered that
Loudon was entitled to a specific performance of the agreement
entered into in September, 1872; and that, for the payment of
the balance due him on the judgments not disposed of by him,
the city should set apart and appropriate three tenths of the
amount that may be collected from the tax theretofore or
thereafter levied as the tax for the then present or the following years, and should also pay the costs.
Each party prayed an appeal. That of the city was, for a
failure to comply with the rules, dismissed at a former term.
The General Assembly of Tennessee repealed, in 1879, the
charter of Memphis. The legislation relating thereto and to
the establishment of taxing districts will be found in ]erriwealter v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472. On motion of Loudon, the
taxing district of Shelby County was substituted in place of
the city.
Mr. William l. Randolph for the appellant.
Mr. Isham G. Harrisand Mr. C. W. Ifeiscell for the taxing
district.
M R . CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The questions in this case are,
1. Whether, because the city of Memphis neglected to pay the
debts it owed the appellant when they fell due, it must make
good to him the losses he sustained on that account through
exactions of extraordinary interest and discounts on sales of
securities to raise money to meet his own obligations ; and,
2. Whether, upon the facts as shown, a decree should be
passed rescinding the cohtract under which the appellant received bonds of the city in settlement of what was due him on
certain of his claims.

LOUDON V. TAXING DISTRICT.

[Sup. Ct.

As to the first of these questions, it is sufficient to say that
all damages for delay in the payment of money owing upon
contract are provided for in the allowance of interest, which
is in the nature of damages for withholding money that is
due. The law assumes that interest is the measure of all such
damages.
As to the second, we are satisfied that the only contract
which was entered into by the parties is that expressed in the
resolution of the city council accepting the proposition of the
appellant to take bonds of the city in payment of what was due
him on the designated claims. This required the city only to
set apart, for the payment of the judgments which the appellant held, three tenths of the specified tax levied to defray the
expenses of the city for the year 1872. That was done, and
large sums of money collected and paid over under the appropriation. There was no fraud in the inception of the contract.
The value of the bonds accepted by the appellant was well
understood by him, and it is not denied that the officers of the
city at the time acted in good faith. The failure of the city
since 1874 to keep its contract and pay over the taxes of 1872
collected after that time is certainly no ground for setting aside
the contract altogether. The more appropriate relief certainly
is that which was granted; to wit, provision for the payment
of the balance that remains due out of the future collections of
taxes levied or to be levied in that behalf.
The city took an appeal from that part of the decree which
gave the appellant affirmative relief; but that appeal has been
dismissed, under the ninth rule, for want of prosecution. The
case stands here now as though no such appeal bad been taken.
The city can, therefore, only be heard in support of the decree
as it stands. This has long been the settled rule in this court.
Canter v. American and Ocean Insurance Companies, 3 Pet.
307 ; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191; The Stephen 1liorgan, 94 U. S. 599. An appeal brings up for review only that
which was decided adversely to the appellant. It is unnecessary to determine what might have been done in this case if
the appeal of the city had not been formally dismissed for
want of prosecution.
Decree affirmed.

