UNITED STATES v. STEAMSHIP CO.

[Sup. (Jt.

UNITED STATES V. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
1. The court holds that all questions relating to the character of the vessels
employed by the Pacific Mail Steamship Company in executing its contracts with the United States and to the performance of the voyages were
determined in Steamsdp Companyi v. United States (103 U. S. 721), and are
no longer open to inquiry.
2. The terms of a stipulation filed in the court below (itt'a, p. 482) commented on.
8. A communication from the Postmaster-General, informing the Court of Claims
that, in the event of its accepting a voyage of one of the vessels, he had
made an order imposing a fine for her delay in starting, was properly disregarded.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. William . Chandler and Mr. John F. Farnsworth for
the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, which was before us at the last term, on the
appeal of the steamship company, the judgment was reversed,
and the case remanded with directions to render a judgment
in conformity to our opinion. 103 U. S. 721.
The principal question, in fact the only one then considered,
was, whether the mails had been carried by the company between San Francisco and Hong-Kong in such vessels as the
contract required.
The finding of facts by the Court of Claims enabled us to
decide, that apart from those of the" City of Pekin," which was
governed by considerations peculiar to itself, six of the other
twelve voyages for which the claimants asserted a right to
recover had been performed in vessels of the required character, and six had not. The names of the vessels and their class
were specifically set out in that finding, and we held that the
voyage of the "Japan," commencing Aug. 29, 1874, at San
Francisco, had been performed in a proper vessel, and that the
claimants were entitled to recover therefor.
The whole matter would seem to have been thus closed, but

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES

V. STEAMSHIP CO.

for the following sentence in the opinion of this court: " There
may be deductions for non-performance of duty, or other matters provided in the contract in regard to which no finding
is made by the Court of Claims, but which will be open to
inquiry on the return of the case to that court."
When the case came before it on the mandate and that
opinion, it was conceded by stipulation, as a fact, that on this
voyage the " Japan " stopped at Yokohama and sent the mails
by other vessels to Hong-Kong, and that the return mail
from Hong-Kong to Yokohama was carried in the same manner, the "Japan" returning in due time with a mail to San
Francisco.
It is argued by counsel for the United States that because
the whole of the voyage was not performed in vessels of the
character required by the contract, the entire claim therefor is
invalidated.
The Court of Claims was of opinion that this matter was
not open to inquiry under the ruling made here, and in this
we concur.
The questions as to the vessels in which the mail bad been
carried, and their conformity to the contract, were the only
ones in issue before the Court of Claims and this court. The
former made such findings of fact, pertinent to them, as enabled us to say that for six of these voyages the government
was bound to pay, and the case was sent back to the Court of
Claims to render judgment accordingly.
The character of the vessels and the performance of the voyages were then adjudicated and fixed, and were no longer open
to inquiry.
The contract contained a provision that suitable fines and
penalties should be imposed by the Postmaster-General fo:
delays and irregularities in the performance of the service, and
for failure to take or deliver any part of the mail, for suffering
it to be injured or lost, and many things of that kind, which
had not been passed on because the United States denied
the liability in toto, on the ground of the character of the
vessels.
It was to such matters that the opinion had reference in
the passage we have cited, and not to the character of these
VOL. XIV.

31

HUNTINGTON V. PALIER.

[Sup. Ct.

vessels which was settled by the first finding of facts and the
decision thereon.
It is suggested by counsel for the United States that, by the
terms of the stipulation as to these new matters filed in the
Court of Claims, the case was opened by agreement. The
language relied on is this: " It is agreed that the case be submitted, under the mandate and opinion of the Supreme Court
herein, on the following facts, which, as far as they may affect
or modify any facts heretofore found by the court, are agreed
to be in addition or substitution therefor." We understand
this to mean that the matters stated are true, and so far as
they are proper evidence, as the case stands they are conceded;
but that it was not intended to consent to a reopening of the
question touching the character of any vessel in which the mails
had been carried under that contract; and such was the view
taken by the Court of Claims.
After the case was remanded, that court was informed by a
letter from the Postmaster-General that, in the event that it
should accept the voyage of the " Japan," he had made an order
imposing a fine of $13,000 for the delay of that vessel in starting on the voyage at San Francisco. As such an order could
be of no avail after the court had decided the case, in which
event alone the fine was to be imposed, that court very properly disregarded it.
Judgment affirmed.

HUNTINGTON V. PALMER.
Hawes v. Oakland (supra, p. 450) reaffirmed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of California.
Huntington filed this bill against Palmer, tax-collector of
the County of Alameda, California, and the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, alleging that he is a stockholder of the
company, and that, on behalf of himself and such other stockholders as will come in and contribute to its prosecution, he

