Oct. 1881.]

STOW V. CHICAGO.

But we have not found it necessary to consider or decide
that question, and it is mentioned merely to exclude all inferences that might otherwise arise.
In our opinion the evidence required that the decree below
should have been in favor of the defendants, and for that error
it must be reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTIcE WOODS did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

STOW V. CHICAGO.
Reissued letters-patent No. 3274, bearing date Jan. 19, 1869, granted to Henry M.
Stow, for "improved pavement," and the letters-patent No. 134,404, bearing
date Dee. 31, 1872, issued to him for "improvement in wood pavements," are
severally void for want of novelty.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. L. lill for the appellant, and by Mr. Lester E. Bond for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
Henry M. Stow filed his bill in equity against the city of
Chicago, charging it with the infringement of four certain letters-patent for improvements in street pavements, in which he
was either the original patentee, or of which he was the assignee. The city denied the infringement, and the novelty of
the inventions covered by the respective patents, and it alleged
license and the payment of royalties. Upon final hearing the
court below dismissed the bill, and he appealed.
In this court he relies exclusively on the first and fourth patents set out in his bill. They will be separately considered.
The first relied on is the reissue, No. 3274, dated Jan. 19,

STOW V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

1869, of an original granted to him, numbered 72,110, and
dated Dec. 10, 1867.
The invention covered by the reissue is thus generally described in the specification: " The nature of my invention
consists in putting down a pavement of wood or other suitable
material upon a foundation-bed of sand or loose earth, and
packing the sand or earth by means of wedge-blocks driven
down into the same and forming a part or the whole of the
pavement."
This pavement consists essentially of blocks of wood or
other material set upon end in rows across the street, with
spaces between the rows, in which are driven narrow and
probably wedge-slhaped blocks, which, when driven down, extend a considerable distance below the under surface of the
blocks first named, into the foundation-bed of sand on which
they rest. The claims are as follows: "1. A pavement composed of alternate tiers of square-ended
and wedge-shaped blocks, the wedge-shaped ends of the latter
being driven into a foundation-bed of sand or earth, substantially
as and for the purpose described.
"2. A pavement composed of blocks, with lower ends wedgeformed, and all driven down into a foundation-bed of sand or
earth, substantially as shown and described.
"3. A pavement composed of wood, or in whole or in part of
other suitable material, laid on a foundation-bed of sand or loose
earth, as described, and a portion of the blocks driven down into
said foundation-bed to pack the same, substantially as and for the
purpose specified."
Ho does not contend that the second claim is infringed.
A cursory reading of the first and third claims will show
that they cover the same invention, the third simply including
with wood other suitable material out of which the pavement
may be constructed.
The invention described in these claims does not cover the
making of a street pavement of wood. The use of wood for
that purpose is as old as the English patent of David Stead,
granted Aug. 23, 1839. The Nicholson patent, which bore
date Aug. 8, 1854, and which is referred to in the specification of the reissued patent under consideration, also covers a
device for the construction of a pavement by the use of wooden

Oct. 1881.]

STOW V. CHICAGO.

blocks. Nor does the invention consist in laying the pavement upon a foundation-bed of sand or earth. This is as old
as cobble-stone pavements. Stead v. Williams, 7 Man. & G.
818. The appellant does not claim either of these devices
as a part of his invention. No particular form of block is
described in the claims, except that some of the blocks used
have their lower ends made wedge-shaped.
All, therefore,
that there is left for the invention described in the first and
third claims to cover is the making of the lower ends of a
portion of the blocks of which the pavement is composed in
wedge shape, and the driving of these wedge-shaped blocks
below the general under-surface of the pavement into the sand
or earth-bed on which it rests, so as to pack it and render it
solid and unyielding. When thus reduced to what it really is,
his invention is clearly and distinctly anticipated by the English patent issued to David Stead, dated April 23, 1839, which
is set out in full in the record.
One of the drawings which accompanies Stead's specification shows a pavement laid with contiguous rows of octagonal
blocks, so placed as to leave rows of square unfilled spaces. In
these square spaces were placed square blocks, longer than the
octagonal blocks and wedge-shaped at the lower end, and these
were driven down into the earth foundation upon which the
octagonal blocks rested.
That part of Stead's specification which these figures illustrate is as follows: "Figures 18 and 19 is a plan and side view of a portion of a
roadway formed by a series of octangular blocks, L L, placed with
the fibre vertical, so as to leave a square recess or interval between them, into which may be inserted a corresponding piece, m.
When this kind of paving is laid upon a road formed upon a newly
made embankment or shrinking base, I should recommend a pile
to be driven into the earth through the square recess or interval, of
about the size and form represented by the dotted lines, Figure 19,
in order to support and keep the blocks firm in their position.
When the octangular block paving is used for acclivities, I should
recommend the before-mentioned cavities either to be left unfilled
or not filled up to the surface, to afford an assistance to animals
ascending the same as before described."

STOW V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

It is true that this specification does not in terms say that the
purpose of driving the wedge-shaped block or pile through the
space left by the octagonal blocks is to pack the earth or sand
foundation, but that it does so as effectually as the use of similar blocks in a similar way under the patent of appellant, is
too clear for argument. A patentee who is the first to make
an invention is entitled to his claim for all the uses and advantages which belong to it. Woodman v. Stimpson, 3 Fish.
Pat. Cas. 98.
It is shown that Stead invented this device. Whether he
perceived and stated all its advantages is immaterial. Graham
v. Mason, 5 id. 1 ; Tuecer v. Spalding, 13 Wall. 453.
Stead's specification, it is clear, covers (to use the language
of Stow's reissued patent) "a pavement composed of wood
laid on a foundation-bed of sand or loose earth," and having
"a portion of the blocks of which it is composed driven down
into said foundation-bed."
Everything, therefore, in the first and third claims of the
appellant's reissued patent, which he sets up as new, was
anticipated nearly thirty years by Stead's English patent.
Appellant's patent, therefore, so far as it covers these claims,
is void, and cannot be the foundation of any relief against
the appellee.
The other patent which the appellant insists that the city
infringed, is No. 134,404, dated Dec. 31, 1872, issued to him as
the original inventor.
The invention covered by this patent is described in the
specification thus: "The nature of my invention relates to
that class of wooden pavements in which the blocks are laid
directly upon the sand foundation; and it consists in laying
the blocks in rows with spaces between the rows, and in filling or partially filling said spaces with sand or gravel and driving or swaging the same into the sand foundation below in
order to pack or compress the sand under the blocks, for the
purpose of sustaining the weight of heavy vehicles passing
over the pavement."
The claim is as follows: "A pavement composed of blocks
laid in rows directly upon the sand foundation with spaces
between the rows filled with sand or gravel, which is swaged

Oct. 1881.]

STOW V. CHICAGO.

or driven into said foundation, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
The use of wood for street pavements, the laying of the
blocks directly upon a sand foundation, the placing of the
blocks in rows, leaving spaces between the rows, are all old
devices. As already shown, they are all to be found substantially in the English patent of Stead, issued April 23, 1839,
and they are found in the English patent to Lillie, dated Oct.
13, 1860, and the American patent to Richard H. Willett,
No. 114,895, and dated May 16, 1871,-all of which are put
in evidence by the appellee.
Nor is the filling with sand or gravel of the spaces between
the blocks, or rows of blocks, of which the pavement is composed, a new device. It was part of the invention of Nicholson (see -Elizabethv. Pavement Company, 97 U. S. 126), and,
as appears by the record, was mentioned in the specification
of the letters-patent No. 112,945, issued to Gordon A. May,
March 27, 1871. Anid in the specifications of the patent
granted to W. H. Chappell, No. 42,347, dated April 19, 1864,
set out in the appellee's evidence, it is stated that "wooden
pavements have been constructed on the continent of Europe
and in the United States by laying wood blocks endwise of the
grain in parallel rows with openings or channels between, into

which gravel or gas-tar was placed."
All, therefore, that is left for the patent of the appellant,
now under consideration, to cover, is the ramming of the gravel
between the blocks, of which the pavement is composed, so as
to drive the same into the sand foundation below the blocks, in
order to pack it so that the pavement may sustain the weight
of heavy vehicles without giving way.
And this is all which seems to be claimed by his counsel as
the invention covered by this patent. The evidence is distinct
and clear that the invention thus defined was anticipated by
the pavement which J. K. Thompson, city superintendent, laid
in the year 1864, at the intersection of North State and Kinzie
Streets, in the city of Chicago. This piece of pavement was
made of wooden blocks, six inches square, set in rows, on an
earth foundation, with spaces between the rows, and the spaces
were filled with fine gravel, and the gravel rammed. It was

STOW v. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

put down by him as an experiment. It proved successful, and
was in use until the great fire in Chicago in 1871.
The record further shows that in the fall of 1870, at the
instance of Thompson, there was laid at the north end of the
La Salle Street tunnel, in Chicago, another piece of pavement,
five hundred yards in length, constructed precisely in the same
manner as that laid by him in 1864. It was made with similar
wooden blocks, placed in rows on an earth foundation, with
spaces between the rows filled with gravel, which was rammed
with an iron rammer, made expressly for the purpose. We
have here every part of the invention described in the letterspatent under consideration, except that it does not appear that
the gravel in the spaces between the rows was so compactly
rammed as to drive it below the under-surface of the pavement
into the earth foundation. All, therefore, that is left for the
appellant's patent of 1872 to cover is the giving of a few more
strokes with the rammer, whereby the gravel filling may be
forced into the earth foundation of the pavement. Can this
be called invention ?
The testimony shows that the pavements which he charges
infringe his patent of 1872 are constructed according to the
plan adopted by Thompson in 1864, and it fails to show that
in their construction the gravel filling was forced by the ramming into the earth foundation on which they were laid. So
that if there is anything new or patentable embraced in his
patent of 1872, that part of his device is not infringed by
the city.
Therefore, without noticing the other defences, we declare
our opinion to be that he is not entitled to any relief against
the city upon either of the patents on which his demand for
relief is now based. His case as presented here has no ground
to stand on.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

part in deciding it.

did not sit in this case, nor take any

