MINING CO. v. CULLINS.

MINING COMPANY V.

[Sup. Ct.

CULLINS.

A person hired by the owners of a mine in Utah to oversee the miners, and gen.
erally to control and direct its working and development, did, in the performance of his duties, some manual labor, feld, that for the wages due to him
he is entitled to the lien conferred by sect. 1221 of the Compiled Laws of that
Territory.

ERmOR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Walter H. Smith for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel Shellabargerand Mr. Jeremiah . Wilson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
Cullins brought suit against the Flagstaff Silver Mining Company of Utah, in a district court of the Territory of Utah, to
recover wages alleged to be due to him from the company for
services rendered, and to subject its property to a lien therefor
which be claimed attached by virtue of the statute of the Territory. The statute declared as follows:"Any person or persons who shall perform any work or labor
upon any mine or furnish any materials therefor in pursuance of
any contract made with the owner or owners of such mine or of
any interest therein, shall be entitled to a miner's lien for the payment thereof upon all the interest, right, and property in such mine
by the person or persons contracting for such labor or materials at
the time of making such contract. Said lien may be enforced in
the same manner and with the same effect as a mechanic's lien, as
provided by the laws of Utah." Compiled Laws of Utah, sect.
1221.
The answer of the company denied that anything save a
small balance was due, and that the statute gave him a lien on
its property therefor.
The case was submitted to the court upon the issues of fact
as well as of law.
The court found that the company, a corporation organized
under the laws of Great Britain, was, at the time the services
were rendered, the owner of and engaged in working a mine

Oct. 1881.]

MINING

Co. v. CULLINS.

called the Flagstaff Mine, situate in that Territory, and that
one J. N. H. Patrick was the general agent and manager of the
company's mining and smelting business in America; "that on
or about the fourteenth day of December, 1873, the said company, by said J. N. H. Patrick, its agent, for that purpose duly
authorized, employed the plaintiff for an indefinite time thereafter to direct the work in its said mine, and with authority to
employ and discharge miners, and procure and purchase supplies for working said mine ; that it was the duty of the plaintiff, by virtue of said employment, to plan, oversee, and direct
the work in said mine, direct the shipping of ore, and generally
to control and direct the actual working and development of
the mine; that the plaintiff, while in the employment of said
company, performed said duties, and in the performance thereof
did some manual labor; " and that, at the commencement of
the suit, there was due to the plaintiff from the mining company $1,530 for wages earned by him under said employment.
The court gave judgment for that sum, and declared it to be
a lien upon the mine.
From this judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, by which it was affirmed.
The company prosecutes this writ of error, and alleges that
the courts below erred in declaring the judgment in favor
of Cullins to be a lien on the mine. The precise question
presented is, whether his services for the company were such
" work and labor" as under the statute entitled him to a lien
therefor upon the mine.
Statutes giving liens to laborers and mechanics for their
work and labor are to be liberally construed. Davis v. Alvord,
94 U. S. 545. The finding of the District Court makes clear
the character of the services rendered by the defendant in error.
He was not the general agent of the mining business of the
plaintiff in error. That office was filled by Patrick. He was
not a contractor. His services were not of a professional character, such as those of a mining engineer. He was the overseer and foreman of the body of miners who performed manual
labor upon the mine. He planned and personally superintended and directed the work, with a view to develop the mine
and make it a successful venture. His duties were similar to
VOL. XIV.

12

178

MINING CO. V. CULLINS.

[Sup. Ct.

those of the foreman of a gang of track hands upon a railroad,
or of a force of mechanics engaged in building a house. Such
duties are very different from those which belong to the general superintendent of a railroad, or the contractor for erecting a
house. Their performance may well be called work and labor;
they require the personal attention and supervision of the foreman, and occasionally in an emergency, or for an example,
it becomes necessary for him to assist with his own hands.
They cannot be performed without much physical exertion,
which, while not so severe as that demanded of the workmen
under his control, is nevertheless as really work and labor.
Bodily toil, as well as some skill and knowledge in directing
the work, is required for their successful performance. We
think that the discharge of them may well be called work and
labor, and that the District Court rightfully declared the person who performed them entitled to a lien under the law of
the Territory.
We have examined all the cases cited by the plaintiff in
error. None of them seem to be inconsistent with the views we
have expressed. They decide that an architect and superintendent of a building; that a person employed to cook for men
engaged in constructing a reservoir; that a contractor for the
building of a railroad or the erection of a house; that the
assistant chief engineer of a railroad company; that agents
employed to disburse money and pay off the hands who are
building a house,- are not, under laws similar to the statute of
Utah, entitled to a lien for their services. Foushee v. Grigsby,
12 Ky. 75; Me Cormack v. Los Angelos Water Co., 40 Cal. 185;
Aiklin v. Wasson, 24 N. Y. 482; Blakey v. Blakey, 27 Mo. 39;
Caldwell v. Bower, 17 id. 564; Brockway v. Innes, 39 Mich.
47; Peek v. Miller, id. 594.
The case which comes nearer supporting the contention of
the plaintiff in error than any other is Sinallhouse v. Kentucky, e.Co., 2 Mon. T. 443. But in that case the court says,
that "from the nature of the plaintiff's employment, as averred
by himself, it does not appear that he was an architect or
laborer, or that he labored directly in the construction of the
buildings, but rather that he was employed by the corporation
at a fixed salary to manage and superintend its affairs at the

Oct. 1881.]

MINING CO. V. CULLINS.

place named." That case is fairly distinguishable from the one
now under consideration; but even if it fully supported the
contention of the plaintiff in error, it is entitled to no more
weight than the decision of the Supreme Court of Utah in the
present case.
Views similar to those we have expressed were declared by
Williams, C. J., in Willamette Falls Transportation& Milling
Co. v. Remiec (1 Oreg. 169), and by the Supreme Court of
Nevada in Capron v. Strout, 11 Nev. 304.
It is somewhat difficult to draw the line between the kind
of work and labor which is entitled to a lien, and that which
is mere professional or supervisory employment, not fairly to
be included in those terms. Some courts have held, under
laws similar to those of Utah, that an architect who furnishes
plans and superintends the erection of a building acquires a lien
thereon as for work and labor. Stryker v. Cassidy, 76 N. Y.
50; Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. v. Rowand, 26 N. J.
Eq. 389; ,7ones v. Shawhan, 4 Watts & S. (Pa.) 257; Bank
of Pennsylvania v. Gries, 35 Pa. St. 423; Knight v. Morris,
13 Minn. 473.
It is not necessary in this case to go so far as these decisions
would warrant. But we are clearly of opinion that, upon the
facts found by the District Court, the defendant in error, under
the statute of Utah, was entitled to a lien upon the mine to
which his services were applied. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

