VIETOR V. ARTHUR.

VIETOR

v.

[Sup. Ct.

ARTHUR.

Stockings of worsted, or of worsted and cotton, made on frames and imported
after June 22, 1874, are dutiable as knit goods, under schedule L, class 3, sect.
2504, of the Revised Statutes.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Subsequently to June 22, 1874, Vietor imported into New
York, stockings. Some of them were wholly worsted. The
others were composed of cotton and worsted, cotton being the
material of chief value. They were intended to be worn by
men, women, and children, and were made on frames. They
were also "knit goods," this term comprising all goods made
on frames, and also all hand-knit stockings and other knitted
articles of various kinds.
They were classified by the appraiser as worsted knit goods,
costing over eighty cents a pound, and Arthur, the collector of
customs of the port of New York, exacted a duty at the rate
of ninety per cent of fifty cents per pound and thirty-five per
cent ad valorem, holding that the goods were, as knit goods,
subject to the duty prescribed by schedule L, class 3, sect.
2504, Rev. Stat. The importer claimed that they were dutiable as stockings made on frames, worn by men, women, and
children, and subject to the duty prescribed in schedule M.
Both schedules are set out in the opinion of this court.
The duties claimed by the collector were paid under protest, and Vietor brought this suit against him. Judgment
having been rendered for the defendant, Victor sued out this
writ.
Mr. Stephen G. Clarke for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Edwin P. Smith, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in this case is whether stockings of worsted,
or worsted and cotton, made on frames, and worn by men,
women, and children, imported after the Revised Statutes went
into effect, June 22, 1874, are dutiable as knit goods, under

Oct. 1881.]

VIETOR V. ARTHUR.

schedule L, class 3, sect. 2504, or as stockings, under schedule
M. The two provisions under which the parties make their
respective claims are as follows: Sched. L. -1 Flannels, blankets, hats of wool, knit goods, balmorals, woollen and worsted yarns, and all manufactures of every description composed wholly or in part of worsted, the hair of the
alpaca, goat, or other like animals, except such as are composed in
part of wool, not otherwise provided for, valued at not exceeding
forty cents per pound: twenty cents per pound; valued at above
forty cents per pound and not exceeding sixty cents per pound:
thirty cents per pound; valued at above sixty cents per pound and
not exceeding eighty cents per pound: forty cents per pound;
valued at above eighty cents per pound: fifty cents per pound;
and, in addition thereto, upon all the above-named articles, thirtyfive per centum ad valorem."
Sched.
.- "Clothing, ready-made, and wearing-apparel of
every description, of whatever material composed, except wool,
silk, and linen, made up or manufactured wholly or in part by
the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer, not otherwise provided for,
caps, gloves, leggins, mitts, socks, stockings, wove shirts and drawers, and all similar articles made on frames, of whatever material
composed, except silk and linen, worn by men, women, or children,
and not otherwise provided for, articles worn by men, women, or
children, of whatever material composed, except silk and linen,
made up or made wholly or in part by hand, not otherwise provided for: thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
In United States v. Bowen (100 U. S. 508), we held that
the Revised Statutes must be treated as a legislative declaration of what the statute law of the United States was on the
1st of December, 1873, and that when the meaning was plain
the courts could not look to the original statutes to see if Congress had erred in the revision. That could only be done
when it was necessary to construe doubtful language. We
applied this rule in Arthur v. Dodge (101 id. 34) to the construction of the revision of the tariff laws.
It is also well settled that when Congress has designated an
article by its specific name, and imposed a duty on it by such
name, general terms in a later act, or other parts of the same
act, although sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are

VIETOR

v.

L[',u
p.Ct.

ARTHUR.

not applicable to it. Movius v. Arthur, 95 U. S. 144; Arthur
v. Lahey, 96 id. 112.
It is conceded that stockings made on frames have been
dutiable eo nomine since 1842, and by four different enactments: subd. 7 and 9 of sect. 1 of the act of Aug. 30, 1842,
c. 270 (5 Stat. 549) ; sched. C of sect. 11 of the act of July 30,
1846, c. 74 (9 Stat. 44) ; sect. 22 of the act of March 2, 1861,
c. 68 (12 Stat. 191) ; sect. 2 of the act of July 14, 1862, c. 163.
Id. 556. Now, when we find, as we do in schedule M of sect.
2504, "stockings . . made on frames, of whatever material
composed, except silk and linen, worn by men, women, and
children," it seems to us clear beyond question that goods coming within that specific description are dutiable in the way
thus

provided, rather

than

as "knit

goods

. . .

composed

wholly or in part of worsted." It may be true, as suggested,
that if there had been no revision, and we had been required
to construe the statutes as they stood before Dec. 1, 1873,
a different conclusion might have been reached. We have not
deemed it necessary to institute such an inquiry, for it would
be contrary to all the rules of construction to say that where
in one part of a section of a statute it was provided that
"stockings made on frames, of whatever material composed,
except silk or linen," should pay duties at a certain rate, it
was not plain such articles were not in any just sense " otherwise provided for" in a preceding clause of the same section
fixing the duties to be paid on "knit goods composed wholly
or in part of worsted." The judgment below was before
United States v. Bowen (supra), was decided here.
Judgment reversed and a venire de novo awarded.
NOTE. - This opinion was announced at the last term. A petition for rehearing filed on the last day of that term was continued under advisement, and at
the present term overruled.

