REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1881.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. IIAMERSLEY.
1. The provision of the act of the General Assembly of Connecticut, 1866 (infra,
p. 2), relative to the abandonment of railroad stations, whilst it authorizes the railroad commissioners to consent, or to refuse to consent, to the
abandonment of an existing station, confers upon them no authority to
bind the State by contract not to exercise its legislative power touching
the establishment of such stations.
2. The act entitled "An Act establishing a depot at Plantsville," approved July
15, 1875 (infia, p. 3), does not impair the obligation of any contract between
that State and the New Haven and Northampton Company.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. R. D. Hubbard and Mr. C. lE. Perkins for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. William Hamersley and Mr. John R. Bucl, contra.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
IThe New Haven and Northampton Company is a Connecticut corporation, authorized to construct and operate a railroad
from New Haven, through the town of Southington, to the
Massachusetts State line. It has full power to erect and maintain toll-houses and other buildings for the accommodation of
its concerns, as it may deem suitable for its interest; but its
VOL XIV.

1

RAILROAD

Co. v.

HAMERSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

charter may " be altered, amended, or repealed at the pleasure
of the General Assembly." In 1848, after the road was built,
three stations were established in the town of Southington,
named respectively Southington, Plantsville, and Hitchcock's,
at which trains stopped for freight and passengers.
In 1866, the General Assembly of the State passed a statute
which contained the following provision in respect to the abandonment of railroad stations "No railroad company shall abandon any station on its road in
this State after the same has been established for twelve months,
except by the approval of the railroad commissioners, given after a
public hearing held at such station, notice of which shall be posted
conspicuously in said station for one month prior to the hearing."
In November, 1873, the company became desirous of abandoning one or more of its stations in Southington, and for that
purpose presented a petition to the railroad commissioners,
representing that two stations properly located would be ample
for the public convenience, and asking that the matter might
be inquired into, and that the Southington or Plantsville station, or both, might be discontinued, and two stations, and only
two, located in the town, where the common good of all parties in interest would be most promoted. The requisite notice
was given, and the commissioners having heard the application,
on the 3d of February, 1874, made the following order; "After a careful and full examination of the locality and
business surroundings of the present located stations, and an
extended hearing of all the appearing parties in interest, with
their evidence and arguments of counsel, the railroad commissioners do find and approve, and do hereby order, that the New
Haven and Northampton Company may discontinue and abandon the present stations of Southington and Plantsville, as at
present located, under and by complying with the following
provisions and conditions, viz. :" The New Haven and Northampton Company shall provide
and erect a passenger station house near their new freight
depot, as shown on the map exhibited and submitted, and after
and in compliance with the plans and profiles also submitted
for said passenger station building, and provide suitable and

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co.

v. HAMERSLEY.

convenient approaches thereto; also suitable, convenient, and
easy approaches to their new freight depot; all of which shall
be done to the acceptance of the railroad commissioners. Said
company shall also continue the same facilities for receiving
and shipping freight by the car-load and unbroken, as at present
enjoyed, to each and all of the parties who patronize their railroad by receiving and shipping freight thereby."
Before this time the company had bought the ground and
erected buildings adapted to freight business at the place indicated in the order. It afterwards, at an expense of $10,000,
put up a building for passenger purposes, as required by the
commissioners. This being acceptable to the commissioners,
the stations of Southington and Plantsville were abandoned
by the company, and both passenger and freight trains stopped
at the new place only.
The succeeding legislature passed an act, approved July 15,
1875, "establishing a depot at Plantsville." It is as follows. "SECT. 1. That if, at any time within six months after the pas-

sage of this act, any of the petitioners and others who may act with
them for that purpose shall erect at Plantsville, contiguous to the
railroad, a depot building, and convey the same, with the land on
which it is situated, and the land reasonably necessary for the approaches thereto by the railroad trains, to the New Haven and
Northampton Company, to be used for railroad purposes, it shall
thereupon become the duty of said company, and it is hereby
ordered, to stop at such depot thereafter its regular passenger and
freight trains passing over said railroad, for the purpose of receiving
and discharging passengers and freight. And all the provisions of
the Revised Statutes applicable to railroad depots and stations shall
be applicable to said depot in the same manner as though said
depot had been erected and established by said company.
" SECT. 2. Said order may be enforced by mandamus by the
attorney for the State for the county of Hartford, or at the relation
of any inhabitant of the town of Southington, in said county, and
the charter of the New Haven and Northampton Company is hereby amended according to the provisions of this act."
The petitioners named complied with the provisions of the
act, and, having tendered the company a conveyance of suitable
depot grounds and buildings at Plantsville, demanded that

4

RAILROAD CO. V. HAMERSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the regular passenger and freight trains running on the road
be stopped there. This the company refused to do, and the
attorney for the State for the county of Hartford now seeks
by mandamus to enforce the law. The court below gave judgment against the company, holding, among other things, that
the act of 1875 did not impair the obligation of any contract
rights which the company had acquired from the State. Upon
this ground the case has been brought here by writ of error.
It was conceded in the argument that there is nothing in the
charter to prevent the State from passing the law complained
of. Confessedly the power of amendment which was reserved
meets this part of the case; but it is claimed that by the action
of the railroad commissioners the State has become bound by
a contract not to exercise its legislative power so as to require
the establishment of a depot at Plantsville.
As it seems to us, the court of errors of the State took the
right view of the statute under which the commissioners acted,
when they said, in State of Connecticut v. New Haven & Northampton Co. (37 Conn. 153, 163), that its object was " to prevent
railroad companies from arbitrarily changing their places of
business on the road, to the prejudice of those who, relying on
the permanency of such places, shape their business accordingly." The powers of the commissioners, as agents of the
State, in this particular, are confined to such as are necessary
for the accomplishment of that object. They may, after a
public hearing, approve of, that is to say, give the assent of the
State to, the abandonment of a station which has been established twelve months or more; and that is all they can do.
They may, as was held in State v. New Haven & Northampton
Co. (42 id. 56), direct that their approval take effect only when
the company shall have provided suitable accommodations for
the public at some other place; but that is only a conditional
approval of the abandonment. When the new accommodations have been provided and the old station abandoned, nothing
more has been accomplished, so far as the company is concerned,
than a lawful abandonment of an old place of business. The
powers of the State over the charter remain just as they were
before. Until the act of 1866 the company could abandon its
stations at will, and the State by charter amendment, or even

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD CO. v. KOONTZ.

by a general law, might require their restoration. After that
act the power of abandonment by the company was restricted,
but the State retained all its old authority. The commissioners were given no power to contract for the State or the
public. All they could do was to say yes or no to a simple
request by the company for leave to abandon an old station.
If they said yes, the abandonment might be made; if no, the
station must be continued. In this case the commissioners said,
"Yes, when the new accommodations are furnished." The
new accommodations were furnished, and the station was
abandoned accordingly. Such, in the case last cited, was the
view which the court of errors took of what had been done,
and we think it is correct. The commissioners entered into
no agreement with the company. They simply said, complete
your proposed accommodations at the new station, and we, for
the State, will assent to your abandonment of the old one. It
follows that the new law impaired no contract obligation of
the State, and the judgment of the court of errors is consequently
Affirmed.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. KOONTZ.
RAILROAD

COMPANY V. FUNIKHOUSER.

1. A., a corporation of Maryland, having assumed the right to take, and B., a
corporation of Virginia, the right to grant, a lease of the railroad and franchises of the latter in Virginia, A., with the implied assent of both States,
took possession, and is in the actual use of the road and franchises. Held,
that A. did not thereby forfeit or surrender its right to remove into the
Circuit Court a suit instituted against it in a court of Virginia by a citizen
of that State.
2. When the petitioner presents to the State court a sufficient case for removal
it is the duty of that court to proceed no further in the suit. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court then attaches, and is not lost by his failure to enter
the record and docket the cause on the first day of the next term. Upon
good cause being shown, the entry at a subsequent day may be permitted.
3. Good cause for such entry is presented where the petition for removal having
been overruled by the State court, and the petitioner there forced to trial
upon the merits, he, in the regular course of procedure, obtains a reversal
of the judgment and an order for the allowance of the removal.
4. Where the removal is denied, the petitioner loses no right by contesting in the
State court the suit on its merits.

