Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. TREFZ.

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

TREFZ.

1. It is not error for the judge, in his instructions, to comment upon the evidence, if lie does not take from the jury the right to weigh the evidence
and determine the disputed facts.
2. To a question whether he had ever been subject to or affected by certain
disorders, including "diseases of the brain," enumerated in an application
for an insurance upon his life, which stipulated that the policy should be
void in case any statement or declaration in such application was untrue,
A., a German, unfamiliar with the English language, - in which the question was put,-answered, "Never sick." In an action on the policy,fHeld, 1. That the court properly charged that the jury might consider
that the answer was made by a man ignorant of the language, who did
not on that account understand, and consequently did not intend, its literal
scope. 2. That the answer must be taken to mean only that A. had never
had any of the enumerated diseases so as to constitute an attack of sickness.
3. Evidence of A.'s admission that he had been sunstruck having been introduced, the court submitted it to the jury to find whether the affection so
admitted by him was or was not a case of true sunstroke, and whether
the affection which he did have was a disease of the brain. Held, that the
action of the court was not erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. A.

Q. Keasbey for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. Joseph Coult, contra.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by Christina Trefz against the
Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company upon two policies of
insurance issued to her upon the life of her husband, Christoph
Trefz, both dated Sept. 6, 1873, one for $2,500, the other for
$8,500. It resulted in a verdict and judgment in her favor.
The company sued out this writ of error.
Each of the policies contained the declaration that it was
"issued and accepted by the assured upon the following exMR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

press conditions and agreements," and among others, these:

that if the death of the person whose life was thereby insured
should be caused by the habitual use of intoxicating drinks,
"or if any of the statements or declarations made in or accom-

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

panying the application for this policy, and upon the faith of
which the same is issued, shall be found in any respects untrtie, then, and in every such case, this policy shall be null and
void."
The company pleaded non assumpsit, and specially that the
death of the said Christoph Trefz was caused by the habitual
use of intoxicating drinks whereby the policy was made void,
and issue was taken thereon. No evidence was offered to support the special plea.
It was proved on the trial that on May 25, 1867, a policy
had been issued by the defendant in favor of the plaintiff on
the life of her husband for $3,000, and another on March 18,
1868, for $10,000, both of which were surrendered on Aug. 30,
1873, on which day two agreements in writing were entered
into between the parties, each referring to the number and
amount of the corresponding policy, and of one of which the
following is a copy: "The undersigned, owner of policy No. 16,772 on the life of
Christopher Trefz, hereby requests the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company of New York to issue a new policy for two thousand
five hundred dollars, with insurance payable annually, and in consideration thereof I do hereby covenant and agree that all the statements contained in the original application and declaration for the
said policy were true and valid when made, and are hereby made
the basis of the contract between myself and the said company for
the new policy hereby solicited."
The other agreement was in the same form, and asks for a
policy of $8,500, and both are signed by Christina and Christoph Trefz.
The application for the original policy for $10,000 was in
the English language, the fifth question in which was, " Whether now or formerly, when and how long, and to
what degree, subject to or at alf affected by any of the following diseases and infirmities."
(Here follows a long list, in alphabetical order, of disorders,
beginning with " apoplexy" and ending with "yellow fever,"
and including "diseases of the brain, disease of the heart.")
The answer was, " Never sick."

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. TREFZ.

The application for the original policy for 83,000 was in the
German language. It contained a similar question, including
diseases of the brain and heart, and to this the answer was
Both of these applications contained this stipulation: "That
if any fraudulent or untrue allegation, 'misrepresentation, or
concealment as to my health or habits be contained in this
proposal, all moneys which shall or may be paid on account of
such assurance or dividends due me shall be forfeited to the
said company and the policy be void."
One of them is signed Christina Trefz, by Christoph Trefz,
and the one in German by Christina Trefz.
It is stated in the bill of exceptions that the defendant
offered evidence tending to prove that the answers of Trefz to
these interrogatories were, at the time of such applications, untrue ; and the evidence itself bearing on that point is set out
in full.
It appears therefrom that the intention with which the testimony was offered was to establish the fact that in the year
1866 Trefz had a sunstroke. One of the witnesses called by
the defence to this point was named Schimper, who was in
Trefz's employ from the summer of 1866 until 1875. He
knew nothing personally about it, but testified that he had
heard Trefz say that he had had a sunstroke, and that he had
known him to wear a cabbage-leaf in his hat to prevent its recurrence; that in March, 1871, the witness having neglected
to pay a premium falling due on one of the original policies,
being charged as Trefz's book-keeper with the duty of payment,
went with Trefz to the office of the company in New York to
tender it, where he was required to submit to a medical examination, to enable the company to determine whether it would
accept the premium and restore the lapsed policy. The witness further testified as follows: "The doctor asked me whether
Mr. Trefz had sunstroke; I said, No. Mr. Trefz said, Yes; he
was sunstruck on the farm once; he had a farm, and was at the
farm taking in hay, and was sunstruck." In reply to the question, what suggested to the doctor the fact of sunstroke, the
witness said: "I asked the same question of the doctor, whether
he could see it. He said, ' I could see it by his queer action

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

with his elbow, and so I could see that the man had something.' That was the doctor's answer since to me; and he
asked me whether lie had sunstroke, and Mr. Trefz told he
was working on the farm once and was overcome by the heat.
He said that did not matter; that did not make any difference;
he said, have you felt anything since; and he said, No. Was
you sick any time, taken sick by the beat again afterwards ?
No. That is all right. He gave him a certificate." And the
premium was paid and the lapsed policy restored.
In another part of his examination the witness, repeating
the statement, said that Trefz told the doctor "he had a sunstroke once when he was working on the farm; he was then
working, and he fell down and did not know anything about
himself any more: that was his talk to the doctor." The witness was then asked to state what Trefz said. He replied,
" That is as near as I can give it. Mr. Trefz spoke very bad
English; that was the reason the doctor asked me first whether
Trefz had shinstroke, because he did not understand him so
well; so Trefz told he was overcome by the heat; he said that
half English and half German."
The plaintiff, Mrs. Trefz, testified that on the occasion referred to as that of the sunstroke Trefz came home, saying he
was overcome by work and the heat. She offered him his
dinner, to which he said he did not care for anything to eat.
After a while he ate his dinner and went off to his work again
the same day, and then for two days he said he did not feel
right well; after that he went about his business as usual.
There was some testimony about his going to Sharon Springs
that summer, which is entirely consistent with the supposition
that he went upon business as much as for his health ; and
some evidence, not only that he wore cabbage-leaves in his own
hat as a protection against heat, but that he insisted that the
drivers of his beer wagons (he was a brewer) should do the
same for their own protection.
There was evidence also that Trefz frequently spoke of having had a sunstroke, and there was testimony from two or three
physicians on the subject of the characteristics and consequences of sunstroke. One of them spoke of it as a brain disease, and said that whether it was a serious or dangerous thing

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TREFZ.

depended upon the kind of sunstroke, and that there were
degrees in its forms, the severer being frequently fatal, and
diminishing down to a mere sense of fulness in the head; and
that he considered it more an accident than a disease.
The charge of the court, which was at length, is given in the
bill of exceptions in full. To specified parts of it exceptions
were taken by the company, and they form the basis of the
assignment of errors now to be considered.
It is first alleged that the court erred in charging the jury
as follows: " In considering whether the reply 'never sick'
was an untruth of such a character as to avoid the policy, the
jury had the right and ought to remember that the applicant
was not a native-born citizen, and that he was not very familiar
with the language in which the question was put, and did not
speak it with any fluency, and it is fair to assume from the
testimony that he did not understand it very fully when spoken
to him."
This exception may properly be considered in connection
with the sixth assignment of error, as follows : " That the court, on request, erroneously refused to charge
the jury as follows: ' That if the answer of Trefz to any question was untrue in the sense in which such question and answer
are commonly understood, the policy is void, even although the
answer may have been true in the sense in which he understood the question ; ' but on the contrary charged the jury as
follows: ' It seems to me that in endeavoring to ascertain the
truth or falsity of the answer we ought to look at it in the
light of the knowledge and understanding which the individual
had in regard to the terms he uses.' "
It is objected that the court erred in mistaking the answers
referred to, as made by the husband, instead of the wife, who
was in fact the applicant, whose answers they were, and that
there was no proof that she was not a native citizen, and fully
acquainted with the English language.
It is perhaps a palliation of this error, if it be one, that
the counsel who makes the objection himself fell into it, in the
very request which the court refused, and which speaks of the
answer as that of the husband. And practically it was, and
was so considered and treated by all parties to the insurance.

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

The applicant, it is true, was the wife, and it is her agreement
that the answers shall be true; but it is manifest that the party
interrogated, and whose answers are relied on, are those of the
person whose life is the subject of the insurance.
Indeed, the original applications themselves speak of the
allegations, misrepresentations, or concealments, if any, contained in the proposal, the existence of which will avoid the
policy, as pertaining to " my health or habits," as though the
person whose life was the subject of the insurance was himself
the applicant.
The whole trial proceeded upon the idea that the question
at issue was the truthfulness of the husband's answers, and
upon that ground the company gave evidence of his statements
made at other times and places to contradict him.
It is insisted, however, in argument, that there is substantial
error in the above charges and refusal to charge, reversing the
rule of interpreting contracts according to the ordinary sense
of the language employed, and subverting the principle, for
which AEftna Life Insurance Co. v. France (91 U. S. 510) and
Jeffries v. Life Insurance Company (22 Wall. 47) are authorities that in such a case as the present the right of the plaintiff
to recover is defeated, upon proof that an answer to any of the
questions in the application is untrue, without regard to the
materiality of the question or the good faith of the answer. It
is unquestionable law, that in such a case as the present the
answer must be true, to justify a recovery, without regard to
these considerations ; and for a lack of substantial truth, it is
no valid excuse that the party giving the answers did not understand, from ignorance or otherwise, the scope of the question. And so, in the present case, the court below distinctly
charged the jury. The language used was, "But if you believe
from the testimony that the insured, whether wilfully or otherwise, made a statement in his application which amounted to
an untruth, it will not do to refuse to enforce the contract
which the husband and wife entered into, on the ground that
it would be a hardship to the widow." And in another part of
the charge the court said, " If they are in any respect untrue,
they avoid the contract and prevent a recovery upon the
policies."

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TREFZ.

The question, then, for the jury was this: Was the answer
of Trefz to the question whether he had ever had any of the
enumerated diseases - "never sick " - true or untrue ? And
undoubtedly it was material and even necessary to inquire what
was the meaning of that answer. And to ascertain its meaning,
the meaning the law will affix to it,- it is perfectly proper
to determine the sense in which the words were used by the
speaker; the sense in which he intended they should be understood by the person spoken to, and in which they were actually
understood by both. As was well said by Mr. Justice Swayne,
in Insurance Company v. Gridley (100 U. S. 614), "The object of all symbols is to convey the meaning of those who use
them, and when that can be ascertained it is conclusive."
The nature of this written instrument, as affected by its
form, must be considered in every question of its interpretation. It is not a formal instrument, employing technical language with well-ascertained legal effect, like a deed or a bill of
lading, or framed with precision and nicety as to the choice of
phrases to express a certain and definite covenant which the
parties, duly advised, have entered into with deliberation and
in solemn form. It is, on the contrary, a conversation reduced
to writing, and the writing done by one only of the parties.
The language is colloquial, and in the form of a dialogue; of
question and answer. It is in the shape of a deposition, where
the party interrogated is giving his testimony, and where the
meaning of his statements must be ascertained from his own
peculiar use of language. If he is a foreigner, with an imperfect knowledge of the language, it is obviously just and
reasonable that that circumstance should be considered in determining the meaning of the words he has used.
In the present instance, the apparent purpose of the charge
asked by the counsel for the defendant below and refused by
the court, was to charge as a matter of law that the answer of
Trefz - never sick - was to be taken as meaning - as it literally does, standing by itself - that he had never during his life
had any sickness whatever, and thence to draw the necessary
inference that it was untrue in that sense, as it no doubt was,
and that, for that reason, the plaintiff's recovery was made
legally impossible.

INSURANCE Co. v. TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

In that view it became the duty of the court to say to the
jury, that in determining whether that statement was true or
untrue, in view of the terms of the policy, they might properly
consider that it was the expression of a man ignorant of the
language, who did not on that account understand, and consequently did not intend, the literal scope of the expression.
And whatever sense the jury, as reasonable men, in the light
of that circumstance, would put upon it, might well be taken
as the sense in Which it was understood by the company, to
whose agent it was personally spoken, for that would be the
sense in which it would be understood commonly by reasonable
men in similar circumstances.
Indeed, the court might well have gone further, for it is
matter of law that the answer " never sick," in the connection
in which it was used in the application, must be taken to mean,
not that the party was never sick at all of any disorder, but
only that he never had had any of the enumerated diseases so
as to constitute an attack of sickness. The generality of the
language of the answer must be restrained to the particulars
to which alone it was meant to be applied, and the surplusage
does not fall within the agreement which warrants the answer
to be true.
It is next assigned for error that the court erred in charging
the jury in reference to the testimony relating to the transaction with the company's physician, in March, 1871, as to the
renewal of one of the policies, as follows: "When this testimony
was given, I presume that every gentleman upon the jury at
once came to the conclusion that if it was true, and if the agent
of the company regarded the attack when he was told of it as
of too little consequence to hinder the renewal of the forfeited
policies, it was now too late for them to come forward and say
that it was of so serious a character and nature that lie ought
never to have been insured at all; in other words, that the
company ought not to be allowed to regard the indisposition of
such a trivial character as to overlook it and take the money
of the insured for a renewal of the policies, and after his death
to avoid the payment of the loss on the ground that the attack
was serious enough to bring it within the range of the diseases
respecting which the insured gave the reply ' never sick.'

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE Co. v. TREPZ.

This charge was given in connection with a statement of the
testimony of Sebimper as to the conversation that took place
with Dr. Derby, the medical examiner of the company, in
March, 1871, at the time of the examination of Trefz for the
restoration of his lapsed policy.
It is not objected to this charge that it instructed the jury
as a matter of law that the company was estopped by the restoration of that policy, after the information it had then acquired respecting Trefz having had a sunstroke, from making
its defence on that ground to the present action. It is not
claimed that that is the meaning of the charge, or that it was
so understood by the jury.
It is criticised, however, for inaccuracy in referring to the
renewal of the forfeited policies as if both had lapsed, instead
of but one, as the fact was; but that inaccuracy could not
have misled the jury, as there was no question about the fact;
and, so far as the charge had any bearing upon the question at
issue, its effect would not be different whether one or both
policies had lapsed and had been restored.
The charge in question was merely a suggestion addressed
to the jury, perfectly legitimate in itself, but which they might
adopt or reject as they saw fit. The court expressly disclaimed
any right to influence them as to any matter of fact, and instructed the jury accordingly.
It is argued that the charge assumes from the testimony that
the sunstroke spoken of occurred before the date of the original policies, when in the conversation with Dr. Derby, no
date being given, he might well have inferred that it was
subsequent to that date. But it is entirely immaterial, for
however it may weaken the force of the suggestion upon the
question of fact, it does not show that it contained any error
in law. The force of the suggestion was to be judged by the
jury upon their own finding as to the facts.
It is next assigned for error that the court gave to the jury
the following charge: "It is for you to determine the extent
of the injury received by Mr. Trefz, and whether it was of such
a character or nature as to make his reply to the interrogatories a falsehood or not. It is for the jury to say from the evidence, in regard to the extent, nature, and kind of sickness,

INSURANCE

Co.

v. TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

whether the attack which the insured suffered from was of a
character to make his answer 'never sick' a falsehood. The
burden of proof is on the defendant. The company sets up
the defence, and the jury must be satisfied from the evidence
that the untruth of the statement has been established, otherwise their verdict should be for the plaintiff."
This is to be considered in connection with the refusal of the
court to give the following charge, which is also assigned for
error: "That if within one or two years the insured had such
disease (sunstroke), his answer 'never sick' was untrue, although he had entirely recovered from it long before his death
or even at the time of his application ; " and also in connection with the refusal to charge the following, also assigned for
error: " That it is proved by witnesses unimpeached and uncontradicted, that the insured frequently stated that lie had
had sunstroke in the summner of 1866, and guarded carefully
against its recurrence long after the insurance was effected;
and that, unless you can find something in the case which renders these statements incredible, the jury are bound to treat
tie facts as established in the cause, and to find for the defendants on the principle asserted by the court."
The propositions included in these requests, and maintained
on behalf of the plaintiff in error, may be stated thus: If
Trefz frequently said that he had had sunstroke, it is to be
taken as the fact, although the jury might be satisfied from
the evidence that what he supposed to be such was not so in
reality; and that if he had ever had sunstroke, his answer to
the interrogatory is untrue, although the list of diseases therein
enumerated does not contain that of sunstroke, and although it
does not appear that whatever affection in fact he had was one
of the diseases enumerated. In other words, that it is matter
of law that if Trefz said he had sunstroke, that he did have it;
and that it is matter of law that sunstroke, of whatever character or degree in fact, is a disease of the brain, that being
the disease in respect to which it is claimed the answer was
untrue.
On the other hand, the proposition of the court, as submitted
to the jury, was that they must determine from the whole evidence as matters of fact whether or not Trefz ever had had

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE Co. v. TREFz.

sunstroke properly so called ; and whether the attack which he
did have, whether it could properly be called sunstroke or not,
was a disease of the brain.
It is not difficult to decide that in this respect the court
below committed no error.
The interrogatory propounded in the application, to which
the answer in question was made, did not include sunstroke in
the list of enumerated diseases. It did include diseases of the
brain. The answer, it is conceded, was not untrue, unless
Trefz had bad a disease of the brain. To establish this it was
necessary to prove something more than that he had what be
called sunstroke. It was essential to show that he had sunstroke in fact, and that it was such as to constitute disease of
the brain.
The medical authority cited in argument by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error, Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. (Thermic Fever or
Sunstroke, Boylston Prize Essay, p. 7), shows that what is
popularly called sunstroke is not always the true disease known
to the profession as such. He says :" There can be no doubt that under the name of sunstroke,
or coup de soleil, sudden cases of severe illness of very different
natures have been described by authors. Such of these cases
as have really been dependent upon exposure to excessive heat
can be classified under two, or perhaps three heads, to which
the names of acute meningitis or phrenitis, heat exhaustion, and
thermiefever or truce sunstrolce may be respectively applied, as
more or less expressive of the pathological conditions existing.
" Acute meningitis or phrenitis, due to exposure to the sun
and the direct action of its rays upon the head, must be a very
rare affection. In fact, I have no positive evidence to offer of
its existence in nature, having never seen or read an unequivocal record of such a case, and, therefore, will pass this theoretical class by without further allusion.
"Simple exhaustion due to excessive labor in a heated atniosphere is aa affection so very distinct from true sunstroke
that it is strange it should ever have been confounded with
the latter. It does not differ in its pathology or symptoms
from other forms of acute exhaustion, offering like them, as
its chief features, a cool, moist skin, and a rapid, feeble pulse,

INSURANCE Co. v. TREFZ.

[Sup. Ct.

associated with great muscular weakness and a tendency to
syncope ...
"As there is nothing peculiar in these cases, I do not think
that they should have any special name. The term 'heatexhaustion ' might be applied to them had it not been used to
signify true sunstroke. The main point to be borne in mind
is, however, that such cases should not be called sunstroke, as
they have not the slightest affinity with that disorder."
From this authority, then, it sufficiently appears that a man
working in the heat of summer in a hay-field, exposed to the
rays of the sun, may be overcome by the heat to the point of
exhaustion, so as to be prostrated with weakness, and even fall
into insensibility and unconsciousness, without having sunstroke
in its technical sense. And thus that it might well be that
Trefz, notwithstanding his attack of what he ignorantly called
sunstroke, might truthfully answer that he had never been
sick of any disease of the brain.
It was undoubtedly, therefore, the principal question for the
jury, in order to find whether Trefz's answer that he had never
been sick of brain disease was true or untrue, to ascertain and
determine whether the affection which he declared be at one
time had was or was not a case of true sunstroke, and whether,
if so, it was a disease of the brain. That question was fairly
submitted to them by the court upon the charges which we
have reviewed, and for the reasons assigned we find no error
in them.
Judgment afirmed.

