DAVIS V. GAINES.

DAVIS

v.

[Sup. Ct.

GAINES.

1. According to the law of Louisiana in force in 1813, if the heirs, whether forced
or voluntary, of a testator were absent from the State, the Probate Court
had jurisdiction to order a sale of his property.
2. The will having been duly proved, the proper Probate Court, upon the
petition of the executor, made an order, pursuant to which the immovables of the deceased were, according to law, sold and conveyed to a purchaser in good faith for a valuable consideration. Held, that his title
is not affected by the subsequent discovery and probate of a later will
appointing another person executor, and making a different disposition of
them.
3. The order of sale is an adjudication that all the facts necessary to give the
court jurisdiction existed.
4. Where the possession of the immovables so sold was held for over sixty years,
under the executor's deed, which recites that the sale was made "after the
publications and delays prescribed by law," and it appears from his account,
remaining of record in the Probate Court for fifty years, that he paid a
specified sum for advertising the sale, - Hield, that the deed and account
are competent evidence of the advertisement, and being uncontradicted are
conclusive.
5. When the purchase-money was applied to the extinguishment of a mortgage
executed by the deceased, and constituting a valid incumibrance on the
immovables, the purchaser, although the sale was irregular or void, cannot
be ousted of his possession upon a bill in equity filed by the heirs or the
devisees unless they repay or tender him the purchase-money.
6. The prescription applicable to immovables in Louisiana cannot be maintained
unless the possessor obtained them in good faith and by a just title; that is
to say, by a title which lie derived from those whom lie believed to be
the true owners, and which, if they had in fact been such owners, was by
its nature sufficiest to transfer the ownership.
7. The prescription against all informalities connected with or growing out of
a public sale by a person authorized to sell at auction, may be pleaded by
one who purchases in good faith at the sale of an executor or a register
of wills, and holds by a just title, against the avermen'that the sale was
not advertised, that the inventory of the estate was not completed before
the order of sale was made, or that it was partly made by appraisers appointed by the testamentary executor, or that it was signed by only one of
the two appraisers so appointed. Such informnalities are cured by the lapse
of five years.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated fully in the opinion of the court.
M. J. D. Rouse for the appellant.
Mr. John S. Wldtaler, contra.
APPEAL

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS V. GAINES.

MR. JusTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity filed by Myra Clark Gaines,
the appellee, against Minor Kenner, the intestate of Eliza
Davis, the appellant, and a large number of other defendants,
to recover real estate, of which she claimed to be the devisee
under the will of her father, Daniel Clark. The defendants
were alleged to be in possession respectively of distinct parcels
of the property sued for.
The facts, so far as they concern the controversy between
the appellant and appellee, were as follows: Daniel Clark
purchased the real estate in dispute between them from one
Stephen Henderson, on Dec. 16, 1812, wholly upon credit.
The purchase price was $120,000, to secure which a mortgage
was retained in the act of sale. On May 20, 1811, he executed
and published what then purported to be his last will and testament, as follows : " In the name of God, amen. I, Daniel Clark, of New Orleans,
do make this my last will and testament.
"Imprinis. I order that all my just debts be paid.
"Second. I leave and bequeath unto my mother, Mary Clark,
now of Germantown, in the State of Pennsylvania, all the estate,
whether real or personal, which I may die possessed of.
"Third. I hereby nominate and appoint my friends Richard Relf
and Beverly Chew my executors, with power to settle everything
relative to my estate.
"DANIEL

"NEW

ORLEANS,

CLARK.

20 May, 1811."

He died Aug. 16, 1813, and on the next day the will was
proven before the Probate Court for the Parish of Orleans,
and on the 27th of that mouth letters testamentary were issued
to Richard Relf as sole executor, Chew being absent from the
State.
The appellant claimed title to the plantation under a sale
thereof made Nov. 8, 1813, by Thomas Beale, register of wills,
at public auction, to Michel Fortier and Omer Fortier, for
$120,000, by authority, as she asserted, of an order of the
Probate Court. Relf, the executor, in pursuance of the sale,
conveyed the property to the purchasers by deed, in which he
stipulated to apply the purchase-money, as fast as received, to

DAVIS v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

the discharge of the mortgage of $120,000 placed on it by
Daniel Clark.
The purchase-money was so applied, and the entire sum
secured by the mortgage, with the interest thereon, was thus
discharged.
The property came into the possession of Minor Kenner,
whose estate the appellant represents, as owner, by regular
chain of conveyances from the vendees of Michel and Omer
Fortier.
The title of the appellee was derived under the will of
Daniel Clark executed July 13, 1813, which was filed for probate in the Probate Court of the Parish of Orleans on Jan. 18,
1855, a id which by the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana on Dec. 17, 1855, was recognized as the last will and
testaiment of Daniel Clark, and ordered to be recorded and
executed as such.
The second item of this will was as follows: " Second, I do
hiereby acknowledge that my beloved Myra, who is now living
in the family of Samuel B. Davis, is my legitimate and only
daughter, and that I leave and bequeath unto her, the said
Myra, all the estate whether real or personal of which I may
die possessed, subject only to the payment of certain legacies
hereinafter named."
Both parties, therefore, trace title to Daniel Clark.
Primafaciethe title of the appellee to the property in dispute under the provision of this will, which is the later and
last will of Daniel Clark, is clear.
The controversy, therefore, depends upon the three defences
set up by the appellant.
The record shows that the will of May 20, 1811, was duly
admitted to probate by the Probate Court of the Parish of
Orleans, and ordered to be executed; that within the year following the order of probate, to wit, on Aug. 27, 1813, upon
the petition of the executor, an order for the sale of the real
and personal property of the testator was made by the court
having jurisdiction thereon ; that an inventory was begun by
Thomas Beale, register of wills for the Parish of Orleans, on
Aug. 28, 1813, under the direction of said Probate Court, in
which the plantation sued for was included as a part of the

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS v. GAINES.

estate of Daniel Clark; that on Nov. 8, 1813, pursuant to said
order, Beale, the register of wills, sold and adjudicated the
plantation to Michel Fortier and Omer Fortier for the sum of
$120,000 ; and that on Nov. 11, 1813, Relf, the executor, made
an act of sale to the purchasers.
The appellant, therefore, contends, first, that by virtue
of said will and its probate, and the order of sale, and the
sale and conveyance thereunder, the said Michel and Omer
Fortier acquired a good and valid title to said premises,
which, by mesne conveyances from them, was vested in her
intestate.
The record further shows that the act of sale recited the
existence of the mortgage for $120,000 placed upon the property by Daniel Clark in favor of Stephen Henderson, on Dec.
16, 1812, and his executor bound himself to discharge the
same out of the purchase-money, as it should be paid by the
purchasers, the Fortiers, and that said mortgage was in fact
discharged and paid by the application thereto of said purchase-money.
The appellant therefore contends, secondly, that there can
be no decree in favor of the appellee for the property until the
purchase-money which was applied to the payment of the debts
of the testator is repaid or tendered, if it shall turn out that
the Fortiers were purchasers in good faith.
The appellant contends, thirdly, that from Nov. 8, 1813,
until Jan. 3, 1866, when process was served in this case, she,
and those under whom she claims, held continuous, peaceable,
and unequivocal possession of said plantation, and that neither
said Michel and Omer Fortier, at the time they purchased tie
plantation, nor any of tie parties through whoml she claims
title, had any knowledge, information, or belief of thc making
or existence of the last will of Daniel Clark, executed in 1813 ;
that the various persons who claimed title to said property
under the sale made to Michel and Omer Fortier possessed
the same in good faith and under a just title as owners, and
that each of them had the right to acquire the same by prescription ; and she pleads the prescription of ten, twenty, and
thirty years in bar of the bill of complaint.
The first question for consideration is whether or not the

DAVIS v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

proceedings of Relf, the sale made by the Register of Wills
under the order of the Probate Court, and the deed of Relf as
executor in pursuance thereof, vested a title to the plantation
in the purchasers.
The code of 1808 was in force when the proceedings which
resulted in the sale to the Fortiers were taken. Article 169,
book 3, tit. 2, of that code declares: " When of the testator's
heirs some are absent or not represented in this territory, the
testamentary executor, whether the seisin be granted to him or
not, and whether those heirs be forced or voluntary, shall be
authorized to take possession of the property of the succession,
to cause it to be sold, and to remain in possession of the portion accruing to the absent heir or heirs, deducting the debts
and legacies, until those heirs shall have sent their power of
attorney, or till the expiration of the year of the testamentary
execution."
By the will of 1811 it appeared that Mary Clark, the mother
of testator, who was constituted his universal legatee, and
thereby became his heir (Civil Code, art. 880), was absent
from the State of Louisiana. Moreover, " the granting of the
license to sell was an adjudication upon all the facts necessary
to give jurisdiction, and whether they existed or not is wholly
immaterial if no appeal was taken." Grignon's Lessee v.
Astor, 2 How. 319.
It is, therefore, not disputed that, upon the ground of the
absence from the State of the universal legatee, it was competent for the Probate Court, upon the application of the
executor, to make an order for the sale of the testator's
property.
The jurisdiction of the Probate Court of the Parish of
Orleans to admit to probate and record the wills of deceased
persons is unquestioned.
Its power and authority to order a sale of the property of a
testator, by virtue of article 169, book 3, tit. 2, of the code of
1808, is not and cannot be disputed. If the Fortiers purchased
in good faith under an order of sale made by the Probate
Court, for a valuable consideration, without any knowledge
of the later will of Daniel Clark, and while the authority of
the executor appointed and qualified under the first will con-

Oct, 1881.]

DAVIS

v.

GAINES.

tinued, and there was no fatal defect in the proceedings antecedent to the sale and conveyance to them, does the fact thai
such later will, making other dispositions of his property,
was discovered and admitted to probate, render void thei
title ?
We think this question must be answered in the negative.
A sale by order of a probate court is a judicial sale. Moor
v. Shultz, 13 Pa. St. 98; Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How.
319; Thomipson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157; Lalanne's Heirs v.
Moreau, 13 La. 431 ; Howard v. Zeyer, 18 La. Ann. 407.
Such sales are, therefore, protected by the rule that a title
acquired at a decretal sale of lands, made by a court in the
exercise of competent jurisdiction, is not rendered invalid by
the reversal of the decree. Ward v. Hollins, 14 Md. 158;
Irwin v. Jeffers, 3 Ohio St. 389; Gossom v. Donaldson, 18 B.
Mon. (Ky.) 230; Fergus v. Woodworth, 44 Ill. 374; Gray v.
Brqnardello, 1 Wall. 627, 634.
In the case last cited this court said: "Although the judgment or decree may be reversed, yet all rights acquired at a
judicial sale, while the decree or judgment was in full force,
and which it authorized, will be protected. It is sufficient
for the buyer to know that the court had jurisdiction and exercised it, and that the order, on the faith of which he purchased, was made and authorized the sale."
In the case of McCullough v. Minor (2 La. Ann. 466), the
Supreme Court of Louisiana said : " The jurisdiction of the
court was undoubted, and the jurisprudence of the State has
long been settled that a bona fide purchaser at a judicial sale is
protected by the decree."
But it is not necessary to rely solely on this general doctrine. This court and others have directly applied the law
probate which governs judicial sales to sales made by order of
courts.
Thus, in Thompson v. Tolmie (2 Pet. 157) this court said:
" The law appears to be settled in the States that courts will
go far to sustain bona fide titles acquired under sales made by
statutes regulating sales made by order of the orphans' courts.
When there has been a fair sale the purchaser will not be
bound to look beyond the decree, if the facts necessary to

DAVIS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

give the court jurisdiction appear on the face of the pro-

cedings."

See also Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, supra. By a law of
Michigan passed in 1818 the county courts had power under
certain circumstances to order the sale of the real estate of a
deceased person for the payment of debts and legacies. In
reference to a sale of real estate made under this law the court
said in that case: " The granting the license to sell is an
adjudication upon all the facts necessary to give jurisdiction,
and whether they existed or not is wholly immaterial if no
appeal is taken. The rule is the same whether the law gives
an appeal or not ; if none is given from the final decree it is
conclusive on all whom it concerns. The record is absolute
verity, to contradict which there can be no averment or evidence. The court having power to make the decree, it can
only be impeached for fraud in the party who obtains it; a
purchaser under it is not bound to look beyond the decree ; if
there is error in it of the most palpable kind, if the court
which rendered it have in the exercise of jurisdiction disregarded, misconstrued, or disobeyed the plain provisions of the
law which gave them the power to hear and determine the
case before them,- the title of a purchaser is as much protected as if the adjudication would stand the test of a writ of
error. These principles are settled as to all courts of record
which have an original general jurisdiction over any particular subjects ; they are not courts of special or limited jurisdiction."
" In the Orphans' Court, and all courts who have the
power to sell the estates of intestates, this action operates on
the estate, not on the heirs of the intestate ; a purchaser
claims not their title, but one paramount. The estate passes to
him by operation of law. The sale is a proceeding in rem, to
which all claiming under the intestate are parties, which
divests the title of the deceased." See also Erwin v. Lowry,
7 How. 172 ; Grffith v. Bogert, 18 id. 158; Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wall. 210; JJecNitt v. Turner, 16 id. 352.
On the same subject the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia, in Ballow v. Hudson (13 Gratt. (Va.) 672), said:
" Considerations of public policy require that all questions of

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS v. GAINES.

succession to property should be authoritatively settled. Courts
of probate are, therefore, organized to pass on such questions
when arising under wills, and a judgment by such a court is
conclusive while it remains in force, and the succession is
governed accordingly. A judgment of this nature is classed
among those which in legal nomenclature are called judgments
in rem. Until reversed it binds not only the immediate parties
to the proceeding in which it is had, but all other persons and
all other courts."
In Lalanne's Heirs v. Moreau (supra), the Supreme Court of
Louisiana said: " Sales directed or authorized by courts of
probate are judicial sales to all intents and purposes, and the
purchaser is protected by the decree ordering them."
So in Howard v. Zeyer (supra) the same court said: "A
warrantor is not bound to look beyond the decree of the
court ordering the sale of succession property, and he acquires all the right of the deceased to said property, and no
more."
In Grignon's Lessee v. Astor (supra), this court said: "Proceedings in a probate court to sell property of a decedent have
been held to be proceedings in rem, to which all claiming under
the decedent are parties."
In 31McPherson v. Cunliff (11 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 422), the
court said that the decree of an orphans' court for the sale of
land was conclusive; that the proceeding was purely in rein
against the estate of the intestate and not in personam.
In Lalanne's Heirs v. Moreau (supra), it was said " that the
decree of the Court of Probate ordering a sale of the property
of minors is so pur'ely in rem and against the property, that a
sale made under it extinguishes all the mortgages existing in
the name of the owner of the property sold."
In Green v. The Baptist Church (27 La. Ann. 563), the same
court held that purchasers are not bound at their peril to
inquire, when property is advertised for sale by an executor,
whether anything has occurred outside the court to destroy the
will under which he is acting.
In Gaines v. De La Croix (6 Wall. 719), which was a bill
filed by the appellee in the present case against De La Croix,
to recover certain slaves claimed by him under a sale made to

DAVIS v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ot.

him by Reif, as executor of the will of 1811 of Daniel Clark,
the defendant claimed that his titles, derived by the purchase
from Relf, were valid, because he purchased within the year,
while the functions of Reif, as executor, were in full force.
In passing upon this point the court said: "This is true if
he purchased in good faith, and the requisites of the law on
the subject of the sales of succession property were complied
with."
The case involved two purchases, and both were held invalid; one because it was made at private sale, and, consequently, the purchaser acquired no title; and' the other
because, though made at public auction, the court found that
De La Croix had knowledge of the will of 1813 and its contents, and "that he knew the will under which he was buying
was not the true will of Daniel Clark," and he, therefore,
"got the property in bad faith."
It is objected, however, that the discovery of a later will and
its probate showed that the will of 1811 was utterly void, and
could furnish no valid ground for the order of sale. But it
must be borne in mind that the will of 1811 bad been duly
admitted to probate by a court which had jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and whose duty it was to ascertain and declare
whether the will presented to it was in fact the genuine last
will and testament of the testator. Having declared the will
of 1811 to be the genuine last will of Daniel Clark, acts done
under that probate in a lawful manner until the discovery of
a later will were valid and binding.
The English authorities hold that the record of probate and
of the qualification of the executor is conclusive evidence of
the existence of the will and of his authority.
Allen v. Dundas (3 T. R. 125) was an action on the case,
brought by Allen as administrator of Priestman, against Dundas, for money had and receiVed to the use of the intestate,
and to the use of the plaintiff as administrator. The defendant pleaded the general issue. On the trial a special verdict
was found, stating, in substance, as follows: The defendant,
as treasurer of the navy, was indebted to the intestate in hiY
lifetime £58, &c., for money had and received to his use.
Priestman died June 2, 1784; on Aug. 13, 1785, one Robert

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS V. GAINES.

Brown proved in the Prerogative Court of the Archbishop of
Canterbury a forged paper-writing, dated May 18,1784, purporting to be the last will of Priestman, whereby he was supposed
to have appointed Brown the sole executor thereof, and a probate of that supposed will issued in due form of law under the
seal of that court, on the same day, in favor of Brown. The
defendant, not knowing the will to have beenl forged, and
believing Brown to be the rightful executor, on Brown's request paid him the £58, being the whole balance then due
from the defendant to Priestman. Afterwards, on July 21,
1787, upon citation to Brown in the same court, the will and
probate were declared void, and it was further declared that
Priestman died intestate. On March 31, 1788, letters of administration on the goods of Priestman were granted to the
plaintiff. Upon this verdict judgment was entered for defendant. Upon this case Buller, J., said: "The first question
to be considered is, What is the effect of a probate? It has
been contended by the plaintiff's counsel, first, that it is not a
judicial act; and, secondly, that it is not conclusive. But I
am most clearly of opinion that it is a judicial act, for the
Ecclesiastical Court may hear and examine the parties on the
different sides whether a will be or be not properly made;
that is the only court which can pronounce whether or not the
will be good, and the courts of common law have no jurisdiction over the subject. Secondly, the probate is conclusive until
it be repealed, and no court of common law can admit evidence
to impeach it. Then this case was compared to a probate of a
supposed will, of a living person; but in such a case the ecclesiastical courts have no jurisdiction and the probate can have
no effect; their justification is only to grant probate of the
wills of dead persons. The distinction is this: if they have
jurisdiction, their sentence, as long as it stands unrepealed,
should avail in all other places; but when they have no
The
jurisdiction, their whole proceedings are a nullity."
judgment was concurred in by Justice Grose, and, as appears
by a note at the end of the case, was approved by Lord
Kenyon.
The same principle, that a probate is conclusive until repealed, was adverted to in an indictment for forging a will in

DAVIS v. GAINES.

V

[Sup. Ct.

Rex v. incent (1 Stra. 481), where, on an indictment for forging a will of personal estate, on the trial a forgery was proved,
but the defendant producing a probate, that was held to be
conclusive evidence in support of the will.
To the same effect is the case of Woolley v. Clark, 5 Barn.
& Ald. 746. See also Williams on Executors (6th Am. ed.),
590 and note (x'), where many cases to the same effect are
cited.
In Pacekman's Case (6 Co. 19), it was held that, though letters of administration be countermanded and revoked, a gift
or sale made by the administrator acting under the probate was
not thereby defeated.
To the same effect is the case of Semine v. Semine, 1 Lev.
90.
So in Graysbrook v. Fox (P1. Com. 282), it was held that
where one is executor, not of right but of wrong, yet if he had
paid any debt due by specialty, or other thing which the law
will force the executor to pay, the true executor should have
been bound by it, and should have been obliged to allow it
because the other was compellable to pay it, and the true
executor had no prejudice by it, forasmuch as he himself
should have been bound to pay it.
In Thompson v. Harding (2 El. & BI. 630), Lord Campbell,
C. J., said: " When the executor de son tort is really acting
as executor, and the party with whom he deals has fair reason
for supposing that he has authority to act as such, his acts
shall bind the rightful executor and shall alter the property."
The same doctrine is held in Parker v. JKett, 1 Ld. Raym.
658.
The American cases are to the same effect. In WIFaters v.
Stielney (12 Allen (Mass.), 15), it is said that a new decree of
probate establishing a later will or codicil would not necessarily avoid payments made or acts done under the old decree
while it remained unrevoked.
See also Peeble's Appeal, 15 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 39; Kittredge
v. Folsom, 8 N. I-. 98; Stone v. Peasley's Estate, 28 Vt.
716.
In Steele v. Renn (50 Tex. 467), a question similar to the
one now under consideration was passed upon by the Su-

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS v. GAINES.

preme Court of Texas, which held that " the title of a purchaser in good faith of land, from a legatee under a will
duly admitted to probate, is not affected by proceedings subsequently instituted and resulting in annulling the will as a
forgery."
Under the English law, by which probate of a will was only
required in reference to personal estate, it might well be that
the devisee of land took no title if the will were afterwards
discovered to be void. But in this country in most of the
States, Louisiana included, probate is required as well of wills
of land as of goods, and the same effect should be given to it
as a judicial act as to the probate of wills of personal estate in
England.
Upon the doctrines and authorities above referred to we are
of opinion that a sale of land, duly made by order of the Probate Court having jurisdiction, and a conveyance thereof by
the executor of a will duly admitted to probate, while its functions were in full force, to a bona fide purchaser for value,
vested the purchaser with a good and valid title, which was not
affected by the discovery of a later will and its admission to
probate and record.
The validity of the title of the Fortiers, under whom the
appellant claims, depends, therefore, on the two questions:
First,whether there was any fatal defect in the proceedings and
sale under which their title was derived ; and, second, whether
they were purchasers in good faith.
We have already seen that the proceedings and sale took
place within the year after the appointment of the executor,
and that it was competent for the court to order the sale by
reason of the absence from the State of the universal legatee
named in the will of 1811.
The appellee contends that there were fatal defects in the
proceedings and sale which rendered the title of the purchasers
void.
Firstly, it is said that there was no order for the sale of the
property in dispute, or rather that the order of sale made by
the Probate Court did not include it.
There is little ground for this objection. The petition was
for leave to sell all the property of the succession, movable

DAVIS

v.

GAINES.

[Sup. t

and immovable, and the order directed a sale accordingly.
There is no dispute, in fact it is the basis of the appellee's
title, that the property sold was the property of the succession,
and before the sale took place an inventory was filed in which
the property in dispute was returned as belonging to the succession.
There can be no question, therefore, that the order of sale
included the property which is the subject of this controversy.
But it has been expressly held by the Supreme Court of Louisiana that a purchaser of land at a probate sale, under the order
of a court of competent jurisdiction, directing a sale of all the
property of the succession, is not affected by the failure of the
executor to have such land placed on the inventory, or to have
it accurately described in the inventory. Mitchell v. Levi, 23
La. Ann. 630.
It is said, secondly, that the sale was not preceded by the
advertisements required by law ; and, tlirdly, that the inventory of the property of the estate, in which was included the
premises in controversy, was not made until after the order of
sale, and that the part of the inventory which included them
was not made by the two appraisers appointed by the parish
judge, but by appraisers chosen by the testamentary executor, and it was only signed by one of them.
There is evidence in the record tending to show that the
sale was duly advertised. The executor's conveyance recites
that the sale was made after " the publications and delays
prescribed by law;" and the account of the executor, which
had been of record in the Probate Court for more than fifty
years, shows that he paid for advertising the sale the sum of
$232.
As possession had been held under the deed for over sixty
years, its recitals are evidence even against strangers. Carver
v. Jackcson, 4 Pet. 83. And it has been held by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana that the account of an executrix recorded
in the Probate Court is competent evidence to prove the advertisement of a sale. Woods v. Lee, 21 La. Ann. 505. The
account was subject to exception. It passed under the scrutiny of the Probate Court, whose duty it was to ascertain the
balance due upon it to the heir, and render a final judgment

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS

v. GAINES.

therefor. Civil Code, arts. 1183, 1184. It was, therefore,
necessary for the court to allow or disallow the item charged
for advertising the sale. As this item remains in the account
as recorded, it may be presumed that it was allowed by the
court, and after it has been of record for over fifty years, as in
this case, may be considered as competent evidence to prove
that the advertisement of the sale was made.
This evidence, uncontradicted as it is, is sufficient to prove
the fact of the advertisement. But whether this is so or not
is immaterial; for on March 10, 1834, an act of the legislature of Louisiana was passed, the second section of which declares: " When a question shall arise out of any public sale
heretofore made by the sheriff, auctioneer, or other public
officer, and which sale was required by law to be preceded by
advertisements, the fact of sale being proved, it shall make
prima facie evidence that the required advertisements were
regularly made."
And this section has been continued in force to the present
time. See Voorhies's Revised Statutes, 1876, p. 867, sect.
3391. But even if it were affirmatively shown that there had
been no advertisement of the sale, that defect, as well as the
alleged irregularities in regard to the inventory, is cured by the
rule of prescription established by the fourth section of the said
act of March 10, 1834, which is as follows: "All informalities
connected with or growing out of any public sale made by
a sheriff, auctioneer, or other public officer, shall, after the
lapse of five years from the time of making the same, be prescribed against by those claiming under such sales, whether
they be minors, married women, or persons interdicted."
This section continued in force until 1870. It was then
substantially re-enacted by the general provision contained in
the Revised Statutes of 1870, sect. 3392, p. 659, and by art.
3543 of the Civil Code published in the same year, which
declares as follows: " All informalities connected with or
growing out of any public sale made by any person authorized
to sell at public auction, shall be prescribed against by those
claiming under such sale, after the lapse of five years from the
time of making it, whether against minors, married women, or
interdicted persons."

DAVIS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

This section is still in force. Voorhies's Revised Statutes,
1876, sect. 3392.
To entitle a party to claim the benefit of this provision of
this or any other prescription, it is made necessary by the jurisprudence of Louisiana that he should have acquired the immovable in good faith and by a just title. By the term "just
title," in cases of prescription, is not meant that which has been
derived from the true owner, but that which has been received
from any person whom the possessor honestly believed to be
the true owner, provided it were such as to transfer the ownership of the property; that is, such as by its nature would
have been sufficient to transfer the ownership if it had been
derived from the real owner, such as a sale, exchange, legacy;
or donation. Arts. 3484 and 3485 Civil Code; Pike v. Evans,
94 U. S. 6.
The deed of Relf, executor, to the purchasers falls within
the category above mentioned, or, in the language of the civilians, it is translative of property. There is no defect upon the
face of it. The only questions, therefore, which arise upon the
prescription of five years declared by sect. 4 of the act of
March 10, 1834, and its substitute, art. 3453 of the Civil Code,
are, Were the Fortiers purchasers in good faith; and are the
defects in the title, insisted on by the appellee, such informalities as are cured by that prescription ?
The good faith of the purchaser must be presumed until the
contrary is shown. Packwood v. Richardson, 1 Mart. N. S.
(La.) 410; Fletcher v. Cavalier, 4 La. 267 ; i-ivarde v. Rosseau, 7 La. Ann. 3 ; Leduf v. Bailly, 3 id. 8.
There is not a scintilla of proof in the record tending to
show that the Fortiers, or those claiming under them, had any
direct notice of Daniel Clark's will of 1813, or that the will of
1811, under which the sale was made, was not his last will
and testament.
The appellee relies on the fact, which she claims the testimony proves, that there was a general report in New Orleans,
then a small town, that the will of 1811 was not the last will
of Daniel Clark.
Even if the evidence established this fact, it is entirely too
vague and inconclusive as a ground for creating or destroying

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS V. GAINES.

valuable rights. But it fails signally to establish any such
general report, or to show that the Fortiers resided in New
Orleans, where, if such report existed, it might possibly have
come to their ears.
The only other fact relied on to prove the bad faith of the
purchasers was the fact that Do La Croix, on Aug. 18, 1813,
following the filing in the Probate Court of the will of 1811,
filed in the same court his petition under oath, in which he stated
that he had strong reasons to believe, and did believe, that the
late Daniel Clark had made a testament or codicil posterior to
that which had been opened before that honorable court, and
in the disposition whereof be thought he was interested. And
the petition prayed that, " whereas the double of this will,
whose existence was known to several persons, might have been
deposited with any notary public of this city, an order might
be made that every notary of the city appear before the court
within the delay of twenty-four hours, to certify on oath if
there does or does not exist in his office any testament or
codicil or any sealed packet deposited by the said Daniel
Clark."
The order was made according to the prayer of the petition.
Nothing caine of it. No subsequent will was found by reason
of the steps suggested by the petitioner.
This petition proved that De La Croix had notice of the
will of 1813. It was so held by this court in Gaines v. De
La Croix, 6 Wall. 719. But it proved nothing else. It fails
utterly to show any bad faith on the part of the Fortiers.
There is not the slightest evidence that either of them
ever heard of the petition,' or that a rumor of the existence
of a will later than that of 1811 ever came to their knowledge.
There is an absolute failure of proof to establish any bad
faith on the part of the purchasers of the property in dispute.
They acted as if they believed that they were getting a good
title to the property, for they agreed to pay, and did pay,
what at that time was an immense sum of money for it, to
wit, 9120,000.
The good faith of the Fortiers being beyond question, they
and those claiming under them have the right to rely upon the
VOL. XIV.

26

DAVIS v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

prescription of five years to cure any irregularity in the proceedings which resulted in the sale.
That want of advertisements of the sale is such an irregularity as falls within the prescription was held in the cases of
Woods v. Lee, 21 La. Ann. 505 ; and Pasiana v. Powell, id.
584. And it would seem that when property was sold at public sale, and as in this case brought its full value, the want of
previous advertisement was a very immaterial matter.
The other alleged defects in the proceedings clearly fall
within the prescription of five years. The fact that the inventory of the estate was not completed before the order of sale,
the fact that the inventory was partly made by appraisers appointed by the testamentary executor, and that it was signed.
by only one of two who were so appointed, are certainly most
trifling and inconsequential irregularities when there is no proof
or even charge that the inventory was not fairly made or the
sale fairly conducted, and when the property sold brought its
full value. If these irregularities do not fall within the prescription of five years, it would be hard to conceive of any that
would. Fraser v. Z4liz, 29 id. 534.
The irregularities in the sale alleged by the appellee are,
therefore, cured by the lapse of five years, and can have no
more influence on the title of the appellant than if they never
existed.
We find, therefore, that the appellant derives her title under
a public sale made by a public officer by authority of the order
of the Probate Court ; that the sale took place, and the deed,
which on its face was without defect and was translative of
property, was made by the executdr within the year following
his appointment; that the purchasers purchased in good faith
for a full consideration; and that there were no nullities or
informalities in the sale which have not been cured by the prescription of five years.
In the cases heretofore decided by this court in favor of
appellee, except Gaines v. De La Croix, the defendant claimed
title from Relf, or Relf and Chew, executors of the will of
1811, under private sale, made by them as agents of Mary
Clark, devisee under that will, and in their pretended capacity as executors, after their term of office had expired, and

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS

v. GAINES.

without any order of court. See Gaines v. New Orleans,
6 Wall. 642.
In the case of Gaines v. De La Croix, the court decided, and
on most satisfactory proof, that De La Croix was a purchaser
in bad faith, and upon that ground his title was declared
invalid.
In her bill in this case the appellee, knowing that it was a
vital fact in her case, eharged that the sale of Relf, the executor, to the Fortiers was made after the expiration of a year
from the date of his appointment and at a time when he had
no authority to sell. But, as the proof shows, that averment is
not true. The record shows that Relf was appointed executor
Aug. 27, 1813, and the sale was made on November 8 following, under an order of court, and the conveyance three days
later, on November 11.
Upon the facts of the case, therefore, the title derived by the
appellant under the sale to the Fortiers appears to be a good
and valid title.
But conceding that the title acquired by the Fortiers at the
sale made by the register of wills was void, should there be a
decree in favor of the complainant, establishing her title to the
lands in question, and placing her in possession, until she has
returned or tendered the money which the Fortiers paid on
their purchase? This inquiry presents the second ground of
defence relied on by appellee.
Clark bought the property for $120,000, wholly on credit,
and gave a mortgage on it to secure the purchase-money. It
was sold for the same price to the Fortiers, who purchased in
good faith. Every cent of the purchase-money was applied to
the extinguishment of the mortgage executed by Clark, and
for which his estate was liable. No repayment or tender of
this sum or any part of it is averred in the bill. Upon this
state of facts, we do not think the complainant is entitled
to a decree.
To allow the heir or the devisee of a mortgagor, under the
circumstances of this case, to recover the property without
repaying the money for which it had been sold, and which had
been paid by a bona fide purchaser, and had been applied to
clear the property of a mortgage which rested upon it, and for

DAVIS v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

which the estate of the mortgagor was bound, would be most
inequitable and unjust. It would be an utter disregard of the
rule that they who seek equity must do equity. No support
for such a decree can be found in the adjudged cases.
On the contrary, in Scott v. Dunn (1 Dev. & B. (N. C.) Eq.
425), it was held that where an executor sold lands and applied the proceeds to the payment of the debts under a
mistake of his power, and the purchaser was evicted by the
devisee, the land in equity would be subjected to indemnify
the purchaser to the extent to which the purchase-money was
applied to the payment of the debts over and above the personal estate.
So in. Valle v. Fleming's Heirs (29 Mo. 152), it was held
that when land is purchased in good faith at an administrator's
sale, which is void because the requirements of the statute are
not pursued, and the purchase-money is applied in extinguishment of a mortgage to which such land was subject in the
hands of the owner, the purchaser will be subrogated to the
rights of the mortgagee to the extent of the purchase-money
applied in the extinguishment of the mortgage, and the owner
will not be entitled to recover possession until lie repays such
purchase-money.
To precisely the same effect are the cases of Blodgett v.
Bitt, 29 Wis. 169, and Iudyin v. Hudyin, 6 Gratt. (Va.)
320. See also Mohr v. Tulip, 40 Wis. 66; Grant v. Lloyd,
22 Miss. 191 ; Short v. Porter, 44 id. 533 ; Thaynes v. Meeks,
10 Cal. 110. And see Freeman on Void Judicial Sales, sect.
51, where the authorities on this question are collected and
discussed.
The views held in the cases above referred to are sanctioned
also by the jurisprudence of Louisiana. Thus, in Barelli v.
Gauche (24 La. Ann. 324), it was held that an action to annul a
judicial sale of real property on the ground of irregularities in
the proceedings cannot be maintained against the purchaser,
unless the parties claiming its nullity have paid or offered to
reimburse the purchaser the amounts of the mortgages resting
on the property, which he has paid since the purchase. A tender of the amounts thus paid is an essential prerequisite to the
prosecution of a suit to annul.

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS

v. GAINES.

So in Davidson v. Davidson (28 La. Ann. 269), it was held
that a sale made by an administrator to pay debts " could not
be disturbed unless the heirs previously returned or offered to
return the price of the adjudication."
In Jouet v. Mortimer (29 id. 207), the court said: "Nothing could be more unjust than to permit a debtor to recover back his property because the sale is irregular, and
yet allow him to profit by that irregular sale to discharge
his debt."
See Coiron v. lillaudon, 3 id. 664; Seawell v. Payne, 5 id.
255 ; Barret v. Emerson, 8 id. 503; also Dufour v. Camfrane,
11 Mart. (La.) 607.
The saine rule prevailed in the civil law. It was said by
Mr. Justice Story, in Bright v. Boyd (2 Story, 478) : " There
is still another principle of the Roman law which is applicable
to the present case. It is, that where a bona fide purchaser of
real estate pays money to discharge any existing incumbrance
or charge upon the estate, having no notice of any infirmity in
his title, he is entitled to be repaid the amount of such payment by the true owner seeking to recover the estate from
hin."
See also Dig., lib. 6, tit. 1, 1. 65 ; Pothier, Pand., lib. 6, tit.
1, n. 43; Pothier, De la Propridt6, n. 343.
The authorities cited settle conclusively the proposition that
the complainant is not entitled to the decree she seeks without
repayment or tender of the purchase-price of the lands in controversy, which has been applied to the extinguishment of a
mortgage thereon.
No case is cited by counsel for appellee where the court
refused to give a purchaser in good faith the benefit of this
rule. The authorities relied on by him (Sugden on Vendors,
c. 16, p. 483; 3 Atk. 287) apply only to purchases in bad
faith.
We are aware that it has been held that a purchaser at an
irregular or void judicial or execution sale is not subrogated to
the rights of the judgment creditor. Richmond v. Marston,
15 Ind. 134.
The weight of authority is, however, against this position.
McLaughlin v. Daniel, 8 Dana (Ky.), 182; Bentley v. Long,

DAVIS

v.

GAINES.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

1 Strobh. (S. C.) Eq. 43; Howard v. North, 5 Tex. 290; Jackson
v. Bowen, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 13. And this court has expressly held
that an irregular judicial sale, made at the suit of a mortgagee,
even though no bar to the equity of redemption, passes to the
purchaser at such sale all the rights of the mortgagee as such.
Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519.
But it is not necessary for the appellant to stand upon the
doctrine of subrogation. She is in possession, and ought not
to be deprived thereof upon a proceeding in equity, unless the
complainant offers to do equity. What we decide on this
branch of the case is this: when the purchase-noney paid by
a purchaser in good faith, of real estate of a decedent ordered
to be sold by a Probate Court, has been applied to the extinguishment of a mortgage executed by the decedent upon the
property sold, and constituting a valid incumbrance thereon,
and'it turns out that the sale is irregular or void, the purchaser cannot be ousted of his possession upon a bill in equity
filed by the heir or devisee, without a repayment or tender of
the purchase-money so paid and applied.
As the points already decided are conclusive of the case,
it is unnecessary to express any opinion on the third defence
set up by the appellant; namely, the prescriptions of ten,
twenty, and thirty years declared by the Civil Code of Louisiana.
The litigation of which this case forms a part has been
before this court in various forms in the following cases: Ex
parte Myra Clarke JYhitney, 13 Pet. 404; Gaines v. Reif, 15
id. 9. Gaines v. Chew, 2 How. 619; Patterson v. Gaines,
6 id. 550; Gaines v. Relf, 12 id. 472; Gaines v. Hlennen, 24
id. 553; Gaines v. New Orleans, 6 Wall. 642; Gaines v. De La
Croix, id. 719; Yew Orleans v. Gaines, 15 id. 624; Gaines v.
Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10.
We think the facts of this case distinguish it from all the
cases above mentioned, and our opinion is, that upon the
averments made in this bill, and the evidence adduced to support it, the appellee, Mrs. Gaines, is not entitled to a decree
against the appellant. So much, therefore, of the decree of
the Circuit Court as relates to the property bought by Michel
Fortier and Omer Fortier, and now claimed by the widow and

Oct. 1881.]

HYDE V. RUBLE.

heirs of Minor Kenner, deceased, must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill, so far as it
concerns the appellant.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS took no part irnthe decision of

this case.

HYDE v. RUBLE.
1. Under the second section of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3,
p. 470), a suit cannot be removed from a State court to the Circuit Court,
unless either all the parties on one side of the controversy are citizens of
different States from those on the other side, or there is in such suit a
separable controversy, wholly between some of the parties who are citizens
of different States, which can be fully determined as between them.
2. That act repealed the second clause of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes.

ERnor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Angus Cameron for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Gordon E. Cole, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit begun by Ruble and Green, on the 6th of
March, 1880, in a State court of Minnesota, upon an alleged
contract of bailment made by the defendants as partners. The
amount involved was a little more than $500. The plaintiffs
were citizens of Minnesota.
Only one defendant, Rowell,
The business of the alleged
was a citizen of that State.
partnership was carried on there. He filed a separate answer
to the complaint, in which he denied the existence of any
partnership between himself and the other defendants, and
set up a full performance of the contract on his part. The
other defendants joined in a separate answer for themselves,
in which they denied any partnership with him, and any con-

