Oct. 1881.]

BOUGHTON V. EXCHANGE BANK.

in the Land Department, namely, that the public surveys had
been extended over the land, and that other lands had been
appropriated to the satisfaction of the grant.
Judgment affirmed.

BOUGrITON V. EXCHANGE BANK.
This court has no jurisdiction to re-cxamine the judgment of a State court,
unless the record shows, affirmatively or by fair implication, that a Federal
question, necessary to the determination of the cause, is involved.

to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Pennsylvania.
This was a suit brought in the Court of Common Pleas of
Philadelphia, by the American Exchange National Bank,
against John W. Boughton, upon two promissory notes,
whereof he was the maker. His affidavit of defence, alleging
usury, having been declared to be insufficient, judgment was
rendered against him, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. He then sued out this writ.
MOTION

Mr. Samuel Wagner in support of the motion.
Hr. Thomas Greenbanl, contra.
Mr. CHimF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
To give us jurisdiction for the review of a judgment of a
State court, the record nnst show affirmatively, or by fair implication, that some Federal question was involved which was
necessary to the determination of the cause. The defence set
up in this case was that the notes sued on were void for usury
under the laws of New York, where they were made. Judgment was given against the plaintiff in error for want of a
sufficient affidavit of defence. This judgment would be right
if the affidavit was not such as was required by law or the
practice of the court for the presentation of a defence like that
relied on. As it is incumbent on him to show by the record, not
only that this'was not the ground of the decision below, but

NESLIN V. WELLS.

[SLIP. Ct.

that some wrong determination of a Federal question was,and it has not been done, - we might dismiss the suit without
further examination; but on looking into the opinion, which
has been sent up with the record, we find that the Court of
Appeals based its judgment, which alone we can review, entirely on the fact that the affidavit was not sufficiently specific
in its averments to meet the requirements of the rules of pleading applicable to such cases.
It is clear, therefore, that we have no jurisdiction.
Motion granted.

NESLIN V. WELLS.
1. By the laws of Utah in force in the year 1873 a mortgage of lands which is
first recorded, if it be taken without notice of an elder mortgage, is entitled
to precedence of lien.
2. It is only when the equities are equal that the maxim qui prior est tempore potior
estjure applies.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

J. G. Sutherland and J R. IMcBride for the appellant.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Mr. Jeremiah M. Wilson for
the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit of an equitable nature, brought by Wells,
Fargo, & Co., against Neslin and Smith, in the District Court
of the Third Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, to
foreclose a mortgage of real estate, made by Smith to Kerr, and
by the latter assigned to them. Neslin claimed to be a prior
mortgagee of the same land, and to be entitled to a lien preferable to that of the complainants.
A decree for the complainants was rendered in the District
Court, establishing their mortgage as the first and best lien.
A motion for a new trial was made by Neslin. On that motion, a statement in writing, agreed upon as correct, was signed
by the attorneys for both parties, and filed and- made part of

