Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

579

to the suit, either by an express order of the court to that
effect, or by being treated as such, his application for an appeal was properly denied. This case cannot be distinguished
in principle from Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14.
Motion denied.

COUNTY OF CLAY v. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.
1. The legislation of the State of Illinois reviewed, whereunder the county of
Clay issued two series of bonds, one dated Nov. 1, 18609, in payment of its
subscription to the stock of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,
and another dated Jan. 4, 1871, whereby its donation voted before the year
1870 to that company was paid.
2. Tile bonds are valid, as they were issued in strict conformity to the conditions
and requirements prescribed by statute, and pursuant to a popular vote cast
at an election lawfully held before the year 1870. The Constitution of
Illinois, which took effect during that year, does not attempt to impair the
obligation of any prior contract in regard to them, nor prohibit the issue of
such as were necessary to give effect to a donation so voted.
3. Where a bona fide holder for value of a county bond sues thereon, its recitals, showing that it was issued in accordance with the statute, are conclusive and binding, and the fact that for many years its validity has
been recognized by paying the interest thereon as it became due cures
mere irregularities in issuing it. The county cannot, by setting them up,
escape liability.

ERIR R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
On Nov. 6, 1849, the legislature of Illinois passed an "Act
authorizing counties and cities in the State of Illinois to subscribe to the capital stock or make loans to railway companies," which contained the following provisions:"SE CT. 1. Whenever the citizens of any city or county in this
State tre desirous that said city or county should subscribe for

stock in any railroad company, already organized or incorporated,
or hereafter to be organized or incorporated, under any law of this
State, such city or county may, and are hereby authorized to, purchase or subscribe for shares of the capital stock in any such company, in any sum not exceeding $100,000, for each of' such cities or
counties, and the stock so subscribed for or purchased shall he

580

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

under the control of the county court of the county, or common
council of the city, making such subscription or purchase, in all
respects as stock owned by individuals.
"SECT. 2. For the payment of said stock the judges of the county
court of the county, or the common council of the city, making such
subscription or purchase, are hereby authorized to borrow money
at a rate not exceeding ten per cent. per annum, and to pledge the
faith of the county or city fbr the annual payment of the interest
and the ultimate redemption of the principal, or, if the said judges
or common council should deem it more advisable, they are hereby
authorized to pay for such subscription or purchase in bonds of the
city or county, making such subscription to be drawn for that purpose in sunis not less than $50, bearing interest not exceeding ten
per centum per annum: JProvided, that no bond shall be paid out
at a ratd less than par value.
"SECT. 3. The railroad companies already organized or incorporated, or hereafter to be organized or incorporated, under the laws
of this State, are hereby authorized to receive the bonds of any
county or city becoming subscribers to the capital stock of such
company at par and in lieu of cash.
"SE CT. 4. No subscription shall be made,'or purchase or bond
issued, by any county or city, under the provisions of this act,
whereby any debt shall be created by said judges of the county
court of any county or by the common council of any city, to pay
any such subscription, unless a majority of the qualified voters of
such county or city (taking as a standard the number of votes
thrown at the last general election previous to the vote had upon
the question of'subscription under this act) shall vote for the same;
and the judges of the county court of any county, or the common
council of any city, desiring to take stock as aforesaid, shall give at
least thirty days' notice, in the same manner as notices are given
for election of State and county officers in said counties, requiring
said electors of said counties or cities to vote upon the day named
in such notices, at their usual place of voting, for or against the subscription for such capital stock which they may propose to make,"
&c. See Gross's Statutes of Illinois (3d ed.), pages 552, 553.
Afterwards, on Feb. 26, 1867, the legislature passed an act
to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, the
seventh section of which was as follows: "The county court, or board of supervisors (where such county
has adopted township organization), of any county into or through

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

581

which this road or its branches may pass, is hereby authorized and
fully empowered to donate to said company, as a bonus or inducement towards the building of said railroad or its branches, any sum
not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars, and may order the
clerk of the county court or board of supervisors of such county
to issue bonds of the county to the amount donated; and such
clerk of the county court or board of supervisors, as the case may
be, of such county, shall countersign and deliver such bonds so
issued to the president or directors of said company; which said
bonds may bear any rate of interest not to exceed ten per cent.
per annum, payable at the maturity of the bonds, as hereinafter
expressed, and yearly thereafter: Provided, that no donation by
the county court or board of supervisors of any such county shall
be of a greater sum than fifty thousand dollars, until the question of
such larger donation shall have been submitted to the leglil voters
of such county, at an election to be called, conducted, returns made,
canvassed, and published, in the usual manner of calling, conducting, making returns, canvassing, and publishing special county elections," &c.
On Feb. 24, 1869, an act was passed to amend the act to
incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, sect.
10 of which provided:" That any village, city, county, or township organized under the
township organization law, or any other law of this State, along or
near the route of said railway or its branches, or that are in anywise interested therein, may, in their corporate capacity, subscribe
to the stock of said company, or make donations to said company,
to aid in constructing and equipping said railway: Provided,that
no such subscriptions or donations shall be made until the same
shall be voted for, as hereinafter provided."
The section then proceeded to declare that upon the application of twenty legal voters of any such city, village, county, or
township, the clerk thereof should call an election to be held
by the legal voters, to determine "whether such village, city,
county, or township shall subscribe to the capital stock of said
company, or make a donation thereto to aid in building or
equipping said railway, and whether to be subscribed or donated, and the rate of interest and the time of payment of the
bonds to be issued in payment thereof. Section 12 of the act
declared as follows: -

5S2

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

"That when payment of subscription to the capital stock of said
company or payments for donations to said company have been or
shall be made by villages, cities, counties, or townships, in bonds
of such villages, cities, counties, or townships, under any act authorizing such subscription or donation to be made, all such bonds
issued or negotiated by the proper authorities of such villages,
cities, counties, or townships, and appearing regular on the face
thereof; shall, in the hands of said company or any other lonac fide
holder thereof, be deemed and taken in all courts and elsewhere,
as primafacie evidence of the regularity of everything required by
the several acts in relation to the issuing of said bonds or by any
other act to be done preliminary to the issuing and negotiation of
said bonds."
On April 16, 1869, the legislature passed an act for the registration of municipal bonds in the office of the auditor of
state, sect. 7 of which required that, before any county bond
could be registered, the presiding judge of the county court
should certify under oath to the auditor that all the preliminary conditions to their issue required by law bad been complied with. See Underwood's Statutes of Illinois, p. 994.
The Constitution of Illinois, which went into effect Aug. 8,
1870, declares (second additional section):"No county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall
ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to, or loan its credit in aid of,
such corporation: Provided, however, that the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any such
municipality to make such subscriptions when the same have been
authorized under existing laws by a vote of the people of such
municipalities prior to such adoption."
This suit was brought by The Society for Savings against the
County of Clay upon certain bonds dated Nov. 1, 1869, with
the coupons attached, of a series issued by it to pay for stock
in the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, subscribed by
the county board of supervisors, and upon certain bonds dated
Jan. 4, 1871, with coupons attached, of another series issued

by it to pay for a donation made to the company by that
board, both series being issued, as was claimed, by authority
of the foregoing legislation.

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

583

Although the instruments sued on are under seal, the suit
is called in the record an action of assumpsit, and the defendant pleaded non-assumpsit.
Upon the trial, a jury being waived, the court made an elaborate and comprehensive finding of the facts, in which is set
out in full a copy of one of the bonds belonging to each class
sued on, and of one of the coupons attached to each respectively.
The subscription bonds, as appears by the finding of the
court, contain this recital: "This bond being issued under and pursuant to orders of the
board of supervisors of Clay County, Illinois, for subscription to

the capital stock of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, as
authorized by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois. And the
fith of the county of Clay is hereby irrevocably pledged for the
payment of said principal and interest as aforesaid."
The donation series of bonds the court found to contain the
following recital: "This bond is one of a series of bonds issued by Clay County to
aid in the construction of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, in pursuance of the authority conferred by an act of the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled I An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,' approved Feb-

ruary 25, 1867, and an act amendatory thereof approved February
24, 1869, and of an election of the legal voters of Clay County,
Illinois, held on April 22, 1868, under the provisions of said act."
"This bond is not to become a binding obligation of the said
county of Clay until the following conditions shall have been complied with, to wit: this bond to become due and payable on the
express conditions that said company shall have completed the
whole length of its line from Shawnectown, on the Ohio River, to
the Chicago Branch of the Illinois Central Railroad, and shall

have the cars running thereon."
Upon the back of each one of the donation series of bonds
was printed the following certificate :"STATE

OF ILLINOIS, CLAY COUNTY, SS:

"I, Jno. L. Moore, clerk of the County Court of Clay County,
in the State of Illinois, do hereby ceritify that the county court of
said county have entered an order on the records of said county

584

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

court, directing me to indorse upon this bond the following words,
to wit : All the conditions upon which this bond was to become a
binding obligation of the county of Clay have been complied with.
" In testimony whereof, I hereto affix my hand and the seal of
said court, at Louisville, this fourth day of January, A. ). 1871.
"JNo. L. MooRE, Clerk."
[sEA.]

Upon all the bonds of both series was printed the certificate
of the auditor of public accounts, as follows "STATE

OF ILLINOIS,

AUDITOR'S

OFFICE,

"Jan. 9, 1871, Springfield.
"I, Charles E. Lippincott, auditor of public accounts of the State
of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has been registered in this office this day, pursuant to the provisions of an act
entitled ' An Act to amend an act entitled "An Act to incorporate
the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,"' approved February
24, 1869, as well as the provisions of an act entitled ' An Act to
fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' in force April 16, 1869.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
and affixed the seal of my office the day and year aforesaid.
" C. E. LIPPINCOTT, Auditor P. A."
[SEAL.]
The court further found that on March 2, 1868, the board
of supervisors made an order calling an election to be held by
the qualified voters of the county upon two propositions: First,
that the county should subscribe 9100,000 to the capital stock
of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, and issue in
payment thereof bonds for an equal amount ; and, second, that
the county should donate $50,000 to the railway company, and
issue bonds of the county to pay said donation ; that the election was held in accordance with the order of the boai'd of
supervisors, and resulted in a majority of votes being cast in
the county in favor of both of the propositions; that at a
special meeting of the board of supervisors, held on the first
Monday of November, 1868, the president of the board was
instructed, by resolutions duly passed by the board, to make
such donation, and to subscribe said amount upon the books
of said railway company, the subscription and donation to be
made strictly and only in accordance with the terms of the

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY or CLAY V. SOCIETY FOn SAVINGS.

585

proposition aforesaid, submitted and voted upon on April 22,
1868.
The court also found that the company had located its
road and graded, bridged, and tied ten miles thereof before
the first day of November, 1869, and that on that day the
president of the board of supervisors made the subscription
upon the books of the railway company, under and in pursuance of the submission, vote, and resolution aforesaid, the subscription being made upon the terms and conditions aforesaid.
The court further found that the $100,000 of bonds so voted
as subscription as aforesaid were delivered to the company on
Nov. 1, 1869, and subsequently thereto, the company having
fully complied with the terms and conditions of the vote before
receiving the bonds.
The court further found that, on Jan. 1, 1871, "the fifty
thousand dollars so donated as aforesaid, under and in pursuance
of the vote aforesaid, in the bonds of said county, were delivered
and donated to said railway company, said railway company having complied with the conditions of said vote," &c.
The court also found that both series of bonds bad been
registered in the office of the auditor of public accounts, and
that taxes had been certified by him, and the interest paid on
the bonds up to the commencement of this suit.
The findings of the court further state that the plaintiff purchased all the bonds sued on for full value before maturity,
and was an innocent holder thereof without notice of any
irregularity in the issue, except such constructive notice as the
law charges it with.
The court found the issue for the plaintiff and rendered
judgment. The county sued out this writ.
Mr. W. J. Ienry for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. -David T. Littler for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Two classes of bonds are sued on, namely, the subscription
bonds and the donation bonds. The defences set up against
each class will be separately considered.
The findings of the court and the sections of the act of 1849,

586

COUNTY OF CLAY v. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

recited in the preceding statement of facts, furnish ample
ground for the judgment in favor of the defendant in error
upon the subscription bonds held by it.
The plaintiff in error, however, insists that there i's no evidence or finding that the thirty days' notice of the election
required by the statute had been given, or that a majority of
the legal voters, taking as a standard the number of votes
thrown at the last general election for county officers, voted
in favor of the proposition to subscribe stock and issue the
bonds of the county to pay for it.
There are three conclusive answers to this contention.
First, the bonds recite that they were issued under and pursuant to the orders of the board of supervisors of Clay County,
as authorized by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois.
The act of Nov. 6, 1849, authorized the judges of the county
court to issue the bonds only in case a majority of the voters
of the county, taking as a standard the number of votes thrown
at the next preceding general election, should vote in favor of
the proposition to subscribe to the stock of some designated
railroad company, and pay for it by the issue of county bonds.
The ultimate decision of the question whether such a vote had
been cast was, therefore, left with the judges of the county
court. The recital of the bonds, that they were issued pursuant to the orders of the board, the successor of the county
court, as authorized by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois, is equivalent to a declaration by the board, upon the face
of the bond, that the election had been held and had resulted
so as to authorize the lawful issuing of the bonds. When the
bonds are in the hands of a bona fide holder this recital is conelusive and binding upon the municipality. Town of Coloma
v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Marcey v. Township of Oswego, id. 687.
The second answer is, that if the county had, under the law,
authority to issue bonds, and did issue them, and they went
into circulation and came to the hands of a bona fide holder,
he was not, in a suit upon them, required to aver or prove the
performance of any of the requisites necessary to give them
validity. The want of such performance is a matter of defence, and the burden of proof is upon the county to establish
it. Lincoln v. Iron Company, 103 U. S. 412. In this case the

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

587

county offered no evidence in any degree tending to show that
the conditions precedent upon the performance of which the
issue was authorized had not been complied with. It cannot,
therefore, assume that the conditions were not performed,
and insist on non-performance as a defence.
The third answer is, that sect. 12 of the act of Feb. 24,
18(69, amendatory of the act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, which was indorsed on the bonds,
expressly provided that when payment to the capital stock of
the company should be made in the bonds of counties or townships, under any act authorizing such subscription, all such
bonds issued by the proper authorities and appearing regular
on their face should, in the hands of a bona fide holder, be
deemed and taken in all courts, and elsewhere, as prima facie
evidence of the regularity of everything required by the several
acts in relation to the issuing of said bonds, or by any other
act to be done preliminary to their issue and negotiation.
As no proof has been submitted of any irregularity in the
issuing of the bonds, this section of' the law is conclusive
against the existence of any.
It is next insisted by plaintiff in error that the general statute of Nov. 6, 1849, so far as it concerned the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, was repealed by sect. 7 of the act
to incorporate that company. That section authorized the
county court of any county, or the board of supervisors (when
the county bad adopted township organization), to donate to
said company, as a bonus or inducement towards the building of said railroad or its branches, any sun not exceeding
$100,000, and to issue to the company its bonds in satisfaction
of said donation ; provided, that no donation of a greater sum
than $50,000 should be made until the question of such larger
donation should have been submitted to the vote of the legal
voters of the county, and a majority thereof should have voted
in favor of such donation. The contention is that it was not
the purpose of the legislature in these enactments to permit a
county to purchase or subscribe to the capital stock of a railroad company and also make a donation to the same company.
There is not a word in the charter of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company which expressly excludes it from

588

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

the benefits of the general railroad subscription law of Nov. 6,
1849. Nor is there the slightest repugnancy between the provisions of the two acts. The latter, being a general law,
authorized any city or county in the State to purchase or
subscribe to the capital stock of any railroad company anywhere in the State; the former, being an act to incorporate
a private corporation, authorized any county through which
the railroad of the company or any of its branches might pass,
to make a donation to the company as a bonus or inducement
towards the building of the railroad or its branches. There
is no ground whatever for the contention that the general law
was repealed or modified, in any respect, by the act incorporating the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company. There is no
repugnancy or inconsistency between them. A statute can be
repealed only by an express provision of a subsequent law or
by necessary implication. To repeal a statute by implication,
there must be such a positive repugnancy between the provisions of the new law and the old that they cannot stand
together or be consistently reconciled.
McCool v. Smith,
1 Black, 459; IWood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the act incorporating the
Illinois Southeastern Railway Company does not repeal or
modify the general law of Nov. 6, 1849.
The plaintiff in error further insists that sect. 10 of an act
approved Feb. 24, 1869, amendatory of the charter of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, had the effect to repeal,
not only sect. 7 of the charter of the company, but also the general law of Nov. 6, 1849, so far as it concerned the company.
This section provides "that any village, city, county, or township along or near the route of said railway or its branches, or
that are in anywise interested therein, may, in their corporate
capacity, subscribe to the stock of said company, or make
donations to said company to aid in constructing and equipping said railway," provided the same shall be voted for at an
election called by the clerk of the village, city, county, or
township, upon the written request of twenty legal voters
thereof, and upon thirty days' notice.
Conceding that this section is a substitute for sect. 7 of the
original charter, it cannot be held to repeal the general law,

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

589

for the reasons already stated in reference to sect. 7 of the
original charter; namely, that there is no direct appeal, and
there is no repugnancy between the two acts which would
make a repeal by implication.
The subscription bonds stied on were, according to the findings of the court, issued in substantial conformity, not only
with the general act of Nov. 6, 1849, but also with the amendatory act of 1869, so that, conceding that the latter act is
applicable to the issuing of the bonds in question, they are
valid in the hands of a bona fide holder. When these bonds
were issued there was ample authority for their issue under
the laws of the State of Illinois. The recital that they were
issued in conformity with the laws of the State, as already
shown, is binding on the county, when the suit is brought on
the bonds by a bona fide holder, and concludes the county from
setting up any irregularities in their issue, if any existed. We
are of opinion, therefore, that the suit upon the subscription
bonds was well maintained.
The objections to the bonds known and designated as donation bonds have nothing substantial in them. The bonds refer
on their face to the laws which authorized their issue, and recite that they were issued in pursuance of authority granted
thereby. They carry an indorsement made by the clerk of
the county court, by its order and under its seal, that all the
conditions upon which they were to become a binding obligation of the county have been complied with, and printed on
every one of them is a copy of sect. 12 of the act of Feb. 24,
1869, amendatory of the charter of the company, which makes
the fact of the negotiation of them in payment of a donation
to it primafacie evidence of the regularity of their issue when
in the hands of a bona fide holder. There is no proof or offer
of proof that they were not issued in conformity with the
requirements of law.
The plaintiff in error argues, however, as conclusive against
their validity, that they were not issued until after Aug. 8,
1870, the date upon which the present Constitution of Illinois
went into effect, which by the second additional section declared that no municipal corporation should ever make donation to any railroad or private corporation.

590

COUNTY OF CLAY V. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

The findings of the court show that the people of Clay
County, on April 22, 1868, voted in favor of a proposition to
donate $50,000 to the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,
provided the railroad of said company should be located on
a certain line specifically described, and provided the bonds
issued in payment of such donation should not be payable
until the railway had been completed the whole length of the
line, from Shawneetown, on the Ohio River, to the Chicago
Branch of the Illinois Central Railroad, and the cars running
thereon; that on the first Monday of November, 1868, the
board of supervisors of the county, by resolution duly passed,
directed its president to make the donation aforesaid upon the
books of the railway company, in accordance with the condition of said vote, and that before the first day of November,
1869, the railway company had located its line of road, as
required by the conditions upon which the donation was to be
made, and had "graded, bridged, and tied ten miles thereof."
We think it may be fairly deduced from the findings of the
court below that, on Nov. 1, 1869, the president of the board
of supervisors subscribed upon the books of the railway company as directed by the board of supervisors the donation of
$50,000, which the county had voted, and the brief of counsel
for plaintiff in error distinctly admits that such is the proper
construction of the findings.
These transactions made a contract between the county and
the railway company to the effect that in consideration that
the railway company should construct its road upon the line
designated, and complete it and have the cars running thereon
between the points mentioned, the county would deliver its
bonds to the railway company in satisfaction of its donation.
This contract had been partly performed by the railway company before the Constitution of 1870 went into effect. The
adoption of the Constitution could not annul or impair it.
The county was bound notwithstanding the provision of the
Constitution of 1870. Town of Concord v. Savings Bank, 92
U. S. 625.
And when, as appears by the findings of the court, the railway company had, on Jan. 1, 1871, fully completed its road
according to the terms upon which the donation was to be

Oct. 1881.],

COUNTY OF CLAY v. SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS.

591

made, it was entitled in law under its contract to the bonds of
the county in satisfaction of the donation.
There was, therefore, authority to issue these bonds upon
the conditions prescribed. The court found that the defendant in error was a bona fide holder, and that the railroad company had complied with all the conditions upon which the
bonds were to be issued to it. Upon this state of facts the
attempt of the plaintiff in error to avoid its liability upon these
bonds seems a hopeless undertakinrg.
Other defences are set up against a recovery in this case.
Plaintiff in error alleges that the authority to donate $50,000
to the railway company was expressly conferred upon the
board of supervisors without any vote or precedent condition
whatever, and the authority being conferred upon the board
could not be by it "delegated to the people to be voted upon
at a popular election." It further alleges that the bonds are
not negotiable, and it insists that the authority of the board of
supervisors, under the original charter of the railway company,
to make the donation, was repealed by the amendatory act of
Feb. 24, 1869.
These defences do not in our judgment merit reply.
The plaintiff in error has received in consideration for the
issue of each series of bonds everything for which it bargained.
They were regularly issued, and have been registered under the
Statute of Illinois with the auditor of public accounts, upon
the strength of a certificate under oath made by a supervisor
of the county pursuant to law, to the effect that all the preliminary conditions to the issue of the bonds required by law had
been complied with. The record shows that taxes had been
levied to pay interest, and that interest had been paid on the
subscription bonds for eleven years, and on the donation bonds
for nine years. This fact would of itself cure mere irregularities in the issuing of the bonds when they were sued on by a
bona fide holder for value. Sul)ervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wall.
772. Under these circumstances, when a suit is brought on
them by such a holder, as found to be the case here, some substantial defence must be set up by the county before it can
escape its liability. Such defences as are relied on in this
case will not avail.
Judgment afirmed.

