Oct. 1881.]

SAGE V. WYNCOOP.

Nimmo, as described in the reissued patent, is covered by the
prior patents to Wise and to Smith.
Undoubtedly they both embody the principle of a former
used in combination with a mould, for the purpose of manufacturing crucibles, connected so that the former can be withdrawn in the case of vessels having a bilge, without injury.
It is objected, however, that the machines described in these
patents are mere paper machines, not capable of successful
practical working. But on examination it sufficiently appears,
we think, that the objections can be sustained only as to
minor matters of detail in construction, not affecting the substance of the invention claimed, and could be removed by
mere mechanical skill, without the exercise of the faculty
of invention. In this view, the Wise and Smith patents
are not rendered inefficient as defences in this suit, by reason
of the alleged imperfections of the machines described in
them.
The bill of the appellants was dismissed by the court below,
on the ground of the prior knowledge and use of the alleged
invention at Kier's works in Pittsburgh. We are of opinion
that the testimony sustains that finding.
Decree affirmed.

SAGE V. WYNcooP.
1. Upon consideration of the proofs, the court affirms the decree below, declaring
invalid a lien acquired by the levy of an execution upon the goods of a
party who was immediately thereafter adjudged to be a bankrupt.
2. Wilson v. City Bank (17 Wall. 473) approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This was a bill filed by Sage against Wyncoop, Cossitt, and
Fowler, to compel the application of a fund in the custody of
the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, to the payment of two judgments which he
had recovered against Fowler in the Supreme Court of the

SAGE V. WYNCOOP.

[Sup. Ct.

State of New York, May 19 and June 2, 1875. It appears
that executions, forthwith sued out upon the judgments, were
by Cossitt, as sheriff, levied upon goods belonging to Fowler.
On the 3d of June and after the levy, Fowler filed his petition
in bankruptcy. On the 7th of that month he was adjudged
a bankrupt, and on the 9th Cossitt was, by order of the District Court, restrained from proceeding to enforce by sale the
collection of the judgments. Wyncoop was appointed in July,
1875, assignee in bankruptcy of Fowler. On the 17th of
the following month the District Court made an order authorizing him to sell the goods and deposit the proceeds in
court, and declaring that the lien of Sage and of the sheriff, by
virtue of the executions and levies, if it was valid, be transferred to so much of such proceeds as would be sufficient to pay
them. The sale was accordingly made and the money deposited. The bill prayed for the application of the fund above
mentioned.
Wyncoop alone answered, admitting the material facts alleged in the petition, and setting up, among other things, that
Fowler, being wholly insolvent, did, immediately before the
filing of his petition in bankruptcy, procure or suffer his goods
to be seized on the executions, and that the writs were sued out
on judgments which he procured or suffered to be taken against
him, with the fraudulent intent to thereby give Sage an unlawful preference, contrary to the provisions of the bankrupt law,
Sage having reasonable cause to believe Fowler to be inisolvent,
and knowing that such seizure was made in fraud of his other
creditors.
The court dismissed on final hearing the bill, and Sage appealed. The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
The case was argued by Mr. Aaron J. Vanderpoel for the
appellant, and by Mr. George N. Kennedy for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
There are two questions in this case: 1. Whether the preference which the appellant claims to have secured by his judgments and levies was obtained with the active assistance of the

Oct. 1881.]

SAGE V. WYNCOOP.

bankrupt; and, 2. Whether the appellant is chargeable with
notice of the insolvency of the bankrupt.
We said, in Wilson v. City Bank (17 Wall. 473, 487), "very
slight evidence of an affirmative character of the existence of a
desire to prefer one creditor, or of acts done with a view to such
preference, might be sufficient to invalidate the whole transaction." This case seems to us full of such evidence. The
bankrupt was largely insolvent, and we cannot but believe his
son, who was the agent of the appellant, knew it, in a legal
sense, when, as he was leaving for Europe, he said to the attorney in whose bands he put the claim for collection, "If you
can assist him [the bankrupt] in any way I want you to do it;
but Gardner Sage is my client; this is his money, and I want
him protected at all hazards." One of the suits was begun on
the same day, and, as we think, with the help, if not by the
procurement, of the bankrupt. Before the property was taken
into the actual possession of the sheriff under any levy, the
papers in voluntary bankruptcy were prepared and sent to
the clerk of the bankrupt court, with instructions not to file
until directed to do so by telegraph; and as soon as the sheriff
had perfected his last levy and was in actual possession of the
goods, the proceeds of which are now in controversy, the necessary despatch was sent and the proceedings begun. Four days
afterwards an adjudication of bankruptcy was secured. We
deem it unnecessary to go over the evidence in detail. It is
sufficient to say we are satisfied with the conclusions reached
below.
Decree affirmed.

VOL. XIV.

