Dec. 1867.]

RUBBER

COMPANY V. GOODYEAR.

153

Statement of the case.

RUBBER COMPANY V. GOODYEAR.
1 Though a decree have been entered " as" of a prior date-the date of an
order settling apparently the terms of a decree to be entered thereafterthe rights of the parties in respect to an appeal are determined by the
date of the actual entry, or of the signing and filing of the final decree.
2. The question of sufficiency of an appeal bond is to be determined in the
first instance by the judge who signs the citation ; but after the allowance of the appeal it becomes cognizable here. It is not required that
the security be in any fixed proportion to the amount of the decree; but
only that it be sufficient. 'Where a decree had been for a large sum
($310,752), security in less than double the amount was accepted by
this court, and the appellants allowed to withdraw a bond given in such
double sum.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode
Island. On motions.
Two motions were made in this cause. The first by the
appellecs, to dismiss the appeal, the other by the appellants
to reduce the amount of the bond given on appeal. This
had been required in double the amount of the decree; one
for $310,752.72.
The first motion was founded on the allegation that the
final decree of the Circuit Court was entered on the 28th of
November, 1866, while the appeal was taken to the December Term, 1867, of this court. And if the decree was, in
Ihct, entered on the day alleged, it was obvious that the
appeal should have been taken to the next term of this court,
which commenced on the first Monday-that is to say, on
the 3d day of December, 1866, and that the appeal actually
taken would have to be dismissed as not authorized by law.
The important question then was, on what day the decree
of the Circuit Court was actually made.
It appeared from the return of the clerk of that court to a
certiorariissued from this court, that on the 28th day of ffovenbtr, 1866, the following order was entered on the minute.
book:,

"1. In the cause in equity, Goodyear, Executor, et al. v:_Provi.
dencec

uLber Conmany.

ORDERED,

That the exceptions of the

154

RUBBER COMPANY V. GOODYEAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Stateffhent of the case.
complainants to the master's report be, and the same are hereby,
overruled.
"2. That the several exceptions of the respondents to the
master's report be, and the same are hereby, overruled.
"3. That the report of the master in the case be, and the same
is hereby, confirmed.
"4. That the profits made by the respondents, in violation of
the rights of the complainants, under the patents in this case,
are the sum of $310,757.72.
"5. Thit the complainants do recover of the respondents in
this case the sum of $310,757.72 and costs, taxed at -.
"Respondents enter an appeal in open court. If appeal is to
act as a supersedeas,a bond is to be filed in ten days in double
the amount of the judgment. If not, execution to issue for
judgment and costs, and a bond for costs on appeal to be filed
in the sum of $500.
"The district judge to decide upon .thesufficiency of the sureties."
Afterwards, on the 5th of December, 1866, two days after the
commencement of the -December Term of this court, a final decree
was filed and entered as follows:
"Final decree. November Term. 1866. This cause came on
to be heard at this term, upon exceptions to the final report
made therein by Charles Hart, Esq., one of the masters of this
court, bearing date -,
and was argued by counsel, and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it is ordered, adjudged and
decreed as follows."
Then followed three clauses identical with the first three
of the previous order; and the two concluding clauses in
these words:
"Fourth. That the profits made by the respondents in violation of the rights of the complainants under the letters-patent
number 1084, granted to Charles Goodyear, June 15, 184 1,reissued December 25, 1849, extended June 14, 1858, and again
ieissued to Charles Goodyear, Jr., executor, November 20, 1860,
in this case, are the sum of three hundred and ten thousand
seven hundred and fifty-seven dollars and seventy-two cents.

Dec. 1867.]

RUBBER COMPANY v. GOODYEAR.

155

Opinion of the court.

"Fifth. That the complaivants do recover of the respondents,
the Providence Rubber Company, in this case, the sum of'three
hundred and ten thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven dollars
and seventy-two cents, and costs, taxed at seven thousand fou
hundred and twenty-nine dollars and ninety-one cents."
This decree was "entered as of Nlovember 28, 1866," and
signed, "J. R. BULLOCK, District Judge."
Messrs. Curtis, Ackerman, and C. 8. Bradley, in, support of
the first motion ;* Messrs. Cushing, Payne, and Parsons,in support of the second,t and vice versa, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The final decree, filed and entered on the 5th of December, 1866, it will be seen, is for the most part in the very
language of the order; but uses the introductory words appropriate to a decree, and describes particularly the patents
in controversy, and ascertains the arnountof costs taxed. It
omits the explanatory directions of the order as to the bond
to be given on appeal; but the entry of the decree is followed
immediately by another entry stating that an appeal was
prayed for by respondents in open court, and was allowed,
upon filing a bond within ten days with sureties to the satisfaction of the district judge.
Upon these facts we cannot doubt that the entry of the
28th of November was intended as an order settling the
terms of the decree to be entered thereafter; and that the
entry made on the 5th of December was regarded both by
the court and the counsel as the final decree in the cause.
We do not question that the first entry had all the essential elements of a final decree, and if it had been followed
by no other action of the court, might very properly have
been treated as such. But we must be governed by the obvious intent of the Circuit Court, apparent on the fhce of the
Citing on the first motion, Castro v. United States, 3 'allace, 49; The
Steamer Virginia v. West, 19 Howard, 182; Mesa v. United States, 2 Black,
721. On the second, Stafford v. Union Bank, 16 Howard, 135.
t Citing on the first motion, Seymour v. Freer, 5 Wallace, 822; Silsby v.
Foote, 20 Howard, 290. On the second, Black v. Zacharie, 3 Howard, 483.

IRUBBER COMPANY v. GOODYEAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proceedings. We must hold, therefore, the decree of the
5th of December to be the final decree.
It appears to have been entered "as of the 28th of November." But this circumstance did not affect the rights of
parties in respect to appeal. Those rights are determined
by the date of the actual entry, or of the signing and filing
of the final decree. That test ascertains, for the purpose of
appeal, the time of rendering the decree, as the 5th of December, 1866. The appeal in this case, therefore, was rightly
taken to the present term.
The motion to dismiss must therefore be denied.
We have also considered the motion of appellants for the
reduction of the amount of the bond for supersedeas.
In equity cases the appellate jurisdiction of this court
attaches upon the allowance of the appeal: In order to make
the appeal operate as a supersedeas, it is necessary for the
appellant to give good and sufficient security for the prosecution of the appeal, and forall costs and damages that may be
adjudged against him. This security is usually given by bond,
with one or more sureties, and the twenty-second section of
the Judiciary Act requires that it be taken by the judge
who signs the citation on appeal. It is not required that the
security shall be in any fixed proportion to the decree. What
is necessary is, that it be sufficient, and when it is desired to
make the appeal a suppersedeas, that it be given within ten
days from the rendering of the decree. The question of
sufficiency must be determined in the first instance by the
judge who signs the citation, but after the allowance of the
appeal, this question, as well as every other in the cause,
becomes cognizable here.
It is, therefore, matter of discretion with this court to increase or diminish the amount of the bond, and to require
additional sureties or otherwise as justice may require.
In this case the. decree was for $310,757.72 damages, and
$7429.91 costs, and, following a usual practice, the judge
required a bond in double the amount of the decree. We are
satisfied that a bond in a much less amount will be entirely

Dec. 1867.]

SAvErY v.

YPnER.

157

Statement of the case.

sufficient, and inasmuch as it appears that security in part,
for the amount they might be decreed to pay, had been
given by the present appellants before the bond on appeal
was required, by a deposit of bonds of the United Szates,
and other private bonds, amounting in all to a sum not less
than $-200,000, we will order that the appellants have leave
to withdraw the appeal bond now on file upon filing a bond
in lieu thereof in the sum of $225,000, with good and sufficient sureties, to the satisfaction of the clerk of this court.
FIRST MOTION DENIED; SECOND ONE GRAINTED.

SAVERY V. SYPHER.
1. An attorney-at-]aw having no power zirtuc ofica' to purchase for his client
at judicial sale land sold under a mortgage held by the client, the burden of proving that he had other authority rests on him.
2. On an application to a court in equity to refuse confirmation of a master's
sale and to order a resale-a case where speedy relief may be necessarythe court may properly hear the application, and act on ex parc aflidavits on both sides, and without waiting to have testimony taken with
cross-examinations.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
Keene having conveyed to Savery a piece of land, Savery
gave him a mortgage on the same to secure the purnlasemoney. Keene died before receiving payment of this money;
and the administratrix of his estate, .Mrs. Sypher, filed a bill
to foreclose the mortgage. Answers and replications were
put in, but no proofs were taken, and when the cause was
called for hearing, the parties, by their attorneys, in open
court agreed on the amount that was due, and a regular decree ?f foreclosure in the usual form was entered by the
court. The money not having been paid by the day appointed, the property was advertised and struck off by the
master at the instance of White, the attorney of record, to
Mrs. Sypher, the administratrix, in satisfaction of the decree.
A controversy now arose between Savery and Mrs. Sypher,
APPEAL

