THE AMELIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The provision in the condition of defeasance of the mortgage, has reference only to covenants between mortgagor and
mortgagee, and is usual in every mortgage; being put there
in order to secure the mortgagee, who may not be in possession, from demand for taxes incurred while the mortgagor
was in possession. It can have no possible application to
the income tax of bondholders. The 122d section of the
revenue act of 1864, was enacted for greater facility of collection of the tax. These corporators often contract to pay
for the bondholder all such taxes; but when they have not
so contracted, they are authorized to deduct or withhold the
amount of the tax. In all assessments of income tax the
citizen is credited with the amount thus detained; so that
there is no double taxation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE AMELIE.
1. In order to justify the sale, by the master of his vessel, in a distant port,
in the course of her voyage, good faith in making the sale, and a neces.
sity for it, must both concur; and the purchaser, in order to have a
valid title, must show their concurrence. The question is not whether
it is expedient to break up a voyage and sell the ship, but whether there
was a legal necessity to do it. And this necessity is a question of fact,
to be determined in each case by the circumstances in which the master
is placed, and the perils to which the property is exposed.
2. Where the sale of a vessel owned in Amsterdam, was made at Port au
Prince, after a careful survey by five persons-one, the British Lloyd's
agent; another, the agent of the American underwriters; and the remaining three, captains of vessels temporarily detained in port-the
whole appointed by, and acting under the authority of the consul of the
country where the vessel was owned-which five surveyors unanimously
agreed that the vessel was not worth repairing, and advised a sale of
her, this was held to pass a valid title-no evidence being before the
master that the report was erroneous ; and this, although the master did
not consult his owners at Amsterdam, and though the vessel afterwards
at a great expense-greater, as the court assumed, than her new valuewas repaired, and went to her original port of destination, and thenze
abroad with another cargo.
8 A justifiable sale divests all liens.

Dec. 1867.]

THE AmELIr.
Statement of the case.

4. A bill of sale from the master is not required to pass title.
itself, followed by possession taken, does this.

The sale,

-APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
Fitz, of Boston, was owner of goods to the value of $8300,
shipped at Surinam on board the Amehie, a Dutch vessel
owned in Amsterdam, and to be delivered to him in Boston.
The vessel when she left her port was apparently seaworthy
and well provided, but having been struck with lightning in
the course of her voyage, and encountering perils of the sea,
was compelled to seek some harbor, and with difficulty she
made Port an Prince. She was here surveyed by two masters of vessels appointed by the Dutch consul there. These
examined the outside of the vessel and found damage upon
it, which they reported. In an attempt to repair this, and
after the outlay of $800 or $1000, further damage, on removing part of the cargo, was discovered. On this, a second
survey was held. Upon this new survey there were two
masters of vessels, the head of the shipyard at Port an
Prince, the agent of the New York underwriters, and
Lloyd's agent. They reported the outside of the vessel injured in the same manner that the first survey had reported,
and reported other considerable injuries besides (which they
specified), and recommended that new knees and planks
should be put in, with other repairs, which they estimated
would cost 10,000 Haytien dollars, and take from twenty-five
to thirty days. They said that permanent repairs could not
be made at Port an Prince, but that the repairs recommended
would be sufficient to take the vessel to Boston.
In making these temporary repairs, one of the sides of the
vessel was uncovered, and the timbers of the vessel, which
were then first made visible, were found to be broken on the
larboard side. The damage was of so serious a character that
a third survey was ordered by the Dutch consul. This
third survey had upon it the agent of the New York underwriters, Lloyd's agent, who were also on the second survey,
and three masters of vessels. These last-appointed sur-

THE A.MELIE.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

veyors made a report, stating at length the damage which
they were able to find; their belief that additional damage
would be found when the vessel was further uncovered;
what the vessel would require; that there were no docks,
nor competent ship-carpenters, nor requisite timber or
materials at Port an Prince; and consequently that they
were compelled to come to the conclusion that it would
not be possible to make the necessary repairs in that port in
a proper manner. They further reported that if materials
could be obtained, the time taken would be not less than
four months, and would cost more than the vessel would be
worth after the repairs were made. The surveyors, for this
reason, advised that the voyage should be broken up, the
vessel sold for the interest of all concerned, and the cargo
transshipped to Boston.
The vessel was accordingly put up at public auction, and,
after full notice, knocked down for $407 in gold, to one
Riviere, who took possession.
The surveys seemed to have been carefully made, the
second one having occupied two hours in the examination,
and the third, or last, half a day. The reports were full and
particular.
After the purchase of the vessel by Riviere, he repaired
her, at a cost in gold of $1695.31, and sent her to Boston.
At the time that the master sold the vessel at Port au
Prince, lie sold also a part of the cargo, the property, as
already mentioned, of Fitz, for the proceeds of which
($2441) he never accounted.
On the arrival of the vessel at Boston, Fitz libelled her;
asserting a lien and claiming damages for the non-delivery
of the cargo. The vessel having been sold by order of court,
the purchaser made repairs to the extent of about $143, took
off her copper, which he sold for $1157, and sent her to
England with a full cargo. She was forty days on the passage; had a good deal of bad weather; showed no symptoms
of weakness, and appeared stanch and strong.
On a claim made by Fitz to the proceeds of the vessel in
the Registry, $2138, the District Court dismissed the claim;

Dec. 1867.]

TE AMELIE.
Argument for the shipper.

and this decree was affirmed in the Circuit Court. The
matter was now here for review.
Messrs. B. R. Curtis and F. C. Loring,for the appellants:
I. The sale of the vessel was not justifiable, and it passed
no title to Riviere.
1. The vessel was capable of being repaired, as is shown by
the fact that she was repaired, and this at a less cost than
her value; that she took a cargo to Boston, and afterwards
to England, and that she was found to be stanch, strong,
and seaworthy. The master, too, who sold a part of the
cargo, had funds to pay for repairs and had not attempted
a loan on bottomry. Now, if there is anything settled by
the law, it is, that under such circumstances a master is
under no legal necessity, and being under no such necessity,
has no power to sell.*
2. Where there is a possibility of communicating with the
owners without destructive consequences, it is the first duty
of the master so to communicate and await his owners' instructions.t It is not suggested here, by the other side,
nor does the case indicate, that the vessel was so situated as
to be in immediate danger from any cause. She did not
leak. She was in a safe harbor, her copper was heavy and
in order, and in these days of steam navigation the master
could have written to his owners in Amsterdam, and received their instructions probably in less than thirty days.
According to the authorities he was bound to do so, and the
sale was not of necessity. The burden is on the purchaser
to show that there was no time for communication without
danger of loss, and he does not attempt to do so.
3. If the master does not act in perfect good faith, the
sale is void. Whether the master did so act, is a question of
fact, and the burden is on the purchaser to prove that he
* The Sarah Ann, 13 Peters, 401; Freeman v. E. & I. Co., 5 Barnewall
& Alderson, 617; The Fanny and Elmira, Edwards, 117; The Bonita,
Lushington, 261.
t The Bonita, 1 Lushington, 253; Hall v. Franklin Insurance Co., 9
Pickering, 478.

THE

AMELIE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the shipper.

did.* "While the power," says Grier, J.,t "is not denied,
its exercise should be closely scrutinized." In this case
fraud is to be inferred from the master's conduct. It does
not appear that -he had no funds of his owners, or could
not procure them on their credit, or raise money on bottomry,
before he proceeded to sell cargo. The temporary repairs
recommended by the first survey would have cost $800, and
that was all that he required at first, yet he sold to more
than double the amount. He never advised the owners of
the cargo of its sale, nor, so far as appears. the owners of
the vessel. In fact, he stole the larger part of the proceeds
of the cargo. The presumption is, in fine, every way against
him, and the burden on the purchaser to remove it, and he
has not attempted it.
It is not necessary to impute bad faith to the purchaser,
the present claimant; yet it must not be overlooked, that he
had means of knowing that the master was not acting rightly.
He consequently bought at his peril, and if the owner, or
one having his right, chooses to dispute his title, he must
yield.
IL But even if the sale was proper under the circumstances, we insist that the purchaser IRiviere, took the title
subject to all existing liens.
Vessels, unlike other chattels, are subject to various maritime liens, necessarily secret, not requiring possession, and
not obvious to strangers, yet protected from reasons of policy
in all maritime states. Such are the liens created by bottomry; for repairs in a foreign port on the credit of the
ship; of the owner of the cargo for its safe transportation
and delivery; of the salvor; of the sailor for wages; of material men; the lien caused by a tortious collision; and
others, all recognized by law, essential to the interest of
commerce, constantly enforced by courts of admiralty, the
existence of which are never apparent, and not always
known to the master and owners, and therefore not to be
* The Sarah Ann, 13 Peters, 401.
t Post v. Jones, 19 Howard, 158.
: The Bonita, Lushington, 264.

Dec. 1867.]

THE AMELIE.
Argument for the shipper.

learned by inquiry; valuable rights. Does the master of
the vessel by a sale, destroy them, seamen's wages and all?
There is no analogy between a decree of a court of admiralty and the act of a master in making a sale. In the
one ease notice is given to all the world: any person interested has the right to appear, and in case of sale the proceeds
are paid into court for the benefit of all concerned. In the
other, no notice is given to any one, unless by the advertisement of a sale at auction; no one has the right or power to
interfere, and the proceeds are paid to the master, who, as
in this case, may appropriate them to his own use.
It is obvious what frauds the establishment of such a rule
would encourage, and what temptations to make fraudulent
sales would be opened. The policy of the law is to discourage sales by the master, but this would afford every inducement to make them.
Authorities seem, however, to render argument useless,
for they settle the point, that a maritime lien is not displaced
by a sale.
In The Eiuropa,* it was held that a lien for damage by collision was not defeated by a sale to a bond fide purchaser
without notice. A similar view has been taken in our own
country as to the lien of a shipper for damages.t
In The Calharine,T a sale by the master, in a port of distress,
was held not to devest lien of a lender on bottomry. Dr.
Lushington says:
"I think that a British vessel coming into a foreign port cannot be sold by the master, so as to . .

.

.extinguish all mortgage

claims and liens on bottomry or wages, even in a case of necessity. It is the duty of foreign purchasers to open their eyes and
to take care what kind of a bargain they make, that they guard
themselves against liens which adhere to the ship."
The authority of the master even in regard to the owners
* 8 Law Times, 368.

t The Rebecca, Ware, 212. See also on the subject generally, The Eliza
Jane, Sprague, 152, and The Nymph,Swabey, 87.
: 1 English Law and Equity, 679.

THE AmELIE.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the purchaser.

is watched with jealousy.

How much more ought it to be

in regard to those who have not appointed him, but who as
lenders may be concerned more than owners themselves!
Is it said that the master is acting for all concerned? Concerned in what? In whether, of course, there shall be a sale.
If their liens are devested, mariners, lenders on bottomry and
other lien creditors are concerned. And if the master is
acting for them, the liens are protected. If he is not acting
for them, he is not acting for all concerned; and unless the
law protects them, they are without any protection at'the
moment when most needing it. Will it be argued that the
lroceeds of the vessel are as good as the vessel, and take
its place ? This is not so; for a fraudulent captain easily
disposes of the proceeds of the ship, as he has done here
with those of the cargo sold. The vessel, whether in a good
state or bad, is a better security.
HfI. The purchaser never acquired a valid legal title. The
vessel was struck off to him at auction, and he afterwards
took posseqsion; but it is nowhere alleged or proved that
the master executed a bill of sale in his own name, or that
of the owner. By the general maritime law a bill of sale is
necessary to transfer the title.* It is for him to sustain his
claim and title.
-Mr. C. W. Loring, contra, argued:
I. That a necessity has always been held to exist when a
vessel is injured by perils of the sea to such an extent that
the cost of repairs would be more than her value when repaired and arrived at her port of destination, and
That if, in the opinion of those best competent to judge,
the vessel so injured is not worth repairing, and the master
acting in good faith, and after careful investigation and conference, upon that opinion sells his vessel, he is justified in
so doing, though it afterwards turns out that the opinion
.The Sisters, 5 Robinson, 188; The Segredo 1 Spinks, 46, per Dr. Lushington; Atkinson v. Malling, 2 Term, 466; Ex parte Halkett, 19 Vesey, 473;
3 Kent's Commentaries, 186.

Dec. 1867.]

Tim

AmELIE.

Argument for the purchaser.

was incorrect, and the vessel could have been repaired at
less cost and less than her value when repaired.
In all the cases cited below,* the vessels were in port
when sold; they were sold by the masters without consulting the owners, and they were afterwards repaired, and all
but one came to England, where they belonged. Yet the
sales were all confirmed by reason of necessity.
But supposing that the vessel could have been repaired
and forwarded, to the advantage of the owners of the cargo.
It is submitted that this is one of those cases where the circumstances justify the master, though he were mistaken.
Lloyd's agents, who represent the English underwriters, the
agent of the New York underwriters (persons appointed for
the express purpose of having vessels repaired when it is best
to repair them), three masters of vessels, one of them who
has given his deposition, and all appointed by the Dutch
consul,-say, after examining the vessel fbr a whole forenoon,
and giving their reasons for it, "that they are obliged to
come to the conclusion that it is not possible to make the
necessary repairs in this port in a proper manner."
Iu the face of this advice, no master would have dared to
repair the vessel. The underwriters' agents are selected for
the sole purpose of attending to these matters. From their
knowledge of vessels and of costs of repairs, they are the
best advisers that can be obtained. In The Bonita,t Dr.
Lushington did not confirm a sale, principally because Lloyd's
agent advised repairing, and warned the master against selling. In Gordon v. Massachusetts Fire and 3arine Insurane
Co.,. it is said the only alternative left for a master is to
follow advice of the surveyors.
II. Are the liens discharged ? A lawful sale of a vessel, of
necessity, by the master, is for all concerned, and passes a
clean title to the purchaser: the proceeds in the master's
hands take the place of the vessel.
1. Upon examining the authorities, we shall find that it
* The Glasgow, 1 Swabey, 150; The Australia, Id. 484; The Margaret

Mitchell, Id. 382.
t I Lushington, 263.

2 Pickering, 264.

THE ABIBLIE.

[Slip. CtL

Opinion of the court.

has always been considered that the sale was for all concerned.*
Grier, J., for this court, so speaks of it in Post v. ones.t
2. There are several cases in which liens have been held
to attach to the proceeds of a vessel.1
In the case of The Catharine, cited on the other side, and
where Dr. Lusbington says that a sale by master does not
discharge liens, he also says: "l am not satisfied in this case
that there was a necessity for a sale." It was therefore a
mere dictum where he says, that in a case of necessity, he
should doubt whether, under such a sale, a ship could be
sold free from lien.
IIl. No bill of sale was necessary, and Iaaud constat but that
one was given.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The principle of maritime law which governs this controversy is too well settled for dispute. Although the power
of the master to sell his ship in any case, without the express
authority of the owner, was formerly denied, yet it is now
the received doctrine of the courts in this country as well as
in England, that the master has the right to sell in case of
actual necessity.
We are not called upon to discuss the reasons for the ru-le,
nor to cite authorities in its support, because it has repeatedly received the sanction of this court.ยง
From the very nature of the case (the court say), there
must be this implied authority of the master to sell. The
injury to the vessel may be so great and the necessity so
urgent as to justify a sale, and under such circumstances,
the master becomes the agent of all concerned, and is re* New England Ins. Co. v,.The Sarah Ann, 13 Peters, 402; Patapsco

Ins. Co. -v, Southgate, 5 Id. 620, 621 ; Gordon v. Massachusetts Fire and
Marine Ins. Co., 2 Pickering, 262-4; Hunter v. Parker, 7 Meeson & Welsby,
842; Milles v. Fletcher, 1 Douglass, 234.
t 19 Howard, 158.
$ Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Peters, 675; Willard v. Dorr, 3 Mason, 168;
Brown et al. v. Lull, 2 Sumner, 443.
The Patapsco Ins. Co. v. Southgate, 5 Peters, 620; The Sarah &nn, 13
Id. 400; Post et al. v. Jones et al., 19 Howard, 157.

Dec. 1867.]

THE AMELIE.

27

Opinion of the court.

quired to act for their benefit. The sale of a ship becomes
a necessity within the meaning of the commercial law, when
nothing better can be done for the owner, or those concerned
in the adventure. If the master, on his part, has an honest
purpose to serve those who are interested in ship and cargo,
and can clearly prove that the condition of his vessel required
him to sell, then he is justified. As the power is liable to
abuse, it must be exercised in the most perfect good faith,
and it is the duty of courts and juries to watch with great
care the conduct of the master. In order to justify the sale,
good faith in making it and the necessity for it must both
concur, and the purchaser, to protect his title, must be able
to show their concurrence. The question is not whether it
is expedient to break up a voyage and sell the ship, but
whether there was a legal necessity to do it. If this can be
shown, the master is justified; otherwise not. And this
necessity is a question of fact, to be determined in each case
by the circumstances in which the master is placed, and the
perils to which the property is exposed.
If the master can within a reasonable time consult the
owners, he is required to do it, because they should have an
opportunity to decide whether in their judgment a sale is
necessary. And he should never sell, when in port with a
disabled ship, without first calling to his aid disinterested
persons of skill and experience, who are competent to advise, after a full survey of the vessel and her injuries,
whether she had better be repaired or sold. And although
his authority to sell does not depend on their recommendation, yet, if they advise a sale, and he acts on their advice,
he is in a condition to furnish the court or jury reviewing
the proceedings, strong evidence in justification of his conduct.
The facts of this case bring it within these well-settled
principles of maritime law, and clearly show that the master
was justified in terminating his voyage and selling his ship.
When the voyage began, the ship was seaworthy and well
provided, but after she had been at sea a short time, she
became disabled during a violent storm, and with great dif-

i

THiE .AMELIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ficulty was taken into the harbor of Port an Prince. The
master at once entered his protest before the Dutch consul
general (the ship being owned in Amsterdam), who caused
three surveys to be made of the condition of the vessel. No
action was taken on the first survey, but the result of the
second, was to incur an expense of one thousand Spanish
dollars in partial repairs, decided by it to be practicable, and
recommended, in order that the ship should be put in a
proper condition to proceed on her voyage to Boston. In
making these partial repairs, one of the sides of the vessel
was uncovered, disclosing additional damages, of a serious
character, not previously ascertainable, which caused the
consul general to order a third survey. This third and final
survey was thorough and complete. The men who made it
were captains of vessels, temporarily detained in port, and
the agents of American and English underwriters. No persons could be more competent to advise, or from the nature
of their employment, better acquainted with the structure
of vessels, and the cost of repairing them.
Their report is full and explicit. After the advice given
in it, the master, who was bound to look to the interest of
all parties concerned in the adventure, had no alternative
but to sell. In the face of it, had he proceeded to repair his
vessel, he would have been culpable. Being in a distant
port, with a disabled vessel, seeking a solution of the difficulties surrounding him ; at a great distance from his
owners; with no direct means of communicating with them;
and having good reason to believe the copper of his vessel
was displaced, and that worms would work her destruction,
what course so proper to pursue, as to obtain the advice
"of that body of men, who by the usage of trade have been
immemorially resorted to on such occasions ?"* No prudent
man, under the circumstances, would have failed to follow
their advice, and the state of things, as proved in this case,
imposed on the master a moral necessity to sell his vessel
and reship his cargo.
* Gordon v. Mass. Ins. Co., 2 Pickering, 264.

Dec. 1867 ]

TUE

AMELIE.

Opinion of the court.

But it is said, the fact that the vessel was repaired by the
purchaser and sent to Boston, disproves this necessity. Not
so. It may tend to prove the surveyors were mistaken, but
does not affect the question of the duty of the master to follow their advice, when given in such strong terms, and with
no evidence before him that it was erroneous. But in fact,
the surveyors did not err in their conclusion that the vessel
was not worth the cost of repairs, as the amount in the
registry of the court for which the vessel was sold in Boston,
will fail to reimburse the claimant the money expended by
him, in purchasing and repairing her.
It is insisted, even if the circumstances were such as to
justify the sale and pass a valid title to the vendee, he,
nevertheless, took the title subject to all existing liens. If
this position were sound, it would materially affect the interests of commerce; for, as exigencies are constantly arising,
requiring the master to terminate the voyage as hopeless,
and sell the property in his charge for the highest price he
can get, would any man of common prudence buy a ship
sold under such circumstances, if he took the title encumbered with secret liens, about which, in the great majority
of cases, he could not have the opportunity of learning anything? The ground on which the right to sell rests is, that
in case of disaster, the master, from necessity, becomes the
agent of all the parties in interest, and is bound to do the
best for them that he can, in the condition in which he is
placed, and, therefore, has the power to dispose of the property for their benefit. Wheh nothing better can be done
for the interest of those concerned in the property than to
sell, it is a case of necessity, and as the master acts for all, and
is the agent of all, he sells as well for the lien-holder as the
owner. The very object of the sale, according to the uniform current of the decisions, is to save something for the
benefit of all concerned, and if this is so, the proceeds of the
ship, necessarily, by operation of law, stand in place of the
ship. If the ship can only be sold in case. of necessity,
where the good faith of the master is unquestioned, and if it

[Sup. Ct

THE AmELIE.
Opinion of the court.

be the purpose of the sale to save something for the parties
in interest, does not sound policy require a clean title to be
given the purchaser in order that the property may bring its
full value? If the sale is impeached, thelaw imposes on the
purchaser the burden of showing the necessity for it, and
this he is in a position to do, because the facts which constitute the legal necessity are within his reach; but he cannot know, nor be expected to know, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the nature and extent of the liens that
have attached to the vessel. Without pursuing the subject
further, we are clearly of the opinion, when the ship is lawfully sold, the purchaser takes an absolute title devested of
all liens, and that the liens are transferred to the proceeds
of the ship, which, in the sense of the admiralty law, becomes the substitute for the ship.
The title of Riviere, the claimant, was questioned at the
bar, because he did not prove the master executed to him a
bill of sale of the vessel. We do not clearly see how this
question is presented in the record, for there is no proof,
either way, on the subject, but if it is, it is easily answered.
A bill of sale was not necessary to transfer the title to the
vessel. After it was sold and delivered, the property was
changed, and no written instrument was needed to give
effect to the title. The rule of the common law on this
subject has not been altered by statute. The law of the
United States, which requires the register to be inserted in
the bill of sale on every transfer of a vessel, applies only to
the character and privileges of the vessel as an American
ship. It has no application to this vessel and this case.*
DECREE AFFIRMED.

. Wendover v. Hogeboom, 7 Johnson, 308; Sharp v. United States In-

surance Co., 14 Id. 201; Weston v. Penniman, 1 Mason, 306.

