SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

Our conclusion upon this branch of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the subject of the boundaries.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRtED.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

1. A statute of a State requiring savings societies, authorized to receive deposits but withbut authority to issue bills, and having no capital stock,
to pay annually into the State treasury a sum equal to three-fourths of
one per cen't. on the total amount of their deposits on a given day, imposes a franchise tax, not a tax on property.
2. Such a tax is valid.
3. Consequently the fact that a savings society so taxed has invested a part
of its deposits in securities of the United States declared by Congress, in
the act which authorized their issue, to be exempt from taxation by
State authority, does not exempt the society from taxation to the extent
of deposits so invested.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Connecticut; the case be-

ing thus:

The legislature of Connecticut, in 1863, enacted that the
several savings banks in the State should make annual return to the comptroller of public accounts, "of the total
amounts of all depositg" in them respectively, on the first day
of July in each successive year; and that each should annually pay to the treasurer of the State, "a sum equal to
three-fourtbs of one per cent. on the total amount of deposits"
in such savings bank, on the days aforesaid. The statute
declared that this tax should be in lieu of all other taxes
upon savings banks or their deposit.
With this statute in existence, the "Society for Savings"
-one of the savings banks of Connecticut, and as such
empowered by its charter to receive deposits of money, and
improve them for the benefit of its depositors, but having no
capital stock or stockholders-had on the 1st July, 1863,
$500,161 of its deposits invested in securities of the United
'States, which, by the act of Congress authorizing their

Dec. 1867.]

SOCIETY

FoR

SAVINGS v. COITE.

595

Argument against the tax.

issue, were declared to be exempt from taxation by State
authority, "whether held by individuals, corporations,or associations."* Upon the amount of their deposits thus invested, the society refused to pay the sum equal to the prescribed percentage.
On a suit brought by Coite, treasurer of the State, for the
purpose of recovering the tax thus withheld, the Supreme
Court of Connecticut decided that the tax in question was
not a tax on property, but on the corporation as such, and
rendered judgment accordingly for the plaintiffit
The correctness of the judgment was the point now here
on error.
Mr. Chamberlin,for the plaintf in error:
The question is, whether the statute of Connecticut, as
sought to be enforced by the State treasurer, imposed a tax
upon securities of the United States? If so, it is confessedly
illegal.
The language lays a tax based upon property. It is even
more directly upon the "property," than the statute of New
York which received coustruction in the "Bank Tax Cose."$
That provided for a tax "upon a valuation equal to the amount
of capital stock," &c.; this for a tax "on the total amount" of
deposits, &c. The first is on a valuation equal to.the amount;
the second on the amount, &c. That case goes far to conclude
this. In that case the court says, that in making up a tax
under the law, "the commissioners need only look into the
condition of the bank in order to ascertain the amount of the
capital stoek paid in or secured to be paid in, and this sum in the
aggregate will constitute the basis," &c. The New York legislature probably meant to impose a tax which should be
construed as a tax upon franchise and privilege irrespective
of property; but the court inquire, what is the basis of the
tax? ' In New York the basis is found to be the amount of
"capital paid in or secured," &c.; in Connecticut it is equally
4

12 Stat. at Large, 346.
I Coite v. Savings Bank, 32 Connecticut, 173.
3 2 Wallace, 207.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sup. ct.

Argument against the tax.

clear that "the amount of deposits" is the basis. Deposits
for all the purposes of this case sustain the same relation to
this institution which capital sustains to a bank. Each represents money received by the corporation to be managed for
the benefit of the owners; each is properly classed among
the liabilities of the corporation; each constitutes the principal fund from which investments are made, and the difference consists in the fact that "capital" remains with the corporati on, while deposits in this institution may be withdrawn.
Where is the difference between a tax upon property,
and a tax upon a person measured by the amount of his
property? In either case the property is the foundation
and moving cause of the tax. If a person has no property
he has no tax. If he has small or large possessions his tax
is small or large in proportion. Suppose a person should
invest the sum of $1000 in 'United States securities, and the
legislature of the State should say to him in the form of a
law, "Inasmuch as we cannot tax you for the money lent
to the general government, you as an individual shall pay
a sum equal to the tax on $1000, vested in taxable securities." Would such a law be valid? Certainly not. But
why not? The law does not tax the sum lent; it imposes
the tax upon the individual. But the intent is too obvious.
It is in form a tax upon the individual, but in substance a
tdx upon the sum lent. And so in the case under consideration. It is the duty of courts to look through the shadow to
the reality.*
The tax, if not upon property as such, is "measuredby the
extent of the property-the amount of the deposits being the
measure. A tax upon "faculty" or "franchise," estimating
its value by the money it has secured, is th6 same thing in
substance as taxing the money secured; and a tax upon the
money secured-or with reference to it as a basis-is substantially the same thing as a tax upon the securities for which
it has been exchanged. Such a tax cannot be laid while a
portion of the property, the amount of which is sb adopted
* Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 419.

Dec. 1867.]

SOCIETY FOR SAVfNGS V. COITE.

1

597

Argument in support of the tax.

"as the standard of taxable liability," is so invested as, under
the protecting power of a higher authority, to be exempt.
The privilege of exemption from taxation of so much property as may have been lent to the United States, ought not
to depend upon the mode of estimating the property of an individual or a corporation.
A tax unpaid upon a franchise of a corporation, the power
and authority of which is limited to holding, managing and
investing money entirely for the benefit of depositors, and
which has no corporate property distinct from that which

they so hold in special trust, which has no stockholders or
members interested in its profits or who can receive dividends from its earnings, necessarily operates as an assessment on the property of thosefor whose use the franchise is
exercised. The parties for whose use the franchise is exercised being distinct from the corporation and sustaining no
other than a property relation to the corporation-it becomes
in its essence and operation a direct tax upon "property," the
burden falling and resting directly and only there.
Let each individual and corporation throughout the State
be required to state the amount of the cost of the personal
property owned by him on the first day of January in each
year, and pay three-fourths of one per cent. on such amount,
and you get a tax quite similar to the one in question.
Messrs. Hubbard and McFarlane, Contra:
We assume1. That a State legislature may impose taxes on the exercise of a franchise created by itself.
2. That it may measure the tax by the measure of exercise.
8. That it may measure the exercise by an arbitrary
standard, as a fixed sum, or by a more equitable standard,
as the amount of money received in the exercise of the franchise, or even by the value on an appraisal of the earnings
or property (including Federal stocks) owned by the possessor of the franchise.
N{ow the statute in this ease does not impose a tax on the

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

property of the Savings Bank, but on the corporation as such;
in other words, it imposes a tax or excise on the privilege
or franchise of the corporation.
The standard fixed by the statute disregards all reference
to actual assets, modes of investment, accumulations, losses,
profits, or valuations. If the bank hve earned by use or
investment of its deposits a surplus, no matter how large,
above the amount of its deposits, this surplus is not taxable.
Its taxes do not increase. On the other hand, if such investment has been wholly lost or destroyed, the taxes would
not be diminished. Thus it is seen that the law has no reference to a valuation of assets, but to the fixed arithmetical standard of "the total amount of all deposits." Now
to say that the corporation is entitled to a reduction of taxes
because some of its assets happen for the time being to be
non-taxable, and that it is not entitled to a reduction when
a portion of these assets become worthless or non-existing, is
absurd.
The phraseology of the act is consistent with this view.
The requirement is not that the banks shall pay a tax of onehalf of one per cent. on their deposits, but "a sun equal to
one-half of one per cent. on the total amount of deposits in
such institution."
A tax of a similar character to this is imposed by a Connecticut statute of 1862, on agents of foreign insurance
companies, who are required to pay to the treasurer of the
State two per cent. on the gross amount of premiums and
assessments annually received by them. What is this tax?
Obviously an excise tax on a foreign corporation, through
its agent, for the privilege of doing business. What is the
extent of the tax? Precisely in proportion to the business
done. Would it, make any difference with the amount of
the tax that the foreign corporation, or the agent, had invested the year's premiums and assessmeuts in Federal securities? Clearly not! So in the case at bar, the tax is not
imposed on the property of the savings bank, but on the
corporation. The extent of the tax is measured in each
year by the amount of its business, the extent to which it

Dec. 1867.]

SOCIETY FoR SAVINGS

V.

COITE.

599

Argument in support of the tax.

exercises its franchise, or in other words, by "the torai
amount of its deposits."
The case of Portland Bankv. Apthorp,* which arose in the
State of Massachusetts, in 1815, is akin to this. The Constitution of Massachusetts provides that the legislature
"may impose and levy proportionate and reasonable assessments, rates, and taxes upon all the inhabitants of, and
estates lying within, the commonwealth ; and also to impose
and levy reasonable duties and excises." With this provision in force, the State, in 1812, enacted that all its banks
should pay, at times stated by the commonwealth, a tax of
one-half of one per cent. on the amount of the original
stock of said banks respectively actually paid in. The validity of the statute was called in question, as being repugnant to the constitutional provision for the taxation of property. The court held that the assessment was not a tax on
the stock, but an excise duty on the franchise of the corporation, and as such warranted by the constitutional provision
in respect to excise taxes.
But the recent case of The Commonwealth v. Fie Cents
Savhig Bankt is in every respect parallel. That case was
thus: Massachusetts, in 1862, enacted:
" That every savings bank incorporated under the laws of
this commonwealth, shall pay [at times specified by the statute] to the treasurer of the commonwealth, a tax on account
of its depositors, of one-half of one per cent.,per annum on the
amount of its deposits, to be assessed, one-half of said annual
tax on the average amount of its deposits for the six months
preceding the first day of May, and the other on the average
amount of its deposits for the six months preceding the first
day of November."
Payment of the tax under this statute was resisted on the
same ground as it was resisted on in the former case. The
court sustained the validity of the law for the same reasons
as before. It says:
"It appears to us that the assessment imposed by the provi*€12 Massachusetts, 252

t" 5 Allen, 481.

SOCIETY- FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sul). Ct.

:Reply against the tax.

sions of the statute under consideration, must be regarded as an
excise or duty on the privilege or franchise of the corporation,
and not as a direct tax on money in its hands belonging to depositors ..... In the next place, the manner in which the amount
of the assessment is to be ascertained clearly indicates that the
tax is designed to be a corporate charge. It is not a tax levied
on each deposit at a certain rate inproportion to its amount,
but it is assessed on the amount of all the deposits in the bank,
ascertained and fixed by the average sums which it has had in
its hands during the six months preceding a specific day. It is
the,extent to which the corporation has exercised the franchise
conferred on it by law, of receiving deposits during a certain
period, that is made the basis on which to estimate the sum
which is to be paid for the enjoyment of the privilege."
But more than all, thes views have been declared anew
in that same State in Commonwealth v. Provident Institution
for Savinqs,* a case involving the issue now at bar.
The Bank Tax Oase, oo much relied on, has no application. There, this court had decided that an act of New
York, passed in 1857, and laying a tax, did not include the
Federal securities held by banks. Subsequently (A.D. 1863),
the same State passed an act providing in terms for " a valuation." The law directed the mode of valuation. It was to
be composed of two things. 1. The capital originally contributed. 2. The surplus on hand earned by that capital.
In other words, the bank was not allowed to show that its
capital was impaired. Accordingly this court, under the
special circumstances of the case, on a question of construction of the act of 1863, in comparison with the act of 1857,
and with full knowledge that the former act was passed for
the purpose of avoiding the decision of this court, held that
the act in question was intended to impose a tax on property,
by a new and specified mode of valuation.
-Reply:
1. When, under the authority given by the Federal Constitution to "borrow money on the credit of the Unitedt
* 12 Allen, 313.

Dec. 1867.]

SCCIETY FOR SAVINGS V. COITE.
Reply against the tax.

States," Congress puts that credit into the market, and by
express enactment, as part of the contract of borrowing, declares that the securities held by "corporations" shall be
exempt from taxation by or under State authority; it exempts from taxation by or under that authority, the franchise or privilege which such corporations had of lending to
the United States, upon the faith of such contract, and of
the securities so to be issued. The power to tax the franchise or privilege of lending or investing in a given case,
retards, impedes, and burdens the power to borrow in that
case. The position of the other side is, that the States may
tax against corporations existing under and in pursuance of
their laws and enjoying their protection, the privilege or franchise of lending money to the United States. If" the power
to tax implies the power to destroy," is not this holding that
the States may prohibit all persons, natural and artificial,,
existing under and enjoying the protection of their laws,
from lending to the United States?
Suppose the tax in this case be not nominally a tax upon
property-if it be a tax upon the power to lend, without the
exercise of which the United States can not borrow-is it
not necessarily a tax or burden upon "the power to borrow ?" Does it not come within the inhibition stated by this
court in Weston v. Charleston:* "the right to tax the contract
to any extent when made, must operate upon the power to
borrow before it is exercised, and have a sensible influence
upon the contract." Is not the contract made by Congress,
that this plaintiff (a "corporation ") shall not be taxed on
account of these securities, violated, if the amount it has invested in them is included in the "measure of taxable liability ?" Do not the opposite counsel then assume too much
in assuming that over a tax imposed on a franchise, however
the quantum of the tax may be measured, limited, or ascertained, this court has no control.
We say that whatever be the source from which the power
to lend to the United States is derived, it is alike under the
* 2 Peters, 468-9.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

protection of the paramount authority of the borrower, and
is beyond the power of State nullification, either legislative
or judicial.
2. Most if not all the positions set up and advocated by
the defendant in error, were discussed on behalf of the Tax
Commissioners, in The Bank Tax Case.* It was then argued
that the tax was not on the property of the bank, but on thE
corporationspeeifically. That the corporation was created by
the State and ought to pay for the valuable franchise which
it enjoyed. That the purpose of the act was to compel payment therefor. That the reference in the statute to "a valuation equal to the amount of their capital stock," &c., was only
for the purpose of fixing the amount the corporation ought
annually to pay for their franchise. That it bad no regard to
the actual capital owned by the bank, or to the securities, or
to the value of the securities held by it. That the corporations being created by the State, and dependent upon the
State for continued existence, could properly be compelled
to aid in bearing the State burdens, as the price of their existence. But the court declared that the positions were not
true.
3. The cases cited from the State courts of Massachusetts
are not authority here. The case most relied on, the last of
the three cited, is now here on error.t
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Savings banks, and societies for savings, in the State of
Connecticut are required by the law of the State to pay annually to the State treasurer for the use of the State a sum
equal to three-fourths of one per cent. on the total amount

of deposits in such institution on the first, day of July in
each year. Preparatory to such an assessmentthe treasurer
of every such institution is required, within the first ten
days of July in each year, to make out under oath, and de* See 2d Wallace, 201, where the argument is given.
f The reader desiring to see further argument on both sides of this question, can refer to the arguments in the next case, pp. 613-620.

Dec. 1867.J

SOCIETY FOR SAvIN Gs V. COITE.
Opinion of the court.

liver to the comptroller of public accounts, a correct statement of the total amount of all such deposits on that day in
their respective institutions. Payment of the taxis required
to be made in semi-annual instalments, and the provision is
that the tax, so levied, shall be in lieu of all other taxes on
said institutions and the deposits therein.*
Institutions called savings and building associations are
also embraced in the same provision, but the clauses of the
section having respect to such associations are omitted, as
they are not in any view material in this investigation.
They are stock associations of a novel and peculiar character, organized under a general law, and are quite distinct
from savings banks and societies fbr savings, which are
merely banks of deposit and loan, having no stock, and
which were created under special charters from the legislature of the State.t
Such institutions are banks of deposit, but they have no
capital stock or stockholders, and are without any authority
to make discounts or issue any circulating medium. Money
in limited amounts may be deposited in such banks for safekeeping and be withdrawn at the pleasure of the owner,
under such regulations as the charter and by-laws may prescribe. Authority is vested in the corporation by its charter
to receive such deposits in trust for the owner, and to loan,
use, and improve the same, and to apply and divide the net
income and profits thereof in just proportions among the
persons making such deposits, subject to certain reasonable
deductions as therein provided.
Like other corporations they may choose their own officers
and may admit new members; and the charter also provides
that they may sue and be sued, that they may take and hold
real estate, other than such as is conveyed as security or-in
payment of debts, to a limited amount, and may vest heir
funds in the stock of the State banks or other public stock
of the State or of the United States, and may dispose of the
Session Laws 1862, p. 49.
t Comp. Stat 218.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

same from time to time in such amounts as will meet the
demands for the deposits made in such institution.*
Whole amount of deposits in the defendant bank on the
first day of July, 1863, was $4,758,273.37, of which the sum
of $500,161 was .then invested and held in securities of the
United States, declared by act of Congress to be exempt
from taxation, as appears by the return of'the treasurer of
the bank to the comptroller of public accounts and by the
agreed statement in the record. Prompt payment of the
first instalment of the tax, as required by law, was made by
the bank, less the prescribed percentage upon the amount
of the deposits invested in government securities, which
they refused to pay, insisting that the tax to that extent was
unauthorized and illegal. Due proceedings were accordingly instituted by the plaintiff, as the treasurer of the State,
to recover of the bank the balance of the tax so withheld.t
Judgment in the court below was rendered for the plaintiff,
and the defendants sued out this writ of error.
1. Payment is required to be made to the treasurer of the
State, for the use of the State, of a sum eilual to three-fourths
of one per cent. on the total amount of deposits in such institution, on the first day of July in each year, and the question is whether, by the true construction of that provision,
the assessment is properly to be regarded as a tax on property or as a tax on the privileges and franchises of the defendant corporation. Viewed as a tax on property the assessment, so far as respects the amount in controversy, would
be illegal, as itois well settled by repeated decisions of this
court that the States cannot tax the securities of the United
States, declared by act of Congress to be exempt from taxation, for any purpose whatever. Congress has power to
borrow money on the credit of the United States, and the
people, by making the government supreme, have shielded
its action in the exercise of that power from every species
of unfriendly State legislation. Undoubtedly the States may
tax all subjects over which the sovereign power of the State
*2 Private Laws, 1049.

f" 7 General Statutes, 61.

Dec. 1867.]

SOCrETY FOR SAVINGS V. COITE.
Opinion of the court.

extends, but they are not authorized to tax the instruments
of the Federal government nor the means employed by Congress to carry into effect the enumerated powers of the Constitution, or any other power vested by the fundamental law
in the government of the United States. Such were the
early doctrines of this court upon the subject, and those doctrines have been reaffirmed and enforced in the recent decisions of the court.
All subjects over which the sovereign power of a State
extends are, as a general rule, proper objects of taxation, but
the power of a State to tax does not extend to those means
which are employed by Congress to carry into execution the
powers conferred in the Federal Constitution.*
Unquestionably the taxing power of the States is very
comprehensive and pervading, but it is not without limits.
State tax laws cannot restrain the action of the national
government, nor can they abridge the operation of any law
which Congress may constitutionally pass. They may extend to every object of value within the sovereignty of the
State, but they cannot reach the administration of justice in
the Federal courts, nor the collection of the public revenue,
nor interfere with any constitutional regulation of commerce.t
True reason for the rule is that the Constitution of the
United States and the laws of Congress made in pursuance
thereof are the supreme law of the land, and the express
provision is that the judges in every State court shall be
bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any
State to the contrary notwithstanding.T
2. None qf these principles are denied by the original
plaintiff. On the contrary, he admits that the States do not
possess the power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner to control the operation of
the constitutional laws passed by Congress to carry into
*McOulloch

v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 429.

Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 448; Weston et al. v. Charleston, 2

Peters, 467.
l Constitution, Article VI.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V. COITE.

[Sup- Ct

Opinion of the court.

execution the powers vested in the Federal government.
Conceding all this, he still denies that the tax in this case is
in any proper sense subject to any such objection, but insists
that in any and every point of view it is a tax on the privileges and franchises of the defendant corporation, which was
created by the legislature of the State, land which, by all
the authorities, it is entirely competent for the State to tax,
with the other property of the citizens, for the support of
the State government.
Power to tax is granted for the benefit of all, and none
have any right to complain if the power is fairly exercised
and the proceeds are properly applied to discharge the obligations for which the taxes were imposed. Such a power
resides in government as a part of itself, and need not be
reserved when property of any description, or the right to
. use it in any manner, is granted to individuals or corporate
bodies.*
Unless exempted in terms which amount to a contract, the
privileges and franchises of a private corporation are as much
the legitimate subject of taxation as any other property of
the citizens which is within the sovereign power of the State.
Repeated decisions of this court have held, in respect to
such corporations, that the taxing power of the State is never
presumed to be relinquished, and consequently that it exists
unless the intention to relinquish it is declared in clear and
unambiguous terms.t
Corporate franchises are legal estates vested in the corporation itself as soon as it is ifn esse. They are not mere naked
.powers granted to the corporation, but powers coupled with
an interest which vest in the corporation upon the possession
of its franchises, and whatever may be thought of the corporators, it cannot be denied that the corporation itself has
a legal interest in such franchises.t
Nothing can be more certain in legal decision than that
* Providence Bank v. Billings et al., 4 Peters, 563.
t P. & W. R. R. Co. v. Maryland, 10 HoWard, 393.
$ Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wbeaton, 700.

Dec. 1867.]

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS

V.

COITE.

Opinion of the court.

the privileges and franchises of a private corporation, and
all trades and avocations by which the citizens acquire a
livelihood, may be ta:ed by a State for the support of the
State governmept. Authority to that effect resides in the
State independent of the Federal government, and is wholly
unaffected by the fact that the corporation or individual has
or has not made investment in Federal seebrities.*
Private corporations engaged in their own business and
pursuing their own interests according to their own will are
as much subject to the taxing power of the State as individuals, and it cannot make any difference whether the tax
is imposed upon their property, unless exempted by some.
paramount law, or the franchise of the corporation, as both
are alike under the protection and within the control of the
sovereign power.t
Recurring to the language of the act, it is necessary to
bear in mind that the defendant corporation belongs to a
class of savings banks having deposits and assets, but which

have no capital stock or stockholders. Such a corporation
as a savings and building association, it seems, was unknown
in that State at the time when the first act was passed requiring savings banks and savings associations to pay annually into the treasury of the State a sum equal to a prescribed
percentage upon the total amount of deposits in their respective institutions on a given day in each year.1
The original act was passed in 1851, more than ten years
before the present securities of the United States were issued
and put into the market. Charters were subsequently
granted by the State to savings and building associations,
which are stock companies, and the Tax Act of 1857 was so
modified as to include the stock of those corporations.§
Savings and bpilding associations, as they are called, are
also included in the act under consideration as well as savOsborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheaton, 859.
Angell & Ames on Corporations (8th ed.), 438; Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheaton, 444.
$ Comp. Stat. 842.
Comp. Stat. 218; Session Laws 1859, p. 58.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V. COITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ings banks, and societies for savings.* iHence it is that
stock as well as deposits is mentioned in the provision, but
it is clear that the word stock applies solely to the former
class of corporations, and not to the latter, as the latter have
not, and never had any capital stock.
Amount of the tax required to be paid by the defendant
corporation is a sum equal to three-fourths of one per cent.
on the total amount of deposits in the institution on the first
day of July in each year. Reference is evidently made to
the total amount of deposits on the day named, not as the
subject-matter for assessment, but as the basis for computing the tax required to be paid by the corporation defendants. They enjoy important privileges, and it is just that
they should contribute to the public burdens.
Views of the defendants are, that the sums required to be
paid to the treasury of the State, is a tax on the assets of the
institution, but there is not a word in the provision which
gives any satisfactory support to that proposition., sDifferent
modes of taxation are adopted in different States, and even
in the same States at different periods of their history.
Fixed sums are in some instances required to be annually
paid into the treasury of the State, and in others a prescribed
percentage is levied on the stock, assets, or property owned
or held by the corporation, while in others the sum required
to be paid is left indefinite, to be ascertained in some mode
by the amount of business which the corporation shall transact within a defined period.
Experience shows that the latter mode is better calculated
to effect justice among the corporations required to contribute to the public burdens than any other which has been
devised, as its tendency is to graduate the required contribution to the value of the privileges granted, and to the extent of their exercise. Existence of the power is beyond
doubt, and it rests in the discretion of the legislature whether they will levy a fixed sum, or if not, to determine in
what manner the amount shall be ascertained.
* Session Acts 1862, p. 49.

Dec. 1867.]

SOCIETY

FOR

SAVINGS

V.

COITE.

609

Opinion of the court.

Irregularity of taxation is a fruitful source of complaint,
and it is but right to say that the mode prescribed in this
provision, of computing the sum to be paid, is well calculated to distribute the burdens in equal and just proportions.
Arbitrary sums are almost necessarily unequal, as the legislature cannot foresee the varying circumstances of the future
which may surround the business of a corporation, and
which may abridge or augment its receipts and increase or
diminish its profits.
Satisfactory inducements may be suggested as having
prompted the mode of taxation adopted by the legislature
without imputing any such motives as are supposed by the
defendants. Common justice requires that taxation, as far
as possible, should be equal, and the language of the provision in this case supports no other inference than that the
legislature in framing it was governed solely by that consideration.
Deposits are not capital stock in any point of view, and
they are not even investments in the sense in which the
word is employed in that provision.* Where the deposit is
general and there is no special agreement proved, it is
doubtless true that the title of the money deposited in* a
bank passes to the bank, and the bank becomes liable to the
depositor for the amount as a debt.t Regarded entirely as
a transaction between the bank and the depositor, it would
be correct to say that the money deposited became the assets
of the bank, and it may also be conceded that all such assets,
unless invested in property or securities exempted from taxation, might be required to contribute to the support of the
State government as the property of the bank, but it is obvious that the word deposits, as employed in that provision,
is not used by the legislature in any such sense. Whenever
the law imposes a tax on property in that State, it makes
provision that the value of the property shall be ascertained
by appraisenent, and the requirement is that the tax shall
Bank for Savings v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 514.
t Thomson v. Riggs, 5 Id 678.
VOL. VI.

39

610

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V. COITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be assessed on the appraised value of the property. Taxpayers are required to furnish to the assessors of the town
in which they reside a schedule, under oath, of all their
taxable property, and it is made the duty of the assessors to
appraise the same, and enter the value thereof on the appropriate lists. Iunicipal corporations as well as the State
may levy taxes on the taxable property of the citizens, but
all taxes, State and municipal, are collected by the collectors
of the towns. Joint stock companies, and all chartered corporations, except banking, insurance, railroad, and savings
corporations, &c., are subject to these regulations.
Attention to those regulations, even for a moment, will
show that none of them have any application to the assessment described in the provision under consideration. Instead of a list furnished to the assessors of the town the requirement is that a return shall be made to the comptroller
of public accounts, and the assessment as required to be
made is wholly irrespective of value or of profit or loss.
Town collectors have nothing to do in collecting the amount,
and the tax, when paid, is in lieu of all other taxes on the
institution. Other corporations in the State, with certain
exceptions, are taxed upon a valuation "in the same manner
and to the same extent as if such property was owned by an
individual resident in this State."* But the corporation defendants are only required to pay to the treasurer of the State
a sum equal to three-fourths of one per cent. on the total
amount of thei'r deposits on the first day of July in each
year. They pay nothing for municipal and local taxes,
either to the cities, towns, or districts in which they are
located, and they are expressly exempted from all other taxation. Much weight is also due to the fact that the taxes
are imposed directly by the legislature, without regard to
investment or value, and if the amount was fixed by law,
all, wi think, would agree that the assessment was a tax upon
the corporation, and not upon its property as contended
by the defendants.
Revised Statutes, 709.

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

611

Syllabus.

Neither investmcnt nor the value of the deposits being
mentioned in the provision, it seems clear that they are unimportant in this investigation,,as the amount of the tax is
the same whether the deposits, on the day named, have or
have not been invested, and whether they are above the par
value or of no value at all. Moneys received constitute deposits in the sense in which the word is used in that provision, and the total amount of such deposits on that day fuirnishes the true basis of computation, wholly irrespective of
their market value or of the disposition made of the funds
by the defendants.*
Looking at the case in any point of view, we are of the
opinion that there is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, GRIER, J., and MILLER, J., dissented; on the ground that the tax was a tax on the property
and not upon the franchises and privileges of the plaintiff
in error.
[See the next case.-REP.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.
1. The preceding case (Soeiely for Savings v. Coite) affirmed and declared to
be applicable to this case.
2. Under the constitution and laws of Massachusetts, as interpreted by its
highest court prior to the present case, in two cases not involving any
question under the Judiciary Act, and by long usage, a statute which
enacts that every institution for saving incorporated under the laws of
that commonwealth, shall pay to the commonwealth "a tax on account of its depositors" of a certain percentage "on the amount of its deposits., to be assessed, one-half of said annual tax on the average amount
of its deposits for the six months preceding the 1st of Mtay, and the average amount of its deposits for the six months preceding the 1st of November," -'s to be regarded as a franchise tax, not as a tax on property,
and is valid. Nor is there anything inconsistent with this view in the
dec*sions of this court
Savings Bank v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 514.

