Dec. 1867.]

HAIGHT v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

eminence, and which have arrived at the same conclusion,
and to which we refer as rendering further examination unnecessary.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting,

the CHIEF

JUSTICE

and Mr. Justice

SWAYYE.
NOTE. At the same time with the preceding were argued and adjudged
ibur other cases by the same plaintiff against other insurance companies,
all four being adjudged in the same way as the one above reported. In
two of them the policies and warranty were in the same language as in that
case. In two others there was a difference in the marginal warranty of the
insured in this, that while he warranted free from loss or expense by capture, &c., "1ordinary piracy" was excepted, so that if the loss was on account of a capture or seizure by pirates, the insured would have been entitled to recover. But NELSON, J., giving the judgment of the court, observed that as the court had arrived at the conclusion that the capture of
the vessel was under the authority of a, quasi government, or government in
fact (the ruling power of the country at that time), it was to be held to be
within the warranty or exception in the marginal clause. Dissenting, the
CHIEF JUSTICE and SWAYNE, J.

HAIGHT V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
A provision in a defeasance clause in a mortgage given by a railroad company to secure its coupon bonds, that the mortgage shall be void if the
mortgagor well and truly pays, &c., the debt and interest, "without aay
deduection, drfalcatlon or abatemenzt to be made of anythingfor or in respect
of any taes, charges or assessments whatsoever, "-does not oblige the
company to pay the interest on its bonds clear of the duty of five per
cent., which by the 122d section of the revenue act of 1864, such companies "are authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on
account of any interest or coupons due and payable." On the contrary,
the company complies with its contract when it pays the interest less
five per cent. and retains the tax for the government.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
rennsylvania; the case, as derived from the statement of it
" Dole v. New England Mutual Ins. Co., 6 Allen, 373; Fifield v. Ins.
Co., 47 Pennsylvania State, 166; Dole v. Merchants' Marine Ins. Co., 51
Maine, 464

IAIGHT V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

by the learned judge below (McCandless, J.), who sat for
the Circuit Court, having been thus:
The 122d section of the internal revenue act of 1864, provides
that "any railroad company indebted for any money for whici'
bonds have been issued upon which interest is payable shall be
subject to and pay a duty of five per cent. on the amount of all
such interest whenever the same shall be payable, and said company are authorized to deduct and withhold frorn all payments on
account of any interest or coupons due and payable as aforesaid,the
duty offiveper cent., and the payment of the amount of said duty,
so deducted from the interest or coupons, shall discharge said
company from that amount of the interest on the bonds held by
any person whatever. Except where said company may have
contracted otherwise."
With this act of Congress in force, Haight, a citizen of
New York, was the holder of bonds to the amount of
$100,000, issued by the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne and Chicago
Railroad Company, and secured by a mortgage on real estate.
The bonds were in the ordinary form of coupon bonds, and
promised that the Company would pay $1000 to the obligee
or bearer, on the 1st of January, 1887, with interest at the
rate of seven per cent., payable half yearly, on the presentation of the interest warrants, &c. The defeasance clause of
the mortgage was thus:
"Provided, always, that if the said railway company or their
successors do well and truly pay to the said Haight, the said
$100,000 on the days and times hereinbefore mentioned, together
with the interest payable thereon, without any deduction, defalcation or abatement to be made of anything for or in respect
of any taxes, charges or assessments whatsoever, then," &c.
The railway company having retained five per cent. on the
amount of the coupons, as they paid them, Haight brought
suit against it, contending that it could not deduct the taxes
from the interest due him, because it had, in the language
of the act of Congress, "contracted otherwise."
The argument in the court below, derived from a very

Dec. 1867.]

HAIGHT V.

RATLROAD

COMPANY.

17

Opinion of the court.

critical examination of the different parts of the act of Congress in question, was that the tax of five per ceiit. laid in
the 122d section, was a tax upon the coupon or interest, that

is to say, a tax on the thing and not on Hlaight's income; and,
therefore, that under the contract in the mortgage it was to
be paid by the company from its own property and not from
Iaight's.
It was admitted that Haight paid no income tax at New
York, his residence, on the interest received from these
bonds.

The learned judge who heard the case, thought that the
tax was on Haight's income, and gave his opinion to thip
effect:
What are the coupons, upon which this suit is instituted, but
income,-the annual profit upon money safely invested? There
is no special contract to pay government taxes upon the interest. The measure of the company's liability is expressed in
the bonds as being debt and interest only. It has nothing to
do with the taxes which the government may impose upon the
plaintiff for the interest payable to him. The clause in the
mortgage cannot enlarge the duty which the mortgage was
given to secure, that is, the payment of debt and interest. It
is to be found in all mortgages. .

.

. The plaintiff, a citizen of

New York, pays no internal revenue tax on these bonds at the
place of his residence. It is therefore no case of double taxation. The tax should be paid somewhere, and it was to meet
investments like this in banks, railroads, insurance and other
companies, that the 122d section of the act of 1864 was passed.
Judgment was accordingly given for the company, and the
case was brought by ilaight on error to this court, where it
was submitted on briefs.
Mr. Knox, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Lowrie and
McKnight, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIE R delivered the opinion of the court.
The fhcts in this case are properly stated and the law correctly decided by the learned judge of the Circuit Court.
VOL VI.

2

1

THE AMELIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The provision in the condition of defeasance of the mortgage, has reference only to covenants between mortgagor and
mortgagee, and is usual in every mortgage; being put there
in order to secure the mortgagee, who may not be in possession, from demand for taxes incurred while the mortgagor
was in possession. It can have no possible application to
the income tax of bondholders. The 122d section of the
revenue act of 1864, was enacted for greater facility of collection of the tax. These corporators often contract to pay
for the bondholder all such taxes; but when they have not
so contracted, they are authorized to deduct or withhold the
amount of the tax. In all assessments of income tax the
citizen is credited with the amount thus detained; so that
there is no double taxation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE AMELIE.
1. In order to justify the sale, by the master of his vessel, in a distant port,
in the course of her voyage, good faith in making the sale, and a neces.
sity for it, must both concur; and the purchaser, in order to have a
valid title, must show their concurrence. The question is not whether
it is expedient to break up a voyage and sell the ship, but whether there
was a legal necessity to do it. And this necessity is a question of fact,
to be determined in each case by the circumstances in which the master
is placed, and the perils to which the property is exposed.
2. Where the sale of a vessel owned in Amsterdam, was made at Port au
Prince, after a careful survey by five persons-one, the British Lloyd's
agent; another, the agent of the American underwriters; and the remaining three, captains of vessels temporarily detained in port-the
whole appointed by, and acting under the authority of the consul of the
country where the vessel was owned-which five surveyors unanimously
agreed that the vessel was not worth repairing, and advised a sale of
her, this was held to pass a valid title-no evidence being before the
master that the report was erroneous ; and this, although the master did
not consult his owners at Amsterdam, and though the vessel afterwards
at a great expense-greater, as the court assumed, than her new valuewas repaired, and went to her original port of destination, and thenze
abroad with another cargo.
8 A justifiable sale divests all liens.

