THOMPSON ET AL.

v.

BOWMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

him to her. The complainants have a right to follow the
fund into any property in which it was invested as far as it
can be traced.*
The decree of the court below is silent a' to lots 4 and 95.
There is no competent proof in the record sufficient to exempt them from the claim of the complainants. If others
have acquired paramount rights, it must be shown elsewhere
in another proceeding.
The decree as to both branches of the case is, in ourjudgment, erroneous. It is thereford reversed. The case will
be remanded to the District Court with instructions to enter
a decree
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THOMPSON ET AL. V. BOWMAN.
1. The fact that real property is held in the joint flames of several owners,
or in the name of one for the benefit of all, is no evidence of partnership
between the parties with respect to it. In the absence of proof of its
purchase with partnership funds for partnership purposes, such property
is deemed to be held by them as joint tenants, or as tenants in common;
and none of the several owners possesses authority to sell or bind the
interest of his co-owners.
2. If persons are copartners in the ownership of land, such land being the
only subject-matter of the partnership, the partnership will be terminated by a sale of the land. Hence the declarations of one of the partners made subsequently to the sale are not evidence to bind the other
owners.
ERROR to the District Court for the Northern District of
Mississippi.
Thompson, Ford, and Powell, being owners of real estate
in Texas, Powell agreed with one Bowman, that if he would
find a purchaser, he should have a commission of ten per
cent. on a sale. Bowman found a purchaser, and the com* Oliver v. Piatt and others, 3 Howard, 401.

I

Dec. 1867.]

TnoMPsoN

ET AL v. BOWMAN.

317

Opinion of the court.

mission not being paid, he brought suit for it, the suit in the
court below.
In charging the jury, the court assumed, without any proof
upon the point, that the defendants were partners in the
ownership of the property, and instructed them that each
partner was the agent of all the partners composing the firm

of which he isa member; and had a right to sell all the
partnership property, real or personal, and to employ agents
to sell it and to bind the firm by an agreement to give such
agent a commission for selling it. It allowed a witness produced for that purpose to prove "that it was admitted by the
defendant Powell, after the lands belong;ng to the defendants, in respect of which the commissions suedfor in this cause are claimed,
,ad all been sold, that he, the said Powell, had agreed, prior to
the said sale, to pay the plaintifften per cent. upon the amount
of the proceeds of the sale of the said lands, if he, the plaintiff, would find or introduce a purchaser for them; to the introduction of which testimony, the defendant Thompson, by
his counsel, objected, but the court overrul6d the objection."
The case was here on exception to the admission of this
testimony and to the charge.
Messrs. Carlisle,As/ton, and Black, for the plaintiff in error;
_L3r. 1Reverdy Johnson, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
There is no doubt that a copartnership may exist in the
purchase and sale of real property, equally as in any other
lawful business. Nor is there any doubt that each member
of such copartnership possesses full authority to contract for
the sale or other disposition of its entire property, though
for technical reasons the legal title vested in all the copartners can only be transferred by their joint act. But the fact
that real property is held in the joint names of several
owners, or in the name of one for the benefit of all, is no
evidence of copartnership between them with respect to it.
In the absence of proof of its purchase with partnership funds
for partnership purposes, real property standing in the names

Ex PARTE MOCARDLE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of several persons is deemed to be-held by them as joint
tenants, or as tenants in common ; and none of the several
owners possesses authority to sell or bind the interest of his
co-owners.
But if the position assumed by the court were justified by
the evidence, and the defendants were in fact copartners, in
the ownership of the property,. such copartnership was terminated by the sale made. The land was the only subject
of the assumed copartnership; no pretence is made that it
held any other property. With the sale, therefore, the business was completed, for which the supposed copartnership
was formed; and this completion necessarily dissolved the
relation of partners between the parties.*
The subsequent declarations of Powell as to the agreement made by him with the plaintiff were not admissible as
evidence against his late copartners. His authority to bind
them ceased with the dissolution of the copartnership. His
admission of liability, or of an agreement upon which liability might follow, possessed no greater efficacy to bind his
former copartners than a similar admission of any other
agent of the opartnership after his agency had terminated.t
It follows that the court below erred both in its assumption and its rulings, and its judgment must therefore BE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is so
ordered.

EX PARTE MCCARDLE.
(MlOTION.)
Under the act of February 5th, 1867 (14 Stat. at Large, 885), to amend the
Judiciary Act of 1789, an appeal lies to this court on judgments in
habeas corpus cases rendered by Circuit Courts in the exercise of original jurisdiction.

to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court for
the District of Mississippi; the case being thus:
MOTION

* 3 Kent, 53; Story an Partnership, see. 280.
f Baker v. Stackpole, 9 Cowen, 420; Van Keuren v. Parmelee, 2 Com%tonk, 530- Story on -Partnership, J 323.

