Dec. 1867 ]

THE OUACHITA COTTON.
Statement of the case.

TnE

OUACHITA COTTON.

1. The statute of July 13th, 1861, and the subsequent proclamation of President Lincoln under it, which made all commercial intercourse between
any part of a State where insurrection against the United States existed
and the citizens of the rest of the United States "unlawful," so long as
such condition of hostility should continue, rendered void all purchases
of cotton from the rebel confederacy by citizens or corporations of New
Orleans, after the 6th of May, 1862, from which date the restoration of
the national authority had fixed upon them the same disabilities as to
commercial intercourse with the territory declared to be in insurrection
as it had previously fixed upon the inhatbitants of the loyal States.
2. Under the promso of the above-mentioned statute which gave the President power in his discretion to license commercial intercourse, no one
else could give licenses. Accordingly any given by the military authorities were nullities. The Reform (3 Wallace, 617), and The Sea Lion
(Id. 642), affirmed.
8. The title of a purchaser from a citizen of New Orleans, who had himself
purchased from the rebel confederacy after the 6th of May, 1862, was
not made valid by the fact that such second purchaser was a foreign
neutral, purchasing bond.fide for value.

THE case thus entitled was a matter of three apppals from
the Circuit Court of the United States for Illinois in a question of 395 bales of cotton which had been seized during the
rebellion by a flotilla of the United States. The matter was
thus
An act of Congress of July 13th, 1861, passed soon after
the outbreak of the late rebellion, enacts (ยง 5) that
"It may and shall be lawful for the President, by proclamation, to declare that the inhabitants of such State, or any section or part thereof where such insurrection exists, are in a
state of insurrection against the United States, and thereupon
all commercial intercourse by and between the same and the citizens

thereof and the citizens of the rest of the United States, shall cease
and be unlawful so long as such condition of hostility shall continue."
The act proceeds
"And all goods and chattels, wares and merchandise, coming
from said State or section into the other parts of the United

THE

OUACHITA COTTON.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

States, and all proceeding to such State or section by land or
water, shall, together with the vessel or vehicle conveying the
same, or conveying persons to or from such State or sections,
be forfeited to the United States."
The same section also contained this proviso
"That the President may, in his discretion, license and permit
commercial intercourse with any such part of said State or section,
the inhabitants of which are so declared in a state of insurrection, in such articles, and for such time, and by such persons,
as he, in his discretion, may think most conducive to the public
interest, and such intercourse, so far as by him licensed, shall be
conducted and carried on in pursuance of rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury."
On the 16th of August, 1861, the President issued a
proclamation, declaring ." that the inhabitants of Louisiana
and some other States named (except the inhabitants of that
part of the State of Virginia lying west of the Alleghany
Mountains, and of such other parts of that State and the
other States hereinbefore mentioned as might maintain a
loyal adhesion to the Union and Constitution, or might be
from time to time occupied and controlled by forces of the
United States engaged in the dispersion of said insurgents),
were in a state of insurrection against the United States, and
that all commercial ntercoursebetween the same and the mhabitants
thereof, with the exceptions aforesaid, and the citizens of
other States, and other parts of the United States, is unlawful, and shall remain unlawful, until such insurrection shall
cease or has been suppressed."
With this statute and this proclamation in force, three distinct parties, American citizens or subjects,-namely, Withenbury &Doyle, The New Orleans Bank, and one Leon Queyrous,-purchased during the rebellion, but after -iewOrleans
was restored, by capture, May 6th, 1862, to the Federaljurisdiction, a quantity of cotton from the late rebel confederation.
The cotton had been raised on the Ouachita, in Louisiana,
and in 1862 sold by its owners to the confederation, who left
it stored-on the plantation where it was raised.

Dec. 1867.]

THE OUACHITA COTTON.

523

Statement of the case.

The circumstances under which the three parties abovenamed purchased respectively from the Confederate government were these
1. Withenbury & Doyle were citizens of Ohio. The outbreak of the rebellion found them in Louisiana owners and
masters there of two steamers running in lawful commerce
between New Orleans and Upper Louisiana. Before very
long the boats were in the service of the rebel confederacy,
-wholly by compulsion, as was assertedby Withenbury & Doyle,
and against every loyal effort on their part to keep their
boats from it. The Confederacy, asin time of war, bad seized
them, it was alleged, meaning to pay what it deemed a
fair price. Being thus indebted to Withenbury & Doyle for
the use of the boats, these persons took the cotton (still on
the plantation where it was raised) iu payment, making the
negotiation by which they became owners, with one McKee,
an agent of the Confederate government. Such was their
title to the cotton bought by them.
2. The title of the Bank was thus On the capture of New
Orleans by the forces of the United States, the Louisiana
State Bank, a moneyed corporation in that city, found itself
with a large amount of Confederate currency on hand, which,
as was said, it had been compelled by the rebel confederacy
to receive on deposit. It being valueless at New Orleans
after the capture, and its effect-if it could be put into circulation in the regions yet under rebel control-being likely
to be the yet further discrediting of the rebel credit-while
if cotton could be got for it and brought into loyal regions
-that would add to the resources of these last, the coinmander of the Ulited States forces n Aew Orleans, in December,
1862, authorized the bank at its desire to dispose of this currency in the purchase of cotton within the rebel lines. Under this permission, an agent of the bank passed through
the United States lines into Upper Louisiana, and purchased
the cotton in question (or some other which to facilitate
transfer he exchanged for it) of a sub-agent of McKee, the
agent already named, in August, 1863.
3. Queyrous's purchase was thus
He was a naturalized

T.HE OUACHITA COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

citizen of the United States, residing in New Orleans, and, in
March, 1864, purchased the cotton of Buckner, an agent of
the Confederate States.
Soon after all this, to wit, in April, 1864, a flotilla of gunboats of the United States sailed up the Ouachita River, found
the cotton still upon the plantation, where it had been raised,
and which was in a part of Louisiana then, as, from the
origin of the rebellion, it had been, subject to the power of
the rebel confederacy-and seizing 935 bales of it, transported it to Cairo, where it was libelled in the District
Court there, as prize of war.
Witbenbury & Doyle intervened as claimants, on sale of
it, to its proceeds, under their title as stated, for the whole
935 bales. A firm named Grieff& Zunts, who had purchased
from the bank, came in as shcceeding to its title for the same
total amount, while a French firm, forgners, resident 2n
rance, Le More & Co., who had purchased 830 bales from
Queyrous, intervened for that proportion of the capture.
]By order of the court the claims were consolidated, and
having been considered, were dismissed on the ground that
the transactions of the original parties, Witheubury & Doyle,
the Bank and Queyrous, were "void;" the inhabitants
of the loyal and disloyal districts having been rendered incapable of any dealing with each other, so long as the rebellion continued, prohibition being the rule, and license the
exception, and the license in this case not having been by
the President, who alone was capable of giving one. None
of the original parties, therefore, who dealt with the rebels,
had any title, and neither Grieff & Zunts, nor the house of
Le Afore in France, who stood in the shoes of two of them,
could get through them one that should be different.
The claims of all three intervenors we -e accordingly dismissed, and without the question between the captors and the
United States having been disposed of, the correctness of this
decree of dismissal was made by this appeal the question
now before the court.
The appeals were argued elaborately in this court, by
Mr R. H. Corwine, representing Withenbury &' Doyle, Mr

D~ec. 1867 J

THE OUACHITA

COTTON.

Argument for the appellants.

Goold, representing Grieff & Zunts, and Messrs. Lous Jan. and
J A. Me Clc-ruand,representingLeMo)re. These counsel made
common case as against the United States and the captors,
and particular case as against each other. The disposition
of the cqourt against all the appellants in common, dispenses
with any note of the argument on the latter heads. As
against the United States it was argued1. That the property libelled being the property of loyal
citizens of the United States, and within their territorial
jurisdiction, aland, could not lawfully be the subject of capture bv the naval forces of the United States as prize of war
or otherwise.
2. As long as the rebels held, with the strong band of war,
any of the territory of the United States, to the exclusion
of the laws and officers of the United States, that citizens
thereof, then in such territory, might lawfully sell to or buy
property of those rebels, whether the latter had such transaction individually or under the assumed name of a government, provided, it did not appear that the same was done
with the antentionand for the purpose of aiding such assumed
government in its unlawful usurpations.
3. That it was lawful for any parties having licenses granted
to them by the proper authorities of the United States for
that purpose, to carry on trade in the region where this
cotton was, and that two of these purchasers had such
licenses.
4. That whatever loyal citizens did, in aid of the rebel
cause, by compulsion, or in order to avoid military conscription, would not deprive them of their legal and constitutional rights as citizens of the United States.
5. That property acquired as this was, although it remained
within the lines of the insurgents, was not stamped with the
disabilities of enemy's property, but was entitled to the care
of the government so soon as removed beyond the enemy's
lines.
6. That the iNon-intercourse Act of July 13th, 1861, being
in violation of the general rights of the citizens of one State
to trade w'th those of every other, is to be construed strictly;

THE
\

OUACHITA COTTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the United States and captors.

that it forfeits no goods but those "coming from sazd State or
section INTO the other parts of the ITnited States, and all proceeding TO such State." The property must, therefore, be

caught in the predicament of passing from one State to an
other.
7 That as respected the case of Le More & Co., especially,
it was obvious that whatever might be the case if the cotton
had been yet owned by Queyrous, that Le More & Co. being
citizens of a foreign and neutral state and purchasers bond
fide for value, held the property discharged of all liability,
that certainly as a neutral they could have purchased of the
Confederacy directly, and that their right was not impaired
by its coming through the channel that it did.

Mr Stanbery, A. G., and Mr Ashton, special counsel of the
United States, with Air L. Weldon, for the captors, placed the
matter chiefly on the broad principle declared in Grswold v
Waddington,* as well as in later and in earlier cases.t In the
case named, Chancellor Kent thus expressed himself:
"There is no authority in law, whether that law be national,
maritime, or municipal, for any kind of private, voluntary, unlicensed business communication or intercourse with an enemy
It is all noxious, and in a greater or less degree it is criminal.
Every attempt at drawing distinctions has failed, all kinds of
intercourse, except that which is hostile, is illegal. The law
has put the sting of disability into every kind of voluntary communication and contract with an enemy, which is made without
the .special permission of the government. There is wisdom
and policy, patriotism and safety, in this principle, and every
relaxation of it tends to corrupt the allegiance of the citizen, and
prolong the calamities of war."
The act of Congress and the Proclamation were yet over
and above this general principle of law
2. The President alone had power to license, a matter
twice decided by this court.t
* I Johnson, 483.

t See specially Brown v. United States, 8 Oranch, 136, Scholefield v.
Eichelberger, 7 Peters, 592.
1 The Reform, AWallace, 632, The Sea Lion, a Id. 647.

Dec. 1867 ]

THE OUACHITA COTTON.
Opinion of the court.

3. Queyrous having thus had no title whatever, Le
More, who got no more than he had, could not have a good
one.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
These three cases relate to the same cotton. The several
appellants are conflicting claimants, and it will conduce to
brevity and clearness in the expression of our views as to
the merits of their respective claims, to dispose of all the
cases together.
The cotton was seized on the bank of the Ouachita River,
in the State of Louisiana, by the naval forces of the United
States, in April, 1864. It was sent to Cairo, and libelled as
prize of war in the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois. The court, by an interlocutory decree, directed the cotton to be sold, and the proceeds
to be held subject to its order. The decree was executed,
and the proceeds are so held. The appellants intervened in
that court by filing their petitions. The claim of Withenbury & Doyle, and that of Grieff & Zunts, each, covers all
the cotton. Le More & Co. claim 830 bales.
The court below decreed against all the claimants, and
ordered their petitions, respectively, to be dismissed. From
these decrees the several parties appealed, and the cases are
now before this court for final decision.
The original case is still pending in the District Court.
No further step in it has been taken. It is there awaiting
adjudication. It is not in this court, and we can do nothing
which will affect it, further than to dispose of the cases before us. Neither the captors nor the United States have yet
been heard in the main case. All questions between them,
relating to it, are still in abeyance. If this court should
decree in favor of either of the two larger claims in the cases
before us, there would be nothing left for the original parties to contend for. The entire resof the controversy would
be lost to both. If we should sustain the smaller claim and
exclude the others, the proceeds of 105 bales of the cotton
will remain undisposed of. But if the decrees below shall

THE

OUACHITA

COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be affirmed, the 6ffect will be only to remove from the original case the grafts which have been placed upon it by the
parties before us, and thereby to leave it in all respects as
it was before they intervened.
The place where the cotton was seized was, at the time of
the seizure, and had been from the commencement of the
war, insurgent territory It was raised near the place of
seizure, upon the plantation of Simmons & Tatem, and was
sold by Simmons-who had become the sole owner-to the
rebel government, in the fall of 1862. Payment was made
in Confederate bonds.
Withenbury & Doyle were citizens of the State of Ohio,
but were in Louisiana at the breaking out of the rebellion.
They owned two steamboats, and were engaged in running
them upon the waters of that State. They remained there,
and their boats were largely employed in the rebel service.
They claim to have been thoroughly loyal to the United
States all the time, and that such use of their boats was, on
their part, the result of fear and compulsion, and was inevitable.
They bought the cotton in controversy of McKee, the cotton agent of the rebel government, in August, 1863. The
consideration of the purchase was the indebtedness of that
government for the service of the boats. Withenbury says
in his deposition "The so-called Confederate government
owed me largely for the services of my steamboat, and I received from their agent, A. W McKee, cotton in preference
to Confederate money This cotton was situated on the
Ouachita and Red Rivers, about equally divided. The
largest quantity in any one place was nine hundred and
thirty-five bales (935), which was stored on" the plantation.
of Dr. John T. Simmons, on the Ouachita River, below
Mjonroe." The testimony of McKee, the rebel agent, is to
the same effect. lHe says "The services of their boats
ended in 1863, in the month of April. I then agreed to pay
them in cotton if money was not soon forthcoming.
I paid them in the Simmons crop of cotton, on the Ouachita
River.
There was no contract or bargain made how they

Dec. 1867 ]

THE OUACHITA

COTTON.

Opinion of the court.

were to be paid, or how much they were to be paid. The
boats were required to do the work with the understanding
that they would be paid the customary prices.
On settlement in the sDrming of 1863, there was a balance due them,
for services rendered under my direction, of between eighty
and ninety thousand dollars."
Doyle procured permission from the proper military authorities of the United States, to bring to New Orleans, upon
government transports, from Upper Louisiana, 2500 bales
of cotton, then lying there, which he claimed belonged to
him. The cotton in controversy was a part of it. Before
this could be done the cotton in question was seized, removed to Cairo, and libelled as before stated.
Le More & Co. are a commercial house of Havre, in France.
They claim 830 bales of the cotton. They purchased through
their agent, Jules Le More, on the 1st of March, 1864. The
purchase was made of Leon Queyrous, a naturalized citizen,
residing in New Orleans. He bought of Buckner, an agent
of the rebel government, in the preceding month of February Possession was delivered by Buckner to Queyrous,
and by Queyrous to the agent of Le More & Co.
Grieff & Zunts claim through the Bank of the State of
Louisiana. In the fall of 1862, after the capture of New
Orleans by the land and naval forces of the United States,
the bank having on hand upwards of a million dollars of
Confederate money, applied to the military authorities there
for permission to send it within the rebel lines, and invest it
in cotton. Permission was accordingly given, and an agent
was sent to Upper Louisiana with the money He made
large purchases in the country upon the Red River. Finding it impossible to remove the cotton, he exchanged it with
the rebel authorities for cotton ii the Ouachita District, including, as is alleged, the cotton in controversy
This arrangement was made ii 1863. The bank sold to Grieff &
Zunts in March, 1864. It is strenuously insisted by the
counsel for the other claimants that the proof shows that the
contract of exchange did not include the cotton in controversy, that it was conditional, and was subsequently rescinded
VOL. Vr.

34

530

THE OUAOCHTA COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinon of the court.

by the parties, and that the bank took no title under it.
However these things may be, they are immaterial in the
view which we have taken of the case. We have, therefore,
not found it necessary fully to examine the testimony relating to them. For the purposes of this opinion, it is assumed that the facts are, as they are claimed to be by the
counsel of Grieff & Zunts.
The fifth section of the act of July 18th, 1861, authorized
the President, under the circumstances mentioned, to declare any State, or part of a State, to be "in a state of insurrection against the United States." and it enacts that thereupon, "all commercial intercourse by and between the
same, and the citizens thereof, and the citizens of the rest
of the United States, shall cease, and be unlawful so long as
Provuled,
such condition of hostility shall continue
however, that the President may, in his discretion, license
and permit commercial intercourse with any such part of
such State, the inhab~tants whereof are so declared in a state
of insurrection, in such articles and for such time and by
such persons as he, in his discretion, may think most conducive to the public interest, and such intercourse, so far as
by him licensed, shall be conducted and carried on only in
pursuance of rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury "
On the 16th of August, 1861, the President issued a proclamatiou declaring the rebel States, including Louisiana,.
to be in a state of insurrection. It excepted several localities
from its operation.

Among them were such parts of the

States mentioned," as may be from time to time occupied
and controlled by forces of the United States engaged in the
dispersion of the insurgents." By another proclamation of
the 2d of April, 1863, the President declared the same States
to be in insurrection, and revoked all the exceptions contained in the former proclamation, but again made certain
local exceptions, of which "the port of New Orleans" was
one. This proclamation declares "that all commercial intercourse, not licensed and conducted as is provided in said
act, between the said States and the in'habitants thereof, with

Dec. 1867 ]

THE OUACHITA COTTON.
Opinion of the court.

the exceptions aforesaid, is unlawful, and will remain unlawful until such insurrection shall cease or has been suppressed,
and notice thereof has been given by proclamation." The
date of this proclamation was prior to either of the purchases
of the cotton from the rebel agents, to which the claimants,
respectively, trace their titles.
The subjugation of New Orleans and the restoration of
the national authority there are regarded as having become
complete on the 6th (f May, 1862. From that tine its citizens were clothed with the same rights of property, and
were subject to the same inhibitions and disabilities as to
commercial intercourse with the territory declared to be in
insurrection, as the inhabitants of the loyal States. Such is
the result of the application of well-settled principles of public law The proclamation of the 2d of April, 1863, recognized but did not change the existing condition of things.
It was the same afterwards as before. The effect of the
proclamation was cumulative.*
The language of the act of 1861, and of the proclamation
of 1863, is clear and explicit. There is no room for doubt
as to their meaning, nor as to their effect in these cases.
Commercial intercourse between the inhabitants of territory
in insurrection and those of territory not in insurrection,
except under the license of the President, and according to
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, was
entirely prohibited. As was well remarked in the able opinion of the court below, "Prohibition was the rule, and license
the exception." 'No such license was given by the President
to either of the parties by whom the purchases of the cotton
were made from the agents of the rebel government. Those
given by the military authorities were nullities. They conferred no rights whatever. No one could give them but the
President. From any other source they were void. The
law-making power, in its wisdom and caution, confided this
important authority, so liable to be abused, to the Chief
Magistrate alone.t
The Venice, 2 Wallace, 258.
t The Reform, 3 Id. 617

The Sea Lion, 5 Id. 642.

HANGER

v.

ABBOTT.

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Withenbury & Doyle being citizens and residents of Ohio;
Queyrous being a citizen of Louisiana, and a resident of New
Orleans, and the Bank of the State of Louisiana being a
local institution of that city when they purchased, their pur-.bases were all illegal and void, and passed no title to the
vendees. Withenbury & Doyle, therefore, never had any
title. Queyrous took none, and, therefore, could convey
none to Le More & Co. The bank acquired none, and nothing passed by the sale to Grieff & Zunts.
All the parties in this litigation stand before us without
any right or interest in the cotton which this court can recognize.
Other questions of fact and of law have been argued with
great ability; but as we have found the statute and the proclamation conclusive in every aspect of the cases which can
be presented, we have deemed it unnecessary further to examine the subject.
We have f6und no error in the record.
This conclusion is not in conflict with the ruling in the
case of Mrs. Alexander's Cotton.* . Upon that subject it is sufficient to remark that there, the whole cas e was not, as here,
before us.
The several decrees of the District Court are
AFIRMED.

H:ANGER

v.

ABBOTT.

The time during which the courts in the lately rebellious States were closed

to citizens of the loyal States, is, in suit brought by them since, to be
excluded from the computation of the time fixed by statutes of limitation within which suits may be brought; though exception for such
cause be not provided for in the statutes: And this independently of
the Act of Congress of June llth, 1864.

ER1IOR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

Arkansas.
* 2 Wallace, 404.

