Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.
SAME V. JOHNSON.
SAME V. CLARK.
1. The act of 3fUarchl 3, 1863, concerning the Court of Claims, confers a right
of appeal in cases involving over $3000, which the party desiring to appeal can exercise by his own volition, and which is not dependent on
the discretion of that court.
2. "When the party desiring to appeal signifies his intention to do so in any
appropriate mode within the ninety days allowed by that statute for
taking an appeal; the limitation of time ceases to affect the case; and
such is also the effect of the third rule of the Supreme Court concerning
such appeals.
8. It is no ground for dismissing such appeal, that the statement of facts
found by the Court of Claims is not a sufficient compliance with the
rules prescribed by the Supreme Court on that subject.
4. But the Supreme Court will of its own motion, while retaining jurisdiction of such cases, remand the records to the Court of Claims for a
proper finding.
6. A finding which merely recites the evidence in the case, consisting mainly
of letters and affidavits, is not a compliance with the rule; but a finding that a certain instrument was not made in fraud or mistake is d
proper finding without reporting any of the evidence on which the fact
was found.

THESE were three motions: the first two to dismiss appeals
from the Court of Claims, one in the case of Adams, and one
in the case of Johnson; the third, in the case of Clark, a.
motion for a certioraridesigned to require that court to make
a more extended statement of the evidence on which they
had made a particular finding. The motion in the first two
cases resting on more grounds than one; in the third, on
one ground only.
To understand the cases well, it is necessary to refer to
the statutes and rules which regulate appeals from the Court
of Claims. An act of March 3, 1863, provides that "either
party may appeal to this court, &c., where the amount in controversy exceeds $3000, under such regulations as the said
Supreme Court may direct: Provided, That such appeal shall
be taken within nnety days after the rendition of such judgment or decree."

-UNITED STATES

r.

ADAMS.

ES1ui. Ct.

Statement of the case.

At the December Term, 1865, the Supreme Court prescribed certain regulations by which appeals might be taken.
The first rule prescribes that the Court of Claims shall
make a finding of the ultimate facts or propositions which the
evidence shall establish, in the nature of a special verdict, and
not the evidence on which these ultimate fatts are founded,
and also conclusions of law, which findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be certified to the Supreme Court as
part of the record.
The third rule prescribes that "in all cases an order of
allowance of appeal by the Court of Claims, or the chief
justice thereof, in vacation, is essential, and the limitation of
time for granting such appeal shall cease to run from the time an
application is made for the allowance of appeal."
The forty-eighth rule of the Court of Claims provides that
"whenever such application for an appeal is made in vacation, the same shall be filed with the clerk of this court, and
such filing shall be deemed the date of the applicationfor an appeal."
The act of MarSh 3, 1863, provides "that the said Court
of Claims shall hold one annual session, commencing on the
first Monday in October in each year, and continuing as long
as may be necessary for the prompt disposition of the business of the court;" and an act of March 17, 1866, "that the
regular session of the Court of Claims shall hereafter commence on the first Monday of December, in each year."
In this state of statutes and rules, judgment was rendered
by the Court of Claims in the case of Adams in his favor on
the 19th March, and in the case of Johnson, on the 25th.
The court adjourned on the 20th of May to the 25th of June.
On the 10th of June the solicitor of the United States for
the Court of Claims, Mr. Norton, filed in the office of the
clerk, a paper, in the case of Adams, of which the following
is a copy:
Theodore Adams v. The United States.
1886.
The United States, by E. P. Norton, its solicitor, makes appli.,
cation to the Eonorable Court of Claims for an appeal of the

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED

STATES V. ADAMS.

'Statement of the case.

case of Theodore Adams v. The United States, to the Supreme
Court of the United States.
B. P. N oRTON,
Solicitor for the United States.

A similar paper was filed in the case of Johnson, at the
same time. On the first day that the court was in actual
session, to wit, on the 25th day of June, the solicitor moved
for an allowance of these appeals, and on the next day the
court made an order allowing them. The order was thus
made more than ninety days after the judgments were rendered.
In these two cases, therefore, grounds of motion to dismaiss were:
1. Because the appeal must be taken within ninety days
after the rendition of the decree, and in this case the said period
has elapsed.
2. Because the taking of an appeal in cases decreed by the
Court of Claims consists of two things: 1st. Of an application
for an appeal, which may be made to the court in term time, or
by filing an application in the method prescribed by the rules
when made in vacation. 2d. Of an allowance of the appeal so
applied for by the court, and that both the application for and
the allowance of the appeal must be made within the said term
of ninety days from the rendition of the decree.
3. Because the application made for an appeal in this case,
and filed in the clerk's office June 10, 1867, is irregular and void,
having been made in term time, and not in vacation, as contemplated by the rules of court.
And in all three of the cases an additional ground was
assigned, viz. :
That the record bad not been made up and settled, as the
first rule of the Supreme Court, made at December Term, 1865,
required.
As to this part of the matter it appeared1. In the Adams case, that the findings were put under
twenty different numbered paragraphs; that under one of

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.*

them a joint resolution of Congress was set out in full; and
under others, parts of acts of Congress. Withal, the finding
made a sequent, orderly and intelligible statement, and was
comprised within less than six pages 8vo, chiefly of small
pica type.
2. In the case of Johnson, the form of finding was different.
Somewhat less than two pages were occupied with narrative
and clear account of a settlement by him upon valuable and
unoccupied public lands in Washington Territory, where
he erected buildings, which the government of the United
States, operating against hostile Indians, had taken to its
own use. But the rest of the finding consisted of nine
pages of Government Correspondence from the Land Office,
Department of the Interior, Register's Office at Vancouver,
with various affidavits from settlers and others, a joint resolution of Congress, and many other documents, about twenty
in all, set out in extenso, signatures, &c., with very little in
the nature of a finding of ultimate facts. It ended with a
succinct statement of the court's conclusions of law, on what
was called "findings of fact."

3. In the case of Clark,-where the motion was for a certiorarito require the Court of Claims to make a more extended
statement of the evidence on which they found,-no documents or evidence were set out. On the contrary, the petition having set forth that the petitioner having agreed by
correspondence, with its authorized agents, to furnish to the
government a certain quantity of potatoes, in a certain
manner, the government agents had afterwards prepared
formal articles of agreement, which he signed without advice of counsel, and not knowing at the time but that they
truly and fairly stated the actual agreement of the parties,
and that the contract was not truly stated in the articles, but
by mistake or fraud was misstated,-the finding on this head
ran thus:
"That the allegations of fraud or mistake in the concoction
of the written agreement is not sustained by the evidence in
the case."

Dec. 1867.]

D

STATES V. ADAMS.
NITED
.
Argument for dismissal.

Messrs. Carlisle, Corwine, and Wilsl, in support of the motion
to dismiss the appeals of Adams and Johnson:
I. As to the regularity of those appeals. The statute gives
an appeal under such regulations as this court may prescribe. The regulations when prescribed are as if part of
the statute. By the terms of the statute, the appeal must
be taken within ninety days. No regulation can alter this.
The time is peremptory. In this case no appeal was "taken,"
"allowed," or even prayed for, till the ninety days had expired. All the party did was to pray an appeal generally,
and of this jurisdiction cannot be taken.
There was no "vacation" between the 20th May and the
25th June. By the act of larch 3d, 1863, and that of 17th
March, 1866, the term is limited, but its duration is without
limit. The "vacation," therefore, referred to in the rule
under consideration, had not occurred when this application
was filed with the clerk: on the contrary, the court was in
session.
A vacation is defined by Bouvier to be the period of time
between the end of on, term and the beginning of another.*
A vacation is a different thing from a continuance, the result of an ordinary adjournment.t Adjournment, in the
English practice, is a day so called from its being a further
day appointed by the judges at the regular sittings to try
causes at nvhi prius. Adjournment day in Error, in English
courts, is a day appointed some days before the end of the
term, at which matters left undone on the affirmance are
finished. But the whole term is considered as but one day.
So, no vacation having occurred, the application should have
been made to the court, the only tribunal or authority at
that time authorized to receive and hear it.
I. As to the forms of the findings in all three cases, and of the
motion for certiorariin the third. The object of the rule laid
down by the Supreme Court was to get a clean, clear narrative of ultimate facts, a case like a case stated, or agreed on
or found by special verdict, so that the court could give an
* 2 Law Dictionary

tl1 d.

UNITED STATES V. -DAMS.

ESup. Ct.

Argument against dismissal.

opinion, in a form perfectly abstract, upon that 6ase, and
without any arguing of what the case was, or summoning
up or back of facts. In the case of Adams, and especially
in that of Johnson, the first and second cases, we have evidence of facts; leaving this court to settle the facts, a matter which it was the purpose of the rule to relieve it of. In
the case of Clark, the finding is objectionable in the other
way; that is to say, from its curtness. A certiorarito bring
up a fuller case is necessary.
2ffr. Norton, Solicitor of the Court of Claims, contra:
I. As to the appeals of Adams and Johnson. The appeal is
taken when the application is made; for w'hat else can the applicant for an appeal do? He has no bond to give, no additional act to perform; no control over any subsequent proceeding. The order of allowance may be made at any time.
The rule of the Supreme Court does not prescribe how
the application shall be made, whether in open court orally,
or by the filing of an application with the clerk, but that
the making of the application, whether in the one mode or
the other, shall be all that is required from the appellant.
The statute allowing ninety days would be nugatory, if
the appellant had not been permitted to file his application
with the clerk. If the court be not in session or the chief
justice is absent, there is no other mode of taking an appeal.
It is contended that there can be no vacation until after the
final adjournment sine die. But the act of March 17th, 1866,
in providing that the regular session of the Court of Claims
should be on the first Monday of December in each year,
contemplated that there might be irregularsessions.
In the early period of the history of English courts, vacations of courts had no regularity, and the word was sometimes applied to the interval of a portion of a day. The
words interval, recess, and vacation, are synonymes.
I1. The objections to the finding seem to be too technical.
As to the cases of Adams and Johnson, if requiring to be rectified, the findings can be rectified by a remand, and with'-ut dismissing the cases. As to the oasa of Clark, where

Dec. 1867.J

UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.

107

Opinion of the court.

a certiorariis asked to enlarge the finding, the finding seems
in precise right form.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Motions are made in the case of United States v. Adams, and
of the Same v. Johnson, to dismiss the appeals, upon the
ground that they were not taken within the ninety days to
which the act of Congress limits the right of appealing from
the judgments and decrees of that court.
The fifth section of the act of March 3, 1863, under which
the proceedings in appeal were had, enacts that "either
party may appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
from any final judgment or decree which may hereafter be
rendered in any case by said court, wherein the amount in
controversy exceeds three thousand dollars, under such
regulations as said Supreme Court may direct: Provided,
that such appeal shall be taken within ninety days after the
rendition of such judgment."
This language implies that taking an appeal is a matter
of right, and is something which the party as distinguished
from court may do. When the court has rendered its judgment "either party may appeal." That is, has the right to
appeal, and may exercise that right by his own volition.
The court cannot prevent it, nor is the right dependent upon
any judicial discretion.
So also the language of the proviso is to the same purport.
The appeal is to be taken within ninety days, not granted, or
allowed, or permitted, but taken-a word which implies
action on the part of the appellant alone. So that, whatever
the proceeding may be which constitutes appealing, or taking
an appeal, it must be something which the party can do;
and it would seem that no regulation of the Supreme Court,
nor any judicial discretion of the Court of Claims, can deprive him of the right, though the former may franme appropriate rules in accordance with which the right must be
exercised.*
- Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, 18 Howard, 530; Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheaton,
306; The Enterprise, 2 Curtis 0. 0 317.

UNITED STATES V.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We consider the paper filed by the solicitor in the office
of the clerk of the court as sufficient in form to indicate the
intention to exercise this right.

It is addressed to the court,

refers properly to the case, claims an appeal, and calls upon
the court to take the action which the rules prescribed by
the Supreme Court require of it.
But it is claimed that the rule so prescribed has not been
complied with, and therefore the appeal is not taken within
time. The third rule, the one here referred to, is this: "In
all cases an order of allowance of appeal by the Court of
Claims, or by the chief justice thereof in vacation, is essential, and the limitation of time for granting such appeal shall
cease to run from the time an application is made for the
allowance of appeal."
The language of the rule would have been more technically accurate if the word "taking" had been used instead
of " granting," but the latter word is used in the rule to express the idea conveyed by the former in the statute.
To understand why the Supreme Court required an allowance of the appeal by the Court of Claims it is necessary to
consider the two rules which precede this. A statute passed
a year or two after the one we have been considering gave
the right of appeal in cases where judgments had been rendered long previous to its passage. In framing rules upon
this subject the Supreme Court determined that these rules
should be so drawn that only questions of law could be
brought here for review. The first rule provided that the
party desiring to appeal, in cases decided before the rules
were made, should present his petition to the Court of
Claims, setting forth the questions of law decided against
him which he desired to have reviewed; and that court was
-equired to certify what had been its rulings on those questions. By the second rule the court was required, in all
appealable cases thereafter decided, to make a finding of
facts, and of their conclusions of law thereon, and make it a
part of the record.
It is obvious that in both of these classes of cases it was
proper that the attention of the court should be called to the

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED

STATES V.

ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

taking of an appeal, and that it should not be treated as perfected until that court had prepared the statement of facts, or
the statement of its rulings on questions of law which these
rules prescribed. If something of this kind had not been
required, the appeal might have been taken and the record
filed in this court before the rule had been complied with.
But that the delay in doing this might not prejudice the
party desiring to appeal, the rule expressly provides that the
statute of limitations shall cease to run from the time the
application is made. In other words, the framers of the
rule, treating the appeal as taken within the meaning of the
statute when the application is made for its allowance, provide that the delay in making out 'a proper statement of
facts and judicial rulings, and then allowing the appeal
(which C. J. Taney says, in IHudgins v. Kemp, "is merely an
authority to the clerk to transmit the record"), shall not
operate to defeat the appeal.
Much minute criticism has been expended on the question whether the adjournment of the court from May to
June was a vacation within the meaning of the rule, and.
whether the application should have beefi made to the court
or to the chief justice. The rule says, the allowance may be
made by the court, or, if there is a vacation, by the chief
justice, but it does not prescribe the form of the application,
or how or to whom it shall be made. We think that whether
done in vacation or in session, or during a temporary recess,
the rule adopted by that court of requiring the application
to be made ky filing it with the clerk, is a very proper one.
We are therefore of opinion that the filing of this paper
was taking the appeal, and that the delay in the subsequent
proceeding to render it effectual do not touch its validity.
Another ground for the motion to dismiss these cases is,
that the statement of facts found by the court, and their
conclusions of law thereon, are not a sufficient compliance
with the rule of the Supreme Court on that subject. It is
said that the statement of facts is a mere recital of the evidence, and not the results of evidence as found by the court.

UNITED

STATES V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct:.

Opinion of the court.

Conceding for the present that these records are fairly
liable to the objection made, does it follow that for this reason the appeals should be dismissed?
In discussing the first ground on which the dismissal of
these cases is claimed, we have seen that an appeal is a right
given to the party by the statute, of which the Court of
Claims cannot deprive him. It would be a violation of this
principle if this court should refuse to consider his appeal,
because the Court of Claims has erred in its attempt to comply with a rule of this court prescribing the character of the
record to be sent h-ere.
If the Court of Claims had made no attempt to- comply
with this part of the ruk, we do not perceive how that would
deprive this court of its jurisdiction of the case, or the appellant of his right to be heard. In such case, there is undoubtedly in this court, as in all appellate courts, a means
of enforcing compliance with the rule, without permitting
its jurisdiction, or the rights of appellant, to be defeated.
But there is no such case here. The Court of Claims has
made a finding of facts, and conclusions of law, and has
shown its intention to comply in good faith with the rule of
this court. Whether it be a sufficient compliance or not, is
a question which does not affect thejurisdiction of this court,
and is no ground for dismissal of the cases. The motions
to dismiss are therefore overruled.
The rule above referred to, however, was made for the
protection of this court, as well as to secure a finding of facts,
by a tribunal which must of necessity inquire into them
fully, and which, having ample time, and being otherwise
every way competent, may be relied on to find them truly.
In consequence of the suggestions of counsel in these- cases,
and in several others, said to be in the same category, we
have examined into the statement-of facts certified to us, to
see if the rule is complied with. In all that we have examined, except the two named at the head of this case,*
the statement is free from objeefion. In the case of United
* Supra, p. 101.

Dec. 1807.]

e

NITED STATES

i.

ADAMS.

Opinion of the court

States v. Adams, the propositions of fact are stated more in
extenso than is either necessary or desirable, and are subdivided into a greater number of distinct propositions than
are useful or conducive to clearness.
There are also certain acts and joint resolutions of Congress found as facts, of which this court must take judicial
notice, which are, therefore, in no sense, facts to be found.
But after all, there is within a reasonable compass, and
fairly stated, the main ultimate propositions of fact, on which
this court can determine the principles of law, which must
control the case.
But in the case of Uidled States v. Johnson, it is different. We have first a detailed history of Johnson's transactions in settling on certain land, which is the foundation of
his claim, with no attempt to deduce from this recital any
ultimate fact, to which a proposition of law can be applied.
This is followed by from fifteen to twenty affidavits and letters,
given in full, from various officers in the department of the
public lands, and other persons. What facts these letters
and affidavits are intended to establish, we have not stopped
to inquire, because it was the object of the rule to impose
upon the Court of Claims the duty of drawing the inferences
and conclusions which such documents are supposed to establish, or to decide that they do not establish them. The
statement in this case is, in this respect, a reproduction of
the finding which we rejected in the case of Burr v. The
Des Moines N1avigation Co.,* to which this court refers in the
rules-as containing ajudicial exposition of the principles on
which they are founded.
No doubt it is often difficult to draw the line between a
mere recital of the evidence produced in the case, and a finding of the facts which that evidence establishes; and where
the statement certified by the Court of Claims is reasonably
sufficient, we hope we shall not be found captious. But in
the case we have mentioned, there is such a wide departure
from the principle which lies at the foundation of the rule,
* 1 Wallace, 102.

LEAGUE v. ATcHIsoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

1hat while we shall retain jurisdiction of the case, the record
will be remanded to the Court of Claims, with directions t)
return a finding of the facts, in accordance with the rule.
These principles also dispose of the motion for certiorari
in the case of Clark et al. v. United Slates. The motion there
is designed to require the Court of Claims to make a more
extended statement of the evidence on which they find,
"that the allegation of fraud or mistake in the concoction
of the written agreement is not sustained by the evidence in
the case."
This is precisely the character of finding which the rule of
this court was intended to produce. The existence of the
fraud or mistake set up in the pleading is one of the ultimate
facts to which the law of the case must be applied, in rendering ajudgment, and this court does not purpose to go
behind the finding of the Court of Claims on that subject.
To do so would require an examination of evidence, and a
comparison of the weight to be attached to each separate
piece of testimony, and the drawing of inferences from the
whole, which is the peculiar province of a jury, and which,
by our rule, we intended to exclude from the consideration
of this court, by making such finding by the Court of Claims
conclusive. The motion in that case is, therefore, overruled.
MoTIoNs OVERRULED

in all the cases, but in the second case

the record remanded with directions to make a new finding
of facts in accordance with the rules of court on the subject.

LEAGUE V. ATcHISOn.
Under the fifteenth section of the statute of limitations of Texas, which
enacts that "every suit instituted to recover real estate as against him,
her, or them in possession under title or color of title, shall be instituted
within three years next after the cause of action shall have accrued," and
which adds that "by the term title, as used in this section, is meant a
reqularchain of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil; and

color of title is constituted by a consecmtive chain of such transfer down to

