THE WREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Upon both grounds we hold that the rulings of the Circuit
Court were correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE WREN.

\

1. The liability to confiscation, which attaches to a vessel that has contracted
guilt bv breach of blockade, does not attach to her longer than till the

end of her return voyage.
2. A vessel condemned below as enemy's property restored by this court;
the proofs being of a hearsay and loose character and such as did not
rise to the dignity of evidence within the law of that subject. But costs
were withheld.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Southern District
of Florida, condemning as prize of war the Wren.
The steamship Wren, a merchant vessel, left the port of
Havana on the 12th of June, 1865, for Liverpool, va Halifax,
Nova Scotia, with a crew of about thirty-five persons, who,
on the morning of the next day, mutinied, confined the
officers ii their quarters, carried the vessel into the port of
Key West, -and delivered her as prize to the acting admiral
commanding at that station. The seizure was in pursuance
of secret arrangements with the United States consul at
Havana, before the vessel left that port. A libel was filed
against the vessel by the United States District Attorney,
before the judge of the Southern District of Florida, as prize
of war. The master, one Stiles, put in a claim in behalf of
John Laird, a British subject, as owner.
This Stiles had been an officer in the navy of the United
States. The record also disclosed this answer of his to the
standing interrogatory as to the papers of the vessel

All the letters -and papers of which he has any knowledge of
having been on board on the present voyage were taken by the
asserted captors with the exception of one letter to himself
from the agent of the vessel, Mr. Helms, at Havana, which was
destroyed, and an order in favor of this deponent from Mr. Helms

Dec. 1867 ]

THE WREN.
Statement of the case.

for the payment of £40, payable on delivery of the ship at Liverpool.
After hearing the proofs, including those hereafter mentioned, the court condemned the vessel on the ground that
she was the property of the enemies of the United States, Laird
appealed.
In this court it was insisted, that the vessel was liable to
be condemned1. For breach of blockade on the voyage next preceding
that on which she was captured.
2. As being enemies' property
1. As respected the breach of blockade. It appeared that the
vessel had been engaged in running the blockade of the port
of Galveston, Texas, from the port of Havana, and that a
short time before she entered ol the present voyage she had
successfully entered Galveston, discharged her cargo, and
taken on one of cotton, and returned in safety to Havana.
2. As it respected the ownershq). On the side of the claimant,
it appeared from the regesry of the vessel that the "Wren,"
her registered name, was a British ship, built at Birkenhead,
in Chester County, England, by Messrs. Laird Brothers, in
1864, that she belonged to John Laird, the younger, of Birkenhead, ship-builder, as owner; that William IRaisbeck was,
at the date of the registry, master of the ship, that Liverpool
was her port of registry; and that she was of 267 tons registry
tonnage. The registry bore date the 24th December, 1864.
John Duggan, one of the crew examined inpreparatorio,
and who resided in Liverpool, testified that he shipped in
the vessel at Liverpool, in December, 1864, on the voyage
to Havana, and continued one of her crew while she was
engaged in runnng the blockade, and down till her seizure
by the crew, the 13th June, 1865. He stated that she was
British built, called The Wren, and never had any other
name, and that he knew nothing as it respected any bill of
sale. Other witnesses examined on this subject of a sale
agreed with this witness. Shipments addressed to him as
master, dated Havana, 15th March, 1865, showed that Rais

584

THE WREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

beck, the registered master of the vessel, came out with her
to Havana. Stiles was appointed master afterwards.
On the other hand, the material evidence, to prove that
the vessel at the time of seizure was enemies' property, was
as follows The answers of the purser of the ship, McGahan,
to the fourteenth interrogatory were thus
"He believes that Frazer, Trenholm & Co., of Liverpool, are
the owners of the vessel, and were so at the time she was seized,
has no personal knowledge as to who are the owners, he has
heard Major Helms, at Havana, and Mr. Lafitte also, at Havana,
speak of 11razer, Trenholm & Co., as owners."
So Duggan, one of the crew, in reply to the fifth interrogatory
"He does not know to whom the vessel belonged, but has
heard Captain Moore, one of her former masters, with whom he
sailed in said vessel in former voyages, say that she was owned
by the Confederate government."
Another item of proof relied on was, that Major Helms, a
Confederate agent at Havana (and who had been connected
in some way with the voyages of the vessel while running
the blockade), appointed Stiles to the command of the vessel
for the voyage from Havana to Liverpool. McGahan, the
purser already mentioned, testified that the master was appointed to command, as he understood, by Major Helms, at
Havana, he did not know who delivered possession of the
vessel, he believed that the master took possession by the
authority ofMajor Helms. Duggan, one of the crew, stated
that the name of the master was Stiles; that he was appointed
to the command of the vessel by Major Helms, at Havana.
McGahan was again examined, among others, on an order
for further proofs, in which examination he says that he did
not know who appointed Stiles to the command of the Wren
at the time of leaving Havana, he believed that Major ilelms
appointed him, he arrived at the conclusion from hearing
Major Helms speak of the resignation of the former captain.
It appeared, however, from the testimony of Stiles him-

Dec. 1867.]

THE WREN.

585

Argument for the United States.

self, and of Long, his first officer, that he was appointed to
the command by a Mr. Ramsey, who shipped the crew at
Havana for the voyage to Liverpool, and thus seemed to
have had some agency of the vessel.
The first officer stated, also, that when he needed anything for the use of the vessel, he was generally sent by

Captain Stiles to Ramsey to obtain it.
Jir Pierrepont,for the appellant, contendedOn the 1st point. That the vessel having run the blockacte
and comipleted her return voyage, ceased to be in delicto.*
On the 2dpoznt. That there was no sufficient evidence
whatever-it being, at best, but slight and loose hearsayof enemy property, even if war had not ceased before the
capture, and made prize of war impossible. But the war
had ceased. This capturewas on June 16th. It was matter
of public history, and one of which the court would take
judicial notice, that Lee had surrendered 9th April, Kirby
Smith and Johnson in the same month, and that Davis was
captured on the 13th May Independently of this, that the
capture was by a band of mutineers while the vessel was on
a peaceful voyage, which took from the case every aspect of
capture jure belli.
i5ir Ashton, special counsel of the United States, contra, argued1. That the last voyage before the capture having been
one in breach of blockade, this subjected the vessel to lawful
capture on the present voyage.t
2. That the register was a mere cloak for rebel title, that
the Lairds were not vovi hospiles in this court. They were
notorious as builders of the Alabama and other piratical
* Wheaton on Captures, 306, Haslett v. Roche, Maritime Warfare, 175;
1 Duer on Insurance, 88, 1 Kent's Commentaries, 152; The Mentor, 1 Robinson, 179; The Rosalie and Betty, 2 Id. 343, The Naney, 3 Id. 122; The
Lisette, 6 Id. 387, Carrington v. The Merchants' Insurance Co., 8 Peters,
495, Williams v. Smith, 2 Cames, 1.
t The Christiansberg, 6 Robinson, 376.

THE WREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cruisers of the rebel combination. Mr. Trenholm, of the
firm of Frazer, Trenholm & Co., was a citizen of the rebel
confederacy The character of all these parties, and of
rebel ship-building interests, was established by the judicial
records of Great Britain and the diplomatic history of the
late contest,* and were facts of which this court would take
cognizance, and to which it would give due effect in a case
of asserted ownership by these firms or any of their members, of a vessel found in any way employed or navigated
in the interest of their rebel patrons. Moreover, Helm was
an agent of the confederacy Stiles had been an officer of
its marine forces. And the spoliation of papers was the
crowing proof. The capture was made nondumncessante bello,
and though effected by non-commissioned persons, yet being
adopted by the government, the property became on condemnation one of its droits, as it became, independently of
capture, as part of the assets of the extinct confederation.
'r. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below condemned the vessel on the ground that
she was the property of the enemies of the United States.
And this is the only question in the case. For, although it
was insisted on the argument that the condemnation might
have been placed on the ground that the vessel was taken
in contemplation of law m delicto, for violating the blockade
of the port of Galveston, Texas, the position is founded in a
clear misapprehension of the law The doctrine on this
subject is accurately stated by Chancellor 'Kent.t "If a
ship," he observes, "has contracted guilt by a breach of
blockade, the offence is not discharged until the end of the.
voyage. The penalty never travels on with the vessel further than to the end of the return voyage and, if she is
taken in any part of that voyage, she is taken ??delicto.
This is deemed reasonable, because no other opportunity is
afforded to the belligerent force to vindicate the law " And
Diplomatic Correspondence, part 1, pp. 222, 377, 381, 382.
t 1 Commentaries, 151.

Dec. 1867 ]

THE WREN.
Opinion of the court.

the modern doctrine is now well settled, that the only penalty annexed to the breach of a blockade is the forfeiture of
vessel and cargo when taken m delicto. The earlier doctrine
was much more severe, and inflicted imprisonment and other
personal punishment on the master and crew
2. As respects the ownership. The certificate of registry,
under the English acts, must specify the name, occupation,
and residence of the owner, the name of the ship, the place
to which she belongs, her tonnage, the name of the master,
the time and place of the built, name of the surveying officer, together with a particular description of the vessel.
This act has been fully complied with in the present case.
And the certificate shows that the claimant is the builder
of the vessel and owner, and the proofs show with reasonable
certainty that his registered master brought the vessel to
Havana, and was there engaged in conmand of her within
three months after she was launched and fully equipped for
the voyage, and which was within three months of the time
when she was seized, as prize, by her crew It is quite apparent, therefore, upon the proofs, that the claimant not only
built the vessel, but put his master in command in this, her
first voyage, and the presumption would seem very strong, if
not irresistible (nothing else in the case), that le continued the
owner for the short period of six months, which elapsed after
she was built, and before the seizure took place. In addition to this, she was in the command of a master claiming
to represent Laird as owner. These acts, in connection
with the registry, afford strong evidence that the title of the
vessel was in the claimant.*
Now, most of the proofs relied on to disprovethis evidence
are wholly inadmissible, and incompetent as testimony in a
court of justice. We cannot think that it needs any argument to show that they do not rise to the character or
dignity of testimony in any court that respects the law of
evidence.
We agree that in the facts and circumstances surrounding
Cowen's Phillips, vol. 3, p. 39; 3 Kent's Commentaries, 150.

TnE WREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and attending the history and operations of this vessel, and of
the individuals connected with her, there are matters for wellgrounded suspicion and conjecture as it respects the purpose
and intent with which the vessel was originally built and
sent to Havana, and, as she entered immediately in furnishing supplies to the enemy and receiving cargoes of cotton in
return, it is not unnatural or unreasonable to suspect that
the so-called Confederate States, or their agents, had some
connection, if not interest in her. But this alone is not evidence upon which to found a judgment in the administration
of justice. The facts that the master, Stiles, who was put
in command of her for the voyage home, from Havana to
Liverpool, was an officer in the enemies' naval service, and
had belonged to the United States navy, and Helms, who
was in some way, not explained, connected with her voyages
in running the blockade, and who was the agent of the
enemy at Havana, might well be entitled to consideration
and weight on the question if there had been any legal proof
in the case laying a foundation for such a conclusion. So,
also, would the evidence that Stiles destroyed at the time of
the capture a letter from Helms, agent of the ship, as he
calls him, to himself, and an order for the payment to him
for £40 on the delivery of the ship at Liverpool. But in the
view we have taken of the case there is no foundation of
legal proof of the ownership of the vessel in the Confederate
States on which these circumstances can rest, or be attached,
as auxiliary considerations to influence the judgment of a
court.
Our conclusion is, that the decree below must be REVERSED.
and the vesiel
RESTORED,

BUT WITHOUT COSTS.

