RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

JAMES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Cushing,for the appellant in the first case; Messrs. Cary
and Carlisle, contra; the position of counsel being reversed in the
cross-bill.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the ,court
We think that the court erred in dismissing the cross-bill.
It was filed for the purpose of enforcing the judgment, which
was in the Circuit Court, and could be filed in no other
court, and was but ancillary to and dependent upon the
original suit-an appropriate proceeding for the purpose of
obtaining satisfaction. The lease was in the nature of a
mortgage, and held only as collateral security, and followed
the judgment.*
The decree in the first suit must be affirmed, and that in
the second reversed, and the cause remitted to the court below to enter a decree
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JAMES.
In Wisconsin, a judgment is a lien from the time it is rendered, upon a railroad, and upon the rolling stock, which is a fixture by statute; and
upon a bill in equity a decree for a sale to satisfy the judgment passed
title to the purchaser.
THESE were three appeals from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin. The case was this:
On the 7th October, 1857, CleVeland recovered judgment
for $111,727 against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company. The legislature of Wisconsin, incorporating the
road, provided that the title to lands which it might take in
building its road, should, on its payment for them, "vest in
the said company in fee," and provided also by general statute that rolling stock should be a fixture on any railroad, in
connection with which it was used. Cleveland assigned his
judgment to James. Subsequently to the entry of this judg* Fre-aan v. Howe et al., 24 Howard, 451.

Dec. 1867.],

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JAMES.

751

Opinion of the court.

ment, the company mortgaged its road to one Barnes, and
under this mortgage the Eastern Division of the road was
sold (aWestern Division having been sold under liens prior
to either Barnes's mortgage or Cleveland's judgment). The
purchasers of this Eastern Division organized a new company under the name of the Milwaukee and Minnesota Company, and took possession of the road. James now filed his
bill in the Circuit Court for Wisconsin against the Milwaukee
and Minnesota Company, for the purpose of having his judgment declared a lien on the Eastern Division of the road, and
the same sold in order to obtain satisfaction.
The court decreed that the judgment was a lien from the
time of its rendition, and that the sum of $98,901.51 was
due thereon, that the La Crosse Company had ceased to
exist as a corporation, and that the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Company had succeeded to its rights as to the Eastern Division, subject to all prior liens, and directed a sale by the marshal of the road from Milwaukee to Portage. A sale was
made accordingly, and on a report to the court, was duly
confirmed.
The three appeals now taken to this court wereOne on a petition of two stockholders in the Minnesota
Company, Bright and Gunneseon, asking that the decree
might be vacated, and they let in to defend;
One on a petition of the Minnesota Company to stay sale
and open and vacate the decree, which was denied;
One, an appeal by the same company from the order confirming the sale.

Messrs. Cushing and Stark, for the appellants; .Aessrs. Cary
and Carlisle, Contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The La Crosse and Milwaukee Company, by virtue of its
charter and the proceedings under it, acquired a title in fee
to the road-bed; and the rolling stock owned by it, and used
and employed in connection with the road, is made a fixture
by an express statute of the State of Wisconsin, and such, we

,

752

JAMES V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

think, is the law according to the true construction of the
charter, independent of the statute.* By the statute law of
Wisconsin judgments are liens on real estate, and we do not
doubt but that this judgment became a lien on the road from
the time of its rendition, and that a sale under a decree in
chancery, and conveyance in pursuance thereof, confirmed
by the court, passed the whole of the interest of the company
existing at the time of its rendition to the purchaser.t
A great many objections have been taken to the decrees
below, but those of any substance or force will be found
answered by the principles above stated.
DECREES AiFIRMED.

JA-MES ET AL. V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where, under the laws of Wisconsin, a mortgage by the La Crosse and
Milwaukee Railroad Company upon its railroad and appurtenances had
- been foreclosed, a sale made and confirmed, and a new company under
the name of the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company had been
organized by the purchasers, being the directors who made the mortgage and others holding the bonds secured thereby, this court, upon a
creditor's bill filed by judgment creditors of the mortgagor.Held, on the facts of the case, that the sale was fraudulent, and that it
should be set aside, and the new company perpetually enjoined from
setting up any right or title under it;-the mortgage to remain as security for the bonds in the hands of bondfide holders for value, and that
the judgment creditors (the present complainants) be at liberty to enforce their judgments against the defendants therein, subject to all prior
incumbrances.
2. Where the notice of the sale of a railroad under mortgage to secure railroad bonds, set forth that the sum due under the mortgage for the principal of bonds was $2,000,000, with $70,000 interest, when, in fact, less
than $200,000 was outstanding in the hands of bona fide, holders for
value, the remainder of the $2,000,000 being either in the hands of the
directors or under their control, such a notice was fraudulent, and of
itself sufficient to vitiate the sale.
* Pennock v. Coe, 23 Howard, 117.

lennock v. Coe, 23 Howard, 117 ; Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co., 24 Id.
257; 2 Redfield, 544 and n. ; Covington Co. v. Shepherd, 21 Howard, 112
Macon and Western Railroad Co. v. Parkdr, 9 Gorgia, 377

