INSURANCE

COMPANY V. IIALLOCK.

r'Sup. Cto

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HIALLOCK.
1. Under the civil code of Indiana, the "1order of sale" in proceedings for
the foreclosure of a mortgage comes within the function and supplies
the purpose of an execution. Consequently, the code requiring executions to be sealed with the seal of the court, such order of sale, if not so
sealed, is void.
2. The sheriff could not sell without such order.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
In Indiana the distinction between proceedings in common law and chancery is abolished, and under their code
one form of action only, the "civil action," is known.* This
ecode provides as follows:
"Sect. 407. When a judgment requires the payment of money,
or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced by execution."
"Sect. 409. The execution must issue in the name of the State,
and be directed to the sheriff of the county, sealed with the seal,
and attested by the clerk of the court."
The proceedings to foreclose a mortgage are the same as
in other actions, except that when there is no express agreement in the mortgage, nor any separate instrument, for the
payment of the sum secured thereby, the remedy of the
mortgagee shall be"confined to the property mortgaged, and
in that case the judgment of foreclosure shall order the
mortgaged premises to be sold, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the judgment. If there is a promise in the mortgage,
or in a separate instrument, to pay the sum secured, the
court shall direct in the order of sale that any balance which
may remain unsatisfied after the sale of the mortgaged prenmises, shall .be levied of any other property of the mortgage
debtor.t
* 2 Gavin & Hord's Statutes of Indiana, 383.

Sections 632-634

Dec. 1867.]

INSURANCE CoMPANY v. HALLOCK.

557

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Section 635 is thus:
"A copy of the order of sale, and judgment, shall be issued
and certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to the
sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
judgment, interest, and costs, as upon execution; and if any part
of the judgment, interest, and costs, remain unsatisfied, the
sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy the residue of the other
property of the defendant."
With these provisions of the code in force, the _tna Insurance Company, brought suit against Hallock and others,
to try the title to land. The defendants had possession,
claiming under a judicial sale in proceedings to foreclose a
mortgage. It was admitted that the plaintiffs below had
the legal title to the land in controversy, unless it had been
divested by those proceedings.
On the trial the defendant having introduced a transcript
of the record of the proceedings under which they claimed
title from the Court of Common Pleas of Vanderburgh
County, "the plaintiffs then offered in evidence the original
order of sale issued to the sheriff on the decree of foreclosure, and upon which order of sale the sheriff sold to the
defendant in the case the premises in controversy, which
order of sale appeared, on inspection thereof, not to have
been issued under the seal of said Court of Common Pleas
of Vanderburgh County, and not to have had the seal of
said court impressed thereon, or in any manner annexed
thereto. . . And the court, because the said order of sale was
not issued under the seal of the said Court of Common Pleas of
Vanderburgh Coanty, did find for plaintiffs, to which finding
of the court the defendants at the time excepted." Judgment having been given accordingly, the question now before this court was the correctness of the decision so made.
Mr. R. -l. Corwine, for the plaintiff in error :
Did the omission to use the seal of the court make the
oider void, or was it avoidable merely ? The general rule

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

HALLOCK.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in judicial sales is, that the purchaser is not bound to look
beyond the "judgment, levy, and sale." All other steps
(such as the issuing of an execution after a year and a day
without a revivor) are merely directory to the officer.* As
between the parties to the process, or their privies, the
return is usually conclusive, and not liable to be collaterally impeached. In Sowle v. Champion, in the Supreme
Court of Indiana,t it was held that an order of sale, issued
on a decree of foreclosure, which did not set out a copy of
the decree, was informal, under the statute, but was not void,
and if not set aside on the defendants' motion, that all acts
done under it were valid. Yet the direction of the code,
"that a copy of the order of sale and judgment shall be
issued," is as stringent and mandatory as that other direction, that it "shall be issued and certified by the clerk
under the seal of the court," &c. If the one is merely directory, the other is so also.
-Messrs. Hughes, Denvers, and Peck, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
If the paper here called an order of sale is to be treated
as a writ of execution orfierifacias issued to the sheriff, or
as a process of any kind issued from the court, which the
law required to be issued under the seal of the court, there
can be no question that it was void, and conferred no authority upon the officer to sell the land.
The authorities are uniform that all process issuing from
a court, which by law authenticates such process with its
seal, is void if issued without a seal. Counsel for plaintiffs in
error have not cited a single case to the contrary, nor have
our own researches discovered one.
We have decided in this court that a writ of error is void
for want of a seal, though the clerk had returned the trans(ript in obedience to the writ.T
* Jackson v. Bartlett, 8 Johnson, 361, 367; Jackson v. Rosevelt, 13 Id.

101, 102.
J 16 Indiana, 165.

: Overton v. Check, 22 Howard, 46.

Dec.

1867.]

LNSURANCE COMPANY V. EALLOCK.

559

Opinion of the court.

We have held that a bill of exceptions must be under the
seal of the judge.*
It is true that the paper now under consideration is not
an ordinary fierifacias, nor is it any other common-law writ.
It may be well, therefore, to consider what is its relation to
the writ of fieri facias, and especially whether it was essential to the authority of the sheriff to make the sale. That
the ordinary writ offierifacias is the authority of the sheriff
to levy on property and sell it is undoubted, and needs no
reference to authorities to support it; and if the supposed
writ is void, then the levy and sale are also void, and not
merely voidable, because they are made without any authority on the part of the officer.
The decisions cited by counsel are all cases where process
was issued irregularly, in point of time, or where the officer
has not proceeded according to some statutory requirement
which was directory to him, but did not affect his power to
sell.
But if his power to sell depends upon a process, and that
process shows on its face that it is void, it can confer no
authority, and all his proceedings under it are simply void.
The question then recurs, did the authority of the sheriff
to make the sale on which plaintiffs in error rely, depend
upon the order of sale issued by the Court of Common
Pleas ?
In courts which pursue the chancery practice in foreclosing
mortgages, unaffected by statutory provisions, the sale is
made by a commissioner appointed by the court. This is
usually one of the standing master commissioners of the
court, or, for reasons shown, some special commissioner for
that purpose. In neither case does any process or order
under seal of the court issue to the commissioner. He may,
if be thinks proper, procure a copy of the decree and order
appointing him commissioner, or if the party who wishes
* Pomeroy's Lessee v. Bank of Indiana, 1 Wallace, 592; and see Boal's
Lessee v. King, 6 Ohio, 11; Bybee v. Ashby, 2 Gilman, 157; Tibbetts v.
Shaw, 19 Maine, 204; Witherill v. Randall, 30 Id. 170; State v. Ourtis, I
Hayward, 471; Hall v. Jones, 9 Pickering, 446.

560

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HALLOCK.

[SUp. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

the decree executed thinks proper in this mode to demand
of him to proceed, he may furnish him such copy.
But it is believed that the decree itself is the authority on
which the commissioner acts, and if he proceeds in conformity to the decree, the sale will be valid although no copy
has been placed in the hands of the commissioner.
In the courts of Indiana the distinction between common
law and chancery proceedings is abolished, and under their
code of civil procedure but one form of action, called a civil
action, is known. This code provides, ยง 407, that "when a
judgment requires the payment of money, or the delivery
of real or personal property, the same may be enforced by execution." Section 409 says, "The execution must issue in
the name of the State, and be directed to the sheriff of the
county, sealed with the seal, and attested by the clerk of the
court."
Section 635, which relates to the proceedings to foreclose
a mortgage, we give verbatim:
"A copy of the order of sale, an d judgment, shall be issued
and certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to the
sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell the mortgaged
premises, or so-much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the judgment, interest, and costs, as upon execution ; and if
any part of the judgment, interest, and costs remain unsatisfied, the sheriff shall forwith proceed to levy the residue of
the other property of the defendant."
Though the order of sale here described may not come
under the name of any of the recognized common law writs
of execution, as capias,fierifacias,or others, yet it comes
cleariy within the function and supplies the purpose of an
execution-that is, a process issuing from a court to enforce
its judgment.
The statute recognizes it as such, and requires that it shall
issue under the seal of the court. The sheriff to whom it is
directed is required to proceed "as upon execution." If
the debt is not satisfied by the sale of the property specifically mentioned in the order, it then operates as a fierifacias,
under which the sheriff is directed to levy the residue of any

Dec. 1867.]

CANAL

COMPANY V.

GORDON.

Syllabus.

other property of the defendant. It is therefore to all intents
and purposes an execution, and the statute expressly requires
that it must issue under the seal of the court. Without the
seal it is void. We cannot distinguish it from any other writ
or process in this particular.
It is equally clear that under the Indiana statute the sherifi
could not sell without this order, certified under the seal of
the court, and placed in his hands. This is his authority,
and if it is for any reason void, his acts purporting to be
done under it are also void.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CANAL COMPANY V.

GORDON.

1. The jurisdiction of a court of equity invoked to enforce a statutory lien,
rests upon the statute, and can extend no further.
2. Exceptions to the report of a master in chancery cannot be taken for the
first
time in this court.
3. In a contract to make and complete a structure, with agreements for
monthly payments, a failure to make a payment at the time specified is
a breach which justifies the abandonment of the work, and entitles the
contractor to recover a reasonable compensation for the work actually
performed. And this, notwithstanding a clause in the contract providing for the rate of interest which the deferred payment shall bear in
case of failure.
4. Where a release is fraudulently obtained from one of two joint contractors, the releasing contractor is not an indispensable party to a bill filed
by his co-contractor against the other party to the contract.
5. Such a release so fraudulently obtained, does not operate to invalidate the
lien previously secured.
6. A statute of California gives to mechanics a lien upon the flumes or
aqueducts "which they may have constructed or repaired," provided
suit be brought " within one year after the work is done." A canal
company, having a part of a canal already made, which they could use
at certain'times of the year, but to use which at all times and with complete effect, it was necessary to extend to a river giving a full supply of
water, employed two contractors to make this extension or new canal.
The work was to be paid for in monthly instalments. A failure to make
the monthly payment occurred June 7th, 1853. On the same ,lav the
contractors gave notice that the "1contract was annulled and at an end,"'
VOL.

1.

36

