Dec. 1867.]

MASON V. ELDRED ET AL.

Statement of the case.

MASON v. ELDRED LT AL.
1. Under the plea of the general Issue in actions of assumpsit evidence may
be received to show, not merely that the alleged cause of action never
existed, but also to show that it did not subsist at the commencement of
the action.
Accordingly, if a promissory note upon which an action is brought has
been merged in a judgment previously recovered thereon, such judgment being a bar to the action, an exemplification of its record is admissible under thegeneral issue.
2. The rule of the common law, declared in this case to be that a judgment
against one upon a contract merely joint of several -ersons, bars an action against the others; and that the entire cause of action is merged
in the judgment. The case of Sleehy v. .lHandcville 4- Jamesson (6
Cranch, 254), commented upon, shown not to have been generally approved, and in effect here overruled.
3. The common law rule above stated is altered by statute in Michigan, the
statute declaring that a judgment recovered in an action brought
against all the copartners shall not merge the liability of the copartners
not served with process and not appearing in the action, but that the
judgment shall only be evidence of the extent of the plaintiff's demand
after their liability is by other evidence established.

ON certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit
Court for Wisconsin. A statute of Michigan, known as
"the Joint Debtor Act,"* thus enacts:
1. "In actions against two or more persons jointly indebted
upon any joint obligation, contract, or liability, if the process
issued a-Igainst all of the defendants shall have been duly served
upon either of them, the defendant so served shall answer to the
plaintiff, and in such case the judgment, if rendered in favor of
the plaintiff, shall be against all the defendants, in the same
manner as if all had been served with process.
2. "Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liabilities of the defendant who was served with process in the suit,
or who appeared therein; but against every other defendant,
it shall be evidence only of the extent of the plaintiff's demand,
after the liability of such defendant shall have been established
by other evidence."
* Compiled Laws of.Michigan of 1857, vol. 2, chap. 133, page 1219.

MASON V. ELDRED ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff.

Other sections provide that execution shall be issued in

form against all of the defendants; that the execution shall
be levied on the sole property of the defendant served, or on
the joint property of all the defendants, and that the plaintiff may sue out a scire facias against the defendants not
served to show why the plaintiffs ouht not to have execution against them, the same as if they had been served with
the process by which the suit was commenced.
With this statute in force in Michigan, Mason sued, in the
Circuit Court for Wisconsin, Anson Eldred, Elisha Eldred, and
one Balcom, trading as partners, upon a partnership note of
theirs. Process was served on Anson Eldred alone, who alone
appeared, and pleaded non assumpsit. On the trial, the note
being put in evidence by the plaintiff, Eldred offered the record of a judgment in one of the State courts of Michigan,
showing that Mason had already brought suit in that court on
the same note against the partnership; where, though .'lisha
Eldred was alone served and alone appeared, judgment in
form had passed against all the defendants for the full amount
due upon the note.
The evidence being objected to by the plaintiff, because
not admissible under the pleadings, and because it appeared
on the face of the record that there was no judgment against
either of the defendants named except Elisha Eldred, who
alone, as appeared also, was served or appeared, and because
it was insufficient to bar the plaintiff's action, the question
whether it was evidence 'under the issue in bar of, and to
defeat a recovery against Anson, Eldred, was certified to
this court for decision as one on which the judges of the
Circuit Court were opposed.
.1. G. W. Lakin, for the plaintiff:
1. The record offered was inadmissible under the plea of
non assumpsit. That plea puts the plaintiff to the proof of
all that he alleges. It makes no allusion to a "former recovery," nor to any claim that the supposed original liability
has assumed a higher form.

It is also at variance with the

Dec. 1867.]

MASON

v.

ELDRED ET AL.

Argument for the defendant.

rule, that a matter of defence, which admits the facts stated
in the declaration, but avoids them, should be specially
pleaded.*
2. There is a distinction between copartnership promissory notes, or contracts, and ordinary joint notes, or contracts. The former are in effect several, as well as joint. '
3. A judgment against one joint debtor, is no bar to a suit
against the other, even though pleaded. In Sheeky v. llfandevlle . "amesson,tin this court, the plea interposed by Mandeville, was, in substance, that, in a former suit, judgment had
been rendered in favor of Sheehy, against Jamesson (his partner) on the same note. The note had been signed, "Robert
B. Jamesson." In the first action it was treated as the note of
Jamesson alone, and judgment rendered against him. In
the second as the note of Mandeville & Jamesson, trading under the name of" Robert B. Jamesson." There was ajudgment against Jdmessou, and this court decided it to be proper
to give judgment against the other partner. This is the
point presented in the case at bar. There have been many
attempts in State courts, to overturn this decision, and sometimes, in the Federal courts, to evade it, by getting up and
drawing fancied distinctions, but it stands, because founded
in good reason. "In point of real justice," says Marshall,C. J.,
"there can be no reason why an unsatisfied judgment against
Jamesson should bar a claim upon MN[andeville."
In Dennelt
v. Chiick, a case in iMaine, the same doctrine was held.
4. The statute of Mlichigan, correctly construed, negatives the conclusion that the judgment against Elisha Eldred
is a bar to an action against Anson Eldred.ยง
M r. J1. V. Cary, contra, contended:
1. That under the general issue, anything was admissible
that showed that no cause of action existed at the time of
bringing the suit.
See Chitty's Pleading, 479; 3 Id. 929; Dexter v. Hazen & Arnold, lu
Johnson, 26.
f 6 Cranch, 253.
2 Greenleaf, 191.
Uonesteel v. Todd. 9 Michigan, 371; Oakley v.Aspinwall, 4 Comstock,
513

MASON V. ELDRED ET AL.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

2. That whether Sheehy v. Mandeville, was, or was not
analogous in all its features to the case at bar, it had, as generally understood, never been well received; and that numerous cases establishing a better principle were arrayed
against it.
8. That the statute of Michigan affirmed the conclusion,
that the judgment in Michigan was a bar to an action against
Anson Eldred in Wisconsin. Why else did it permit the
joint property of the defendants to be bound by this judgment?
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as fbllows:
The counsel of the plaintiff suggests that the question
presented by the certificate of the judges of the Circuit
Court is divisible into two parts: 1st. Whether the record
of the judgment recovered in Michigan was admissible
under the pleadings; and, 2d. Whether, if admissible, the
judgment constituted a bar to the present action. We
think, however, that the admissibility of the record depends
upon the operation of the judgment.
If the note in suit was merged in the judgment, then the
judgment is a bar to the action, and an exemplification of
its record is admissible, for it has long been settled that
under the plea of the general issue in assumpsit evidence
may be received to show, not merely that the ,alleged cause
of action never existed, but also to show that it did not subsist at the commencement of the suit.* On the other hand,
if the note is not thus merged, it still forms a subsisting
cause of action, and the judgment is immaterial and irrelevant.
The question then for determination relates to the operation of the judgment upon the note in suit.
The plaintiff contends that a copartnership note is the
several obligation of each copartner, as well as the joint obligation of all, and that a judgment recovered upon the note
'Young v. Black, 7 Cranch, 565; Young v. Rummell, 2 Hill, 480.

Dec. 1867.]

MASON v. ELDRED

FT AL.

235

Opinion of the court.

against one copartner is not a bar to a suit upon the same
note against another copartner; and the latter position is insisted upon as the rule of the common law, independent of
the joint debtor act of Michigan.
It is true that each copartner is bound for the entire amount
due on copartnership contracts; and that this obligation is so
far several that if he is sued alone, and does not plead the
non-joinder of his copartners, a recovery may be had against
him for the whole amount due upon the contract, and a joint
judgment against the copartners may be enforced against
the property of each. But this is a different thing from the
liability which arises from a joint and several contract.
There the contract contains distinct engagements, that of
each contractor individually, and that of all jointly, and different remedies may be pursued upon each. The contractors
may be sued separately on their several engagements or to-

gether on their joint undertaking. But in copartnerships
there is no such several liability of the copartners: The copartnerships are formed for joint purposes. The members
undertake joint enterprises, they assume joint risks, and
they incur in all cases joint liabilities. In all copartnership
transactions this common risk and liability exist. Therefore
it is that in suits upon these transactions all the copartners
must be brought in, except when there is some ground of
personal release from liability, as infancy or a discharge in
bankruptcy; and if not brought in, the omission may be
pleaded in abatement. The plea in abatement avers that
the alleged promises, upon which the action is brought,
were made jointly with another and not with the defendant alone, a plea which would be without meaning, if the
copartnership contract was the several contract of each copartner.
The language of Lord Mansfield in giving the judgment
of the King's Bench in -Rice v. Shute,* "that all contracts
with partners are joint and several, and every partner is
liable to pay the whole," must be read in connection With
* Burrow, 2511.

MASON V. ELbRED ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the facts of the case, and when thus read does not warrant
the conclusion that the court intended to hold a copartnership contract the several contract of each copartner, as well
as the joint contract of all the copartners, in the sense in
which these terms are understood by the plaintiff's counsel,
but only that the obligation of each copartner was so far
several, that in a suit against him judgment would pass for
the whole demand, if the non-joinder of his copartners was
not pleaded in abatement.
Tho plea itself, which, as the court decided, must be interposed in such cases, is inconsistent with the hypothesis of a
several liability.
For the support of the second position, that a judgment
against one copartner on a copartnership note does not constitute a bar to a stiit upon the same note against another
copartner, the plaintiff relies upon the case of Sheehy v.
Manderille &' Jamesson, decided by this court, and reported
in 6 Cranch, 254. In that case the plaintiff brought a suit
upon a promissory note given by Jamesson for a copartnership debt of himself and Mandeville. A previous suit had
been brought upon the same note against Jamesson alone,
and judgment recovered. To the second suit against the
two copartners the judgment in the first action was pleaded
by the defendant, Mandeville, and the court held that it constituted no bar to the second action, and sustained a demurrer to the plea.
The decision in this case has never received the entire approbation of the profession, and its correctness has been
doubted and its authority disregarded in numerous instances
by the highest tribunals of different States. It was elaborately reviewed by the Supreme Court of New York in the
case of Robertson v. Smith,* where its reasoning was declared
unsatisTctory, and a judgment rendered in direct conflict
with its adjudication.
In the Supreme Court of Massachusetts a ruling similar
to that of _Robinson v. Smith was made.t In Wann v. Mc-* 18 Johnson, 459.

f Ward v. Johnson, 13 Massachusetts, 148.

Dec. 1867.]

MASON

V. ELDRED ET AL.

237

Opinion of the court.

Nulty,* the Supreme Court of Illinois commented upon the
case of She/,y v. Mandeville, and declined to follow it as authority. The court observed that notwithstanding the respect which it felt for the opinions of the Supreme Court of
the United States, it was well satisfied that the rule adopted
by the several State courts-referring to those of New York,
Massachusetts, Mlaryland, and Indiana-was more consistent
with the principles of law, and was supported by better rea.
Soils.
In Smith v. Black,t the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
held that a judgment recovered against one of two partners
was a bar.to a subsequent suit against both, though the new
defendant was a dormant partner at the time of the contract,
and was not discovered until after the judgment. "No
principle," said the court, "is better settled than that ajudgment once rendered absorbs and merges the whole cause of
action, and that neither the matter nor the parties carl be
severed, unless indeed where the cause of action is joint and
several, which, certainly, actions against partners are not."
In its opinion the court referred to Sheehy v. iliawleville,
and remarked that the decision in that case, however much
entitled to respect from the character of the judges who
composed the Supreme Court of the United States, was not
of binding authority, and it was disregarded.
In Zing v. floar,j the question whether a judgment recovered against one of two joint contractors was a bar to an
action against the other, was presented to the Court of Exchequer and was elaborately considered. The principal authorities were reviewed, and the conclusion reached, that by
the judgment recovered the original demand had passed in
rem
nudiealam, and could not be made the subject of another
action. In the course of the argument the case of 3heehy
v. Zlandeviile was referred to as opposed to the conclusion
reached, and the court observed that it had the greatest respect for any decision of Chief Justice Marshall, but that
'2 Gilman, 359.
1 13 Meeson & Welsby, 495.

t 9 Sergeant & Rawle, 142.

MASON V. ELDRED ET AL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the reasoning attributed to him in the report of that case
was not satisfactory. Mir. Justice Story, in Trafton v. The
United States,* refers to this case in the Exchequer, and to
that of Sheehy1 v. JIfandeville, and observes that in the first
case the Court of Exchequer pronounced what seemed to
him a very sound and satisfactory judgment, and as to the
decision in the latter case, that he had for years entertained
great doubts of its propriety.
The general doctrine maintained in England and the Uni.
ted States may be briefly stated. A judgment against one
upon a joint contract of several persons, bars an action
against the others, though the latter were dormant partners
of the defendant in the original action, and this fact was unknown to the plaintiff when that action was commenced.
When the contract is joint, and not joint and several, the
entire cause of action is merged in the judgment. The
joint liability of the parties not sued with those against
whom the judgment is recovered, being extinguished, their
entire liability is gone. They cannot be sued separately,
for they have incurred no several obligation; they cannot
be sued jointly with the others, because judgment has been
already recovered against the latter, who would otherwise
be subjected to two suits for the same cause.
If, therefore, the common law rule were to govern the
decision of this case, we shold feel obliged, notwithstanding Sheehy v. Mandeville, to hold that the promissory note
was merged in the judgment of the court of Michigan, and
that the judgment would be a bar to the present action.
But, by a statute of that Statet the rule of the common
law is changed with respect to judgments upon demands of
joint debtors, when some only of the parties are served with
process. The statute enacts that "in actions against two or
more persons jointly indebted upon any joint obligation,
contract, or liability, if the process against all of the defendants shall have been duly served upon either of them,
3 Story, 651.
t- Compiled Laws of Michigan of 1857, vol. 2, chap. 133, page 1219

Dec. 1867.-]

MASON

V. ELDRED ET AL.

Opinion of the court.

the defendant so served shall answer to the plaintiff, and in
such case the judgment, if rendered in favor of the plaintiff, shall be against all the defendants in the same manner
as if all had been served with process," and that, "such
judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liabilities of
the defendant who was served with process in the suit, or
who appeared therein; but against every other defendant it
shall be evidence only of the extent of the plaintiff's demand, after the liability of such defendant shall have been
established by other evidence."
Judgments in cases of this kind against the parties not
served with process, or who do not appear therein, have no
binding force upon then, personally. The principle is as
old as the law, and is of universal justice, that no one shall
be personally bound until he has had his day in court, which
means until citation is issued to him, and opportunity to be
heard is afforded.* Nor is the demand against the parties
not sued merged in the judgment against the party brought
into court. The statute declares what the effect of the
judgment against him shall be with respect to them; it
shall only be evidence of the extent of the plaintiff's demand after their liability is by other evidence established.
It is entirely within the power of the State to limit the operation of the judgment thus recovered. The State can as
well modify the consequences of a judgment in respeot to
its effect as a merger and extinguishment of the original demand, as it can modify the operation of the judgment in
any other particular.
A similar statute exists in the State of New York, and
the highest tribunals of New York and Michigan, in construing these statutes, have held, notwithstanding the special proceedings which they authorize against the parties
not served to bring them afterwards before the court, if
found within the State, that such parties may be sued upon,
the original demand.
In Bonesteel v. Todd,t an action of covenant was brought
* D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 1 Roward, 165.

f9 KIicbigai, 379.

MASON V. ELDRED ET AL.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

against two parties to recover rent reserved upon a lease.
One of them was alone served with process, and he appeared and pleaded the general issue, and on the trial, as in
the case at bar, produced the record of a judgment recovered against himself and his co-defendant under the joint
debtor act of New York, process in that State having been
served upon his co-defendant alone. The court below held
the judgment to be a bar to the action. On error to the
Supreme Court of the State this ruling was held to be erroneous. After referring to decisions in New York, the
court said, "No one has ever doubted the continuing liabil
ity of all parties. We cannot, therefore, regard the liabil
ity as extinguished. And, inasmuch as the new action
must be based upon the original claim, while, as in the case
of foreign judgments at common law, it may be of no great
importance whether the action may be brought in form
upon the judgment, or on the previous debt, it is certainly
more in harmony with our practice to resort to the form
of action appropriate to the real demand in controversy.
While we do not decide an action in form on the judgment
to be inadmissible, we think the action on the contract the
better remedy to be pursued."
In Oakley v. Aspinwall,* the Court of Appeals of New
York had occasion to consider the effect of a judgment recovered under the joint debtor act of that State upon the
original demand. Mr. Justice Bronson, speaking for the
court, says: "It is said that the original demand was merged
in, and extinguished by the judgment, and consequently,
that the plaintiff must sue upon the judgment, if he sues at
all. That would undoubtedly be so if toth the defendants
had been before the court in the original action. But the
joint debtor act creates an anomaly in the law. And for the
purpose of giving effect to the statute, and at the same time
preserving the rights of all parties, the plaintiff must be
allowed to sue on the original demand. There is no difficulty in pursuing such a course; it can work no injury to any
4 Comnstock, 613.

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. GRANT.

241

Statement of the case.

one, and it will avoid the absurdity of allowing a party to
sue on a pretended cause of action, which is, in truth, no
cause of action at all, and then to recover on proof of a different demand."
Following these authorities, and giving the judgment recovered in Michigan the same effect and operation that it
would have in that State, we answer the question presented
in the certificate, that the exemplification of the record of
thejudgment recovered against the defendant, Elisha Eldred,
offered by the defendant, Anson Eldred, is not admissible
in evidence in bar of, and to defeat, a recovery against the
latter.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. GRANT.
Though there is no general rule of court in regard to the matter, yet where
a party desires to file a bill in original jurisdiction in equity, it has been
usual to hear a motion in his behalf for leave to do so. This motion,
except in peculiar circumstances (as where the bill asked to be filed was
against the President of the United States), is heard only on the part
of the complainant. Ten printed copies of the bill were in this case
ordered to be filed with the clerk.

Tais court having some time since dismissed a bill filed
by the State of Georgia against Mr. Stanton, Secretary ot

War, General Grant, and others, on the ground that it called
for a judgment on a question political in its nature,* Messrs.
Black aud Sharkey, in behalf of the same State, Asked leave to
file a bill by it against Generals Grant, Meade, and others;
it being stated that the bill was not open to objection from
the causes which it was decided made the one dismissed objectionable.
Mr. Carpenter,in behalf of the persons named as defendants,
desired to know whether it would be regular for him to op* See stupra, ante, p. 60.

VOL. V.

V)

