BARNEY V. BALTIMORE

CITY.

[Sup. ot.

Syllabus.

assets which may remain after the payment of debts and
expenses, belong to the stockholders of the bank.
After this decision, Ferguson was appointed receiver, and
Robertson ordered to deliver to him the effects of the bank,
which he held as trustee. In pursuance of this order, the
two notes on which the suit is brought were delivered to
Ferguson, and the name of Robertson, in whom the legal
title rests, is used to enforce their collection.
Lum, a delinquent debtor of the bank, cannot plead the
extinguishment of his debt by the judgment of forfeiture,
for the court (in the case cited) say, the debt exists and can
be recovered, and that it is the duty of the trustee to reduce
the property of the bank to money, and distribute it among
the stockholders. Nor can Lum be permitted to show (not
having a meritorious defence to the suit) that Robertson, the
nominal plainti, in whose name the suit is brought, is no
longer the real party in interest.
Ferguson having the beneficial interest in the notes, has
the right to use the name of Robertson to compel a recovery.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BARNEY V. BALTIMORE

CITY.

1. Part owners or tenants in common in real estate of which partition is
asked in equity have an interest in the subject-matter of the suit, and
in the relief sought, so intimately connected with that of their cotenants, that if these cannot be subjected to the jurisdiction of the court,

the bill will be dismissed.
2. The act of February 28th, 1839 (set forth in th case), has no application
to suits where the parties stand in this position, but has reference,
among others, to suits at law against joint obligors in contract, verbal
or written.
B. A citizen of the District of Columbia cannot -be a party to a suit in the
Federal courts, where the jurisdiction depends on the citizenship of the
parties.
4. Although the simple fact that a transfer or conveyance of the subject of
controversy is made for the purpose of vesting an interest in parties
eompetent to litigate in the .Federal courts, does not defeat the jurisdico

Dec. 1867.]

BARN'EY

v.

BALTIMORE CITY.

281

Statement of the case.
tion, if the transaction vests the real interest in the grantee or assignee
-yet, if the conveyance or assignment is colorable only, and the real
interest remains in the grantor or assignor, the court cannot entertain
jurisdiction of the case.
5. A decree in the Circuit Court dismissing a bill on the merits, will be
reversed here if the Circuit Court had not jurisdiction, and a decree
of dismissal without prejudice directed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for Maryland.
The Judiciary Act gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Court
in controversies "between citizens of different States;" the
District of Columbia, as it has been held, not coming within
this term.
Another act-one of February 28th, 1839-enacts thus:
That w~Aere, in any suit at law or in equity, commenced in any
court of the United States, there shall be several defendants, any
one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants of or found within
the district where the suit is brought or shall not voluntarily
appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of such suit
between the parties who may be properly before it. But the
judgment or decree rendered therein shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not regularly served with process, or not
voluntarily appearing to answer; and the non-joinder of parties
who are not so inhabitants, or found within the district, shall
constitute no manner of abatement or other objection to said
suit.*
In this state of statutory law, Mary Barney, a citizen of
Delaware, and one of the heirs of Samuel Chase, filed a bill
in the Circuit Court of the United States for Maryland
against the City of Baltimore and several individuals, coheirs with her, certain of them being citizens of Maryland,
and certain others (William, Matilda, and Ann Ridgely),
citizens of the District of Columbia, to have a partition of real
estate of which it was alleged that the said Chase died intestate: and to have also an account of rents and profits, with
other incidental relief
In the progress of the suit, the bill was dismissed as to the
5 Stat. at Large, 321.

BARNEY

v.

BALTIMORE CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for dismissal.

three Ridgelys, citizens of the District, and an amended bill
filed, stating that they had conveyed their interest in the
property in controversy to one Samuel Chase Ridgely (also
a defendant in the case), and who'was a citizen of Maryland;
it being admitted by writing filed that this conveyance was
made for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction of the case
on the Federal court, that it was without consideration, and
that the grantee would, on request of the grantors, reconvey,
to them. This Samuel Chase IRidgely made his will soon
after the conveyance, devising the property to his three
grantors, the District Ridgelys, and having died during the
pendency of the suit, it went back to them. They then conveyed to one Proud in the same way as they had previously
conveyed to their co-defendant, S. C. Ridgely, it being admitted that the coiveyance was executed to remove a difficulty in the way of the exercise of the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill by a decree which on
its face appeared to be a dismissal on the merits. This appeal was then taken.
Coming here, the case was elaborately argued on the
merits. But apoint of jurisdiction was raised and discussed
previously. On this latter point the case was Zlisposed of by
this court; the question of merits not being reached.
On the point of jurisdiction, Messrs. *W.Schley and W. H.
Norris, for the C'ty of Baltimore, appellees, contended that the
appeal ought to be dismissed. Confessedly, citizens of the
District could not be made parties to a suit in a Circuit Court
of a State. Yet the three parties who here were such citizens, co-heirs with the complainant, were material parties to
any bill for account or bill for partition. iNo complete decree could be made in their absence. The difficulty was
sought to be remedied by the conveyances to S. C. lidgely
and Proud; but the grants not being real grants, could not
aid the case.*
* Russell v. Clark's Executors, 7 Cranch, 98; Shields v. Barrow, 11
Howard, 189; Smith v. Kernochen, 7 Id. 216.

Dec. 1867.]

BARNEY

v.

BALTIMORE

CITY.

282

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Brent and Williams, contra:
Mary Barney, as one of the co-heirs of her father, has a
right to sue for her individual though undivided interest. A
decree for a division merelyfixes the territorial right of each
tenant. A decree as between the present parties would
work no prejudice to those absent, nor to those over whom
the court has no jurisdiction. They could be subject to no
other inconvenience than of a second suit in another tribunal,
which is no reason to refuse to decree in this case; the
established doctrine being that the Circuit Court will not be
ousted of its jurisdiction by the absence of a substantial
party over whom it can exercise no power, if the interest be
separable from those before it. Au estate in common is in
its nature separable. As to the account for rents and profits,
that, as an incident, would follow the wake of the land.
But if this be otherwise, still Samuel Chase Ridgely, a
citizen of Maryland, had become seized of all the estate of
the three District Ridgelys, and during his life all the parties and all the interests were properly before the court.
The court having jurisdiction of all the parties, so far as their
character in regard to citizenship was concerned, will not
lose it because of a subsequent change of residence. The
devisees of S. C. R. stand therefore in his shoes, although
residents of the District.* In addition, the District Ridgelys
having, since the death of S. C. R., conveyed to Proud, a

citizen of Maryland, a party to these proceedings-the only
parties now are a citizen of Delaware, complainant, with all
the defendants, citizens of Maryland. Plainly the jurisdiction exists.
Finally, the act of 28th February, 1839, places the matter
beyond doubt.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question which the record before us presents is,
whether the Circuit Court of the District of Maryland, sit.
ting as a court of chancery, could entertain jurisdiction of
*Morgan

v. Morgan, 2 Wheaton, 290.

BARNEY v.

BALTIMORE CITY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the case. The difficulty arises in reference to the interest
of William, Ann, and Matilda Ridgely, in the subject-matter
of the litigation, and resolves itself into two distinct inquiries,
namely:
1. Can a court of chancery render a decree upon a bill of
this character without having before it, as parties to the suit,
some person capable of representing their interest?
2. And secondly, if it cannot, did the contrivance resorted
to, of conveying to S. C. Ridgely and Proud, taken in connection with the admitted facts on that subject, enable the
court to take jurisdiction of the case?
The learning on the subject of parties to suits in chancery
is copious, and within a limited extent, the principles which
govern their introduction are flexible. There is a class of
persons having such relations to the matter in controversy,
merely formal or otherwise, that while they may be called
proper parties, the court will take no account of the omission
to make them parties. There is another class of persons
whose relations to the suit are such, that if their interest and
their absence are formally brought to the attention of the
court, it will require them to be made parties if within its
jurisdiction, before deciding the case. But if this cannot be
done, it will proceed to administer such relief as may be in
its power, between the parties before it. And there is a third
class, whose interests in the subject-matter of the suit, and
in the relief sought, are so bound up with that of the other
parties, that their legal presence as parties to the proceeding
is an absolute necessity, without which the court cannot proceed. In such cases the court refuses to entertain the suit,
when these parties cannot be subjected to its jurisdiction.
This class cannot be better described than in the language
of this court, in Shields v. Barrow,* in which a very able and
satisfactory discussion of the whole subject is had. They
are there said to be "persons who not only have an interest
in the controversy, but an interest of such a nature, that a
final decree cannot be made without either affecting that in17 Howard, 130.

Dec. 1867.]

BARNEY V. BALTIMoRE CiTy.

285

Opinion of the court.

terest, or leaving the controversy in such a condition that its
final determination may be wholly inconsistent with equity
and good conscience."
This language aptly describes the character of the interest
of the Ridgelys, in the land of which partition is sought in
this suit, and in the account which is asked for, of rents and
profits. If a decree is made, which is intended to bind them,
it is manifestly unjust to do this when they are not parties
to the suit, and have no opportunity to be heard. ]But as
the decree cannot bind them, the court cannot for that very
reason afford the relief asked, to the other parties.
If, for instance, the decree should partition the land and
state an account, the particular pieces of land allotted to the
parties before the court, would still be undivided as to these
parties, whose interest in each piece would remain as before
the partition. And they could at any time apply to the proper court, and ask a repartition of the whole tract, unaffected
by the decree in this case, because they can be bound by no
decree to which they are not parties. The same observations apply to any account stated by the court, of rents and
profits, and to any decree settling the amount due on that
score.
Nor does the act of February 28th, 1839, relieve the case
of the difficulty. That act has been frequently construed in
this court, and perhaps never more pertinently to the matter
in hand, than in the case already cited, of Shields v. Barrow.
The court there says, in relation to this act, that "it does
not affect any case where persons having an interest are not
joined, because their citizenship is such that their joinder
would defeat the jurisdiction, and so fhr as it touches suits
in equity, we underbtand it to be no more than a legislative
affirmance of the rule previously established by the cases of
Cam eroa v. i eeRoberts,* Osborn v. The Bank of the United
Statest and iarding v. Handy.1 ....The act says it shall be
lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction; but as is observed b" this court in Mallow v. Hinde,§ when speaking of a
*3

Wheaton, 591.

J- 9 Id. 738.

$11

Id. 132.

12 Id. 198.

286

BARNEY

v. BALTIMORE CITi.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

case where an indispensable party was not before the court,
' we do not put this case upon the ground of jurisdiction, but
upon a much broader ground, which must apply to all courts
of equity, whatever may be their structure as to jurisdiction;
we put it on the ground that no court can adjudicate directly
upon a person's right, without the party being actually or
constructively before the court;' so that while this act removed any difficulty as to jurisdiction between competent parties regularly served with process, it does not attempt to displace that principle of jurisprudence on which the court
rested the case last mentioned ..... It remains true, notwithstanding the act of Congress and the forty-seventh rule,
that a Circuit Court can make no decree affecting the rights
of an absent person, and an make no decree between the
parties before it, which so far involves or depends upon the
rights of an absent person, that complete and final justice
cannot be done between the parties to the suit, without affecting those rights."*
These views do not render the act of 1839 either useless
or ineffectual, for while it is true that in reference to parties
in chancery proceedings, that act only pronounced the rule
which this court had previously asserted, its beneficial influence in cases of common law cognizance are often called
into exercise. It is a rule of the common law, that where
one of several joint obligors in a contract, whether verbal or
in writing, is sued alone, he can plead the non-joinder of the
other obligors in abatement, and in cases where the joint
obligors not sued were citizens of the same State with the
plaintiff, or were residents of some other district than that
where the suit was brought, the jurisdiction of the court was
defeated. This very serious difficulty wag remedied by the
act of 1839; for in such cases the plaintiff can now prosecute
his suit to judgment against any one of such joint obligors,
in any district where he may be found. Of this class of
cases are Inbusch v. Farwell,t and others which preceded it.
See also Northern Ind. R. R. Co. v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 15
11oward, 233.
t 1 Black, 666.

Dec. 1867.]

BARNEY

v.

BALTIMOtE CITY.

287

Opinion of the court.

But this rule does not conflict with that under which the
courts of chancery act in refusing to make a decree, where
by reason of the absence of persons interested in the matter,
the decree would be ineffectual, or would injuriously affect
the interest of the absent parties. In the class of cases just
mentioned at common law, the plaintiff, by his judgment
against one of his joint debtors, gets the relief he is entitled
to, and no injustice i done to that debtor, because he is only
made to perform an obligation which he was legally bound
to perform before. The absent joint obligors are not injured, because their rights are in no sense affected, and they
remain liable to contribution to their co-obligor who may
pay the judgment by suit, as they would have been had he
paid it without suit.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court could
render no decree on the merits of this case, without having
rightfully before it some person representing the interest of
the Ridgelys.
This leads us to the second inquiry connected with the
jurisdiction of the case, namely, whether the conveyances
to Proud and S. C. Ridgely, who were citizens of Maryland,
and were made defendants, removed the difficulty growing
out of the residence of the Ridgelys in the District of Columbia?
In the case of Hepburn v. -Ellze~y,* it was decided by this
court, speaking through Marshall, C. J., that a citizen of
the District of Columbia was not a citizen of a State within
the meaning of the Judiciary Act, and could not sue in a

Federal court. The same principle was asserted in reference to a citizen of a territory, in the case of Nyew Orleansv.
Wilter,t and it was there held to defeat the jurisdiction,
although the citizen of the Territory of Mississippi was
joined with a person who, if suing alone, could have maintained the suit. These rulings have never been disturbed,
but the principle asserted has been acted upon ever since by
*2 Cranch, 445.

t 1 Wrheaton, 91.

BARNEY

v.

BALTIMORE CITY.

[Slip. Ut.

Opinion of the court.

the courts, when the point hasarisen.* Indeed, the counsel
for complainant seem to have conceded that the Ridgely of
the District could not become parties by their voluntary'
submission, and that their being parties deprived the court
of jurisdiction, because they were dismissed from the suit
after they had appeared and answered to the merits.
If the conveyance by the-Ridgelys of the District to S. C.
Ridgely of Maryland had really transferred the interest of
the former to the latter, although faade for the avowed purpose of enabling the court to entertain jurisdiction of the
case, it would have accomplished that purpose. l3JeDorald
v. Smalley,t and several cases since, have well established this
rule. But in point of fact that conveyance did not transfer
the real interest of the grantors. It was made without consideration, with a distinct understanding that the grantors
retained all their real interest, and that the deed was to have no
other effect than to give jurisdiction to the court. And it is
now equally well settled, that the court will not, under such
circumstances, give effect to what is a fraud upon the court,
and is nothing more. In the case of Smith v. Kernochen,t
this court said, "The true and only ground of objection in

all these cases is, that the assignor or grantor, as the case
may be, is the real party in the suit, and the plaintiff on the
record but nominal and colorable, his name being used
merely for the purpose of jurisdiction. The suit is then, in
fact, a controversy between the former and the defendants,
notwithstanding the conveyance." And the court cites .McDonald v. Smalley, already mentioned; JUaxfield's Lessee v.
Levy,§ Hurst's Lessee v. Xc'Veil,]] and Briggs v. French.
It is not possible to see how the case before us can be
taken out of the principle here laid down. We are therefore of opinion that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of
the case.
It follows that the decree of that court which, on its face,
*Wescott

t

v. Fairfield, Peters's Circuit Court, 46.

7 Howard, 216.
j 1 Wasbington Circuit Court, 70.

t 1 Peters, 620.
4 Dallas, 330.
2 Sumner, 257.

Dec. 1867.]

BARNEY V. BALTIMORE CITY.

289

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

appears to be a dismissl of the bill on the merits, must be
reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to that
court to enter a decree dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction, and without prejudice to plaintiff's right to bring
any suit she may be advised in the proper court.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting. Unable to concur in
the opinion of the court, I will proceed to state very briefly
the reasons of my dissent.
Consent, I agree, cannot give jurisdiction in a case where
it is not conferred by the Constitution and the laws of Congress, but the judicial power as described in the Constitution, extends in express terms to controversies between citizens of different States.*
By the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act it is also provided that the Circuit Courts shall have exclusive cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of
all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity where
the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or
value of five hundred dollars, and thesuit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of
another State.t
Complainant is a citizen of Delaware, and the respondents are citizens of Maryland, which brings the case within
the express words of the Judiciary Act and of the Constitution.
Express decision of this court in -Haganv. Walker et al.,.
is that since the act of the twenty-eighth of February, 1839,
it does not defeat the jurisdiction of the court in a suit in
equity, that a person named as defendant is not an inhabitant of, or found within, the district where the suit is
brought.§
The court may still adjudicate between the parties who
are properly before it, and the rule is that the absent parties
are not to be concluded or affected by the decree. Cases
may arise, say the court, in which the court cannot adjudit

* Art. 3, see. 2.

t

14 Howard, 36.

vot vI.

39

1 Stat. at Large, 78.
5 Stat. at Large, 321.

290

BARNEY V. BALTIMORE CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

cate between the parties who are regularly before it, for the
reason that it cannot bind those who are absent, as where
relief cannot be given without taking an account between
an absent party and one before the court. Defect of parties
in such a case does not defeat the jurisdiction, strictly speaking, yet the court will make no decree in favor of the complainant.
N~on-joinder of an absent party in such a case, not only
does not defeat the jurisdiction of the court, but it does not
raise any such question under the Constitution and the law
of Congress, because the parties before the court being citizens of different States the jurisdiction of the court is undeniable. Relief will not be granted in such a case where it
appears that the interests of absent pai'ties will be injuriously affected; but the question is not one whether a Federal court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the cause.
On the contrary, it is a question of equity practice as to
parties, common to all courts exercising equity powers.
Such an objection is never allowed to prevail if the court
can protect the interest of the absent party, or where it appears in the record that due notice was given to him, and
that he has formally waived the objection. The maxim
volenti nonfit bjuria applies in such a case, and consequently,
the difficulty may be remedied by a conveyance or stipulation appearing in the record. Courts of equity refuse to
grant relief in such cases, not because they have not jurisdiction, but only because the right of absent parties interested in the subject-matter may be injuriously affected.
Hence the rule is that, if the court can grant relief without
affecting such rights, or can protect those rights in the decree, the court will not dismiss the suit, and the same rule
is applicable if it appears in the record that the absent parties have full knowledge of the controversy and that they
have in due form of law waived all objections to the prosecution of the suit. Unless these views are correct, then it
is clear that the act of the twenty-eighth of February, 1839,
is unconstitutional and void, as no one will pretend that
Congress can extend the jurisdiction of the Federal courts

Dec.1867.]

UNITED STATES V.

ADDISON.

Syllabus.

beyond the power conferred in the Constitution. Validity
of that act of Congress is admitted in the opinion of the
majority of the court, and it is also admitted that the decision of this court in the case of Inbush v. Farwell* is correct.
Direct decision in that case was, that the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts in a common law suit is not defeated by the
suggestion that other parties are jointly liable with the defendants, provided it appears that such Other parties are
out of the jurisdiction of the court.
Under the Constitution and the Judiciary Act the conditions of jurisdiction are the same in a suit in equity as at
common law, and it is not possible to distinguish the one
from the other without adding language to those provisions
which neither the framers of the Constitution nor Congress
ever employed.
For these reasons I am of the opinion that the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the case, but the majority of the
court are of a different opinion, which r6nders it unnecessary to enter upon the consideration of the merits.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and FIELD, J., also dissented.

UNITED STATES FOR THE USE OF CRAWFORD V). ADDISON.

1. 0. being already duly in office as mayor, under a charter which prescribed that a mayor in office should "continue in office two years, and
until a successor is duly elected," was returned by the judges of election
as again elected. Upon the counting of the votes cast for the different
candidates, the city councils (who had a power to elect where the candidates had an equal number of votes) declared that cne A., a rival
candidate, was elected; and A. was accordingly installed into office. In
a proceeding by quo ,ar,'anto, taken by the United States on the relation of C., judgment of ouster was rendered against A. Held, that C.
tLereupon became entitled to the office, either by virtue of the declaration of the judges who had returned him elected, or by virtue of that
provision of the charter which enacted that the mayor shall hold over
•until his successor was elected.
* 1 Black, 571.

