Dec. 18b7.]

LORINGs v. MARSHI.

837

Syllabus.

joint equal contribution is just, and it would afford the complainants no ground of relief if it appeared that the arrangement with the marshal was such as is alleged in the bill of
complaint. Having collected three-fourths of the amount
of the other defendants, it was quite right that he should, if
possible, levy the balance so as to effect equal justice between
the parties.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

LORINGS V. MARSH.
1. Where a testatrix having children, and grandchildren the issue of one
of them, makes a will, in form, leaving the income of her property in
trust equally between the children for life (saying nothing about the
grandchildren), and afterwards to charities; and on'the death of one of
the children issueless, nakes a codicil, distributing the income again
among the surviving children for life (again saying nothing about the
grandchildren), and the child having issue dies in the lifetime of the
testatrix, leaving these, the grandchildren of the testatrix,-and the
testatrix then dies,-the omission of such testatrix to provide for her
grandchildren is to be taken (especially if parol proofs, admissible by
the law of the State, aid such conclusiort) to have been intentional and
not to have been occasioned by any accident or mistake. Hence, the
case will not come within the 25th section of chapter 92 of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts (A.D. 1860), which provides for the
issue of any deceased child or children, as in cases of intestacy, "unless
it shall appear that such omission was intentional, and not occasionec.
by any accident or mistake."
2. 'Where two persons, as trustees, are invested by last will with the whole
of a legal estate, and are to hold it in trust to "manage, invest and reinvest the same according to their best discretion," and pay over incomo
during certain lives; and, on their cffiux, these persons, or theirsuccessors,
as trustees, are to select and appoint persons, who are to be informed of
the facts by the trustees, and who are tJ distribute the capital among
permanently established and incorporated institutions, for the benefit of
the poor,-the power given to such two persons to select and appoint, is
a power which will survive, and on the death of one in the lifetime of
the testator, it may be properly executed by the other.
-.
By the law of Massachusetts, as administered by her courts, in a devise
to charitable institutions, in form such as just above indicated, the objects of the charity are made sufficiently certain. And, as the question
of such certainty is to be determined by the local 'aw of the State, any
objection of uncertainty cannot be heard here
VOL. VL

22

LORINGS V. !MARSH.

[Sup. Ct. -

Statement of the case.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Massa

chusetts.

The 25th section of chapter 92, of the Revised Statutes
of Massachusetts, A. D 1860,-a re-enactment, essentially
of earlier statutes,-thus enacts
"When any testator shall omit to provide in his will for any
of his children, or for the issue of any deceased child, they shall
take the same share of his estate, both real and personal, that
they would have been entitled to, if he had died intestate, un*less it shall have been provided for by the testator in his lifetime, or, unless it shall appearthat,such omission was intentional,
and not occasioned by any accident or mistake."
With this statute in force, irs. Loring made her last will.
She had, living at this time, a son (Josiah), who had, living,
three children, Mrs. Loring's grandchildren, of course, and
two daughters, one married (Mrs. Cornelia Thompson), but
not having issue, and the other single, Miss Abby Loring.
By her last will, Mrs. Loring left the bulk of her estate to
two persons, Marsh and Guild, of Boston"To have and to hold the same to them and the survivor of
them, and their and his heirs and assigns forever, to their own
use, but in trust, &c., to hold, manage, invest and re-invest the
same according to their best discretion, and to pay over onethird of the net income therefrom to my daughter, Abby, during
her life, to pay over another third of said income to my daughter, Cornelia Thompson, during her life, and to pay over another third of said income to my son, Josiah, during his life, so
that the said income shall go to them personally, and shall not
be liable for their debts, or to the control of any other person,
and upon the decease of my said children, severally, the shares
of said income which they would continue to take if living shall
be retained and invested by the trustees until the decease of my
last surviving child, and shall then, with the principal, or trust
fund, be disposed of for the benefit of the poor, in the manner
hereinafter provided."
The will proceeded
-' It s my wi'l that when, upon the decease of all my ehil.

Dec. 1867 ]

LORINGS V. MARSH.
Statement of the case.

dren, the trust fund is to be disposed of as aforesaid, the said
Marsh and Guild, or their successors, as trustees, shall select and
appoint thrbe or more gentlemen, who shall be informed of the
facts by the trustees, and shall determine how, by the payments
to permanently established and incorporated charitable institutions, my wish to benefit the poor will be best carried into effect, and my gift may be made most productive of benefit to the
poor; and that thereupon the said trust fund shall be disposed
of and paid over. in accordance with the determination of the
said gentlemen, certified by them in writing, to the trustees."
The daughter, Mrs. Thompson, having died during the
life of the testatrix, Mrs. Loring made a codicil to her will,
which, after reciting the former disposition of the income,
proceeded
"I revoke so much of my will as provides for the said division of the said income, and its payment in three parts; and
order and direct that the said income be paid, under the conditions and provisions in my said will contained, to my daughter,
Abby, and my son. Josiah, they me surviving, in equal shares
during their joint lives, and one-half thereof to the survivor of
them, during his or her life, it being my intention that my said
two children shall have the whole of the said income in equal
shares during their joint lives, if they shall both survive me,
and the survivor of them one-half of the said income during
hts or her life."
.After this codicil was made (the testatrix, however, yet
living), the son, Josiah, died, leaving three children. Soon
afterwards, July 16th, 1862, Guild, one of the trustees named
in the will, died, and, last of all, about four months after
tlis, irs.
Loring herself. Guild, having thus died in the
lifetime of the testatrix, Marsh, the surviving trustee, appointed the committee of three persons whom the testatrix
had designated as the persons to determine the charitable
institutions among whom her estate should go, and the committee named them.
Miss Abby Lorig, the single daughter of the testatrix,
having died soon after her mother, unmarried and intestate.

840

LoitiNs v. MARSH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the three children of Josiah Loring, these being the sole
heirs-at-law of Mrs. Loring, the testatrix, now filed their
bill against Marsh and others, to have the estate, or their
share of it.

The grounds of the claim as made here, and in the court
below, were
1. That the omission of Mrs. Loring was "unintentional,
and occasioned by accident or mistake;" and the case so
within the statute.
2. That the power conferred by the will upon the trustees, Marsh and Guild, to appoint persons to desiguate the
objects of the testatrix's charity, had not been and could
not, owing to the death of Guild, in Mrs. Loriig's lifetime,
be legally executed.
8. That the devise to the charitable uses was void, because, from defect of capacity to appoint, they were now uncertain and incapable of being ascertained.
In accordance with the law of Massachusetts,* oral evidence was taken on both sides as to the intention of Mrs.
Loring to exclude her son's children. On the one hand
there was the positive testimony of a girl or young woman,
named Pratt, who stated that she had lived in Mrs. Loring's
family for over seven years, as a "companion" to Mrs.
Loring, but whose services, Mr. Thompson, the son-in-law
of Mrs. Loring, testified were purely servile. This person,
who the record showed had been called by Mrs. LorIng as a
witness to her will, testified that she had often, very often,
heard Mrs. Loring say that her son's children should not derive any benefit from her estate after her death, that this
was said both when the will and after the will and codicil
were made, the cause being a dislike which she had of her
son's wife's family On the other hand there was testimony
by the same son-in-law, that Mrs. Loring exhibited no dislike to her grandchildren, the complainants, and never expressed to him any intention of the sort above mentioned.
But beyond this there was no attempt to impeach the testi* Wilson Y Fosket, 6 Metcalf, 400; Converse v. Wales, 4 Allen, 512.

Dec. 1867 ]

LORINGS V.

MARSH.

Argument for the heirs-at-law

mony of the first witness, and her character appeared to be
fair.
The court below dismissed the bill.
.Messrs. B. B. Gurtis and Cshing, with Hutchms and Wheeler,
for the appellants
L The first question is, whether the grandchildren are not
entitled, by force of the statute, to the same share of Mrs.
Loring's estate as they would have been had Mrs. Loring
died intestate.
1. The tine to which the question of omission applies is
the time of Mrs. Loring's death. Not having then made any
provision by her will, or any codicil for the issue of her deceased son, the case of the statute arises. She had made a
will and left issue of a deceased child without having made
any provision for them. Bancroft v Ives,* is in point. That
was the case of a son born after the making of the will,
but it cannot be distinguished from the case of grandchildren, who became the issue of a deceased son, and so within
the statute, by the death of their father after the making of
the will.
2. It does not appear that such omission was intentional,
and was not occasioned by accident or mistake.
(a) The evidence of intention to disinherit an heir should
be such as to leave no reasonable doubt of the existence of
a formed and settled intention. The common law always
favors the heir, and one of its well-known rules is that an
heir cannot be disinherited, even by a will, unless there
are express words or a necessary implication to that effect.
A fortiort. where the disherison is to be effected by parol
evidence of mere declarations of the testator.
(b) It is the office of such evidence to supply the omission
of a clause n the will declaring the intention of the testator
to disinherit the heir.t It is like the proof of the contents of
a lost will by parol evidence, and the courts have held that
this requires "the clearest and most stringent evidence."I
$

3 Gray, 367.
f" Wilson v. Fosket, 6
Davis v. Sigourney, e Id. 4'97.

Ietealf, 400.

LORINGS V. MARSH.

P~up. Ca,

Argument for the heirs-at-law.

If what was actually written, in a duly executed will, cannot be proved to disinherit the heir but by "the clearest and
most stringent evidence," afortiori, the heir cannot be disinherited by an intention never written at all, unless such intention shall be made out by this same evidence.
3. The true inquiry is this Does it appear, by the clearest
and most stringent evidence, that the testatrix had a formed
and settled intention to disinherit the children of her deceased son, and that by reason of such intention they were
not named in her will or its codicil?
(a) Looking at the will and codicil. The will was made
plainly on the assumption that the son would survive the
testatrix, and in no other. And the conduct of the testatrix
when Mrs. Thompson died is in accordance with this, for
when she died an alteration was made. But none when the
son died yet by the death of the father his children stood
in a new position, and. it is obligatory on the other side to
show that in making her will the testatrix foresaw and meant
to act in regard to this new position, a thing which cannot
be shown.
(b) Then the oral testimony is insufficient to make a case
for respondents.
The false account which the only important witness gives
of her relation to Mrs. Loring; the great improbability that
that lady would make a young servant girl the confidant
of her settled intentions respecting her only grandchildren,
which she imparted to no one else, the lapse of time, the
infirmity and treachery of the human memory, even under
favorable circumstances, as to mere casual declarations,which so many rules of law are framed to guard against,
and judicial experience recognizes,-all combine not only
to deprive the testimony of this witness of the character
of "the clearest and most stringent evidence," but to place
it below the level of ordinary credibility N~o member or
connection of the family, no person standing in such a relation to the testatrix as to be likely to be the depositary
of her serious and settled intentions respecting her only
grandchildren, has been produced by the respondents. Her

Dec. 1867 ]

LORINGS V. MAIRSH.
Argument for the heirs-at-law.

son-in-law had no knowledge of an intention to disinherit
them.
The testatrix executed a will and a codicil before the decease of her son. These were ambulatory, and whether she
intentionally omitted the complainants from them is not material, as no case under the statute then existed. And an intention to disinherit either children born after the making
of a will, or the issue of a child dying after the making of
a will, cannot be proved by parol. It can be manifested
only by making another will or codicil, from which the person
is intentionally onitted.*
I. As to the execution of the power Marsh alone could not
execute it. This was not a power to appoint or select the
donees of the property, nor to appoint the uses of the property It was not a power over property It was a naked
authority, to nominate and appoint persons, who were to act
for the testatrix in choosing the objects of her bounty, and
to make known to them such facts as the two trustees should
judge to be proper to guide or influence their judgment in
the selection. From the nature of the case it must be a mere
naked power, in contradistinction to a power coupled with
an interest. A power coupled with an interest, means
coupled with an interest in the property whech zs the subject of
the power;t and where, as in this case, property is not the
subject of the power, the power cannot be coupled with an
interest.
A naked power to two persons by name, cannot be executed by one.T
The intention of the testatrix to give this property to charitable institutions, was never perfected. She intended to
speak only through persons selected and informed by both
Marsh and Guild. There being no such persons, there is no
expressed will of the testatrix in behalf of the institutions
who are respondents.§
* Tucker v. Boston, 18 Pickering, 162.

f Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheaton, 174.
$ Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 564, 1 Sugden on Powers, 144.
Fontam r. IRavenel, 17 Howard, 369.

LORINGS V. MVIARSH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the charities.

IH. The devise is void for uncertainty
There being no
mode, consistent with the will of the testatrix, of ascertaining the objects of her bounty, there is necessarily a resulting
trust in, favor of the complainants who are her heirs-at-law.
The case will be rested on the other side on the power of
acting cy pres, the power exercised by the Lord High Chancellor in England to make a will for a testator, simply because his will manifests some intention to make charitable
bequests. But this is not ajudicialpower, and does not exist
in any court of Massachusetts.* Cy pres is not a doctrine
of jurisprudence at all, it is an exercise of sovereign power;
and with us, where the three powers of government are kept
distinct, cannot be exercised by courts.
Messrs. S. Bartlett, F C. Loring, and C. W Loring, contra
I. The statute under which the first question in this case
arises is, it is well known in Massachusetts, but a re-enactment of earlier statutes, and by an unbroken series of decisions the Supreme Court of the State has given a uniform
exposition of the true intent of those earlier statutes. This
exposition is stated in Wilder v Goss,{ thus
"1Whenever it appears that the testator has, through forgetfulness or mistake, omitted to bestow anything upon his child
or grandchild, the legislature wisely intended to effect that
which it is highly reasonable to believe the testator, but for such
forgetfulness, would himself have done. To go further than this
would be in its measure to defeat the principal intention of the
legislature in the first section of the statute, which authorizes
every person seized of an estate
to devise the same as he
sball think fit. Whenever, then, it may fairly be presumed from the
tenor of the will, or any clause in it, that the testator intentionally
omitted to give a legacy or make a devise to his child or grandchild
(whose parent is dead) the court will not interfere."
This doctrine is reiterated down to the latest decision.
From the tenor of this will may it "fairly be presumed"
* Ommanney v. Butcher, 1 Turner & Russell, 260; Wheeler v. Smith, 9
Howard, 55, 17 Id. 386.
f 14 Massachusetts, 357.

Dec. 1867 ]

LORINGS V. MARSH.

Argument for the charities.

that the testatrix intentionally omitted to give a legacy to
her grandchildren 2
1. These grandchildren were vi esse at the execution of
the will and codicil, as was also their father, for whom provision is made. It is not, therefore, the case of grandchildren born after the making of the will and before the death
of testator, and so "forgotten" by her.
2. The cases are clear that where the gift is to grandchildren, omitting their parent, the mere statement that the
grandchildren are the children of the son or daughter omitted,
is conclusive that such son or daughter was not forgotten.*
So here; the father is named and provided for by the will
for life, to the exclusion of his living children.
3. The studied exclusion of these grandchildren, then
alive, by the provision that the gift to the father should,
upon his death, go over to charity, and this again repeated
in the codicil executed the year following, would seem conclusive of the intent of the testatrix. She must have anticipated the very event which has happened,viz., that, in the course
of nature, the appellants or some of them would survive their
father; but, notwithstanding this, she bequeaths the remainder of the estate, given for life to their father, to charity
To use the language of Sedgwick, J., in Teroy v Foster,t
"He had not forgotten them (grandchildren), he makes complete disposition of his property This shows he did not
intend they should come in for their portion."
The attempted answer of the appellants to this course of
judicial decisions upon the statute is, that an intention to
omit these grandchildren, in order to be legally effective,
must be shown to have existed after the death of their
fhther,-because it was only upon the happening of that
event in the lifetime of testatrix that they become heirs ap..
parent of the testatrix.
This proposition assumes that it is not possible by even
express terms to manifest in a will an intention to exclude
'Wild v. Brewer, 2 Massachusetts, 570, Church v. Crocker, 3 Id.
Wilder v. Goss, 14 Id. 347.
t 1 Massarhusetts, 146.

T7,

846

LORINGS V. MARSH.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the charities.

persons who may in future contingencies fill the relation of
heirs of a testator. For if it be possible to manifest such
intention in terms, then it is possible to do so by clear and
just implication, and we thus come back to the question of
what upon the authorities is to be deemed such just implication. Now in Prents v
s,* a recent case, it is settled
that a testator may by will exclude parties who in future
contingencies will become his heirs.- The will there excluded
after-born children, and the plaintiff 'was subsequently born
in the lifetime of his father, the testator. The court say
"The sole inquiry is, whether
that such omission was intended
or mistake, all that is necessary
was in the mind of testator, and

it is sufficiently made to appear
and not occasioned by accident
to be shown is that the matter
by him deliberately acted on."

The appellants' theory being thus unsound, the question
again recurs, whether, having regard to thejudicial decisions
of Massachusetts, a will and a subsequent codicil giving to a
son an estate for life, excluding his then livmng children from taking the remainder, but devising it over to charities, presents,
as to such children, a case in which, because their father
died before testator, to use the language of the court in Goss
v Wilder,," it is highly reasonable to believe that the testator but for forgetfulness" would have given them the inheritance, or a case of intended exclusion 9 -and it is submitted
by us that it leaves nothing for doubt.
Some reliance is placed on that which is but a dictum of
Shaw, C. J., in Bancrqft v Ives, that the "time to which the
question of omrsswn applies is the time of testator's decease."
This was said in a case where the sole question was, whether
children born after the making of a will should inherit,
there being children alive when the will was made, and it
was in answer to the argument that intention to omit should
be construed to apply only to children in existence. Doubtless it is true that actual onusswn is only determined by the
state of things at testator's death, but the retention to omit,
11 Allen, 47.

Dec. 1867 ]1

"]ORINGS V). MARSH.

Argument for the charities.

as to parties alive, may be expressed by a will whensoever
made.
The oral evidence of the actual intent of testatrix that
these grandchildren should in no event share in her estate,
is too strong to be disposed of in the way attempted on the
other side. That evidence is unimpeached.
But the appellants object that the oral evidence, to be admissible, must be confined to declarations of testatrix after
they become, by the death of their father, her heirs apparent, that the intention.of testatrix must be shown as it existed after this change of condition, and that this subsequent
intention can only be shown by a new will and not by oral
declarations. The error of this position is, that it assumes
that the testatrix could not by law, at the time she made
her will, have foreseen this most natural and probable
event, and have intended to provide for it by omitting these
grandchildren and giving her estate to charities, and that,
having this intention, as she may not have explained in
her will the purpose of omitting them, her declarations of
its being intentional is inadmissible. It proceeds on the
ground that testatrix could by law have no such intent
until after the event happened which made the grandchildren heirs apparent, for if she could, then her oral declarations of such intention are clearly admissible within the
settled rule.
In view of the case of Prentiss v Prentiss,it is unnecessary
to again discuss the question whether the testatrix might not
by law foresee and provide for the exclusion of future heirs,
and, if this be lawful, then her oral declarations of intent to
do so are as admissible as they would be in any case where
the omission in a will to provide for an heir is, by the settled
rule, open to explanation by such testimony The principle,
as stated in that case, shows that the intent to exclude future
heirs needs no express provision in a will.
It is said by appellants that the oral testimony, if not confined to declarations after the death of the father, must be
restricted to declarations of intention existing when the will
was made. This is hardly accurate, since testimony of de

LORINGS V. MARSH.

[Slip. UL

Argument for the charities.

dared intention before the will was made, as well as after,
is clearly admissible.*
II. As to the execution of the power If this were a case of a
naked power (which it is not), and if the object of this gift
were not (as it is). a public charity, but the property had
been directed to be distributed among individuals to be
selected from the public at large in the mode provided by
the will, yet the power might be well executed by the surviving trustee, since the giftin trust is to "Marsh and Guild,
and the survivor of them." And although this phraseology
is not repeated in the clause as to the selection "of three or
more gentlemen," yet such is the necessary legal implication. Again, the ternis are, "said Marsh and Guild, or their
successors as trustees, shall select," and this settles conclusively that it is not a "personal trust" in the parties named,
but a trust virtute offcii, and then, by the terms of the trust
and by law, the power remains to the survivor.
Again (aside from the fact that this is a gift to charity), if
its purpose was to benefit individuals, and if there were no
words of survivorship, and the power was joint and personal
to Marsh and Guild, it is su bmitted that it ts a power m nature
of a trust, aird the court would require its execution by the
survivor.t But here the trustees were seized and possessed
of the property, and the power to be exercised was not a
naked one, but incident to and coupled with the disposition
by them of their title in the trust property It was a power
coupled with an interest, and that disposes of the question.1
It is said by the appellants, that the power in question was
not to dispose of property, but to select others according to
whose direction the property was to be disposed of, and that
such a power cannot be one coupled with an interest, but
must be a mere naked power. If the title had not been
vested in these trustees, but had remained in the heirs-at-law,
perhaps the appellants' position would be true. But the fact
* Bancroft v. Ives, Converse v. Wales.

t 2 Sugden on Powers, 3d Am. Ed., 158 (148); Fontain v. Ravenel, 17
Howard, 369, 386.
1 Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 532.

Dec. 1867 ]

LoRINGS v.

MARSH.

Argument for the charities.

that it was thus vested, brings the case directly within the
definition of a power coupled with an interest, and it is none
the less so by reason of the fact that the power coupled with
this interest is to select others to designate the object, as well
as to convey the estate to the objects thus designated.
JIlI. But if this were otherwise, yet this is a gift to charity,
which is never allowed to fail.
"Where there is a general intention shown by the donor to
give to charity, the failure of the particular mode in which the
charity is to be effectuated will not destroy the charity The
law will substitute another mode of devoting the property to
charitable purposes, though the formal intention as to the mode
cannot be accomplished. Ths principle of construction, it will be
observed, differs entirely from that applicable to a bequest to tndividuals, when on failure of the mode the gift fails altogether"*
Again
"The same will follow when a testator, after making a bequest
to such charitable uses as his executor shall appoint, revokes the
appointment of the executor, or the executor himself renounces
probate, or when the testator, after making a bequest to said
charitable uses as A. shall appoint, A. dies in the lifetime of the testator or neglects or refuses to make an appointment."t
The above are the settled doctrines of courts of equity in
England, in carrying into effect the statute of Elizabeth.
This statute is fully administered as part of the common law
of Massachusetts,J and it has been recently decided by its
highest tibunal, that where the charitable gift is devised to
trustees, the court will not allow it to fail, but apply, if necessary, the cy pres doctrine.§
Tudor on Charities, 212.
j- Id. 216.
Hadlev v. Hopkins Academy, 14 Pickering, 253, 262, Going v. Emery,
16 Id. ll, Sanderson v. White, IS Id. 328, Burbank v. Whitney, 24 Id.
146 Bartlett v. Nye, 4 Metcalf, 378, Washburn v. Sewall, 9 Id. 280; Sobier
v. St. Paul's Church, 12 Id. 250, Brown v. Kelsey, 2 Cushing, 243, Win
slow v. Cummings, 3 Id. 358, Bliss v. Am. Bible Society, 2 Allen, 334.
Jackson's Executors v. Phillips ct al., Jan., 1867.

LORINGS V. MARSH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question in the case arises on the following provision of a statute of the State of Massachusetts "When
any testator shall omit to provide in his will for any of his
children, or for the issue of any deceased child, they shall
take the same share of his estate, both real and personal,
that they would have been entitled to, if he had died intestate, unless it shall have been provided for by the testator in
his lifetime, or, unless it shall appear that such omission was
ntentional,and not occasioned &yany accident or mistake." As it
is admitted that no provision was made by the testatrix in
her lifetime for the issue of the deceased son, the question
turns on the remaining clause of the statute, and, so far as
regards an examination of it with reference to the terms of
the will, depends on facts, which may be stated as follows.
At the date of the will, in which a life estate was given to
the son, his children were living, but were not noticed
therein by the testatrix, nor in the codicil of the 14th July,
the year following, in which the life income of the son was
increased.
There is, therefore, an entire omission to make any provision for the issue, or, even to notice them in the will, which
brings the complainants directly within the enacting clause
of this statute, and entitles them to a share of the estate the
same as if the testatrix had died intestate, unless, in the language of the act, "it shall appear that such omission was
intentional, and not occasioned by any accident or mistake."
Whether or not the omission was intentional, or by mistake,
may be ascertained from a careful perusal of the terms of
the will, or by parol. This is the settled construction of the
statute by several decisions in the courts of Massachusetts,
where, it is said, that whenever it appears the testator has,
through for-getfulness or mistake, omitted to bestow anything upon the child or grandchild, the legislature intended
to effect that which it is highly reasonable to believe, but
for such forgetfulness, he would, himself, have done. And,
speaking of an examination of the will as bearing upon the
subject, it is- observed, that whenever it may fairly be pre-

Dec. 1867 ]

LORi.-Gs v. MAlRSH.
Opinion of the court.

sumed from the tenor of the will, or from any clause init,
that the testator intentionally omitted to give a legacy, or
make a devise to a child or grandchild (whose parent is dead),
the court will not interfere.
In the present case it is claimed, that by a perusal of the
will, or by the parol proof, or both, it satisfactorily appears,
that the omission by the testatrix was intentional, so as to
cut off the grandchildren, the complainants.
The grounds upon which this is urged on the part of defendants are(1) That the grandchildren were living at the time of the

execution of the will, and of the codicil, as was also their
father, for whom particular provision was made out of the
estate. It is insisted that the testatrix, in settling upon the
portion thus devised to the father on both of these occasions,
must have had present to her mind the grandchildren, that
it is not natural, or reasonable to suppose, she could, on each
of them, have deliberately and solemnly made provision for
the father, without taking into consideration the state and
condition of his family, which then consisted of his wife and
the three grandchildren, and, in confirmation of this view,
cases are referred to where the gift was to the grandchildren,
omitting the parent, and the mere statement in the will that
the grandchildren were the children of the son or daughter
omitted, was held conclusive that the son or daughter was
not forgotten, but intentionally omitted-such as a gift "to
the children of her son Edward"-or "to grandchildren of
his daughter Sarah."*
(2) The studied exclusion of the grandchildren, then
living, by limiting the provision made for the father to a life
estate, and, at his death, giving it over to charitable usesand repeating the same limitation in the following year on
the execution of the codicil. In view of these circumstances,
and this posture of the case, it is insisted that the testatrix
must have haa called to her mind the children of the son,
and also the farther fact, that, in the ordinary course of
Church v. Crocker, 3 Massachusetts, 17, Wild v. Brewer, 2 Id 570
Wilder v. Goss, 14 Id. 357.

:LOnR-NcS v. MARSI.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nature, the children, or some of them, would survive the
father; notwithstanding all which, she limited the provision
for the father to a life estate, and devised the remainder over
from the children.
It has been argued that the time to which the question
of omission has reference, is the time of Mrs. Loring's
decease. This, in a general sense, may be true, because, till
then, it was possible for her to make provision in a codicil,
or by a new will, for the grandchildren. It could not, therefore, be absolutely known before her decease that such provision would not be made. But, whether the omission was
intentional, or by mistake, is not confined to this period,
on the contrary, when the question is answered from a perusal of the will, it is necessarily limited to the time of its
execution. And, even when it, depends on oral proof, that
proof is received for the purpose of ascertaining the mind
of the testatrix at the same period. For, it is the state of
her mind at the time of the execution, generally speaking,
that is to be looked to, in the contemplation of the statute,
with a view to determine whether the omission was intentional, or by mistake.
This case has been likened, in the argument, to that of a
'3hild born after the making of the will, because the grandchildren only became the issue of a deceased son after the
death of their father, and which occurred subsequent to the
execution of the will and codicil. Whether this be so or
not, cannot change the aspect of the case, or the principles
that must govern it.
Undoubtedly, in the case of a son born after the making
of the will, and before the death of the father, the omission
to provide for him cannot be known till the death of the
father, for, till then, it was competent for him to make the
suitable provision. This was the case of Bancroft v Ives.*
But, even in that case, it was conceded to be competent for
the adverse party to prove that the omission was intentional,
and evidence was received and examined on the point. It
* 3 Gray, 367.

Dec. 1867.]

LOnitNGS V. MARS.¢.
Opinion of the court.

was held to be insufficient for the purpose. But, in tLe case
of Prentliss v Prentiss,*it was held, that a child born after
the will, and before the decease of the father, was intentionally omitted; as appeared plainly on the face of the inRtrument. It is, doubtless, more difficult to establish that
the omission was intentional, in the case of children born
after the will, than if born before, and living at its date.
iBut it would seem from the course of decisions that this is
the only distinction, if it be one, in the statute.
Our conclusion on this branch of the case is, that upon a
perusal of the provisions of the will, regard being had to the
course of decision under the statute in the courts of the State,
it sufficiently appears, especially in connection with the oral
proof, that the omission to provide for the issue of the deceased son in the will was intentional, and not by accident

or mistake.
The next question in the case is, whether or not the power
conferred by the testatrix upon the trustees, L. H.lMarsh
and S. E. Guild, to appoint three or more persons to desig-

iiate the objects of her charities under the will, has been
legally executed.
It is insisted, on the part of the complainants, that the
power of appointment is a naked authority to appoint persons who were to act for the testatrix in choosing the objects of her bounty, and to make known to them such facts
as the two trustees should deem proper to guide or influence them in the selection, that it was a personal power
which looked to the merit and qualification of the individuals for the discharge of the particular duty, and, that being a naked power, the survivor was incompetent to execute it.

If the premises are well founded the conclusion is undemable.t
We are satisfied, however, that this is a mistaken view
of the authority conferred on the trustees. They were in* 11 Allen, 47.

- Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 561, 2 Story's Equity,
VOL. T1.

23

1062, and cases.

LORINGS V. M1ARSH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vested with the whole of the legal estate, and were to hold
the same in trust to "manage, invest and reinvest the same
according to their best discretion," and pay over the income to the three children of the testatrix during their
lives, and, on their decease, the said Marsh and Guild, or
thearsuccessors, as trustees, shall select and appoint the three
persons, &c., and thereupon the said trust fund shall be disposed of and paid over in accordance with the determination of the said persons, as certified by them in writing.
And then direction is given in the will to the trustees to sell
and convey any and all the real estate which may be in their
hands, at their discretion, for the benefit of the charities.
Now, it is quite clear, from this reference to the will, that
the trust conferred upon Marsh and Guild could not have
been intended as a personal trust looking to the fitness of
the donees of the power, as it is conferred upon them and
their successors, and, as the execution of the trust for charitable uses was postponed by the terms of the will until after
the decease of the three children of the testatrix, it was natural and reasonable to have supposed that it would not take
place in the lifetime of the trustees named, but would descend to their successors.
But what is more decisive of the question is, that inasmuch as the trustees are invested with the legal estate, in
order to enable them to discharge the various trusts de
clared, it is well settled that the power conferred is a power
coupled with an interest, which survives, on the death of one
of them, and may be executed by the survivor. (See the
authorities above referred to.) It is not necessary that the
trustees should have a personal interest in the trust, it is
tue possession of the legal estate, or a right vrtute officii in
the subject over which the power is to be exercised, that
makes an interest, which, when coupled with the power, the \
latter survives. A trust, therefore, will survive when in no
way beneficilU to the trustee.
We have said the trustees were invested with the legal
estate for the purpose of enabling them to perform the vario'is trusts .devolved, such as managing the estate, investing

Dec. 1867.]

MUSSINA v. CAVAZOS.

855

Syllabus.

and reinvesting the funds belonging to it, paying over the
income to the children during their lives, converting the
real estate into personal, and, among others, the selection
and appointment of the committee of gentlemen who were
to designate the donees of the charity. This was one of the
incidental trusts or duties devolved upon them by the testatrix, as trustees of the estate, upon whom she had conferred
such large powers over it, and which, on the death of Guild,
survived with the other trusts to the co-trustee. No wellgrounded distinction can be made between these trusts. If
the power survives as to one of them it survives as to all, as
it is apparent on the face of the will that the trustees were
to act in the same capacity in the execution of all of them.
As it respects this devise to charitable, institutions there
can be no doubt upon the law of. Massachusetts, as habitually administered in her courts, but that the objects of the
bounty are made sufficiently certain by the mode pointed
out in the will; and as the question is to be determined by
the local law of the State there is an end of the objection.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MUSSINA v. CAVAZOS.
1. The writ of error by which a case is transferred from a Circuit Court to
this court is the writ of the Supreme Court, although it may be issued
by the clerk of the Circuit Court; and the original writ should always
be sent to this court with the transcript.
2. The writ is served by depositing it with the clerk of the Circuit Court,
and if he makes return by sending here a transcript in due time, this
court has jurisdiction to decide the case, although the original writ may
be lost or destroyed before it reaches the Supreme Court.
3. The cases of Castro v. United States (3 Wallace, 46), and Villabolos v.

Same (6 Howard, 81), commented on and explained.
4. It is not a fatal defect in a writ of error that it describes the parties as
plaintiffs and defendants in error, as they appear in this court, instead
of describing them as plaintiffs and defendants, as they stood in the
court below, if the names of all the parties are given correctly.

