VosE

v. BRONSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

VosE v. BRoNsoN.
Where a mortgage for a certain sum, as $4,000,000, was given to trustees to
secure railroad bonds tobe issued to a like amount, and many of the bonds
having been issued at a large discount, were, on a claim made against
the company, judicially decreed entitled to no more than what had been
actually given for them-so that a margin remained of the mortgage
security,-a party, who had sold to the company materials used in making the road, and who took in payment some of the bonds at 80 per
cent., with an agreement that if the company should at any time sell
other bonds at a less rate, he should have as many additional bonds as
would pay him for materials in full,-estimating the bonds already
given and those to be given at the lowest rate at which any had been
sold,-was held not entitled-the company (which was now insolvent)
having sold bonds at 40 per cent.,-to have his outstanding equity adjusted on a foreclosure of the mortgage, and his demand attached to the
mortgage; bonds to the whole extent of $4,000,000 having been actually
issued.

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
In December, 1856, the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company, to secure ten millions of dollars in bonds, to be
issued by them, executed a mortgage to Bronson, Soutter,
and Knapp, as trustees for the bondholders. This mortgage
was amended in 1858, so as to limit the issue to four millions.
Bonds to that amount were issued, and became a lien on the
road. In consequence of the failure of the company to provide fbr the payment of interest, the trustees, in 1859, instituted proceedings in the Federal court of Wisconsin, to
foreclose the mortgage; which proceedings, in 1862, passed
to a decree. The 'road in 1863, was sold. After the 'decree,
but before the sale, one Vose (the appellant), who had not
been made a party defendant to the suit of toreclosure, filed
a bill against the trustees just named, asking to come in and
share in the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property
in their bands.
The bill set forth that. before the execution of the mortgage, but in immediate contemplation of it, the La Crosse
Company had agreed to buy a large quantity of railroad iron
of a firm to whose rights the complainant had succeeded,
APPEAL

IDec. 1867.]

"

VOSE V. BRONSON.
Statement of the case.

giving to them bonds to the extent of about $714,000 in paymdut, at the rate of eighty cents on the dollar; that it was
well understood between the parties that the firm, which was
one dealing extensively in railroad iron, took the bonds, not to
hold as investments, but for commercial and immediate use;
that to guard against loss to the firm by a depreciation in the
markets of the bonds thus to be assigned to it, by the company's selling any of those which they yet retained at a less
rate than the 80 per cent., it was agreed that if the company
should sell any of their bonds to any one during a certain
term named, at a less rate than this one, then, that the company
should deliver to the firm so many additional bonds as would
pay the firm for the iron in full, estimating the bonds already
given and those to be given at the lowest rate at which any
bonds had been sold. The bill further set forth that the
iron (10,474 tons) was delivered to the company, and by
them used in making their road, and now formed a material
ingredient in the value of the property sold.
Admitting that the company had issued, sold and delikered
the whole four million dollars of bonds (so that on the face of
the bill it appeared that the company had the control of no
more bonds), the bill set forth that it had sold a large amount
of them as low as forty cents on the dollar; that the firm,
needing to "realize" on the bonds assigned to them, had been
compelled to sell at that same rate, and that the effect of the
company's thus selling at 40 per cent. was, that the firm had
been paid but half the stipulated price for their iron. It set
forth, moreover, that in fixing the claims which the respecfive bondholders had upon the proceeds of the sale of the
mortgaged premises, a portion of the bonds were, by the final
decree of foreclosure, cut down from the value apparent on
their face to 40 per cent., on account of their having been
sold at a discount; and that
The decree of foreclosure having been entered for
There remained as balance an unappropriated lien of

.

$2,794,600
1,205,400

Part of the original mortgage for

.

$4,000,000

Thrt he, Vose, had not been made by the trustees, in their

VosE v. BRoNsoN.

• [Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

suit for foreclosure, a party defendant as he ought to have
been, so that he might have been enabled to set up and in.
sist upon his claim under their bill of complaint; that his
claim was accordingly not foreclosed or impeached, and that
the decree ought to be so modified as to let it in. The
insolvency of the La Crosse Company was alleged, and
notice of the contract and of its breach to all the parties in
the principal cause. The bill accordingly prayed that as the
firm was to be paid only in bonds, and did not receive enough
to pay them, that the requisite amount of bonds, that is to
say, another $714,000, might be executed and delivered to
them, or at any rate that they might stand in the same position as if such requisite number had been executed and delivered to them; and that the decree might be opened and
the complainant let in so as that his equities might be provided for out of the unappropriated lien in the mortgage,
which it was stated was sufficient to provide for them.
The bill, on demurrer to it, was dismissed by the Circuit
Court. Appeal here.
Mr. E. G. Ryan, for the appellant:
The appellant having delivered his property and received
his bonds, finds their value depreciated one-half, by the railroad compan"'s action-fraudulent without doubt-in selling
all their bonds of the same issue, at half the price at which
he took his, without reserving any whatever to fulfil their
-contract to him arising in case of a sale of any at such a
price. The effect in law (and in fact, also, as the thing
proved), was to pay him but half the stipulated price for his
iron. The bill seeks payment of the unpaid half.
Will it be urged that our bill is in prejudice of subsequent
encumbrancers? It cannot be rightlyso ured. Under the
mortgages, each bondholder was entitled to his pro ratashare
of four millions of dollars. But, beyond that, the mortgage
gave him no right. And it is unimportant to any bondholder how the rights of other bondholders accrue, provided
that the whole principal sum is not swelled beyond four millions of dollars. The mortgage has that capacity. Four

:Dec. 1867.]

VOSE v.

BRONSON.

Opinion of the court.

millions of bonds were issued.

But the decree of the court

finds less than three millions due upon the whole issue. And
there remains an undisposed principal of upwards of a million of dollars, which the mortgage can cover without wrong
to any bondholder under it.
Had the railroad company issued in fact, but $2,794,600 of
bonds (the principal sum found due by the decree), the complainant would clearly have had a right to satisfaction until
the mortgage was charged with the full principal sum of four
millions of dollars. Yet practically, and as judicially decided,
that is all that they have issued.
The case is strong in natural equity. In 1857, the complainant furnished all the iron, constituting the track of this
railroad, at a cash price of $605,000. In 1863, when, as is
matter of common knowledge, the value of such iron had
nearly doubled, the road was sold as the fact is for about
$2,800,000. It will be hard indeed, if the complainant is to
be left remediless for the great loss which he has sustained,
and of which the defendants have the whole profit. Yet if
the decree be affirmed he will be so left.
Messrs. Cary and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by this record is of easy solution.
If Vose had brought suit against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company for a breach of their contract, the
interpretation of it would have been a proper subject of inquiry, but the decision of this case does not depend on the
disposition of that question. The appellant places his claim
for relief, on his right to have an outstanding equity with
the La Crosse Company adjusted in the foreclosure suit, and
his demand attached to the foot of the mortgage. To do
this, there must be a power somewhere to enlarge the mortgage, and where is it lodged? Certainly not with the trustees, for their. duty is to see that the security held by them
for their cestui que trusts is enforced according to the terms
of the deed. They could neither enlarge the mortgage, nor

VOSE

v.

BRONSON.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

consent to its enlargement. The court could not do it, nor
the La Crosse Company, as it had covenanted with the trustees in behalf of the bondholders, that it would only issue
four millions of dollars in bonds. The rights of the bondholders were fixed by the terms of the mortgage. The value
of the bonds as an investment, depended in a great measure
on the number to be issued, and doubtless, each purchaser
before he bought, had information of the character of the
security on which he relied. The property might be very
well a safe security for four millions of dollars, and very unsafe for any additional amount.
The doctrine contended for would utterly destroy the marketable value of all corporate securities. No prudent man
would ever buy a bond in the market, if the provisions made
for its ultimate redemption could be altered without his
consent.
But it is said, as the court rendered a decree for less than
the face of the bonds, equity will step in and allow the appellant to apply the vacuum of principal secured by the
mortgage, to liquidate his claim. The answer to this is, that
it does not concern the appellant whether the court rightfully or otherwise reduced a portion of the bonds. The bondholders, whose bonds were thus reduced, are the only parties
in interest, who could have any just cause of complaint
against the action of the court, and if they did not feel aggrieved, no other person has any right to complain. The
security of the mortgage extended to four millions of bonds
only, and whatever amount the court should ascertain was
due on those four millions, was the amount secured, and no
more.
If Vose had been made a party defendant to the foreclosure
suit, the decree would have been the same. But he was not
a necessary party to that suit. The trustees, as the representatives of all the bondholders, acted for him, as well as
the others. It would be impracticable to make the bondholders parties in a suit to foreclose a railroad mortgage, and
there is no rule in equity which requires it to be done.
DE REE AFFIRMED.

