116

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ther title nor color of title to the property of "B." In
Thompson v. Cragg,* the court say: "NTor can there be
color of title where there is a complete hiatus in the chain.
Color of titles differs from titles only in externals. The
substance of both is the same, were this not so. If color
of title were something intrinsically and substantially less
or weaker than title, then the wisdom of the legislature
could not be vindicated," &c. This construction of the
statute as thus settled by the courts of Texas is conclusive,
even if we doubted its correctness, which we do not.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.
[See infra,next case, Osterman v. Baldwin, in regard to this same section
15 of the Texas statute of limit-ations.-IEP.]

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

1. A citizen of the United States, and who, as such, was of course before the
admission of Texas into the Union, an alien to that republic, and so,
as against office found, incompetent to hold land there, became on the
admission, competent, no office having been previously found. "
2. A purchaser at sheriff's sale buys precisely the interest which the debtor
had in the property sold, and takes subject to all outstanding equities.
8. Trusts of real estate are not embraced by the statute of frauds of Texas,
and may be proved, as at common law, by parol.
4. A mere declaration in writing by a vendor of a vendee's purchase of
land, that the vendee had paid the money for it, and that the vendor
intended to make deeds when prepared to do so, is not a document purporting to convey title; and accordingly will constitute neither a link
in "a consecutive chain of transfer," nor "color of title" within the
meaning of the fifteenth section of the statute of limitations of Texas.
APPEAL (submitted) from the District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas.
In 1839, prior to the admission of Texas into our Union,
and that country being then an independent republic, Bald* 24 Texas, 596. See also Wright v. Daily, 26 Id. 730; Berry v. Donley,
Id. 737; Harris v. Hardeman. 27 Id. 248.

Dec. 1867.]

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

Statement of the case.

win, a citizen of New York, and an alien, of course, to
Texas, purchased and paid for three lots in Galveston, from
the Galveston City Company, a corporation created by law,
with power to sell real estate, and which owned the lots sold.
As the company was not at the moment ready to execute
deeds, he received certificates of the purchase. These described -the purchased lots, acknowledged the receipt of the
purchase-money, and added that Baldwin was entitled to receive a conveyance, so soon as the company was prepared to
execute deeds in proper form. These certificates were made
out in Baldwin's own name. The constitution of Texas, however, prohibiting aliens from holding lands there, he transferred them to James S. Holmaii, a Texan; the purpose having been "to place the lots in the hands of a citizen to watch
over and protect them, for the payment of taxes and otherwise." No consideration moved from Holman, and the
transfer was on an express agreement (made only by parol,
however), that Holnan was to hold the lots, and take a conveyance of them from the company, as Baldwin's trustee.
The certificates were placed in an envelope, on which was
indorsed a memorandum, thus:
"No. 113.
"JAMES S. H~OLMAN.
"Lots No. 5 and 11, in block 617, &c.&c.,
"In trust."
This envelope, with the certificates inclosed, was subsequently found in the office of the company, having, as was
said by the one side, been left there for safe keeping at the
time, and by the other, having been brought there in order
that a deed might issue to Hlolman, and surrendered and
filed on the issue of a deed accordingly. The letters and
figures, "No. 113," indicated the number of the deed to be
issued for these lots.
In September, 1846, the lots were levied on by the sheriff
of Galveston County, upon a judgment obtained by one
McKinney against Hlolman. Notice was given to McKinney
of Baldwin's ownership of the lots, and that Holman had
never had any interest in them, except as trustee for Baldwin,

118

OSTERMAN V. BALDWIN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

At the sale, October 6th, 1846, full notice was read aloud
by Baldwin's agent, to the persons assembled, of Baldwin's
claim to the lots, and of the exact state of his title. The
sale was then proceeded with, and one fot was struck off to
Osterman, others to other persons. The purchasers took
possession.
In May, 1850, that is to say, more than three years after the
sale, Baldwin filed a bill in the District Court for the District
of Texas, making the Galveston City Company, Hlolman, Osterman, MeKinney, and others, defendants; and praying that
the Galveston City Company might be directed to execute a
conveyance in fee simple to him, that the sale and proceedings under the judgment and-execution against Hlolman
might be declared void, and the defendants enjoined from
setting up title under the same, and be ordered to delivei
up possession of the lots held by them respectively.
The defences set up were:
1. Baldwin's alienage and consequent incapacity to bold;
that even if the lands were meant to be held by Holman in
trust for him, the trust was void; that on this part of the defence it mattered not whether there was a deed or certificate,
Holman's estate, if but equitable, being liable to leiy and
sale; that however a deed was made.
2. That if these defences failed, the suit was barred by
the stauute of limitations of Texas.
As to the fact whether any deed had been made to iHolman, the testimony was not quite consistent. On the one
hand, the secretary of the company, the complainant's witness, testified thus:
"Whenever the holder of a certificate wished a deed, he produced his certificate to the company and delivered up the same,
and the company issued a deed to him. The certificate was then
filed away in the records of the company. Books were kept
showing the issue of deeds upon the certificates, by memorandum entered against the number of the lot. All the certificates
in this case were filed away in the records of the company, in
the same place and manner, with the certificates upon which
deeds had been issued. The books and records of the company

Dec. 1867.]

OSTERMAN V. BALDWIN

119

Statement of the case.
bear the same evidence of a deed to Hlolman on these certificates,
that they do of the issue of any deed whatever. If the records
of the company are true, a deed issued to Holman. The memorandum No. 113, in the envelope, indicates that that was the
number of the deed issued on the certificates."

On the other hand, Holman himself remembered no deed:
and one Edmunds, the agent of McKinney, who seemed to
manage the whole matter of the execution under a bargain
for a large contingent share of its proceeds, twice examined
the books of the City Company, once by himself and once
(" thinking it an important matter") with another person, an
attorney-at-law,-and found, that the books "showed that no
deed had then been issued," and that "the title still appeared to be by certificates in the name of Holman."
As respected a bar by the statute of limitations, the second
defence set up, it appeared that the Texas act in its fifteenth
section ran thus :*
"Every suit to be instituted to recover real estate as against
him, her or them in possession under title or color of title, shall
be instituted within three years next after the cause of action
shall have accrued, and not afterwards. By the term title as
used in this section, is meant a regular chain of transfer frbm or
under the sovereignty of the soil; and color of title is constituted by a consecutive chain of such transfer down to him, her
or them in possession, without being regular; as if one or more
of the memorials or muniments be not registered or not duly
registered, or be only in writing, or such like defect as may
not extend to or include the want of intrinsic fairness and honesty; or when the party in possession shall hold the same by a
certificate of head-right, land warrant or land scrip, with a chain
of transfer down to him, her or them in possession."
The District Court decreed in favor of the complainant.
The purchasers appealed; iolman and the company not
denying Baldwin's equities, and acquiescing.

* Paschal's Digest, Art. 4622.

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

Messrs. Adams, Coombs, and Ballinger, for the appellants:
1. The evidence of the deed's having issued, greatly preponderates over that of its having not issued. The possession by the company among its papers, of the certificates,
the only evidence of individual ownership, and the testimony of the secretary of the company, offered a strong
presumption that there was a deed. The purpose of conveying to Hlolman was that a deed should issue to him. It
matters not, however, as respects this branch of the defence,
whether Holman's title were legal or equitable, if he had the
real title-of any kind. Equities can be levied on in Texas
as well as legal estates.
2. fHe had such title.' It having been illegal for the complainant to bold lands in Texas at the date of these assignmeats,the law did not imply, create or allow any trust whatever in his favor, nor create one in favor of the government
of Texas; but Holman took and held the property free and
clear of any trust or right whatever for or on the part of
Baldwin or the government.*
Nor did the admission of Texas into the Union help the
matter. The law not having previously raised or recognized any trust in behalf of Baldwin, nor of the government as the sovereign, by escheat or other paramount right,
no trust or right of any kind in his favor was created by
that political act.
At best, the only evidence of any trust in favor of Baldwin was parol; a dangerous sort of proof on which to rest
the title to real estate; and a sort which the British statute
of frauds would not allow to be given in such a case.
3. If IHolman was thus the sole owner-either legal or
equitable-Baldwin had no title, and the various notices were
of no value. They were notices of nullities.
Waiving all these points, however, we have above and independent of the other defence* Hubbard v. Goodwin, 3 Leigh, 492;. Leggett v. Dubois, 5 Page, 114;
Taylor v. Benham, 5 Howard, 270; Phillips v. Crammond, 2 Washington's
Circuit Court, 447.

Dec. 1867.]

OSTEMITAN

v.

BALDWVIN.

Opinion of the court.

4. The Statute of Limitations. If the Galveston City Company made a deed to Holman, then the appellants had a
"regular chain of transfer" with the single exception from
its regularity that the deed to Holman was not recorded, a
circumstance which confessedly would not affect it. We
have referred to the evidence of the existence of the deed.
"A regular chain of transfer" relates to the deeds, the
muniments, the paper evidences of right. If on their face,
they constitute a title, thelactual nature of that title, arising
from extrinsic facts, from the existence of a superior or better title, either in the first link by a previous grant from the
government, or iu any subsequent link by a previous better
conveyance, is unimportant. If possession be held three
years under a chain of deeds from the sovereignty of the
soil, by the 15th section the character of the actual title at
any point of the chain is unimportant.' "Intrinsic fairness
and honesty" is riot a question where a regular chain of
transfer is shown. They apply to color of title where the
transfers are not regular. But the meaning is, not that the
consecutive chain of transfer, or any link of it, must be fair
and honest in relation to the adverse, better title, but simply
that if one or more of the links, instead of being a regular
deed-for instance, from A. or B.-is such a transfer of the
right of A. or B., whatever that right is, as amounts fairly
and honestly to a conveyance of it, then it constitutes color
of title. In short, "title" is legal; "color of title" is equitable.*
Messrs. Sherwvood and Goddard, contra.
xMr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is true, as the defendants insist, that when the purchases were made by Baldwin, Texas was a foreign country,
with a constitution forbidding aliens to hold real estate.
But the defendants cannot object on that ground. Until
office found, Baldwin was competent to hold land against
third persons. No one has any right to -complain in a col:Pearson

v. Burdett, 20 Texas, 157; Wallace v. Wilcox, 27 Id. 60.

OSTERMAN V. BALDWIN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

lateral proceeding, if the sovereign does not enforce his prerogative. This court, in Cross v. De Valle,* say: "That an
alien may take by deed, or devise, and hold against any one
but the sovereign, until office found, is a familiar principle
of law, which it requires no citation of authorities to establish." Even if the defendants could have made this objection, while the PRepublic of Texas existed, they cannot make
it now, because, when Texas was admitted into the Union,
the alienage of Baldwin was determined. His present status
is that of a person naturalized, and that naturalization has
a retroactive effect, so as to be deemed a waiver of all liability to forfeiture, and a confirmation of his former title.t
It is insisted the legal title to the lots in controversy, is in
Holman, by deed froni the Galveston City Company, and if
so, that the execution against Holman was properly levied
on them, and they were rightfully sold.
There is evidence tending to show a deed to Hlolman, but
it falls short of proving it. It is almost certain a deed was
never made, and quite certain, if made, it was never delivered. iolman, who ought to know, has no recollection
about it, and he is fortified by Edmunds (the active agent in
hunting up property to levy on), who swears, the books of
the company were examined, and did not show the making
of the deed-a matter deemed of importance by him and
his attorney. The deed is not produced; is not recorded;
the directors who must have executed it, are not called;
and its existence is but a matter of conjecture.
Even if made and delivered, it cannot help the title of
the defendants, for the sheriff sold with express notice of
Baldwin's rights, and his intention to enforce them, and no
one who bought can be considered an innocent purchaser
for value. If Holman had the bare, naked, legal title, without any beneficial interest in the property sold, and no possession, nothing passed by the sale. A. purchaser, at a
sheriff's sale, buys precisely the interest which the debtor
has in the property sold, and takes subject to all outstanding
equities.
*1

Wallace, 8.

t] Jackson v. Beach, I Johnson's Cases, 401.

Dec. 1867.]

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

Opinion of the court.

But no deed was, in fact, made, and the legal title is still

in the Galveston City Company. If, in equity Baldwin is
entitled to have that title conveyed to him, the defence in
this case must fail, unless the plea of the statute of limita.
tions can be successfully maintained.
It is proven, beyond dispute, that Baldwin purchased the
lots and paid the money for them, and that Holman had no
interest in them.
It is in equal proof, that Holman agreed to hold them in
trust for Baldwin-the object being to place them in the

hands of a citizen of Texas, who could pay taxes and protect them. The trust, thus created, is an express trust-not
one resulting by implication of law-proved, it is true, by
parol, but equally efficacious for the purposes of this suit,
as if in writing. The declaration of an express ,trust, under
the statute of frauds of 29 Charles HI, was required to be in
writing, and could not be proved by oral testimony, But
the courts in Texas hold, that trusts are not embraced in
their statute of frauds, and that a trust may be proven as at
common law, by parol evidence.* The equitable title is,
therefore, in Baldwin, and there is no reason why he should
not have the legal title also, unless his rights are cut off by
the statute of limitations.
The defendants claim that they have possessed the land
peaceably for more than three years, under title, or color of
title, derived from the sovereign authority, thus claiming
the benefit of the fifteenth section of the act of limitations
of Texas.t But this claim is unavailing, because one link
in "the chain of transfer," from the government down to
the defendants, is broken. There is no conveyance from the
Galveston City Company to Hlolman. A "consecutive chain
of transfer" is required by the statute, and the writing possessed by Holman is not, in any legal sense, a link in that
chain. It does not purport to convey title. It is nothing
more than a declaration by the company of the purchase of
the lots, the payment of the money, and the intention to
* Miller v. Thatcher, 9 Texas, 484.

t- Hartley's Digest, Art. 2391.

WALKER V. VILLAVASO.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

make deeds, when prepared to do so. If this writing, upon
its face, professed to pass title, but failed to do it, either because the city company had no title, or for want of proper
execution, it could be used as color of title. But an agreement to convey title at some future period, is not color of
title, within the meaning of the law.
The Supreme Court of Texas has decided the precise question here presented. That learned court, in discussing this
subject, in Thompson v. Cragg,* say: "Nor can there be color
of title, as defined by the statute, where there is a complete
hiatus in the chain. Color of title differs from title only in
externals. The substance of both is the same. Were this
not so, if color of title were something intrinsically and substantially less, or weaker than title, then the wisdom of the
legislature could not be vindicated in applying the same
period of limitation to a possession supported by the one as
is applied to a possession supported by the other."
DECREE AFFIRMED.

[See sup-ra, preceding case, League v. Atchison, in regard to this same
statute of limitations in Texas.-RmP.]

'WALKER V.

VILLAVASO.

1. 'When the question is whether this court has jurisdiction under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, nothing out of the record
certified to the court can be taken into consideration.
2. Accordingly, when it was sought by counsel to bring before it as matter
of which it would take judicial cognizance, the fact that a judgment in
a primary State court of the Sotith,-affirmed in the highest State court

after the restoration of the Federal authority,-was rendered after the
State was in proclaimed rebellion: and by judges who had sworn allegiance to the rebel confederacy, the record not disclosing the fact that
the want of authority under the Federal Constitution of such primary

court was in such court drawn in question and decided against-this
court dismissed the writ.
*

24 Texas, 596.

