THE VICTORY.

[SLIP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But it is sufficient, as we have already said, that the lands
remained the property of the United States, whether or not
they were by sufficient authority appropriated to public uses.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE VICTORY.
Before this court can entertain jurisdiction to review a judgment of the
State court, it must appear that one of the questions mentioned in the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act was raised in the State court,
and actuallydecided by it; that is to say, the question must have received
the consideration or attention of the court. It is not sufficient that this
court can see that it ouglt to have been raised, and that it might have
beqn decided.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act provides that
a final judgment in the highest court of a State where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of any State, on
the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of such validity,
may be re-examined in this court.
With this law in force, and under a statute of the State of
Missouri, which authorized apparently a proceeding in rern
against vessels for supplies furnished to them, Boylan filed a
petition in one of the State courts of Missouri against the
Steamboat Victory (which was made defendant to the suit),
for supplies furnished in her home port at the request of her
owner, and for which he claimed a lien on the vessel to the
amount of $4214. The items of the account were set forth
in a bill of particulars accompanying the petition, and the
plaintiffs prayed for a warrant of seizure, on judgment, and
for sale of the boat to satisfy their claim.
The owner of the vessel appeared and filed an answer, in
which he admitted $500 of the claim to be due, and to be a
lieu on the boat, but denied that any other items or amounts

Tnr, VICTORY.

Dec. 1867.]

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

were due or owing by the boat, or that they were a lien thereon. Testimony was also taken which showed that the contest was about the amount due, and the date at which some
of it ceased to be a lien. But there was apparently nothing
in the answer, or in the testimony, or in the instructions
asked or given to the jury, from which an inference could
be drawn, that it was denied that supplies of the character
set forth were a lien on the vessel to which they were furnished, or that the statute which gave the lien was asserted
to be void, or that the jurisdiction of the court to enforce it
was controverted.
The State court ordered the vessel to be sold; and this
judgment having been affirmed in the Supreme Court of the
State, the case was brought here as within the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act above quoted, and with a view
of reversing that judgment; the ground of the expected reversal being, of course, that the case was one of admiralty
cognizance, and was therefore exclusively within the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States; and because the statute of Missouri, which authorized the proceeding in the State court, was for that reason unconstitutional.
Mr. Wills now moved to dismiss the writ, on the ground
that the record did not show that the question mentioned in
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act was presented
to, or decided by, the State court.
Mr. Dick opposed the motion, citing the cases of Craig v.
Tlie State of Missouri,* and of The Bridge Proprietors v. The
llobocen Cbmpany,t to show that it was not necessary that it
should appear by express intendment that the question was
decided, and arguing that as the authority of the State
court rested wholly on the State statute, the validity of the
statute was of necessity a point in judgment, and of course
was passed on favorably to such validity.
The question of admiralty jurisdiction, and of the consequent validity of the State statute, he argued, was therefore
*4 Peters, 410.

t I Wallace, 116.

THE -VICTORY.

[Slip. C-C.

Opinion of the court.

completely before this court, and he asked that this court
would decide it.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question which we are asked to decide-viz., whether
such a case as this is one of admiralty cognizance, and is
therefore exclusively within the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States, and whether the statute of lissouri,
which authorized the proceeding, is for that reason void,-is
an interesting one, and if it had been raised and decided iii
the court from which the record comes, we would be bound
to decide it here. But we do not think it is a fair inference,
from that record, that the question was presented to the
court or was decided by it.
It has been repeatedly held by this,court, that before it
can entertain jurisdiction to revise the judgment of a State
court, the point which we are called upon to review must
have been raised, and must have been decided adversely to
the plaintiff in error. This is so well established that it
.would be a useless labor to cite authorities to sustain it.
It is true we have said this need not appear by express
averment, but if the record shows by necessary intendment
that the point was decided, it is sufficient, and the cases of
Craig v. The State of Missouri, and The Bridge Proprietors v.
The -loboken Company, are cited to sustain the proposition.
It is one which does not need support. It is fully conceded.
But we are of opinion that it must appear that the point
mentioned in the Judiciary Act was actually decided in the
State court, that it received the consideration of the court,
and it is not sufficient, that now, on fuller examination, with
the aid of counsel here, we can see that it was a point which
ought to have been raised, and which might have been decided. In the case of The Bridge Proprietorsv. The -Hoboken
Company, cited by counsel for plainti:f, the court recites with
approbation the following language from the previous case
of Crowell v. Bandell:* "It is not sufficient to show that the
question might have arisen or been applicable to the case,
10 Peters, 368.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. IIAtTWELL.

385

Syllabus.

unless it is further shown by the record that it did arise, and
was applied by the State court to the case."
It is insisted that inasmuch as the authority of the State
court rests solely on the State statute, the validity of that
statute was necessarily a point in its judgment, but it would
contradict the experience of all who are familiar with courts
to assume that every time a court acts under a statute, the
validity of the statute or thejurisdiction of the court, receives
its consideration. This is rarely so, unless the question is
raised by one of the parties and called to the attention of
the court.
The presumption from this record is entirely the other
way. The defendant in his pleading admits impliedly the
jurisdiction of the court, the validity of the statute, and the
existence of the lien. He only denies that the full amount
claimed is due, and no other question is raised or suggested
by the bill of exceptions. Nor does it appear that any other
question was raised in the Supreme Court of the State than
that which was considered by the inferior court. There was,
therefore, no occasion for the court to consider the question
raised here by counsel.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

UNITED STATES

u.

HARTWELL.

1. An office is a public station or employment, conferred by the appointment
of government; and embraces the ideas of tenure, duration, emolument,
and duties.
Accordingly, a person in the public service of the United States appointed
pursuant to statute authorizing an Assistant Treasurer of the United
States to appoint a clerk, with a salary prescribed, whose tenure of place
will not be affected by the vacation of office by his superior, and whose
duties (though such as his superior in office should prescribe), are continuing and permanent-is an officer within the meaning of the SubTreasury Act of August 6th, 1846 (9 Stat. at Large, 59), and, as such,
subject to the penalties prescribed in it for the misconduct of officers.
2. The terms employed in the sixteenth aection of that act to designate the
persons made liable under it, are not restrained and limited to principal.
officers.
25
voL. vi.

