Dec. 1867.]

THE FLYING SCUD.
Statement of the case.

TiE FLYING SCUD.
1. A cargo shipped from a neutral country by neutrals resident there, and
destined ostensibly to a neutral port, restored with costs after capture
in a suspicious region, and where the vessel on its outward voyage had
violated a blockade; there havin been nothing to fix on the neutrals
themselves any connection with the ownership or outward voyage of
the vessel (which was itself condemned), nor anything to prove that
their purposes were not lawful.
2. A part of the cargo which had been shipped like the rest, except that the
shipper was a merchant residing and doing business in the enemies'
country, distinguished from such residue and condemned.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of the United

States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The Scud and her cargo were captured during the late
rebellion, by the United States Steamer Princess Royal, at
the mouth of the Rio Grande, on the 12th August, 1863,
and brought into New Orleans for condemnation.
The Rio Grande, as is known, separates Texas, then in
rebellion against the United States, from Mexico, then a
ndutral country; the position of the stream between the
neutral and rebel regions having allowed, of course, great

opportunities to illicit trade with Texas, under ,the guise of
lawful trade with Mexico.*
The proofs in the case showed that the vessel was a British vessel, and had left Nassau in January, 1863, laden with
a cargo of timber, tin, iron, powder, and horseshoes, and
was destined ostensibly for Matarnoras, Mexico (a place separated from Texas and the commercial town of Brownsville
in it only by the dividing river). She arrived at Matamoras, that is to say, at the mouth of the Rio Grande (where,
on account of a bar, vessels of any size are obliged to anchor),
on the 1st of larch; after remaining there a week or ten days,
she sailed for Brazos Santiago, a port of Texas about nine
miles from the mouth of the Rio Grande, where her cargo
was discharged, and carried to Point Isabel, also in Texas.
* See The Peterhoff, 5 'Wallace, 28, where the matter is set fortl*

TnIE FLYING SCUD).

.[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

The vessel remained at Santiago till some time in May, when
she returned to the mouth of the Rio Grande. While here
at anchor she was, on the 15th July, 1863, chartered by one
B. Caymari, a subject of Spain, doing business at Matamoras, as a merchant there, to carry a cargo of cotton from
Matamoras to Havana. She continued at anchor at the
mouth of the Rio Grande tik the cargo of cotton was put
on board in July and August, with which she was laden
when captured. All the cotton was purchased at Matamoras, that is to say, in Mexico, and was brought from storehouses from Bagdad, the port of entry of Matamoras, or
Boca del Rio, in Mexico, not far off, down the river, in
lighters, to the Scud, which was anchored outside of the bar,
and there loaded. There were some fifty or sixty merchant
vessels at the mouth of the river at the time of the capture,
and had been from the time of the Scud's first arrival there.
Hart, the owner of the vessel, and who was a British subject, put in a claim for the vessel.
Caymari, already mentioned, put in a claim, as owner of
one hundred and thirty-seven bales of the cotton; Jules
Aldige, a subject of France, but, like Caymari, doing business as a merchant at Matamoras, a claim for thirty-eight
bales; and Lopez and Santos Coy, citizens of Matamoras,
in Mexico, bdt who, some years before the capture, had removed to Brownsville, in Texas, a claim for thirty bales.
The court below condemned the vessel and cargo as prize
of war. There was no appeal by the owner of the vessel,
so that the only question here was in regard to the cotton.
Messrs. Dunning and Donohue,for the appellants,claimants of
the cotton:
All trade between neutral ports in time of war is valid
except (1) to blockaded ports, and (2) with contraband.
The mouth of the Rio Grande was not and could not be
blockaded so as to prevent trade with Matamoras, which is
in a neutral country.
All the cotton was purchased at Matamoras, in this neutralvountry. The only circumstance militating against our

Dec. 1867.]

TEH FLYIN G SCUD).
Opinion of the court.

claim is that the vessel did once land a cargo in Texas. But
the case does not show that any one of the claimants bad
anything to do with that voyage or even ever heard of it,
Neutrals themselves, they found a neutral vessel outside the
bar ready to carry their cotton to a neutral port, and thy
chartered her. The vessel was lying at anchor for weeks, of
course in sight of the blockading fleet; and the captors seize
her only after she is loaded. The claimants of the cotton had
a right to suppose that she would be unmolested. They were
misled by this lying by of the captors; and even if guilty,
their cargo ought to be restored.*
Mr. Ashton, special counsel of the United States, contra:
A person carrying on trade in time of war in a region so
exceedingly suspicious as from its geographical character
was the mouth and lower part of the Rio Grande,must show
a case above all suspicion. The outward voyage, which undoubtedly'was meant for Texas, and was criminal, involves
the present one in grave suspicion.
As to the claim of Lopez and Santos, having been merchants in a hostile country, the fact that they shipped the
cotton from a neutral one, can't save it. It was enemies'
property, and as such confiscable.t
Mr. Justice INELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The proofs are full and uncontradicted, that each of the
claimants purchased the cotton in question from different
houses in Matamoras, and were merchants doing business
there, with the exception of Lopez and Santos, who had removed to Brownsville, Texas, some year before the capture,
from Matamoras, and were established in business there. It
further appears from the proofs that the cotton was in the
warehouses at Boca del Rio, or Bagdad, which is the port of
entry for Matamoras, was carried in lighters from thence to
the schooner, and taken on board. These proofs, and the
greater portion of those which make the case, were produced
* The Neptunus, 2 Robinson, 110.
t Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wallace, 404.

THEp ADELA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on an order for further proofs. Th6 transaction appears free
from all doubt or obscurity. The claimants, for aught that
is shown, had no connection whatever with the cargo shipped
from Nassau, and discharged at Brazos, or with the voyage
or with the vessel, until it was chattered by Caymari to
carry a cargo of cotton from Matamoras to Havana, which
is dated the 15th day of July, 1863. The argument, therefore, founded on the suspicion that the claimants were connected with the breach of blockade at Brazos, in the cruise
of the inward voyage, is without any foundation.
The decree below must be reversed, except as to the thirty
bales claimed by Lopez and Santos. Although they are
Mexican citizens, yet being established in business in the
enemies' country, must be regarded according to settled
principles of prize law, as enemies, and their cotton as enemies' property.
The decree below affirmed as to the thirty bales, and reversed as to the thirty-eight (38) and the one hundred and
thirty-seven (137), and case remitted, with directions to enter
decree for claimants, Jules Aldige and B. Caymari, restoring their cotton with costs.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

THE ADELA.
1. Neither an enemy nor a neutral acting the part of an enemy can demand
restitution on the sole ground of capture in neutral waters. Te Sir W.
Peet (5 Wallace, 535), affirmed.
2. A vessel condemned for intended breach of the blockade established by
the United States of her southern coast during the late rebellion; the
vessel having been found near Great Abaco Island, with no destination
sufficiently proved, without sufficient documents, with a cargo of which
much the largest part consisted of contraband of war, and with many
letters addressed to one of the blockaded ports, for which the chief
officer stated distinctly that she meant to run.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida, condemning the Adela and her cargo

