766

ARmSTRONG'S FOUNDRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

before the execution of the mortgage. We do not think
this evidence of consent sufficient to support a forfeiture.
The counsel for the company very properly abandoned
any claim under the judgment recovered for the balance due
on the mortgage note. The forfeiture was incurred when
the Cooks went into actual use of the premises under the
lease, and the subsequent seizure for condemnation divested
all intermediate liens.

The decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED as
irregular, and the cause remanded for new trial in conformity
with this opinion. The property seized having been real
estate, the proceedings on the new trial must be conformed
in respect to trial by jury and exceptions to evidence to the
course of proceeding by information on the common law side
of the court in cases of seizure upon land.*

ARMSTRONG'S FOUNDRY.
1. A full pardon and amnesty by the President for all offences committed by
the owner of property seized under the act of Congress of August 6th,
1861, "to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes," and
which makes property used in aid of the rebellion, with the consent of
the owner, subject to seizure, confiscation, and condemnation, relieves
such owner from the forfeiture of the property seized so far as the right
accrues to the United States.
2. The proceedings under the act relating to a seizure of land, present a
case of common law jurisdiction, the proceedings in which are to be
conformed, in respect to trial by jury and exceptions to evidence, to the
course of the common law, and a final decision in which can be reviewed
here only on writ of error.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District

of Louisiana, the proceeding below being one for condemnation of property as used in aid of the rebellion, and resembling in its general features the case just disposed of.
It was thus:
An act of Congress passed August 6th, 1861, "to confis* The Vengeance, 3 Dallas, 297; The Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 391.

Dec. 1867.]

ARMSTRONG'S FOUNDRY.

Statement of the case.

cate property used for insurrectionary purposes,"* enacted
that property used in aid of the rebellion with consent of
the owner, should be the lawful subject of prize and capture
wherever found, and made it the duty of the President to
cause it "to be seized, confiscated, and condemned." It enacted further that "such prizes and captures shall be condemned in the District or Circuit Court of the United States
having jurisdiction of the amount, or in admiraly in any district in which they may be seized, or into which they may be
taken," &c. And the attorney-general or any district attorney was to institute proceedings of condemnation himself,
*or by aid of an informer.
Under this act a libel of information was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, in which it was charged, that certain property in
New Orleans, known as Armstrong's Foundry, had been
seized as forfeited to the United States by reason of having
been used, with the consent of the owner, in aid of the rebellion. This libel closed with the usual prayer for condemnation. A claim was interposed by John Armstrong as
owner, and another claim was interposed by the Citizens'
Bank as mortgagee. Armstrong also pleaded the amnesty
offered by President Lincoln, and his acceptance of it and
compliance with the terms. On the hearing the plea of pardon was rejected, and a decree of condemnation was rendered. Armstrong alone appealed.
Subsequently, and while the cause was pending in this
court, the President of the United States granted to "the
said John Armstrong a full pardon and amnesty for all offences
by hin committed, arising from participation, direct or implied, in the said rebellion, conditioned as follows." Certain conditions were annexed. At this term Armstrong was
allowed, in conformity with the usual course in admiralty
cases, to plead the new matter, and to file with his plea a
statement of facts agreed between his counsel and the Attorney-General, showing, among other things, that he had complied with all the conditions of the pardon granted to him.
12 Stat. at Large, 319.

AiRtMSTRoNG's

FOUNDRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for condemnation.

The question now on the appeal was, whether this pardon
relieved from forfeiture the propety seized.
Mr. Stanbery, Attorney- General,and Mr. Ashton, specialcounsel for the United Slates:
1. "A pardon," this court declared in Ex pare Garland,*
"reaches both the punishment prescribed for the offence and the
guilt of the offender; and when the pardon is full, it releases
the punishment, and blots out of existe nce the guilt, so that
in the eye of the law the offender is as innocent as if he had
never committed the offence. The effect of this pardon, then,
is to relieve the petitioner from all penalties and disabilities"
attached to the offence of treason committed by his participation in the rebellion." But this is the extent of a pardon.
It cannot reach a forfeiture of property imposed, in virtue of
the unlawful predicament in which the property may be
found.
INow, the act of August 6th, 1861, does not affect property
with liability to condemnation as a punishment for any
offence of the owners, but as a means of suppressing the
insurrection, then flagrant, by depriving those engaged
therein of property subject to their control, and dedicated
to their uses. The property is made the "lawful subject
of prize and capture wherever found." These words draw
the property in question within the category of enemy property, and establish a rule of capture.
2. But however affecting the interest of the United States,
it cannot operate to remit the moiety which accrues to the
informer. He has acquired a property in his part of the
penalty.t
3. Under a statute of municipal forfeiture, such as this,
proceedings for the condemnation of property seized on
land, without the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States, are, ex necessitate rei, according to the course
4 Wallace, 380.
t 4 Blackstone's Commentaries,, 309; 2 Hawkins, 6, 392; Comyn's Digest, Pardon; F.

Dec. 1867.]

ARMSTRONG'S

FOUNDRY.

Opinion of the court.

of the common law.*
follow that course.

If reversed, the proceedings should

Mr. Turmphrey Marshall, contra
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the case presented, it is necessary to'consider a
single question only.

It was insisted, in argument, that the pardon pleaded by
the appellant cannot avail to relieve him from the forfeiture
of the property seized, because the liability to seizure arose,
under the statute, from the mode in which the property was
employed, and was not to be regarded as a penal consequence of the act of the owner.
We are unable to concur in this view.

We think .tclear

that the statute regarded the consent of the owner to the
employment of his property in aid of the rebellion as an
offence, and inflicted forfeiture as a penalty. The general
pardon of Armstrong, therefore, relieved him of so much
of the penalty as accrued to the United States. We think
it unnecessary to express any opinion at present in relation
to the rights of the informer.
The proceedings below related to a seizure of land, and
though conducted under the statute in the forms of admiralty, must be regarded as a case of common law jurisdiction, a final decision in which can be reviewed here only on
writ of error
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, must be REas irregular, and the cause REMANDED, with directions to allow a new trial, the proceedings in which shall be
conformed, in respect to trial by jury and exceptions to evidence, to the course of the common law.
VERSED

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.
* 1 Kent's Commentaries, 376; La Vengeance, 3 Dallas, 297; United
States v Sally, 2 Crarch, 406; United States v. Betsy, 4 Id. 443; The
Samuel, ' Wheatcn 9 ; The Octavia, Id. 20; The Sarah, 8 Id. 391.
VOL. VI.

49

'

UNITED STATES V. HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

NOTE.

At the same time with the two preceding cases was decided,
on appeal from the same circuit (Mr. Durant,for the appellant),
the case of St. Louis Street Foundry; not distinguishable,-as
the Chief Justice stated was the opinion of the court,-in principle from them.
It appeared in it that Cronan, in the Circuit Court, pleaded
the amnesty proclaimed by President Lincoln on the 8th of
December, 1863, and the oath taken by himself in pursuance of
the proclamation; but there was no averment in this plea that
Cronan was not within any of certain exceptions made by that
proclamation.*
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion.
The plea was properly overruled.
Upon proper pleading and proof, however, the claimant of
property seized under the act of August 6th, 1861, is entitled to
the benefit of amnesty to the same extent as, under like pleading and proof, he would be entitled to the benefit of pardon.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED as irregular,
and the cause remanded, with directions to allow a new trial,
the proceedings in which shall be conformed, in respect to trial
by jury and exceptions to evidence, to the 6ourse of the common law.

UNITED STATES V. HART.
The act of Congress of 3d March, 1863, giving to the District Court for the
Territory of New Mexico jurisdiction over all cases which should arise
in the collection district of Paso del Norte, in the administration of the
revenue laws, does not warrant proceedings against lands in El Paso,
Texas, under the "Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and
rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other
purposes," approved July 17th, 1862 (12 Stat. at Large, 589).
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico, the case being thus:
See the Gray Jacket, 5 'Wallace, 368.

