50

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.
1. A bill in equity filed by one of the United States to enjoin the Secretary
of War and other officers who represent the Executive authority of the

'United States from carrying into execution certain acts of Congress, on
the ground that such execution would annul and totally abolish the existing State government of the State and establish another and different
one in its place-in other words, would overthrow and destroy the corporate existence of the State by depriving it of all the means and instrumentalities whereby its existence might, and otherwise would be maintained-calls for a judgment upon a political question, and will therefore
not be entertained by this court.
2. This character of the bill is not changed by the fact that in setting forth
the political rights sought to be pr.otected, the bill avers that the State.
has real and personal property (as for example, the public buildings, &c.),
of the enjoyment of which, by the destruction of its corporate existence,
the State will be deprived; such averment not being the substantive
ground of the relief sought.
THIS was a bill ided April 15, 1867, in this court, invoking
the exercise of its original jurisdiction, against Stanton,
Secretary of War; Grant, General of the Army, and Pope,
Major-General, assigned to the command of the Third Military District, consisting of the States of Georgia, 'Florida,
and Alabama (a district organized under the Acts of Congress of the 2d March, 1867, entitled "An act to provide for
the more efficient government of the rebel States," and an
act of the 23d of the same month supplementary thereto),
for the purpose of restraining the defendants from carrying
into execution the several provisions of these acts; acts
known in common parlance as the ":Reconstruction Acts."
Both these acts had been passed over the President's veto.
[The former of the acts, reciting that no legal State governments or adequate protection for life or property now existed
in the rebel States of Virginia and North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Florida,
Texas, and Arkansas, and that it was necessary that peace
and good order should be enforced in them until loyal and
republican State governments could be legally established,
divided -he States named into five military districts, and

Dec. 1867.]

STATE oF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

51

Statement of the case.

made it the duty of the President to assign to each one an
officer of the army, and to detail a sufficient military force
to enable him to perform his duties and enforce his authority
within his district. It made it the duty of this officer to pro
tect all persons in their rights, to suppress insurrection, disorder, violence, and to punish, or cause to be punished, all
disturbers of the public peace and criminals, ether through
the local civil tribunals or through military commissions, which
the act authorized. It provided, further, that -when the
people of any one of these States had formed a constitution
in conformity with that of the United States, framed by a
convention of delegates elected by male citizens, &c., of
twenty-one years old and upwards, "of whatever race, color,
or previous condition," who had been residents in it for one
year, "except such as may be disfranchised for participation
in the rebellion," &c., and when such constitution should provide, &c., and should be ratified by a majority of the persons
voting on the question of ratification, who were qualified for
electors as delegates, and when such constitution should have
been submitted to Congress for examination and approval,
and Congress should have approved the same, and when the
State by a vote of its legislature elected under such constitution should have adopted a certain article of amendment
named, to the Constitution of the United States, and ordaining among other things that "all persons born or naturalized
in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and of the State where they
reside," and when such article should have become a part
of the Constitution of the United States, then that the States
respectively should be declared entitled to representation in
Congress, and the preceding part of the act become inoperative; and that until they were so admitted any civil governments which might exist in them should be deemed provisional only, and subject to the paramount authority of the
United States, at any time to abolish, modify, control, or
supersede them.
The second of the two acts related chiefly to the registration ef voters who were to form the new constitutions of the

STATE OF GEORGIA

V.

STANTON.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

States in question, and which registration by the act, could
include only those persons who took and subscribed a certain
oath set forth in such second act, as that they had "not been
disfranchised for participation in any rebellion or civil war
against the United States," &c.]
The bill set forth the existence of the State of Georgia,
the complainant, as one of the States of this Union under
the Constitution; the civil war of 1861-1865 in which she
was involved; the surrender of the Confederate armies in the
latter year, and submission to the Constitution and laws of
the Union; the withdrawal of the military government from
Georgia by the President, commander-in-chief of the army;
and, the revival and reorganization of the civil government
of the State with his permission; and that the government
thus reorganized was in the possession and enjoyment of all
the rights and privileges in her several departments-executive, legislative, and judicial-belonging to a State in the
Union under the Constitution, with the exception of a representation in the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States.
It set forth further that the intent and design of the acts
of Congress, as was apparent on their face and by their terms,
was to overthrow and to annul this existing State government, and to erect another and different government in its
place, unauthorized by the Constitution and in defiance of
its guarantees; and that, in furtherance of this intent and
design, the defendants (the Secretary of War, the General
of the Army, and Major-General Pope), acting tinder orders
of the President, were about setting in motion a portion of
the army to take military possession of the State, and
threatened to subvert her government, and to subject her
people to military rule; that the State was wholly inadequate
to resist the power and force of the Executive Department
of the United States. She therefore insisted that such protection could, and ought, to be afforded by a decree, or order,
of this court in the premises.
The bill then prayed that the defendants might be restrained:

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V.

STANTON.

53

Argument against the jurisdiction.

1. From issuing any order, or doing, or permitting any
act or thing within or concerning the State of Georgia,
which was or might be directed or required of them, or any
of them, by or under the two acts of Congress.
2. From causing to be made any registration within the
State, as specified and prescribed in the last of the aforesaid
acts.
3. From administering, or causing to be administered
within the State, the oath or affirmation prescribed in said act.
4. From holding, or causing to be held within the State,
any such election, or elections, or causing to be made any
return of any such elections for the purpose of ascertaining
the result of the same according to said act.
5. From holding, or causing to be held within the State,
any such convention as is prescribed therein.
The bill in setting forth the political rights of the State of
Georgia, and of its people sought to be protected, averred
among other things, that the State was owner of certain real
estate and buildings therein (the State capitol, at Milledgeville, and Executive mansion), and of other real and personal
property, exceeding in value $5,000,000; and that putting
the acts of Congress into execution and destroying the State
would deprive it of the possession and enjoyment of its property. This reference and statement were not set up, however, as a specific or independent ground of relief, but apparently only by way of showing one of the grievances
resulting from the threatened destruction of the State, and
in aggravation of it. And the matter of property was not
noticed in the prayers for relief.
Mr. Stanbery, A. G., at the last term moved to dismiss the
bill for want of jurisdiction.
In sapport of this motion. Our first objection is that we
have not such parties here as authorize this court to entertain any case. Who is this controversy with ? It is with
officers of the United States of a very high grade. Is it
with them as individuals? Not at all; but with them as
officers of the United States, who have no State citizenship,

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON-

LSup.

Ut,

Argument against the jurisdiction.

but are bound to reside here. The place of official residence
of the Secretary of War and commanding general is by law
in the District. Now, when you are asked to entertain the
limited jurisdiction given to this court in an original case,
and find that as to parties it must, by the terms of the Constitution,* be a controversy between "a State and citizens of
another State," is there anything that fulfils the idea of such
a controversy? Suppose to-morrow Mr. Stanton is removed,
or resigns his post as Secretary of War, what becomes of
Stanton, a citizen of Ohio, defendant in this case ? Is there
*any controversy left between Georgia and Stanton as an individual and a citizen of Ohio? None.
Next, as to the nature of the right set up here, the alleged
infractions of that right, and the relief which is asked from
this court to establish that right.
The bill is premature; it involves at the same time a political question only. It involves, therefore, a political question which may never arise. The uncertainty whether any
question will ever arise, and the fact that if any does arise it
will be political, are both fatal to the bill.
Look at the state of things when this bill was filed. A controversy that raged a few weeks ago in Congress is brought
here to be settled. The President attempted to settle it.
Constitutionally he attempted to give the relief which is
sought here. In the exercise of his constitutional powers,
the President, while these acts were upon their passage, attempted to stop them by his veto, but Congress, also acting
under the Constitution, passed them over his veto, by the
requisite majority. The laws were passed. Now if there is
jurisdiction in this court to stop the execution of these laws,
there was jurisdiction on the 24th of March, when the last
act was passed, before the President had even appointed
military commanders; because the danger threatened lere
is altogether prospective. But what would this be ? Nothing
but judicial veto; a veto, in fact, far superior to the Presidential veto. A judicial veto, a judicial sentence of a court
Article III,

2.

Dec.1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

55

Argument against the jurisdiction.

of the last resort is final, and one which no Congress, and
no two-thirds in Congress, could change or modify. It
would stand as fixed as the law pronounced by a tribunal
that remains here for life; it could not be set aside by any
changes in the popular sentiment. It would be settled forever. This would be an absolute veto; the same veto that
the Roman Tribunes had. Whatwas that? Those officers,
chosen during the Republic to protect the interests of the
people, called Tribunes, had no insignia of office. No rods
or lictors preceded them; no emblems of sovereignty accompanied them. They had not a house; they sat on
benches. They dared not enter the Senate-house. They
could only be elected from the plebeians. And- yet the
majesty of the Roman people was represented by them, and
they had authority, by pronouncing one word, veto, to stop
every ordinance of the Senate, to stop the execution of every
law, absolutely and conclusively, without any appeal. That
power was called by Caesar ultirnajus Tribunorun. What is
this but that ?
If this can be done, the same jurisdiction may be invoked
wherever a court can get nominal parties; may be invoked
iii regard to every law that Congress may pass before it proceeds to execution, and before as yet a case has arisen under
it. In the present case, the complainant carries his prayer
for an injunction down to the meeting of the convention.
But he might as well carry it further, and ask to enjoin the
convention from framing a constitution; a little further,
and enjoin the people from ratifying the constitution; a
little further yet, and enjoin the president of the convention
from sending that new constitution here to the President of
the United States; a step further, and enjoin the same
President from sending that constitution to Congress; a step
further, and enjoin Congress from accepting it. For, after
all, that is the point; that works all the mischief, and nothing but that does work it, for until Congress acts all that is
done is unimportant. Why not, then, have gone a step
further, and, to get relief, have now enjoined Congress from
ratifying the constitution ?

STATE OF GEORGIA

V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

If there is a power in this court to veto laws which the
Congress considers wholesome and necessary, such a power
has never before been invoked. A suggestion that there
should be some such a power was made in the convention
that framed the Constitution. The scheme then presented
was not half so bad as this, but something like it was proposed by Mr. Randolph, the elder. In the convention he
offered this resolution:
Resolved, That the executive and a convenient number of
the national judiciary ought to compose a council of revision,
with authority to examine every act of the national legislature
before it shall operate, and every act of a particular legislature
before a negative thereon shall be final; and that the dissent of
the said council shall amount to a rejection, unless the act of
the national legislature be again passed, or that of a particular
of the members of each
legislature be again negatived by branch.
Hlere was an attempt to give a qualified veto power, to
be vested, not in the judiciary alone, but in the judiciary
with the executive, sitting as a council of revision upon
every law after its passage, before it had gone into operation, before its mischiefs were developed. It found no favor
with the convention; it was rejected; and instead of that,
the actual veto power as it now exists, proposed by General
Pinckney, was adopted, separating the judiciary frhom the
consideration of such questions, leaving them to consider a
law only when it should regularly come before them in its
execution upon a proper case and with proper parties.
The case is political and uncertain in every way that you
look at it. It is a bill by a State to vindicate its political
rights. The State of Georgia here comes into court alleging
that it is a State, putting that matter in issue. We do not
make any question now as to a court of equity being a fit
court to decide whether a State is in the proper enjoyment
Opposite counsel allege that
of its political franchises.
Georgia is now a State of the Union, and ask the court to
find that it is so. If they allege it as a matter of fact, we

Dec. i867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

have a right to deny it; and what is the consequence? If"
this court has jurisdiction to decide that Georgia is a State,
it has just the same jurisdiction to decide that Georgia is
not a State, and that great political question, State or not a
State, is settied and settled forever by this court.
The Cherokee Aration v. The State of Georgia* goes far to
decide this case. The attempt there was by the Cherokees,
as a separate nation, to prevent the execution of certain laws
of Georgia violating their rights secured by treaty. But
the court declined to interfere in this way. It acted upon
what was declared long before by Ellsworth, C. J., in -New
York v. (onnecticut.t "In no case can a specific performance be decreed unless there is a substantial right of soil,
not a mere political jurisdiction to be enforced."
But what next? It is alleged that Georgia has certain
political rights and privileges, and also that she has certain
property. We can see very well where the learned counsel
were tending when they came to that part of the case, and
that they had at least some inkling of the difficulties of
bringing a State into a court of equity to vindicate its political rights and the franchises and rights of its citizens.
They saw that there was no precedent for such a proceeding
as that. They saw the necessity of founding the equity
jurisdiction of the court upon the State of Georgia as a corporation, and as a corporation whose franchises and rights
were about to be disturbed, and therefore entitled to preventive relief, as an individual would be to protect his property and his rights from irreparable mischief and injury.
But although it is mentioned that the State owns lands, it is
not alleged that anybody is going to take those lands. It
does not appear that anybody has erected a nuisance on
those lands or is about to erect one. It does not appear
that anybody is about to bring suit in regard to those lands,
and that it is necessary to stop litigation and prevent the
State being vexed by suits. It is simply alleged that the
State has such lands. These military officers do not.pro* 6 Peters, 1.

f- 4 Dallas, 5 ; 2d ed., note.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

pose to take the lands, nor can they take them. What,
then, is the danger to these lands ? It is, that if finally these
acts are consummated,-if finally there is a new constitution
provided for Georgia, and ratified by the people of Georgia,
which new constitution becomes the constitution of that
State, the present organism of Georgia ceases; the present
State government is displaced and loses its hold of these
lands. Then where do they go? Who does the present
government hold them for ? For the people of Georgia for
public uses. If a new constitution shall come into operation.and be ratified by the people of Georgia, the new government will hold these lands for the same purposes, not for
waste, not for destruction, not for changing their destination,
not as in the case of a charity to devote them to other uses,
not as in the case of the property of a private corporation to
turn them to other uses and to the purposes of a foreign corporation, but at last, change the form of government as you
please, the people of the State of Georgia will own all their
lands, undisturbed in any way, if these laws are carried out.
Before we even touch these lands, before we touch a
single one of these rights of Georgia, this court is asked to
interpose. And what is it asked to do? I take a distinction between matters that lie in the choice or discretion of
the commanding general as to the extent to which he will
execute military law there and other matters. He has
simply said: "I will execute the law." Now, under the
acts, he can execute it in either of two ways. He can execute it by making it a military despotism at once, by unshipping all the civil tribunals, courts, and officers, or he can
execute the la& just as well by leaving them all untouched.
It is not alleged that Pope threatens that he is going to displace the governor, the legislature, the courts, the executive officers, the whole machinery of civil government in
Georgia. He has simply said that he will execute the law.
Whether he will execute it by the rigor of martial rule, dispiacing the civil authorities, or execute it by leaving them
all in perfect play, he has never said. The first practical
thing to be done under these laws is the appointment of

Dec. 1867.]

STATE Or GEORGIA V. STANTON.

59

Argument against the jurisdiction.

boards of registry to make a registration of voters, preparatory to the election. That is the initiatory step. It has not
yet been taken, butit is to be taken; and the especial prayer
of this injunction is to stop that very thing, with a series of
others that are to follow afterward.
Here, then, is an attempt to induce a court of equity to
stop an election,-a political election ; to prevent the registration of voters by a decree of a court of equity before any
registration is made. The evil lies away beyond that; the
evil is not in registering the voters, but in something that
the voters are afterward to do, and something that the convention is afterward to do, and something that is to be the
result of all these labors. But these things have not yet
happened, and counsel propose to begin by asking you to

stop the registration of voters. They say they can have no
adequate relief against that registration, and the evils that
lie beyond, except in a court of equity. They cannot wait
until the laws are executed, but they must have relief now.
There have been many bills in equity in various States, but
who has heard that it was the function of a court of equity
to stop an election ? What are the consequences of an election ? To make officers and invest them with powers. If
these officers and these powers are going to invade any
rights, they are the rights of other officers legally executing
sonic power. Do we go to a court of equity to be relieved
against an officer elected ? Take the case of an officer illegally elected at an illegal election. Being so elected, he
has no right to intrude upon the legal officer; but that is
no case for a court of equity. It is a case for a quo warranto.
But these defendants cannot compel the registration.
These laws compel no man in Georgia, black or white, to
be registered; nor do they authorize the military commander to seize and punish any one for not going to the
election. It is left entirely to the citizens to decide for
themselves whether they shall be registered or not. You
cannot very well stop them. What next? An election is
held. Who votes at the election? Just who chooses. How
do you know that anybody is going to attend that election?

STATE OF GEORGrA V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

How do you know that an election will be ordered, or that,
if ordered, Georgia is going to accept the offer made by
Congress? The people that the State of Georgia comes
here to protect, can protect themselves against all this mischief by not going to the election, because the mischief is the
election of a government that is going to displace the existing government. But suppose the people go to the election
and vote for delegates; the delegates are not obliged to go
to the convention; there is no law to punish them for not
attending. If they go, they frame a constitution. That is
left to themselves. Congress simply says that a certain provision in regard to suffrage must be inserted in the constitution, or it will not be recognized bytlie legislative department. If the convention cannot agree, there is an end of
the whole proceeding; but if they agree and make a constitution containing the stipulation provided for by Congress,
the people are then to hold an election to ratify it. If the
people ratify it, it will be because they like it. It is left to
them to do it or not. If they do it, the next step is to send
the constitution to the President, and by him it is to be sent
to Congress, and then Congress is to act.
These things all lie in the unknown and unascertained
future. As yet, not one of us is so wise as to see into that
future and know what is to happen, or whether the mischiefs that opposite counsel see in the distance are ever
going to take bodily shape. Counsel must show a controversy with a party, not a controversy with the law; they
must show an individual right, not a general public right.
This court does not sit as conservators over public rights,
and as such to guard them in the very beginning against
the execution of an obnoxious law. It sits only in a controversy after a controversy has arisen. If there was no other
objection to the case, this would be sufficient, namely, that
no controversy has ever arisen under this law with any
party, citizen of a State, public officer, or anybody else.
But suppose that the mischiefs which the bill says will be
consummated are consummated; suppose that what is proposed to be done is done, and all that is future and contin-

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

61

Argument against the jurisdiction.

gent becomes actual and past, and a constitution is framed
under these laws and is accepted and ratified by Congress as
the constitution of Georgia, and then an appeal is made to
the court not to prevent, but to restore, to keep, to preserve
the right of the contesting State organization as the State
government of Georgia,-what sort of n question would the
court then encounter? The same that it encountered in
the Dorr case, Luther v. Borden.* A new constitution formed
by the people of a State under the authority of these acts,
and an older State constitution formed by the people under
due authority, as they alleged,-these two sovereignties at
once enter into a contest for supremacy. Is that a sort of
controversy which the court can decide as a court of equity?
In the first place, the parties will not stop to come to a
court; they will settle things by force. The old State government, if it is a legal one, has a right to resist any usurped
government that pretends to be the State. If that usurped
government brings against it a force that it cannot withstand, what then is its remedy? To come to a court of
equity to ask them to enjoin the advance of the hostile force;
to say to the commanding general, " You shall stop your
march; we hold that you are not the rightful government;
this other is?" Certainly not. The Constitution contemplates exactly that state of things. If the existing State
government of Georgia, which the opposite counsel represent, is the legal State, it will remain the legal State, notwithstanding these laws. If, as they say, these laws are unconstitutional and void, no authority given under them can
ever prejudice the State. Is there no remedy? If the new
constitution is supported by an armed force greater than the
present government can bring to bear against it, what is the
remedy? A court? No; but Congress and the President,
-the political power. They are then precisely in the situation pointed out by the Constitution,-a State in insurrec.
tion; a lawful State warred upon by an unlawful, unauthorized body claiming to be a State, using force against force
* 7 Howard, 1.

STATE OF GEORGIA V.

STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

that the rightful State cannot overcome. Then comes a case
for political interference. Then Congress and the President must decide which of these two is the rightful State;
and when they decide it, it is decided for this court and for
all; for that is the only tribunal that can decide it.
Messrs. Charles O' Connor, R. J. Walker (with whom were
Messrs. Sharkey, Black, Brent, and .E. Cowan), contra:
It is said that we have not proper and competent parties.
That is a very narrow view of the subject. It is true that
the framers of the Constitution do not seem to have been so
cautious as to take into their consideration this nice exception that, by possibility, there might be some people living
within the district, ten miles square or less, that might be
ceded to Congress for the seat of Government, who would
not be citizens of any State, and therefore not provided for
,by this provision. Nor that there ever would be any considerabu number of persons in the whole world other than
citizens of the menaced State, against which the State would
have any cause of complaint that it would desire to redress,
except their fellow-citizens of other States of the Union, or
strangers who were subject to foreign nations. But they
did provide that a State should have a judicial remedy
against any individuals who were beyond the reach of its
power and process, who might do it an injury, and of course
who might menace an injury. This right is given in the
Constitution itself. This is the court of first instance into
which the State is to come. What is it to have here? All
the remedies, surely, for the enforcement of its rights that
are usual and customary according to the laws of the parent
State, and the existing laws of the Colonies as they were,
and the laws of these States during the short period they
had existed as States, that were allowed in courts in cases at
law or in equity.

The rejection in the convention of the proposition for a
a council of revision offers no objection to the jurisdiction
of the court in this case. This court was not thereby separated from political questions. Not at all. It was separated

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

63

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

indeed from any participation, in any shape, in legislation.
At least, legislative power was not conferred upon it. The
jurisdiction of the court, as a court created under the Constitution, was, of course, intended to apply to all questions
with which the court was capable of dealing. The AttorneyGeneral has spoken of a quo warranto as being the proper
remedy. There can be no quo warranto in this court upon
the governor of a State for exercising his powers. His is a
State office, and a quo warrndo by the judiciary of a State
against its governor would be very much like that so ably
condemned, not long since, by Mr. Attorney himself in
Xlississippi v. Johnson, Presiden,*-awrit issuing out of this
court against the Chief Executive.
Much has been said about all the evil alleged in the bill
being contingent and future. The argument is, that though
the sword is suspended above us, the hair by which it hangs
may never break. But we have presented plainly and distinctly, facts that cannot and have not been denied. The
President says that he will execute these acts of Congress.
Gcneral Grant, it is known to all, has issued an order, to the
commanders of these various districts, declaring that the
acts are to be carried into execution. The minor officers
have declared their intention to execute them. Counsel say
that the court will not act upon fears and apprehensions.
The fact is quite otherwise. A bill quia titnet is one of the
very heads of equity jurisdiction. It must, to be sure, be a
stable and substantial fear; but when the Executive of the
United States declares that he will execute a certain set of
provisions, when his General-in-Chief declares that he will
execute them, when that necessarily involves the bringing
into play of the whole military force of the Union against
a particular State, shall it be said that the fears are not substantial?
The Attorney-General quite understates the effects of
these Reconstruction Acts. Their actual effect is to restrain
at once the holding of any election within the State for any
4 Wallace, 475.

STATE OF GEORGIA V.

STANTON.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

officers of the present State government by any of the State
authorities; to direct all future elections in the State to be
held tinder the direction of, and by officers appointed by, the
military commander; and that all persons of certain classes
described shall be the electors permitted to vote at such
election. It is, therefore, an immediate paralysis of all the
authority and power of the State government by military
force; a plain setting aside of the present State government,
and depriving it of the necessary means of continuing its
existence. It is substituting in its place a new government,
created under a new constitution, and elected by a new and
independent class of electors. What is the effect of this
upon the State government and upon the State now existing? The same, just, as if in the case of a private corporation (which could only keep up its existence by regular
periodical elections by its stockholders), the persons having
an interest in it, the owners of its franchise, and the right to
perpetuate it, wc're forbidden to vote, deprived of the right,or a large n umLber of them were so forbidden and deprivedand a mass of persons having no right whatever were introduced. This is a direct attack upon the constitution of the
corporation in the case supposed-a direct attack upon the
constitution and fundamental law of the State in the case
before the court.
To grant an injunction in such a case is manifestly within
the jurisdiction of equity.*
The grievance of which Georgia complains is analogous;
a proceeding to divest her of her legally and constitutionally
established and guaranteed existence as a body politic and a
member of the Union. To explain. By the fundamental
law of Georgia, as we know, its constituent body is, and always has been, composed of the "free white male citizens
of the State, of the age of twenty-one years, who have paid
all taxes which mViy have been required of them, and which
N Ward v. The Society of Attorneys, 1 Collyer's New Cases in Chancery,
379; Simpson v. 'Westminster Palace Hotel Company, 8 Clark (House of
Lords' Cases), 717; Dodge v. 'Woolsey, 18 Howard, 341.

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

65

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

they have had an opportunity of paying agreeably to law for
the year preceding the election, being citizens of the United
States, and having resided six months either in the district
or county, and two years within the State."*
A State is "a complete body of free persons united together for their common benefit, to enjoy peaceably what is
their own, and to do justice to others. Itis an artificial person. It has its afihirs and its interests. It has its rules. It
has its rights.t A republican State, in every political, legal,
constitutional, and juridical sense, as well under the law of
nations, as the laws and usages of the mother country, is
composed of those persons who, according to its existing
constitution or fundamental law, are the constitutent body.
All other persons within its territory, or socially belonging
to its people, as a human society, are subject to its laws, and
may justly claim its protection; but they are not, in contenplation of law, any portion of the body politic known
and recognized as the State. On principle it must be quite
clear that the body politic is composed of those who by the
fundamental law are the source of all political power, or
official or governmental authority. Dorr's revolutionary
government in Rhode Island was an attempted departure
from it.1 In that case the precise thing was done by Dorr
and his adherents which these acts in the present instance
seek to perform. There was a State government in the
hands of a portion of the people of that State constituting its
whole electoral body. Dorr was of opinion, and his adherents supported him in it, that a greater number of electors
ought to be admitted, and he therefore undertook, by spontaneous meetings, to erect an independent State government. He failed in so doing. The court decided that it
was no government, but that the original chartered government which there existed was the legitimate and lawful govermnent, and consequently Dorr failed. The sarue reasons
would lead to the overthrow of these acts of Congress. The
Oonstitution of Georgia, 1865, Art. 5, 1.
C
t Chisbolm v. Georgia, per Wilson J., 2 Dallas, 45.
$ Luther v. Borden, 7 Howard, 1.
5

VOL. VI.

STATE OF GEORGIA V.

STANTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

State has a right to maintain its constitution or political as.
sociation. And it is its duty to do what may be necessary
to preserve that association. -And no external power has a
right to interfere with or disturb it.* In Rhode Island v.
-Massachusetts,tthis court says, that "the members of the
American family [meaning the States] possess ample means
of defence under the Constitution, which we hope ages to
come will verify." What means of defence under the Constitution is possessed by Georgia, if this suit cannot be maintained?
The change proposed by the two acts of Congress in question is fundamental and vital. The acts seize upon a large
portion-whites-of the constituent body and exclude them
from acting as members of the State. It violently thrusts
into the constituent body, as members thereof, a multitude
of individuals-negroes-not entitled by the fundamental
law of Georgia to exercise political powers. The State is to
be Africanized. This will work a virtual extinction of the
existing body politic, and the creation of a new, distinct, and
independent body politic, to take its place and enjoy its
rights and property. Such new State would be formed, nbt
by the free will or consent of Georgia or her people, nor by
the assent or acquiescence of her existing government or
magistracy, but by external force. Instead of keeping the
guaranty against a forcible overthrow of its government by
foreign invaders or domestic insurgents, this is destroying
that very government by force. Should this be done, and
the magistracy of the new State be placed in possession, the
very recognition of them by the Congress and President.
who thus set them 'up, would be a conclusive determination,
as between such new government and the State government
now existing. Thi s court would be, then, bound to recognize the latter as lawful.T
Independently of this principle, the forced acquiescence of
the people, under the pressure of military power, would soon
work a virtual extinction of the existing political society.
* Vattel's Law of Nations, book 1, eb. 2,

t 12 Peters, 74.

16; Ib., book 2, ch. 4, ? 57.

1 Luther v. Borden, 7 Howard, 1.

Dec. 1867.]

STATE or GEORGIA V. STANTON.

67

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

EacL aspect of the case shows that the impending evil will
produce consequences fatal to the continuance of the present State, and, consequently, that the injury would be irreparable.
The great objection, of the other side,-viz., that the subject-matter of the bill, the case stated, and the relief sought,
are polilical in their nalure,-iswithout force.
Had it been asserted that this court was without political
power, or without any physical power ; that it could not supervise or control action on questions of policy touching the
administration of any power of government, internal or external, committed by the Constitution to either or both of
the departments commonly denominated the political departments, the assertion would be correct. But when, under
cover of an undefined phrase, it is asserted that this conrt
cannot pronounce upon the validity of an act which may be
confessedly at war with the Constitution, repugnant to its
whole spirit and intent, and which cannot be brought within
the range of any power conferred by the Constitution, or
any duty committed by it to any of the departments, the
phrase is not correct. Political power cannot, indeed, exist
anywhere except under and by force of the Constitution;
and whenever it does exist, it must be exercised exclusively
by those officers or persons to whom the Constitution has
committed it. But whether under the Constitution it exists
at all, in a given case, is a question as clearly within the
range of judicial cognizance as any other that can arise.
It is untrue that questions of a political nature, according
to the vulgar acceptation of that phrase, are unsuited to judicial cognizance. Of course no court can, judicially, investigate or determine any question unless parties, between
whom it has cognizance, are regularly before it; unless the
disputable facts, if any, be susceptible of a judicial trial, and
unless the relief sought be judicial in its form and nature:
but when these three circumstances concur, the nature of
the questions of law or fact never presents any obstacle to
the exercise of judicial power.
Thus, 'he writ of habeas corpus is the absolute constitu-

STATE OF GIEORGIA V. STANT, N.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

tional right of the citizen.

Upon that writ, from the earli-

est period at which civil liberty had a place or name, down
to Ex parte Milligan, in the last published volume of Wallace,* the humblest individual has had power to arraign before the judicial magistrate any act of the political departments affecting his imprisonment, and to procure a judicial
deliverance from the grasp of any executive officer, however
exalted. The judicial power-wheth er State or Federal-can
examine and condemn, as unconstitutional and utterly void,
every legislative act and every executive decree which, by
its terms, purport, or intent, would debar the prisoner from
a discharge to which, in the judgment of the judiciary, he
is entitled by the Constitution. So in prize cases, in questions of title to land involving a determination as to the
boundaries of States and Territories, foreign or domestic,questions as completely within the idea of a "subject-matter
political in its nature" as can be conceived,-are of every-day
occurrence in the judicial tribunals.
It is, in short, no impediment in any case that this judicial
power may condemn acts of men exercising political power
which work a prejudice to the rights of any juridical or
natural person suing for justice. If the rights imperilled be
of a civil nature, entitled to protection under the principles
of the Constitution and capable of being protected by the
ordinary operation of known and established judicial remedies, the jurisdiction is perfect.
Such cases do not present political questions, in any proper
sense. For when the term is employed for any definite purpose in jurisprudence, it means a question which the Constitution, or some valid law, intrusts exclusively to the one or
both of the departments, commonly styled political.
IL That a question affecting politicalrights can be the subject of judicial cognizance was decided affirmatively, in the
face of the objection now urged, both at the bar and in the
hall of conference, in Rhode I3land v. Mlassaehuselts.t The suit
brought by Rhode Island was to vindicate the right of juris* 4 Wallace, 4.

f" 12 Peters, 669.

Dec. 1867.]

S2,ATE op GEORGIA V. STANTOIN.

69

Argument in support of the jurisdiction

diction and sovereignty in and over a disputed territory; the
kind of question that in other countries begins in diplomacy
and ends in a treaty or in war. The great State of Massachusetts vigorously-almost indignantly-repelled the jurisdiction as an assumption of political power. She intimated
power in her self to resist, and inability by the court to
enforce, its judgment.
Mr. Austin, her counsel,* said:
"This court has no jurisdiction, because of the nature of the
suit. It is in its character political; in the highest degree political; brought by a sovereign, in that avowed character, for
the restitution of sovereignty. Thejudicial power of the United
States extends, by the Constitution, only to cases of law and
equity. The terms have relation to English jurisprudence.
Suits of the present kind are not of the class belonging to law
or equity, as administered in England."
This pointed presentation of the question was sustained
by the powerful dissent of Taney, 0. J. He says:
"In the case before the court, we are called on to protect and
enforce the 'mere political jurisdiction' of Rhode Island; and
the bill of the complainant, in effect, asks us to ' control the
legislature of Massachusetts, and to restrain the exercise of its
physical force' within the disputed territory."
The dissent, however, is only a dissent. It has no authoritative force. It only serves, like all dissenting opinions, to
prove the distinctness with which the question was presented, and to set out in relief, and to give emphasis and
power to the decision of the court. The court maintained
the jurisdiction.t
Mr. Hazard, for Rhode Island, met and answered the objection. The case did not involve the title to land or to
money; nor does the Constitution say a word about boundary in giving jurisdiction over cases between States. It
was a case of Y.lputed sovereignty and jurisdiction over five
t7

. 671.

t And see Fowler v. Lindsey, 3 Dallas, 413.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. SrCANT )N.

[Stip. Ct,

Reply against the jurisdiction.

thousand people; and the court entertained jurisdiction because of the parties, and pronounced definitive judgment.
The early case of N¢ew York v. Connecticut,* and Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling Bridge,t are in accordance with our
views.
The Attorney-General places much reliance upon The
Clherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia. The court there
held that the Cherokee Nation was not a foreign state in
the sense of the Constitution-was not a state that could
sue in the courts of the United States, and, therefore, that
the court had no jurisdiction, for the want of a proper party
to the bill. All beyond that was obiter dictum. But what
was that case ? It was a bill, not against the agents of the
State of Georgia, but a bill to restrain the State, as a State
in its corporate capacity, from the execution of its laws, and
at a time when the State was actually executing them by
force. If the present bill was filed against the government
of the United States to restrain it, as a government, from
executing by force the laws in question, there might be some
analogy; but it is not a bill against the government; it is a
bill to restrain subordinate officers. The decision in 3Zarbury v-. Madison shows that such a bill is sustainable.
Independently of all this, rights of property are here involved. The bill alleges that more than $5,000,000 of real
and personal estate are about to be taken away.
-eply: The cases of Nrew York v. Connecticut, and Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts, show that the Supreme Court entertains jurisdiction of cases involving questions of boundary
because a right to land is in dispute. The fact that political
consequences were involved was a mere incident. In the latter case the primary object of the bill was, that the northern
boundary between Rhode Island and Massachusetts might
be ascertained and established, and that the rights of juris.
diction and sovereignty would be ascertained and settled also
was a consequence of this. In the Wheeling Bridge case, the
*3 Dallas, 4.

t, 13 Howard, 579.

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

71

Opinion of the court.

State of Pennsylvania was granted relief, not because of her
political character, but because she was the owner of canals
and railroads terminating at Pittsburg, costing her treasury
many millions, which it was held would be irreparably injured by the bridge. This bill shows no such case. Property is here a mere accessory or incident, and no injury is
threatened to it that equity will enjoin. From beginning to
end, there is no ground set out in the bill upon which anything like judicial cognizance can be founded by any power
of this court.
The bill having been dismissed at the last term, Mr. Justice NELSON now delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made by the counsel for the defendants
to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction, for which a precedent is found in the case of The State of Rhode Island v. The
State of Massaehusets.* It is claimed that the court has no
jurisdiction either over the subject-matter set forth in the
bill or over the parties defendants. And, in support of the
first ground, it is urged that the matters involved, and presented for adjudication, are political and not judicial, and,
therefore, not the subject of judicial cognizance.
This distinction results from the organization of the government into the three great departments, executive, legislative, and judicial, and from the assignment and limitation
of the powers of each by the Constitution.
The judicial power is vested in one supreme court, and in
such inferior courts as Congress may ordain and establish:
the political power of the government in the other two departments.
The distinction between judicial and political power is so
generally acknowledged in the jurisprudence both of England and of this country, that we need do no more than refer
to some of the authorities on the subject. They are all in
one direction.t
* 12 Peters, 669.

j- Nabob of Carnatic v. The East India Co., 1 Vesey, Jr., 375-393, S.C., 2 Id.
56-60; Penn v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Vesey, 446-7 ; New York v. Connecticut,

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It has been supposed that the case of The Slate of Rhode
Island v. The State of Massachuselts* is an exception, and
affords an authority for hearing and adjudicating upon political questions in the usual course of judicial proceedings
on a bill in equity. But, it will be seen on a close examination of the case, that this is a mistake. It involved a
question of boundary between the two States. Mir. Justice
Baldwin, who delivered the opinion of the court, states the
objection, and proceeds to answer it. He observes,t "It is
said that this is a political, not civil controversy, between the
parties; and, so not within the Constitution, or thirteenth
section of the Judiciary Act. As it is viewed by the court,
on the bill alone, had it been demurred to, a controversy as
to the locality of a point three miles south of the southernmost point of Charles River, is the only question that can
arise under the charter. Taking the case on the bill and
plea, the question is, whether the stake set up on Wrentham
Plain by Woodward and Saffrey, in 1842, is the true point
from which to run an east and west line as the compact
boundary between the States. In the first aspect of the case
it depends on a fact; in the second, on the law of equity,
whether the agreement is void or valid; neither of which
present a political controversy, but one of an ordinary judicial nature of frequent occurrence in suits between individuals." In another part of the Qpinion, speaking of the
submission by sovereigns or states, of a controversy between
them, he observes, "From the time of such submission the
question ceases to be a political one, to be decided by the
sic volo, sic jubeo, of political power: It comes to the court
to be decided by its judgment, legal discretion, and solemn
consideration of the rules of law, appropriate to its nature
as a judicial question, depending on the exercise of judicial
powers, as it is bound to act by known and settled principles
of national or municipal jurisprudence, as the case requires."
4 Dallas, 4-6; The Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 1, 20; 20, 30, 61,

75; The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts, 12 Ib. 657,
733, 734, 737, 738.
* 12 Peters, 657.
t Page 736.

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.
Opinion of the court.

And he might have added, what, indeed, is probably implied
in the opinion, that the question thus submitted by the sovereign, or state, to a judicial determination, must be one
appropriate for the exercise of judicial power; such as a
question of boundary, or as in the case of Penrn v. Lord Bal6inorc, a contract between the parties in respect to their
boundary. Lord llardwicke places his right in that case to
entertain jurisdiction upon this ground.
The objections to the jurisdiction of the court in the case
of Rhode Island against Massachusetts were, that the subject-matter of the bill involved sovereignty and jurisdiction,
which were not matters of property, but of political rights
over the territory in question. They are forcibly stated by
the Chief Justice, who dissented from the opinion.* The
very elaborate examination of the case by Mr. Justice Baldwin, was devoted to an answer and refutation of these objections. Hle endeavored to show, and, we think did show,
that the question was one of boundary, which, of itself, was
not a political question, but one of property, appropriate for
judicial cognizance; and, that sovereignty and jurisdiction
were but incidental, and dependent upon the main issue in
the case. The right of property was undoubtedly involved;
as in this country, where feudal tenures are abolished, in
cases of escheat, the State takes the place of the feudal lord,
by virtue of its sovereignty, as the original and ultimate
proprietor of all the lands within its jurisdiction.
In the case of The State of Floridav. Georgia,t the United
States were allowed to intervene, being the proprietors of a
large part of the land situated within the disputed boundary,
ceded by Spain as a part of Florida. The State of Florida
was also deeply interested as a proprietor.
The case, bearing most directly on the one before us, is
The Cherolee Nation i,. The State of Georgia. A bill was filed
in that case and an injunction prayed for, to prevent the execution of certain acts of the legislature of Georgia within
the territory of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, they claim12 Peters, 752, 754.

"t 17 H oward, 478.

$ 5 Peters, 1.

74

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ing a right to file it in this court, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, as a foreign nation. The acts of the legis]ature, if permitted to be carried into execution, would have
subverted the tribal government of the Indians; and sub.
jected them to the jurisdiction of the State. The injunction
was denied, on the ground that the Cherokee Nation could
not be regarded as a foreign nation within the Judiciary Act;
and, that, therefore, they had no standing in court. But,
Chief Justice Marshall, who delivered the opinion of the
majority, very strongly intimated, that the bill was untenable on another ground, namely, that it invblved simply a
political question. ie observed, "That the part of the bill
which resp-ects the land occupied by the Indians, and prays
the aid of the court to protect their possessions, may be
more doubtful. The mere question of right might, perhaps,
be decided by this court in a proper case with proper parties.
But the court is asked to do more than decide on the title.
The bill requires us to control the legislature of Georgia,
and to restrain the exertion of its physical force. The propriety of such an interposition by the court may be well
questioned. It savors too much or the exercise of political
power, to be within the province of the judicial department."
Several opinions were delivered in the case; a very elaborate
one, by Mr. Justice Thompson, in which Judge Story concurred. They maintained that the Cherokee Nation was a
foreign nation within the Judiciary Act, and, competent to
bring the suit; but, agreed with the Chief Justice, that all
the matters set up in the bill involved political questions,
with the exception of the right and title of the Indians to
the possession of the land which they occupied. Mr. Justice
Thompson, referring to this branch of the case, observed:
"For the purpose of guarding against any erroneous conclusions, it is proper I should state, that I do not claim for this
court, the exercise of jurisdiction upon any matter properly
falling under the denomination of political power. lelief
to the full extent prayed for by the bill may be beyond the
reach of this court. Much of the matters therein contained
by way of complaint, would seem to depend for relief upon

Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V.

STANTON.

75

Opinion of the court.

the exercise of political power; and, as such, appropriately
devolving upon the executive, and not the judicial department of the government. This court can grant relief so far,
only, as the rights of persons or property are drawn in question, and have been infringed." And, in another part of
the opinion, he returns, again, to this question, and, is still

more emphatic in disclaiming jurisdiction. He observes: "I
certainly do not claim, as belonging to the judiciary, the exercise of political power. That belongs to another branch
of the government.

The protection and enforcement of

many rights secured by treaties, most certainlI do not belong
to the judiciary. It is only where the rights of persons or
property are involved, and when such rights can be presented under some judicial form of proceedings, that courts
of justice can interpose relief. This court can have no right
to pronounce an abstract opinion upon the constitutionality
of a State law. Such law must be brought into actual, or
threatened operation upon rights properly fhlling under judicial cognizance, or a remedy is not to be had here." We
have said Mr. Justice Story concurred in this opinion; and
Mr. Justice Johnson, who also delivered one, recognized the
same distinctions.*
By the second section of the third article of the Constitution
"the judicial power extends to all cases, in law and equity,
arising under the Constitution, the laws of the United
States," &c., and as applicable to the case in hand, "to controversies between a State and citizens of another State,"which controversies, under the Judiciary Act, may be brought,
in the first instance, before this court in the exercise of its
original jurisdiction, and we agree, that the bill filed, presents a case, which, if it'be the subject of judicial cognizance,
would, in form, come under a familiar head of equity jurisdiction, that is, jurisdiction to grant an injunction to restrain a party from a wrong or injury to the rights of another,
where the danger, actual or threatened, is irreparable, or the
remedy at law inadequate. But, according to the course of
* 5 Peters, 29-30.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. STANTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proceeding under this head in equity, in order to entitle the
party to the remedy, a case must be presented appropriate
for the exercise of judicial power; the rights in danger, as
we have seen, must be rights of persons or property, not
merely political rights, which do not belong to the jurisdiction of a court, either in law or equity.
The remaining question on this branch of our inquiry is,
whether, iu view of the principles above- stated, and which
we have endeavored to explain, a case is made out in the bill
of which this court can take judicial cognizance. In looking
into it, it will be seen that we are called upon to restrain the
defendants, who represent the executive authority of the
government, from carrying into execution certain acts of
Congress, inasmuch as such execution would annul, and
totally abolish the existing State government of Georgia, and
establish another and different one in its place; in other
words, would overthrow and destroy the corporate existence
of the State,.by depriving it of all the means and instrumentalities whereby its existence might, and, otherwise would,
be maintained.
This is the substance of the complaint, and of the relief
prayed for. The bill, it is true, sets out in detail the different and substantial changes inl the structure aud organization of the existing government, as contemplated in these
acts of Congress; which, it is charged, if carried into effect
by the defendants, will work this destruction. But, they
are grievances, because they necessarily and inevitably tend
to the overthrow of the State as an organized political body.
They are stated, in detail, as laying a foundation for the
interposition of the court to prevent the specific execution
of them; and th6 resulting threatened mischief. So in respect to the prayers of the bill. The first is, that the defendants may be enjoined against doing or permitting any act
or thing, within or concerning the State, which is or may
be directed, or required of them, by or under the two acts
of Congress complained of; and the remaining four prayers
re of the same character, except more specific as to the particular acts threatened to be committed.

Dec 1867.]

STATE Or GEORGIA

V.

STANTON.

Opinion of the court.

That these matters, both as stated in the body of the bill,
and, in the prayers for relief, call for the judgment of the
court upon political questions, and, upon rights, not of persons or property, but of a political character, will hardly be
denied. For the rights for the protection of which our authority is invoked, are the rights of sovereignty, of political
jurisdiction, of government, of corporate existence as a State,
with all its constitutional powers and privileges. No case
of private rights or private property infringed, or in danger
of actual or threatened infringement, is presented by the
bill, in a judicial form, for the judgment of the court.
It is true, the bill, in setting forth the political rights of
the State, and of its people to be protected, among other
matters, avers, that Georgia owns certain real estate and
buildings therein, State capitol, and executive mansion, and
other real and personal property; and that putting the acts
of Congress into execution, and destroying the State, would
deprive it of the possession and enjoyment of its property.
But, it is apparent, that this reference to property and statement concerning it, are only by way of showing one of the
grievances resulting from the threatened destruction of the
State, and in aggravation of it, not as a specific ground of

relief. This matter of property is neither stated as an independent ground, nor is it noticed at all in the prayers for
relief. Indeed the case, as made in the bill, would have
stopped far short of the relief sought by the State, and its
main purpose and design given up, by restraining its remedial effect, simply to the protection of the title and possession of its property. Such relief would have called for a
very different bill from the one before us.
Having arrived at the conclusion that this court, for the
reasons above stated, possesses no jurisdiction over the subject-matter presented in the bill for relief, it is unimportant
to examine the question as it respects jurisdiction over the
parties defendants.
The CHIEF JUSTICE: Without being able to yield my
assent to the grounds stated in the opinion just read for the

LUKiixs v. AiRD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

dismissal of the complainant's bill, I concur fully in the 3onclusion that the case made by the bill, is one of which this
court has no jurisdiction.
BILL DISMISSED FOR. WANT OF JURISDICTION

LUKINS

v.

AiRD.

A debtor in failing circumstances cannot sell and convey his land, even for
a valuable consideration, by deed without reservations, and yet secretly
reserve to himself the right to possess and occupy it, for even a limited
time, for his own benefit. Nor will this rule of law be changed by the
fact that the right thus to occupy the property for a limited time is a
part of the consideration of the sale, the money part of the consideration being on this account proportionably abated.
APPEAL (submitted) from the District Court of the United
States for Western Arkansas. Aird being indebted, and
having subsequently failed, either sold, or conveyed under
a pretence of a sale, certain town lots, at Fort Smith, Arkansas, which he owned, and which had cost him, it seemed,

$1900, to one Spring.

Spring paid him $1200 in money;

agreeing that Aird should have the use of two of the lots
for one year free of rent, and with a privilege, so long as
Spring did not desire to make any use of them himself, or
to sell them, of renting them at $100 a year-the money paid
being made less on account of this right to use the lots rent
free for the year. Aird was at this time a single man, but
was married directly aftei~wards, and occupied the two lots
from November 28, 1858, till the spring of 1856. Lukins,
one of his creditors, now filed a bill against both Aird and
Spring, alleging that the transaction was fraudulent in fact
and in law, and praying that the conveyance might be
declared void, and the property subjected to the claims of
creditors. The court below, conceiving that the proofs
established no fraud in fact, and apparently, that the interest
reserved was a part of the consideration, and not of great
value, dismissed the bill. Lukins appealed, and the case
was now here for review.

