752

JAMES V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

think, is the law according to the true construction of the
charter, independent of the statute.* By the statute law of
Wisconsin judgments are liens on real estate, and we do not
doubt but that this judgment became a lien on the road from
the time of its rendition, and that a sale under a decree in
chancery, and conveyance in pursuance thereof, confirmed
by the court, passed the whole of the interest of the company
existing at the time of its rendition to the purchaser.t
A great many objections have been taken to the decrees
below, but those of any substance or force will be found
answered by the principles above stated.
DECREES AiFIRMED.

JA-MES ET AL. V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where, under the laws of Wisconsin, a mortgage by the La Crosse and
Milwaukee Railroad Company upon its railroad and appurtenances had
- been foreclosed, a sale made and confirmed, and a new company under
the name of the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company had been
organized by the purchasers, being the directors who made the mortgage and others holding the bonds secured thereby, this court, upon a
creditor's bill filed by judgment creditors of the mortgagor.Held, on the facts of the case, that the sale was fraudulent, and that it
should be set aside, and the new company perpetually enjoined from
setting up any right or title under it;-the mortgage to remain as security for the bonds in the hands of bondfide holders for value, and that
the judgment creditors (the present complainants) be at liberty to enforce their judgments against the defendants therein, subject to all prior
incumbrances.
2. Where the notice of the sale of a railroad under mortgage to secure railroad bonds, set forth that the sum due under the mortgage for the principal of bonds was $2,000,000, with $70,000 interest, when, in fact, less
than $200,000 was outstanding in the hands of bona fide, holders for
value, the remainder of the $2,000,000 being either in the hands of the
directors or under their control, such a notice was fraudulent, and of
itself sufficient to vitiate the sale.
* Pennock v. Coe, 23 Howard, 117.

lennock v. Coe, 23 Howard, 117 ; Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co., 24 Id.
257; 2 Redfield, 544 and n. ; Covington Co. v. Shepherd, 21 Howard, 112
Macon and Western Railroad Co. v. Parkdr, 9 Gorgia, 377

Dec. 1867.]

JAM,ES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

753

Statement of the case.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin; James,

Brewer, Greenleaf, Justice, and others, being the appellants,
and the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroads appellee.
Messrs. Cary and Carlisle,for the appellants; Messrs. Cashing and Stark, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The bill before us is a creditor's bill, filed by four different
judgment creditors, against the defendants, to set aside as
fraudulent and void against creditors the sale under a mortgage made to Barnes, 21st of June, 1858, for two millions
of dollars, by the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, which sale took place on the 21st of May, 1859, and
under which the defendants' company was organized; and
that the company be perpetually enjoined and restrained
from exercising any control over the property or franchises
mentioned in said mortgage, or from interfering in any manner with the road or its franchises; and, further, that tle
said company be decreed to take nothing under the sale, and
that the property and franchises of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Company may be sold and applied, after discharging
all prior liens, to the satisfaction of the judgments of the
complainants.
The complainants consist of the firm of F. P. James & Co.,
who are the owners of a judgment against the La Crosse and
Milwaukee Company for $26,353.51, recovered in the District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, on the 6th of October, 1858, in favor of Edwin C. Litchfield, and which came to the complainants by assignment.
Nathaniel S. Bouton, who recovered in the same court a
judgment against the sam company for $7937.37, on the 5th
of April, 1859, and which judgment came to the firm of F. R.
James & Co., by assignment; Philip S. Justice and others,
who recovered ajudgment in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County against the same company for $235.33, and E. Bradford Greenleaf, a judgment in the same court against th&
VOL. V1.

48

754

JAMES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sap. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

same company for $840.06. These judgments were liens on
the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad, subsequent to the
mortgage to Barnes, already referred to, which, with the
sale under it, is sought to be set aside as fraudulent and void
against creditors.
The mortgage was given to secure the payment of an issue
of bonds for two millions of dollars, on the 21st of June,
1858, and which were issued accordingly by the president
and secretary, and were made payable in thirty years. One
thousand bonds of one thousand dollars each, fourteen hundred of five hundred dollars each, and three thousand of one
hundred dollars each, interest at seven per cent., payable
semi-annually on the first day of January and July in each
year, with coupons attached. The sale under the mortgage
took place on default of the payment of the first instalment
of interest, six months after it was executed. Barnes, the
mortgagee, acted as auctioneer, and bid off the property
himself, as trustee for the bondholders, who soon after organized the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company, one
of the defendants in this suit.
As appears from the proofs at the time of this sale, there
bad not been two hundred thousand dollars advanced on the
entire issue of the two millions of bonds; indeed, the actual
amount is but little over one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars. Five hundred and fifty thousand dollars of the
bonds- do not appear to have been negotiated at all, which
were held in trust and never used, and one hundred and
three thousand had been returned and cancelled, making in
the aggregate six hundred and fifty-three thousand. Four
hundred thousand were given to Chamberlain to secure a
note of the company for $20,000, which he sold at auction,
and which were bid in, principally, by the directors, at five
cents on the dollar. Three hundred and ten thousand dollari of the bonds were given to secure a loan of $15,500,
and which came into the hands of the- same persons, or
their friends, for about five cents on the dollar.
It is charged in the bill, and the proofs are vcry strong in
support of it, that this note to Chamberlain for -$20,000, and

Dec. 1867.]

JAMEs v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

755

Opinion of the court.

the loan of $15,500 to secure the payment of which these
bonds were given--400,000 in amount for the first sum,
and $310,000 for the second-were made by the company
for the purpose, and with the intention of obtaining a division of them among the directors, at merely nominal prices.
It is very fully established that this was, in point of fact, the
result of the two transactions.
We have looked with some care into the proofs, and into
the brief of the learned counsel for the defendants, to ascertain the portion or amount of these bonds, or, of the stock
of the Milwaukee and Minnesota Company, into which some
of them were converted, that are now in the hands of bona
fide holders, and we find no evidence in the record tending
to show any amount beyond the sum already mentioned, less
than $200,000. These were the only outstanding bonds existing at the time of the foreclosure and sale for which value
bad been paid; the remainder of the two millions of dollars
were either in the hands of the directors or under their control, and not negotiated, or, they were in their hands under
the fraudulent arrangements we have already stated, at nominal prices. Nor, do we find that the present holders of the
bonds or stock of the company are in any better or more
favorable condition than those who organized the defendants.
The notice of sale set forth that the mortgage debt was
two millions of dollars, and that seventy thousand dollars of
interest were due.
It needs no authorities to show that such a sale cannot be
upheld without sanctioniig the grossest fraud and injustice
to the La Crosse and Milwaukee Company, the mortgagee,
and its creditors. This deceptive notice was calculated to
destroy all competition among the bidders, and, indeed, to
exclude from the purchase every one, except those engaged
in the perpetration of the fraud. The sale, therefore, must
be set aside, and the Milwaukee and Minnesota Company
be perpetually enjoined from setting up any right or title
under it-the mortgage to remain as security for the bonds
in the han Is of bonaftde holders for value, and that the judg.

SMITH V. COCKRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment creditors, the complainants, be at liberty to enforce
their judgments against the defendants therein, subject to
all prior liens or incumbrances.
Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

SMITH V. COCeRILL.
1. Congress having enacted in 1828, ",that the forms of mesne process, and
the forms and modes of proceeding in suits in the courts of the United
States, held in those States admitted into the Union since the 29th of
September, 1789, in those of common law, shall be the same in each of
the said States, respectively, as are now used in the highest court of original and general jurisdiction of the same; in proceedings in equity, according to the principles, rules, and usages, which belong to courts in
equity ;" the effect of an act of 1861, admitting Kansas into the Union,
and providing that " all the laws of the United States, which are not
locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect within that
State as in other States of the Union;" and constituting the State "a
judicial district," was to re-enact, as respected Kansas, the provision of
the act of 1828.
2. Accordingly, the Federal courts of Kansas have a right to issue execution, and the marshal of the United States there, a right to execute it.
8. But a sale by the marshal, not conforming the mode of proceeding in
levying the execution and making the sale, to the State practice, is irregular and void, and a deed by him on such sale conveys no title.

E RROI to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.
The suit was an action of ejectment by Cockrill against
Smith, to recover the possession of several lots of land in the
city of Leavenworth.
The plaintiff claimed title under a sale on a judgment
against one Clark, recovered in a State court on the 4th of
April, 1862. The sale took place ou execution upon the
judgment on the 23d of July, 1863, at which the plaintiff,
Cockrill, became the purchaser, and received a deed from
the sheriff of the lots in question.
The defendant, Smith, also claimed title under a sale on
execution upon two jrdgments against Clark, recovered in

