SMITH V. COCKRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment creditors, the complainants, be at liberty to enforce
their judgments against the defendants therein, subject to
all prior liens or incumbrances.
Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

SMITH V. COCeRILL.
1. Congress having enacted in 1828, ",that the forms of mesne process, and
the forms and modes of proceeding in suits in the courts of the United
States, held in those States admitted into the Union since the 29th of
September, 1789, in those of common law, shall be the same in each of
the said States, respectively, as are now used in the highest court of original and general jurisdiction of the same; in proceedings in equity, according to the principles, rules, and usages, which belong to courts in
equity ;" the effect of an act of 1861, admitting Kansas into the Union,
and providing that " all the laws of the United States, which are not
locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect within that
State as in other States of the Union;" and constituting the State "a
judicial district," was to re-enact, as respected Kansas, the provision of
the act of 1828.
2. Accordingly, the Federal courts of Kansas have a right to issue execution, and the marshal of the United States there, a right to execute it.
8. But a sale by the marshal, not conforming the mode of proceeding in
levying the execution and making the sale, to the State practice, is irregular and void, and a deed by him on such sale conveys no title.

E RROI to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.
The suit was an action of ejectment by Cockrill against
Smith, to recover the possession of several lots of land in the
city of Leavenworth.
The plaintiff claimed title under a sale on a judgment
against one Clark, recovered in a State court on the 4th of
April, 1862. The sale took place ou execution upon the
judgment on the 23d of July, 1863, at which the plaintiff,
Cockrill, became the purchaser, and received a deed from
the sheriff of the lots in question.
The defendant, Smith, also claimed title under a sale on
execution upon two jrdgments against Clark, recovered in

Dec. 1867.]

SMHITH V.

COCKRILL.

Opinion of the court.

the District Court of the United States-one on the 29th of
May, 1861, the other on the next day of the same month.
And the sale took place under the executions by the marshal
on the 8th August, 1861, and Smith became the purchaser,
and received a deed from the marshal for the same lots.
Both parties thus set up title under Clark; and as Smith,
the defendant below, had the elder title, if there was nothing
else in the case, he would have been entitled to recover.
It was objected, however, that the deed to him from the
marshal under the sale was void, for the reason that it was
not made in conformity with the code of civil procedure of
Kansas, which requires an appraisement of the property
levied on, and that it shall be sold on the execution for twothirds of its appraised value.
It being admitted that the property was not thus appraised,
nor sold, the court bdlow held that the sale was void, and
that the marshal's deed conveyed no title to the purchaser.
The correctness of this view raised the only question in the
case.
.XJr. T. A. RHendries and Mr. R. Breckenridge,for the plaintiff in error; 3fessrs. Clough and Wheat, with an elaborate brief
of Mr. Lysander B. IWheat, setting out the statutes and authorities bearing on the case-contra.
Mr. Justice NhELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The State of Kansas was admitted into the Union by act
of Congress on the 29th January, 1861, the fourth sectionof which provided, "that from and after the admission of
the State of Kansas, as heretofore provided, all the laws of
the United States, which are not locally inapplicable, shall
have the same force and effect within that State as in other
States of the Union: and the said State is hereby constituted
a judicial district," &c.*
The act of 1828 provided, "that the forms of mesne pro.
cess, except the title, and the forms and modes of proceed.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 128.

SMITH V.

(OCKRILL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

ing in suits in the courts of the United States, held in those
States admitted into the Union since the 29th of September,
1789, in those of, common law, shall be the same in each of
the said States, respectively, as are now used in the highest
court of original and general jurisdiction of the same; in
proceedings in equity, according to the principles, rules, and
usages, which belong to courts in equity, &c., except so far
as may have been otherwise provided for by acts of Congress, subject, however, to such alterations and additions as
the courts of the United States shall, in their discretion, deem
expedient," &c.
This act was re-enacted August 1st, 1842. The act of
1828, is one of the acts extended over the State of Kansas,
and which is declared "to have the same force and effect
within that State as in other States of the Union." As it
respects that State, it was a virtual re-enactment of it. It
had the effect, therefore, to adopt as the forms and modes
of proceeding, in suits in the Federal courts at common law,
the same as existed at the time, and were used inthe highest
common law courts of the State; and by the third section of
the act of 1828, writs of execution and other final process issued on judgments rendered in courts of the United States,
were to be the same as used in the State.*
In the absence of this provision in the act admitting Kansas
into the Union, extending the Federal laws over it, there
would be great difficulty in finding any authority in the
court to issue the execution, or in the marshal to execute it,
but with it all difficulty disappears. The result, however,
is, that the sale by the marshal in not conforming the mode
of proceeding in levying the execution, and making the sale,
to the State practice, is irregular and void, and the deed to
Smith, the defendant, conveyed no title. The civil code of
procedure of the Territory requiring the appraisal, and sale
at two-thirds of the appraised value, was continued in force
at the formation of the State, and, consequently, was the
mode of proceeding adopted on the introduction of the proBeers v. Haughton, 9 Peters, 361 ; Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Ibid. 445.

Dec. 1867.]

UNION INSURANCE

CO. V. UNITED STATES.

759

Syllabus.

cess act of 1828-1842, and to which the marshal should have
conformed in making the sale.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNION INSURANCE COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.
1. The act of August 6th, 1861, "to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes "-(which act declares that such property shall be the
lawful subject of prize and capture, and that such prizes and captures
shall be condemned in the Districtor Circuit Court . . . having jurisdiction, or in admiralty, in any district in which they may be seized, or into
which they may be taken, and tbat.the attorney-general "may institute
the proceedings of condemnation "),-extended to all descriptions of
property, real or personal, on land or on water.
2. The Circuit Court has jurisdiction, under that act, of proceedings for the
condemnation of real estate or property on land; and such proceedings
may be shaped in general conformity to the practice in admiralty; that
is to say, they may be in the form and modes analogous to those used
in admiralty. But issues of fact, on the demand of either party, must
be tried by jury; such cases differing from cases of seizure made on
navigable waters where the course of admiralty- may be strictly observed.
3. Such proceedings, having forms and modes but analogous to those used
in admiralty, and issues of fact being to be tried by a jury, do not necessarily constitute "1a cause in admiralty."
4. Where a proceeding, under the act, to enforce the forfeiture of real estate,
was carried on in a Circuit Court by libel, monition, claim interposed,
and testimony taken in conformity with the practice of courts of admiralty, and without a jury anywhere, jurisdiction of the decree was taken
by this court on appeal, but only for the purpose of reversing the decree
as irregular, and directing a new trial.
5. The proceedings in cases of the seizure of real estate should, in respect to
trial by jury and exceptions to evidence, be conformed to the course of
proceedings by information on the common-law side of the court, in
cases of seizure on land.
6. An owner of real property in New Orleans, who leased it during the late
rebellion to a firm publicly engaged in the manufacture of arms for the
rebel confederacy-the lease stating, in terms, that the lessees intended
to establish "engines, machinery," &c., in the property leased-was
presumed to have made the lease knowing the purpose for which the
property was to be used, and consenting to it. And his interest in the
property was held to be rightly confiscated under the act of 6th August,
1861.

