Ex PARTE MOCARDLE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of several persons is deemed to be-held by them as joint
tenants, or as tenants in common ; and none of the several
owners possesses authority to sell or bind the interest of his
co-owners.
But if the position assumed by the court were justified by
the evidence, and the defendants were in fact copartners, in
the ownership of the property,. such copartnership was terminated by the sale made. The land was the only subject
of the assumed copartnership; no pretence is made that it
held any other property. With the sale, therefore, the business was completed, for which the supposed copartnership
was formed; and this completion necessarily dissolved the
relation of partners between the parties.*
The subsequent declarations of Powell as to the agreement made by him with the plaintiff were not admissible as
evidence against his late copartners. His authority to bind
them ceased with the dissolution of the copartnership. His
admission of liability, or of an agreement upon which liability might follow, possessed no greater efficacy to bind his
former copartners than a similar admission of any other
agent of the opartnership after his agency had terminated.t
It follows that the court below erred both in its assumption and its rulings, and its judgment must therefore BE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is so
ordered.

EX PARTE MCCARDLE.
(MlOTION.)
Under the act of February 5th, 1867 (14 Stat. at Large, 885), to amend the
Judiciary Act of 1789, an appeal lies to this court on judgments in
habeas corpus cases rendered by Circuit Courts in the exercise of original jurisdiction.

to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court for
the District of Mississippi; the case being thus:
MOTION

* 3 Kent, 53; Story an Partnership, see. 280.
f Baker v. Stackpole, 9 Cowen, 420; Van Keuren v. Parmelee, 2 Com%tonk, 530- Story on -Partnership, J 323.

Dec. 1867.]

eEx PARTE MCARDLE.
Statement of the case.

The Judiciary Act of 1789,* enacts:
"That either of the justices of the Supreme Court as well as
judges of the District Courts, shall have power to grant writs
of habeas corpus, for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of
commitment; -Provided, That writs of habeas corpus, shall in
no case extend to prisoners in jail, unless where they are in custody under or by color of the authority of the United States, or
are committed for trial before some court of the same, or are
necessary to be brought into court to testify."
A subsequent act, one of February 5th, 1867,t to amend
the Judiciary Act of 1789, enacts:
"SEc. 1. That the several courts of the United States, and the
several justices and judges of such courts, within their respective jurisdiction, in addition to the authority already conferred by
late, shall have power to grant writs of habeascorpus in all cases
where any person may be restrained of his or her liberty in violation of the Constitution, or of any treaty or law of the United
States."
After providing for the awarding, direction, serving and
return of the writ, and for the hearing, &c., the act pro-

ceeds:
"From the final decision of any judge, justice, or court inferior
to the Circuit Court, appeal may be taken to the Circuit Court of
the United States fbr the district in which said cause is beard,
and from the judgment of said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court
of the United States."
"And pending such proceedings or appeal, and until final
judgment be rendered therein, and after final judgment of discharge in the same, any proceeding against such person so
alleged to be restrained of his or her liberty in any State court,
or under the authority of any State, for any matter or thing so
heard and determined, or in process of being heard and determined, under and by virtue of such writ of habeas corpus, shall
be deeiaed null and void."
*

14; 1 Stat. at Large, 82.

f 14 Id. 885.

Ex

PARTE MCCARDLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The act further declares:
"S-c. 2.

This act shall not apply to any person who is

or may be held in the custody of the military authorities of the
United States, charged with any military offence."
In this state of statutory law, a writ of habeas corpits was
issued from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Mississippi, on the 12th of N'ovember, 1867, upon
the petition of William H. McCardle, directed to Alvin 0.
Gillem and E. 0. C. Ord, requiring them to produce the
body of the petitioner, together with the cause of his imprisonment, and to abide the order of the court in respect to
the legality of such imprisonment.
At the time of issuing the writ, E. 0. C. Ord was brevet
Major-General commanding the Fourth Military District,
and Alvin 0. Gillem was brevet Major-General commanding
the sub-district of Mississippi, under the Reconstruction Acts
of Congress.
In obedience to the writ, Major-General Gillem, on the
21st of November, made a return of the cause of imprisonment, from which it, appeared that McCardle had been
arrested, and was held in custody for trial by a military commission, under the alleged authority of the Reconstruction
Acts, for charges, (1) of disturbance of the public peace; (2)
of inciting to insurrection, disorder, and violence; (3) of
libel; and (4)of impeding reconstruction.
On making this return Major-General Gillem surrendered
McCardle to the court, and he was ordered into the custody
of the marshal.
Subsequently, on the 25th of November, 1867, the Circuit
Court adjudged that the petitioner be remanded to the custody of Major-General Gillem, from which judgment the
petitioner prayed an appeal to this court, which was allowed,
and a bond for costs given according to the order of the
court.
On the same 25th of November, on the motion of the petitioner, he was admitted to bail on his own recognizance,
with sufficient sureties, in the sum of one thousand dollars,

Dec. 1867.]

Ex

PARTE IVICCARDLE.

Argument in support of the motion.

conditioned for his appearance to abide by and perform the
final judgment of this court.

The legal consequence of this admission to bail was the
discharge of the prisoner, both from the custody of the marshal and of Major-General Gillem,with a continuing liability,
however, under the recognizance, to be returned, first to the
civil court, and then to military custody, in case of affirmance
by this court of the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The ground assigned for the motion to dismiss the appeal
was a want of jurisdiction in this court to take cognizance
of it.
Mr. Trumbull (with whom was Mr. iughes), in support of the
motion:
1. Unless Congress have given appellate jurisdiction to this
court, it will be conceded that none can exist.* Under the
Judiciary Act of 1789 assuredly no appeal lies, for none was
given then or since.t Until now, eighty years since the
government was formed, no such thing as an appeal or writ
of error in a case like this has been known.
To determine whether the appeal lies, it is first necessary
to ascertain whether the Circuit Court of Mississippi took
jurisdiction of the case under the act of 1789, or 1867; if
under the former, then, as we have said, and as will be .admitted, no appeal lies.
Under the act of 1789, power was given to issue writs of
habeas corpus for the relief of persons in custody "under or
by color of the authority of the United States." KeCardle
was in prison exactly under such authority. Here, then, is
a case coming within the very terms of the act of 1789, authorizing the issuing of the writ of habeas coqus, and not

excepted from its provisions, by the proviso. Had the act
of February 5th, 1867, never been passed, the Circuit Court
of Mississippi had authority to issue the writ of habeas corpus
in this case.
v. Daucly, 3 Dallas, 321 ; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 381
- In the matter of Metzger, 5 Howard, 188.
21
VOL. Vi.

*Wiseart

EX PARTE MCCARDLE.

[Sup, Ct.

Argument in support of the motion.

On the other hand the act of 1867 does not properly apply
to this case. What was the purpose of that act? We all
know. It is matter of legislative, nay, of public history. It
was to relieve persons from a deprivation of their liberty
under State laws; to protect loyal men in the rebel States
from oppression under color of State laws administered by
rebel officers; to protect especially those who had formerly
been slaves, and who, under color of vagrant and apprentice
laws in some of the States, were being reduced to a bondage
more intolerable than that from which they had been recently
delivered. It was to protect such persons and for such a
purpose that the law of 1867 was passed, and not to relieve
,any one from imprisonment under laws of the United States,
a matter which had already been provided for by the act of
1789.
This is apparent from the terms of the act of 1867 itself.
Observe the opening part of its first section. The sole object, as declared, is to confer additionalauthority on the United
States courts and judges to issue writs of habeas corpus; and
it would be absurd to say that a grant to the courts of what
they already possessed was giving them something additional.
The concluding part of the same section is equally expressive. It is all aimed at State action.
2. That the Circuit Court of Mississippi had no jurisdiction of this case under the act of February 5th, 1867, is further apparent from the second paragraph of the act.
That McCardle was i n the custody of the military authorities of the United States his petition admits, and the record
shows that he was charged with disturbance of the public
peace, with inciting insurrection, disorder, and violence, in
violation of the laws of Congress, known as the Reconstruction Acts.
The State of Mississippi, where McCardle was arrested,
was at the time under military control; General Ord was,
as appears by the record, in command of the military district
embracing Mississippi, and McCardle was arrested by him,
charged with being a disturber of the public peace, and with
inciting "insurrection, disorder, and violence," which was

Dec. 1867.]

Ex

PARTE

MCCARDLE.

323

Argument in favor of jurisdiction.

clearly a military offence. If so, this court has no jurisdiction of this case, because it gets its jurisdiction, if at all, by
appeal under the act of February 5th, 1867, and that act expressly exempts from its operation persons in the custody
of the military authority charged with a military offence.
3. But if it were admitted that the Circuit Court properly
took jurisdiction of this case under the act of February 5th,
1867, still no appeal from its decision would be to this court,
for the reason that it was an original proceeding in the Circuit Court, and no appeal is given in such cases. The jurisdiction exists only when an appeal comes from the Circuit
Court, itself acting as an appellate court, and from the decision of any judge, justice, or court, "iibfeoir" to it.
The language of the statute is plain. Of course, this being an original case in the Circuit Court, and not one taken
to that court by appeal from an inferior tribunal, is not
within the statute. A rule for appeals "being provided,
this court cannot depart from it."
M1essrs. Black and Sharkey, contra, contended that the statute of 1867 was a remedial one, and should therefore receive a liberal construction; that the clause which gave an
appeal from the District Court to the Circuit. Court, and
from the Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the United
States, did not intend to confine the appeal to the Supreme
Court to cases which merely commenced in the District
Court, but to give the appeal to cases which commenced
originally in the District or Circuit Court; that the language
of the opening part of the first section was most comprehensive; that there was no reason for Congress to make the
distinction between the two cases. The exception in the
second section, as to persons charged with military offences,
did not apply to the case, for no military offence was charged
against the party. The offences charged were all civil
offences. By putting the district under military rule they
did not become military offences any more than they would
have been ecclesiastical offences if the sare district had
been put under the government of a body of clergy. The

EX PARTE MCARDLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

offences had a specific well-known nature; and so tested,
they were civil offencesThe CHIEF JUSTICE'delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss the appeal has been thoroughly
argued, and we are now to dispose of it.
The ground assigned for the motion is want of jurisdiction, in this court, of appeals from the judgments of inferior courts in cases of habeas corpus.
Whether this objection is sound or otherwise depends
upon the construction of the act of 1867.
Prior to the passage of that act this court exercised appellate jurisdiction over the action of inferior courts by
habeas corpus. In the case of Burford * this court, by
habeas corpus, aided by a writ of certiorari, reviewed and
reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia. In that ease a prisoner brought before the
Circuit Court by the writ had been remanded, but was discharged upon the habeas corpus issued out of this court.
By the writ of habeas corpus also, aided by a certiorari,this
court, in the case of Bollman and Siuartwout,t again revised
a commitment of the Circuit Court of the District. The
prisoners had been committed on a charge of treason by
order of the Circuit Court, and on their petition this court
issued the two writs, and, the prisoners having been produced, it was ordered that they should be discharged on the
ground that the commitment of the Circuit Court was not
warranted in law.
But, though the exercise of appellate jurisdiction over
judgments of inferior tribunals was not unknown to the
practice of this court before the act of 1867, it was attended
by some inconvenience and embarrassment. It was necessary to use the writ of certiorari in addition to the writ of
habeas corpus, and there was no regulated and established
practice for the guidance of parties invoking the jurisdiction.
3 Cranch, 44 , 453.
4 4 Cranch, 75.

See also Ex parte Dugan, 2 Wallace, 134.

Dec. 1867.]

Ex

PARTE MO0CJARDLE.

Opinion of the court.

This inconvenience and embarrassment was remedied in a
small class of cases arising from commitments for acts done
or omitted under alleged authority of foreign governments,
by the act of August 29th, 1842,* weich authorized a direct
appeal from any judgment upon habeas corpus of a justice
of this court or judge of a District Court to the Circuit
Court of the proper district, and from the judgment of the
Circuit Court to this court.
I This provision for appeal was transferred, with some modification, from the act of 1842 to the act of 1867; and the
first question we are to consider, upon the construction of
that act, is whether this right of appeal extends to all cases
of habeas corpus, or only to a particular class.
It ivas insisted on argument that appeals to this court are
given by the act only from the judgments of the Circuit
Court rendered upon appeals to that court from decisions
of a single judge, or of a District Court.
The words of the act 4re these: "From the final decision
of any judge, justice, or court inferior to the Circuit Court,
an appeal may be taken to the Circuit Courts of the United
States for the district in which said cause is heard, and from
the judgment of said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court
of the United States."
These words, considered without xeference to the other
provisions of the act, are not unsusceptible of the construction put upon them at the bar; but that construction can
hardly be reconciled with other parts of the act.
The first section gives to the several courts of the United
States, and the several justices and judges of such courts
within their respective jurisdictions, in adalition to the authority already conferred by law, power to grant writs of
habeas corpus in all cases where any person may be restrained
of liberty in violation of the Constitution, or of any treaty
or law of the United States.
This legislation is of the most comprehensive character.
It brings within the hzabeas corpus jurisdiction of every court
5 Stat. at Large, 539.

Ex

PARTE MCCARDLE.

[Sup. C"'

Opinion of the court.

and of every judge every possible case of privation of lib.
erty contrary to the National Constitution, treaties, or laws.
It is impossible to widen this jurisdiction.
And it is to this jurisdiction that the system of appeals
is applied. From decisions of a judge or of a District Court
appeals lie to the Circuit Court, and from the judgment of
the Circuit Court to this court. But each Circuit Court, as
well as each District Court, and each judge, may exercise
the original jurisdiction; and no satisfactory reason can be
assigned for giving appeals to this pourt from the judgments
of the Circuit Court rendered on appeal, and not giving like
appeals from judgments of Circuit Courts rendered in the
exercise of original jurisdiction. If any class of cases was
to be excluded from the right of appeal, the exclusion would
naturally apply to cases brought into the Circuit Court by
appeal rather than to cases originating there. In the former
description of cases the petitioner for the writ, without appeal to this court, would have the advantage of at least two
hearings, while in the latter, upon the hypothesis of no appeal, the petitioner could have but one.
These considerations seem to require the construction that
the right of appeal attaches equally to all judgments of the
Circuit Court, unless there be something in the clause defining the appellate jurisdiction which demands the restricted
interpretation. The mere words of that clause may admit
either, but the spirit and purpose of the law can only be
satisfied by the former.
We entertain no doubt, therefore, that an appeal lies to
this court from the judgment of the Circuit Court in the
case before us.
Another objection to the jurisdiction of this court on appeal was drawn from the clause of the first section, which
declares that the jurisdiction defined by it is "in addition
to the authority already conferred by law."
This objection seems to be an objection to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court over the cause rather than to the jurisdiction of thig court on appeal.
The latter jurisdiction, as has just been shown, is coexten-

Dec. 1867.]

Dee. 1867.]

SELZ V. UNA.
SELZ v. UNNA.

327

827

Syllabus.

sive with the former. Every question of substance which the
Circuit Court could decide upon the return of the kabeas
corpus, including the question of its own jurisdiction, may
be revised here on appeal frorh its final judgment.
But an inquiry on this motion into the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Ccurt would be premature. It would extend to the
merits of the cause in that court; while the question before
us upon this motion to dismiss must be necessarily limited
to ourjurisdiction on appeal.
The same observations apply to the argument of counsel
that the acts of MeCardle constituted a military offence, for
which lie might be tried-under the Reconstruction Acts by
military commission. This argument, if intended to convince us that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the
cause, applies to the main question which might arise upon
the hearing of the appeal. If intended to convince us that
this court has no appellate jurisdiction of the cause, it is only
necessary to refer to the considerations already adduced ox
this point.
We are satisfied, as we have already said, that we have
such jurisdiction under the act of 1867, and the motion to
dismiss must therefore be
DENIED.

SELZ V.

U.NA.

1. Equity will not grant relief where the allegations of the complainant
show that he has no title nor interest in the subject-matter of the dispute.
2. Nor, in an action where all are liable (as e.:gr.an action of trespass against
tort-feasors), enforce a secret agreement made by the plaintiff with certain of the defendants, that if they will desist from resistance to his suit,
he will, if he recovers judgment, not levy execution on ikeir property;
litigants being bound to act fairly to each other, and such an agreement
operating as a fraud.
3 Although the assignee of a judgment takes it subject to all defences that
existed against it in the hands of the assignor, yet such an agreement as
that above mentioned constitutes no defence as against an assignee in
good faith, and without knowledge of the secret agreement; the verdict
and judgment having been regularly entered against all the defendants.

