Dec. 1867.]

Dee. 1867.]

SELZ V. UNA.
SELZ v. UNNA.

327

827

Syllabus.

sive with the former. Every question of substance which the
Circuit Court could decide upon the return of the kabeas
corpus, including the question of its own jurisdiction, may
be revised here on appeal frorh its final judgment.
But an inquiry on this motion into the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Ccurt would be premature. It would extend to the
merits of the cause in that court; while the question before
us upon this motion to dismiss must be necessarily limited
to ourjurisdiction on appeal.
The same observations apply to the argument of counsel
that the acts of MeCardle constituted a military offence, for
which lie might be tried-under the Reconstruction Acts by
military commission. This argument, if intended to convince us that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the
cause, applies to the main question which might arise upon
the hearing of the appeal. If intended to convince us that
this court has no appellate jurisdiction of the cause, it is only
necessary to refer to the considerations already adduced ox
this point.
We are satisfied, as we have already said, that we have
such jurisdiction under the act of 1867, and the motion to
dismiss must therefore be
DENIED.

SELZ V.

U.NA.

1. Equity will not grant relief where the allegations of the complainant
show that he has no title nor interest in the subject-matter of the dispute.
2. Nor, in an action where all are liable (as e.:gr.an action of trespass against
tort-feasors), enforce a secret agreement made by the plaintiff with certain of the defendants, that if they will desist from resistance to his suit,
he will, if he recovers judgment, not levy execution on ikeir property;
litigants being bound to act fairly to each other, and such an agreement
operating as a fraud.
3 Although the assignee of a judgment takes it subject to all defences that
existed against it in the hands of the assignor, yet such an agreement as
that above mentioned constitutes no defence as against an assignee in
good faith, and without knowledge of the secret agreement; the verdict
and judgment having been regularly entered against all the defendants.

SELZ V. UNNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. Equal contribution among tort-feasors is not inequitable, although the
law will not support an action to enforce contribution where the pay
ments have been unequal.
Hence, where a marshal has received three-fourths of the amount of a j udgment from three of four defendants, tort-feasors, he does nothing inequitable in collecting, under agreement with them that he shall do so,
the residue from a fourth.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
Unna sued four different parties, of whom Selz and Leopold were one, for a tortious levy which they had made on
his property, assuming it to be the property of one of their
debtors. When the suit was about to be tried a second timethe jury having once been unable to settle upon a verdictUnna agreed with Selz and Leopold (as they alleged) that if
they would desist and abstain from all participationin the preparation and conduct of the defence thereof, he would protect and
save them harmless from all loss and damage,, under whatever judgment he might recover, and would so control and
direct the collection thereof that no part of the same should
be paid by or collected from them under any execution
issued thereon. In pursuance of the agreement, Selz and
Leopold and their counsel did withdraw from the defence
of the suit. Judgment having gone in favor of Unua and
against all four parties,-and all four standing on the record
as convict alike,-Unna after a certain time assigned the
judgment to two persons whom this court regarded, upon
-the evidence, as purchasers in good faith, and without
knowledge of the secret agreement; his assignment cove. nanting "that he had neither made, done or suffered any act
or thing by which the said judgment is in any manner impaired or lessened in value." The assignees having issued
execution, proceeded to levy on property of some of the
three defendants. The whole three then agreed to pay him
tbree-fouNths of the judgment, it being understood that for
the remaining fourth the assignees should look to Selz and
Leopold. For that fourth the assignees accordingly resorted
to them, levying upon and selling certain real estate as the

Dec. 1867.]

-

SELZ

V. UNNA.

329

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

property of Leopold. Thereupon Selz and Leopold filed
bills in equity against Unna and the three other defendants
and the assignees, setting up the agreement with Unna;
alleging that the three other defendants had paid the whole
amount of the judgment, which was therefore satisfied; that
the assignees were but covers for these other defendants who
had had the assignment made in order to obtain contribution from them, Selz and Leopold. It was alleged as well
that the real estate levied on, though once Leopold's, was
not so now, it having been sold by his assignees for creditors some time ago. The prayer was for an injunction
against the marshal's making any deed for Leopold's interest
in the real estate, and from further proceedings to collect the
judgment, and that it should be declared satisfied of record,
as it was alleged to be in fact.
The answers denied the equities of the bill generally, and
especially all knowledge of "the fraudulent agreement;"
denied that the judgment had been paid, on the contrary
asserted that it was unpaid; and asserted also that the assignment was bondflde. The court below dismissed the bills.
Appeal accordingly.
Messrs. Gooldns and Roberts, for the plaintiff in error:
Even assuming, as opposite counsel does, that the assignment was bofide, and without knowledge of the agreement
of Unna with Selz and Leopold, which is assuming what we
regard as against the evidence, still the decree below was
wrong. Surely, Unna cannot, in a court of equity, say that this
agreement is not binding on him. His assignees are in no
better situation than himself.*
Then, as to the matter of contribution. Since the wellknown case of 3ferryweather v. l~ixan,t in the time of Lord
Kenyon, C. J., the authorities bearing upon the question of
*Row v. Dawson, 2 Leading Cases in Equity, part 2, p. 236, and cases
there cited; and see McJilton v. Love, 13 Illinois, 495, citing Himes v.
Barnitz, 8 Watts, 39 ; Chamberlin v. Day, 3 Cowen, 353.
t" 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th ed. 527; reported from 8 Term, 186.

SEL~Z V. MUX~A.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

contribution in like cases to this, are almost uniform that it
will not be enforced at law, or in equity.*

Mr. .McKinnon, contra:
It may be remarked, primarily (though this matter was
not relied on below), that the complainants have no right,
title or interest in or to the real estate, in respect to which
they seek to enjoin the marshal from making a deed. The
bill states that it was sold long ago. But passing to other
matters:
1. The consideration whereon the complainants found
their claims to the relief prayed, is inequitable. Look at
the case: Hlonest creditors engaged in a common defence
against a suit for a levy which they believed that they had a
right to make, and where they have been so far successful
that one jury has failed to agree on a verdict. These complainants, Selz and Leopold, just as the case was called for
trial a second time, secretly, and without the knowledge of
their co-defendants, by agreement with the common prosecutor, Unna, desist and abstain from all further participation
in the defence, and with their counsel retire from the courtroom, leaving their confederates to suffer, while they went
free. "Equality is equity." That is one maxim of equity,
old as equity itself. Another is, "H]e that hath committed in-

iquity shall not have equity."
2. Are these assignees within the meaning of the rule
that the assignee of a chose in action takes it subject to all
the equities existing between the original parties? In no
just sense. We here rely on what was said in the court
below (Drummond, J.):
"Admit the general rule, that the assignee of a judgment
takes it with all the equities that there may be, and that these
equities can be set up as well against the assignees as against
the assignor. Yet such an agreement as this, which is not an
equitable, but an inequitableagreement, so far as the other defendSee Farebrotber v. Ansley, 1 Campbell, 343; Wilson v. Milner, 2 Id.
452; Nelson v. Cook, 17 Illinois, 443.

Dec. 1867.]

SELZ V. UNNA.
Opinion of the court.

ants are concerned, cannot be set up in a case like this, to protect them from a liability which, when the judgment was obtained, was as binding on them as on the other parties, defendants
in the case."
So too as to the question of contribution, we adopt its remarks :
"The general rule undoubtedly is, that there can be no contribution between wrongdoers, and this was an action of trespass
against these parties. This rule has been qualified considerably;
many exceptions already exist under it,* and it is doubtful
whether the rule could be said to operate in a case like this. At
any rate, I am not disposed to grant these plaintiffs relief until
I am satisfied that they have done equity as to the other defendants."
Mr. Justice CLI'FORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Material facts are that David Sternberg and Edward Isidor,
doing business at Chicago under the firm name and style of
Sternberg & Isidor, became largely indebted, and being
unable to make payments as promptly as certain of their
creditors desired, they confessed judgments in their favor.
Judgments were thus obtained by Morris Selz and Abraham
Cohen, doing business under the name and style of Selz &
Cohen; by Henry A. Kohn and Joseph Kohn, under the
name and style of H. A. Kohn & Brother; by William Al.
Ross and John H. Ross, under the name and style of William M. Ross & Company; and by Leonard B. Shearer,
William W. Strong, and John S. Paine, doing business
under the name and style of Shearer, Paine & Strong.
Executions were issued on these several judgments, and
they were placed in the hands of the sheriff of the county,
with directions to levy the same on certain goods and chattels, as the property of the judgment debtors.
Doubts being entertained by the sheriff as to the ownerSee 1 Parsons on Contracts, 37, and authorities there cited, particularly
Bailey ,.Bussing, 28 Connecticut, 455.

SELZ V.

"UNNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ship of the property, the judgment creditors gave him a
bond to save him harmless, and the complainant, Henry
Leopold, became the surety of Selz & Cohen in that bond.
Indemnified against loss, the sheriff, by the direction of
John M. Huntington, attorney of Selz & Cohen, seized
and sold the goods and chattels, as the property of the junior
member of the firm of Sternberg & Isidor, the judgment
debtors.
The property sold was subsequently claimed by Levi J.
Unna, and he brought trespass in the Circuit Court against
those who signed the bond of indemnity, and the attorney
who gave the directions to make the sale.
Defendants appeared at the October term of the court,
1858, and went to trial, but the jury being unable to agree,
they were discharged, and the case was continued. Before
the next trial the plaintiff agreed with the complainants in
this suit, that if they would make no further defence in that
action, he, the plaintiff, would save them harmless from all
loss or damage, and that no part of the judgment he might
recover in the suit should be collected of them or be levied
on their property. Complainants admit that they accepted
the proposition, and that their attorney withdrew from- the
defence, and it appears that the plaintiff; on the fifth day of
March, 1859, recovered judgment in the suit against all the
defendants in the sum of six thousand three hundred and
seven dollars and eighty-nine cents, and costs of suit.
Four of the defendants, to wit, William Ross, John H.
Ross, Leonard B. Shearer, and William W. Strong, sued out
a writ of error to this court. Pending the writ of error,
Daniel L. Shearer and William Clark purchased the judgment for the sum of six thousand five hundred and forty-six
dollars and twenty-eight cents, and took an assignment of
the same from the judgment creditor. Covenants of the
assignor were in substance and effect that the judgment was
wholly unsatisfied, and that he had done no act to impair, in
any way or manner, its force and effect, and he added the
unusual stipulation that he intended to make the representations so full and explicit, that if false they would bring him

Dec. 1867.]

SELZ V. UTNNA.
Opinion of the court.

within certain provisions of the Crimes' Acts passed by the
State legislature.
By the advice of counsel the writ of error was not prosecuted, and for that reason was dismissed under the rules of
this court. Danger from the writ of error being removed,
the assignees of the judgment caused execution to be issued
on the same, and placed the execution in the hands of the
marshal for the purpose of having the money collected.
Pursuant to the commands of thie writ, the marshal proceeded to levy the same on the property of Kohn & Brother,
when they proposed a compromise as a means of saving
their property from sacrifice. Substance of the proposition
was, that they would pay one-fourth of the amount, and that
Ross & Company, and Shearer, Strong & Paine, should
each pay one-fourth, and that the marshal should levy the
remaining one-fourth on certain real estate formerly belonging to Henry Leopold, who was the surety of Selz & Cohen.
They accepted the proposition, and the payments were made
as proposed.
Levy was accordingly made by the marshal on that real
estate to satisfy the balance of the execution which belonged
to Mlz & Cohen, or their surety to pay, but before the sale
was completed the complainants filed their bill of complaint.
In the bill they set up the suit in trespass, the agreement
made by them with the plaintiff, their withdrawal from the
defence, the recovery of the judgment by the plaintiff, and
the assignment of the judgment, and charge that Ross & Co.
and Shearer and Strong paid the whole amount of the judgment, and that the assignment was not bona fide, but that it
was made with intent to enforce contribution against the
complainants. Prayer of the bill of complaint was, that the
other judgment defendants, and the plaintiff in the trespass
uit, and the assignees of the judgment, might be made parties, and that they might be enjoined from completing the
sale of the real estate, and firon all proceedings to collect
the judgment.
Answers were filed by William Clark, William Al. Ross,
John H. Ross, and William Strong, denying the entire eqnitV

SELZ V. 'UNNA.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

of the bill of complaint, whereupon the complainants moved
the court for an injunction to stay the sale, which was denied
by the court, and the marshal sold the premises to Henry
A. Kohn, and gave him the proper certificate of sale. Sub.
sequently the complainants filed a supplemental bill, in which
they alleged that these respondents had agreed that the lot
in question should be sold, that Henry A. Kohn should bid
it off for the purpose of compelling the complainants to pay
their proportion of the jhdgnicnt, and prayed that the purchaser might be enjoined from receiving any deed of the lot,
or from interfering in any manner with the premises. Statement of the original bill of complaint was, that the premises
formerly belonged to the complainant, Henry Leopold, and
his copartner in business, and that the owners thereof became embarrassed, aid made an assignment of all their
property and effects for the benefit, of their creditors, and
that the assignee sold and conveyed the premises to a third
person for the sum of three thousand dollars.
Suppose the allegations of the bill of complaint are true,
then it is clear that the decision of the Circuit Court was
correct, as the complainants have no title or interest in the

land sold by the marshal, and described in the certificate
which he gave to the purchaser. They, under such a state
of the case, have no such standing in the pleadings as will
enable them to ask the interposition of a court of equity to
enjoin the respondents or any other parties, as their own
allegations show that they have no title in the premises.
Interposition of a court of equity cannot be successfully
invoked in a case like the present unless the party asking
relief is able to show that he has a legal or equitable right
or title in the subject-matter of the controversy. But the
want of title in the complainants was not the ground assumed by the Circuit Court; and inasmuch as the marshal
sold the land as the property of Leopold, we are inclined to
examine some of the other issues between the parties as disclosed in the pleadings.

Principal charge in the bill of complaint is, that the assignment of the judgmer.nt was procured as the means to compel

Dec. 1867.]

SELZ V. ]UNNA.
Opinion of the court.

the complainants to pay their proper proportion of the
amount therein recovered. Proofs in the suit do not establish that proposition, but if they did it would not benefit the
complainants in this case, because the judgment had been
recovered against the complainants as well as the respondents, and the former, as well as the latter, were liable for
the whole amount recovered. Pending the suit in which
the judgment was recovered, it is true the plaintiff had
agreed that, if these complainants would make no further
defence to his action of trespass, his judgment, in case he
prevailed, should "be levied on the property of the other defendants, and the record shows that they accepted that secret
proposition, and gave their associates no aid in conducting
the defence at the second trial. But they were not discharged from their joint liability, and the verdict and judgment were against them as well as against the other parties.
Conceded intention of the plaintiff was to collect his whole
claim, but he was willing to agree secretly with the complainants to collect the whole amount of the other parties to
facilitate his recovery in the suit. Theory of the suit was,
that the defendants were joint trespassers, and if such was
the fact the plaintiff must have known that he could not release one without discharging all the rest, who were jointly
liable for the same wrongful act.*
Present complainants were defendants in that judgment,
and became liable with the other defendants to pay the whole
amount. Prior to the rendition of the judgment any agreement between the plaintiff in the suit and these complain-

ants, such as is now alleged in the bill of complaint, would,
if construed to be a discharge, have been a good defence for
all the other joint wrongdoers. Such a secret agreement
entered into between a plaintiff and a, part of the defendants
in a suit is inequitable, as tending to promote injustice both
as between the plaintiff and the other defendants, and as beDufresnev. Hutchinson, 3 Taunton, 117; Ruble v. Turner, 2 Henning &
31unford, 38; Strang v. Holmes, 7 Cowen, 224; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence,
t80.

SELZ V. UNNA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tween those who were jointly liable for an error committed
in an attempt to enforce their legal rights.
Parties are not only bound to act fairly in their dealings
with each other, but they are not to expect the aid of a court
of equity to enforce an agreement made with the intent that
it shall operate as a fraud upon the private rights and interests of third persons.*
Better opinion from the evidence is, that the purchase of
the judgment by the assignees was made in good faith, and
that they had no knowledge of the secret agreement between
the judgment creditor and the complainants. Grant that
the fact is so, still the complainants contend that the assignees
of the judgment acquired no greater rights by the assignment
than the assignor possessed at the time the assignment was
made. General rule undoubtedly is, that the assignee 6f a
judguent takes it subject to all defences which existed
against it in the hands of the assignbrs at the time the instrument of assignment was executed.t
When the assignees took the judgment in this case the
complainants were legally liable, with the other defendants,
and they were without any defence against the same, other
than what arises from the agreement made by them in the
trespass suit Inequitable as that agreement was, it constituted no legal obstacle to the purchase of the judgment,
and cannot be made the foundation for relief in this case.
Payment of one-fourth of the judgment, as between the defendants in that suit, belonged to the complainants, and they
having failed to pay their just proportion of the same, cannot complain that the assignees of the judgment have seen
fit to levy that proportion.of the same upon their property.
Equal contribution to discharge a joint liability is not inequitable, even as between wrongdoers, although the law
will not, in general, support an action to enforce it where
the payments have been unequal.1 Where the liability is
1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 883.
- Jlimes v. Barnitz, 8 Watts, 39; Chamberlin v. Day, Cowen, 853.
M
Merryweather v. Nixan, 8 Term, 186; Bailey v. Bussing, 28 Connecticut, 455.

Dec. 18b7.]

LORINGs v. MARSHI.

837

Syllabus.

joint equal contribution is just, and it would afford the complainants no ground of relief if it appeared that the arrangement with the marshal was such as is alleged in the bill of
complaint. Having collected three-fourths of the amount
of the other defendants, it was quite right that he should, if
possible, levy the balance so as to effect equal justice between
the parties.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

LORINGS V. MARSH.
1. Where a testatrix having children, and grandchildren the issue of one
of them, makes a will, in form, leaving the income of her property in
trust equally between the children for life (saying nothing about the
grandchildren), and afterwards to charities; and on'the death of one of
the children issueless, nakes a codicil, distributing the income again
among the surviving children for life (again saying nothing about the
grandchildren), and the child having issue dies in the lifetime of the
testatrix, leaving these, the grandchildren of the testatrix,-and the
testatrix then dies,-the omission of such testatrix to provide for her
grandchildren is to be taken (especially if parol proofs, admissible by
the law of the State, aid such conclusiort) to have been intentional and
not to have been occasioned by any accident or mistake. Hence, the
case will not come within the 25th section of chapter 92 of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts (A.D. 1860), which provides for the
issue of any deceased child or children, as in cases of intestacy, "unless
it shall appear that such omission was intentional, and not occasionec.
by any accident or mistake."
2. 'Where two persons, as trustees, are invested by last will with the whole
of a legal estate, and are to hold it in trust to "manage, invest and reinvest the same according to their best discretion," and pay over incomo
during certain lives; and, on their cffiux, these persons, or theirsuccessors,
as trustees, are to select and appoint persons, who are to be informed of
the facts by the trustees, and who are tJ distribute the capital among
permanently established and incorporated institutions, for the benefit of
the poor,-the power given to such two persons to select and appoint, is
a power which will survive, and on the death of one in the lifetime of
the testator, it may be properly executed by the other.
-.
By the law of Massachusetts, as administered by her courts, in a devise
to charitable institutions, in form such as just above indicated, the objects of the charity are made sufficiently certain. And, as the question
of such certainty is to be determined by the local 'aw of the State, any
objection of uncertainty cannot be heard here
VOL. VL

22

