514

SUNITED STATES V. COUNCIL OF KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"- TED STATES, EX REL., !1. COUNCIL OF KEOKUK.
1. An act of Congress passed on the admission of Iowa into the Union in
1845, having provided that the laws of the United States not locally
inapplicable should have the same effect within that State as elsewhere
-the IIProcess Act" of May 19th, 1828,-by which the modes and
forms of process in common law suits were made the same in the Circuit
Courts of the United States as those used in the highest State court of
original jurisdiction-became applicable to the Federal courts of Iowa.
2, Accordingly, mandamus being, in the Supreme Court of the State, the
remedy to compel a municipal corporation to levy a tax to pay a judg.ment of which a creditor has no means of obtaining payment, a party
having a judgment in a Circuit Court, is entitled to the same remedy
in that court.
3. An injunction by a State court against such a levy is inoperative against
a mandamus from the Federal court ordering it, though issuing subsequently to the injunction. Riggs v. Johnson County (supra, 166) affirmed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
The case was submitted by

31r. Howell, for the plaintiff in error, and bylfessrs. Strong
2nd Craig, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the, case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The General Assembly of the State of Iowa, by a law passed
January 29th, 1857, authorized the corporation defendants
to levy a direct tax of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
for the benefit of the Keokuk, Mount Pleasant, and Muscatine Railroad Company, and to issue the bonds of the city
for the amount, payable in one, two, and three years, with
interest coupons annexed, at the rate not exceeding tenper
cent' per annum.* They voted the tax and issued the bonds,
and the relator became the bond fide holder for valud of
twenty-five of the bonds before their maturity. Payment
being refused after their maturity, he brought suit on the
same in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis* Session Laws 1857, 402.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES v. COUNCILOF :KEOKTK.

515

Statement of the case.

trict of Iowa, against the defendants, but the judges of the
court being interested in the matters involved, the cause was
duly transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois, as appears by the record.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the relator in the latter
court October 19th, 1864, for the sum of thirty-six thousand
five hundred and forty-nine dollars, and costs of suit. Defendants having no corporate property, and the relator being
without any other remedy, applied to the Circuit Court
where the judgment was rendered for a mandamus to compel the payment. Pursuant to the application, the Circuit
Court granted the alternative writ, commanding the defendants to make an appropriation to pay the amount, or show
cause on the return day of the writ why they should not
obey its commands.
In their return the defendants admit that the General Assembly passed the law, that they issued the bonds, and that
the relator recovered judgment as alleged, but aver that on
the ninth day of October, 1863, before the relator recovered
his judgment, they were enjoined by the State court from
levying any general or special tax upon the taxable property
within the limits of the defendant corporation for the payment of the bonds of the relator-principal or interest-and
that they cannot pay the judgment without being guilty of
contempt for violating that injunction. Other defences were
set up in the return, buit it is not necessary to notice any
other, as they were not sustained by the court.
Relator demurred to every defence set up in the return.
Reference, however, will only be made to the demurrer to
the defence founded on the injunction granted by the State
court. Causes of demurrer'shown were as follows: (1) That
the writ does not enjoin the defendants from paying over the
taxes already received, but only enjoins the future collection
of such taxes. (2) That the relator was not a party to those
proceedings, and that the State court had no jurisdiction for
the want of proper parties. (3) That the State c:urt cannot
oust the Circuit Court of its jurisdiction to enforce its own
judgments.

516

UNITED STATES V. COUNCIL OF ICEOKUK.

[Sup. C,

Opinion of the court.

Parties were heard and the court overruled the demurrer,
holding that the injunction of the State court prevented the
Circuit Court from issuing a peremptory mandamus. Standing upon his demurrer, the relator excepted to the ruling of
the court and sued out this writ of error.
Principal question in the case is whether the injunction
of the State court had the effect to take away the juiisdiction from the Circuit Court to issue the writ of mandamus
as prayed by the relator. Transferred, as the cause had
been, from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa, it is
quite lear that power of the court to which it was transferred was exactly the same in respect to the controversy as
belonged to the tribunal where it was commenced.
Created, as the defendant corporation was, by the law
passed by the General Assembly of Iowa, and being a municipal corporation in that State, it is quite clear that all the
rights, duties and obligations of the corporation must be ascertained and defined by the laws of that State.
Modes of process and forms of process in that State, unless changed by rules of court, are the same in suits at common law as were used in the highest court of original jurisdiction in the State at the time the Federal courts were
organized in that State. State processes and modes of process were first adopted by the .act of the twenty-ninth of
September, 1789; and by the act of the eighth of May, 1792,
those regulations were made permanent, but they were con,
fined in their application to the old States.* Subsequent
enactment extended those regulations to the new States admitted prior to the first day of August, 1842, when the last
general provision upon the subject was passed.t
Iowa was admitted into the Union on an equal footing
with the original States in all respects, and by the supplemental act passed on the same day, it is provided that the
laws of the United States, which are not locally inapplicable,
shall have the same force and effect within that State as elsewhere within the United States.1 Legal effect of that pro* 1 Stat. at LD 'ge, 93-276.

t 4 Id. 274; 5 Id. 499.

1 5 Id. 742-789.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V.

COUNCIL OF KE IKUK.

517

Opinion of the court.

vision was, that the Process Act of the nineteenth of May,

1828, became applicable in the Federal courts of that State.*
Where the debt of a municipal corporation has been reduced to judgment, and the judgment creditor has no other
means to enforce the payment, the remedy in the Supreme
Court of the State is mandamus to compel the proper officers
of the municipality to levy and collect a tax for that purpose.t
By virtue of the Process Acts the relator is undoubtedly
entitled to the same remedy in the Circuit Court for that
district, unless the power of the court to issue the writ is
taken away orperpetually suspended by the injunction issued
by the State court. Discussion of that question is unnecessary, as this court decided, at the present term, in the case
of Riggs v. Johnson County, that a State court cannot enjoin
the process of the Federal courts.1
Orders for an injunction issued by State court are as inoperative upon the process of the Circuit Court of that district as they would be if directed to the process of a Circuit
Court in any other district of the United States, because the
State and Federal courts, in their sphere of action, are independent of any such control.
Judgment REVERSED and the cause remanded, with directions to sustain the demurrer of the relator, and for further
proceedings in conformity to the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.
* 4 Stat at Large, 273.

f Coy v. City Council of Lyons, 17 Iowa, 1; Dox v. Johnson, 12 Id. 237;
Clark v. City of Davenport, 12 Id. 335; Code, 2179; Revision, 3761.
Duncan v. Darst, 1 Howard, 306; Mecim v. Voorhies, 7 Cranch, 81;
Diggs et al. v. Wolcott, 4 Id. 179.

