ROBERTS V.

GwRAHAM.

[Sr,p. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ROBERTS v. GRAHAM.
1. In a suit against a common carrier for not carrying a party according to
contract, the allegation of a breach "whereby the plaintiff was subjected to great inconvenience and injury," is not an allegation of special damage.
2. An objection of variance between allegation and proof must be taken
when the evidence is offered. It cannot be taken advantage of after it
is closed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
California.
11r. Brady, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Carlisle and
McPherson, Contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYI-TE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California.
Graham was the plaintiff in the court below. The complainant sets forth a contract, whereby Roberts agreed to
transport him and his wife and child as .first cabin passengers from New York to San Francisco, by the Panama
route, and to furnish them with suitable accommodations,
provisions, and supplies on the way.
Among other breaches, it is alleged that the defendant did
not furnish them with first cabin fare, but that the child was
furnished with only second cabin fare of the poorest quality;
that he did hot furnish them with suitable and proper accommodations, provisions, and supplies, but that on the
contrary he overloaded the steamer Mloses Taylor, on which
they were conveyed from Panama to San Francisco, "with a
number of passengers, wholly out of proportion to her size,
and much greater than she could suitably accommodate, and
that by reason thereof, the plaintiff and his wife and child
were subjected to great inconvenience and injury."
In the course of the plaintiff's testimony he gave evidence
tending to pr4 ve his illness, and that it was caused by ex-

Dec. 1867.]

ROBERTS v. GRAHRAIL

579

Opinion of the court.

posure, in his not having sufficient bed or berth clothing on

the Moses Taylor; "that bed-clothing had been furnished
him, but that he was compelled to deprive Ldimself of it, in
order to supply his child, which child had not been furnished with a berth or bed-clothing."
The evidence being closed, the defendant's counsel asked
the court to instruct the jury, that in assessing the damages
by reason of the sickness of the plaintiff himself during the
voyage, they must exclude from consideration sickness arising from the want of sufficient bed-clothing on the Moses
Taylor, because "there is no allegation in the complaint
on which to base a recovery for such injuries, and because
the allegation is, that the plaintiff's sickness was caused by
exposure and detention at Panama, before the arrival there
of the Moses Taylor."
This instruction the court refused to give. "And the said
Judge thereupon charged the jury that if they found from
the evidence that the plaintiff's sickness and consequent injuries was caused by exposure by reason of not being furnished with a sufficient quantity of bed-clothing on the
steamer Moses Taylor, then they must estimate the damages to plaintiff caused by such exposure and want of sufficient clothing or covering for his berth, and by his illness

consequent thereon, and include such damages in their verdiet."
To this refusal to instruct, and to the instruction given,
the defendant excepted.
It is objected that the plaintiff was allowed to recover for
a special damage not alleged in the complaint. As a general
proposition, that cannot be done. Special damage, whether
resulting from tort or breach of contract, must be particularly averred, in order that the defendant may be notified of
the charge, and come prepared to meet it.
Sp1ecial, as contradistinguished from generaldamage, is that
which is the natural, but not the necessary, consequence of
the act complained of. In this connection, in the case before us, two questions are presented for our consideration :
Was thl sickness of the defendant, alleged to have been in-

R0BI RTS v. GRAHIAM.

LSup. (JL

Opinion of the court.

duced by his exposure on the Moses Taylor, special damage,
within the rule of pleading on that subject? and if so, was
the right of the defendant to object to a recovery upon that
ground waived by his conduct at the trial?
The complaint avers that the defendant, by this breach of
the contract, "was subjected to great inconvenience and injury."
It does not appear that the defendant objected to the admission of the testimony, that he moved to have it ruled out,
or that he madeany allusion to the subject until he asked
the court, at the close of the argument, to instruct the jury,

as shown by the bill of exceptions.
In Ward v. Smith,* the suit was upon a lease. The declaration averred that the defendant refused, "on request, to
permit the plaintiff to take possession and have the use of
the premises, whereby the plaintiff had sustained loss, and
had been obliged to hire other premises at great cost and
expense for rent and charges."
The plaintiff proved on the trial that the premises had
been taken for his wife's business, who was a milliner, were
advantageously situated for that trade, "and that by not
being suffered to occupy them, he sustained considerable

loss by the passing by of a profitable part of the year for
-that business in the meantime." The plaintiff recovered.
It was urged by the defendant, upon a motion for a new
trial, "that there was no special damage averred in the declaration, for that there were no particular customers named
therein as having withdrawn their custom from,the defendant's wife; and further, that there was no averment of the
business of the wife, or that the plaintiff had sustained any
loss in her business."
Richards; Chief Baron, said: "As to the objection of evi.
dence of special damage having beefi admitted, there was, in
fiact, no special damage, as such, proved. The object of the
witness's testimony was to show that the plaintiff had sustained ineonvenience."
1' "Price,19.

Dec. 1867.]

ROBERTS V. GRALHAM.
Opinion of the court.

Baron Graham said, that no special damage had been
proved. He added: "Loss of customers and general dam-'
age occasioned thereby, however, may have been given in
evidence under this declaration; for it charges general loss,
without specifying any particular individuals whose custom
had been lost, and it was competent for the plaiptiff to show
certain damages sustained by breach of the agreement in this
action, without stating his loss more specially in the declaration."
It would not be easy to distinguish that case, as to the
point under consideration, from the one before us. It is of
undoubted authority, and is conclusive.
The objection of variance not taken at the trial, cannot
avail the defendant as an error in the higher court, if it
could have been obviated in the court below; nor can it
avail him on a motion for a new trial.* If parol evidence
be received without objection, to prove the contents of a record, it is sufficient for that purpose.t In McMiecken v..Brown,J
the defendant made no objection to the introduction of the
testimony, but prayed the court to instruct the jury that it
was insufficient to warrant a verdict against him. The jury
found for the pilaintiff. It was held by the appellate court
that he should have objected to the adrission of the evidence, and that not having done so, le was concluded by
the verdict. The judgment was affirmed.
In the case before us the plaintiff was entitled to be apprised of the objection if it were intended to be relied upon,
at an earlier period in the progress of the trial. The court
would doubtless have permitted an amendment if deemed
necessary, upon such terms as the interests of justice might
seem to require.
The defendant's right to make the objection was waived
and concluded by the delay. He could not make it at the
time and in the manner it was presented.
* Mtosher v. Lawrence & Westcott, 4 Denio, 421; Lawrence v. Barker, 5
Wendell, 305.
- Newberry v. Lee, 3 Hill, 523.
$ 6 Martin, N. S. 86; see also Goslin v. Corry, 7 Manning & Granger,
847; and Doe v. Benjamin, 9 Adolphus & Ellis, 644.

THE WREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Upon both grounds we hold that the rulings of the Circuit
Court were correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE WREN.

\

1. The liability to confiscation, which attaches to a vessel that has contracted
guilt bv breach of blockade, does not attach to her longer than till the

end of her return voyage.
2. A vessel condemned below as enemy's property restored by this court;
the proofs being of a hearsay and loose character and such as did not
rise to the dignity of evidence within the law of that subject. But costs
were withheld.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Southern District
of Florida, condemning as prize of war the Wren.
The steamship Wren, a merchant vessel, left the port of
Havana on the 12th of June, 1865, for Liverpool, va Halifax,
Nova Scotia, with a crew of about thirty-five persons, who,
on the morning of the next day, mutinied, confined the
officers ii their quarters, carried the vessel into the port of
Key West, -and delivered her as prize to the acting admiral
commanding at that station. The seizure was in pursuance
of secret arrangements with the United States consul at
Havana, before the vessel left that port. A libel was filed
against the vessel by the United States District Attorney,
before the judge of the Southern District of Florida, as prize
of war. The master, one Stiles, put in a claim in behalf of
John Laird, a British subject, as owner.
This Stiles had been an officer in the navy of the United
States. The record also disclosed this answer of his to the
standing interrogatory as to the papers of the vessel

All the letters -and papers of which he has any knowledge of
having been on board on the present voyage were taken by the
asserted captors with the exception of one letter to himself
from the agent of the vessel, Mr. Helms, at Havana, which was
destroyed, and an order in favor of this deponent from Mr. Helms

