Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

723

Syllabus.

not be doubted. Whether the failure to act proceeded from
indifference, weakness, or something more censurable, we have
no means of determining. Be this as it may, in not doing what
duty to their deceased friend and their own honor required
them to do, they have entailed hardship and pecuniary loss on
others.
Enough has been said in this case to show that De ]a Croix
knew of the making of this will, and also knew substantially
what were its contents. If so, in law as well a in morals, he
purchased the property in dispute in bad faith, and must account
for it to the real owner.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana REVERSED, and this cause remanded to that court with

instructions to enter a decree for the complainant in conformity
with this opinion and the opinion in the case of Gaines v. l¥ew
Orleans, and to refer the case to a master to take proof, and
ascertain the amount due.

GRIER,SWAYNE, and MILLER, JJ., dissented.

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.
1. A statute authorizing the chancellor of the State to discharge trustees
named in a will (the purpose of the trust being to hold real estate and
to pay the rents to a person named for life, and on his death to dispose
of the fee to his children), and to appoint new trustees in their place, is
valid; it appearing that the act was passed with the knowledge and at
the request of the original trustees.
2. The trustees having been discharged pursuant to the statute, it was competent for the legislature, by a supplemental act, to grant power to the
chancellor to appoint, as such trustee, in the place of those discharged,
the devisee of the life estate, and authorize him to execute the trust.
Such discharge and substitution did not violate the obligation of a contract.
3. The first statute having authorized trustees to be appointed by the chancellor to divide, as soon "as conveniently may be," certain real estate
which they held in trust for A. for life, remainder to his children, one
moiety whereof-the statute said-shall be held by them to those uses,
and the remaining moiety shall be subdivided by them into so many
lots as they think most likely to effect an advantageous sale, the proceeds to be invested and the interest to be paid to tenant for life: held,
-(Ihe charcellor having made an order that the eastern moiety of the

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAMSp.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
estate should be sold, and a third act of assembly having authorized the
trustee, under the order theretofore granted, or any subsequent order,
either to mortgage or sell the premises which "the chancellor has permitted or may permit him to sell ")-that the power to partition the
estate was not exhausted by the first partition into an eastern and western portion, and that the chancellor might permit the substituted trustee to sell the southern moiety instead of the eastern.
4. This would be so as an original question: one, however, already settled by
this court in the case on former judgment. In addition, it would be to
be taken to be so at all events, the question arising in this case on a
statute which has been construed in that way by the highest court of the
State which passed it.

ERROR in ejectment to the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York.
The case was thus:
Mary Clarke, who died in 1802, devised certain land, now
town lots in New York City, to the Right Rev. Benjamin
Moore, his wife (the daughter of Mrs. Clarke), and a third
person, Mrs. Maunsell, in trust, to receive the rents, to pay
the same to her grandson, Thomas B. Clarke (a man, apparently, of improvident habits) during life, and upon his
death to convey it to his issue, then living, in fee; and leaving none, then to Clement C. Moore, in fee.
In May, 1811, Bishop Moore had become enfeebled in
health. His son, on his father's behalf, in that month, addressed a communication to the Diocesan Convention of the
State of New York, requesting it to appoint an assistant
bishop for that diocese; wherein he stated, "that though
the disease with which it had pleased Almighty God to visit
him, was somewhat mitigated, yet, that it was impossible,
he was assured, that he should ever be able to render or perform the duties of the episcopal functions." Thereupon the
convention appointed an assistant. In July following, the
bishop was struck by paralysis, and grew weaker until he
died, in February, 1816.
In 1814, the legislature of New York, on the application
of Mr. Clarke,-who had at this time two children, a third
afterwards born not having as yet come into being,-passed
an act, in which-reciting that the trustees had agreed by

Dec. 1867.J

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

Statement of the case.

writing to all such acts as the legislature should deem proper to make for the benefit and relief of T. B. Clarke, and
did desire that some other persons might be appointed trustees-it was provided, that the Court of Chancery, on his
application, might "appoint one or more trustees to execute
and perform the several trusts and duties" specified in the
will, in place of the testamentary trustees, "who are hereby
dischargedfrom the trusts in the said will mentioned:" and, further, that the new trustees should, "1as soon as conveniently
may be, partition and divide " the land "into two equal parts,
one moiety whereof shall be held by them to the uses and upon the
trusts declaredin and by the saidwill, and the remaining moiety
shall be subdivided by the said trustees into so many l9ts as
they may think most likely to effect an advantageous sale
thereof; and after having completed such subdivision, the
said trustees are hereby authorized and required, within a
convenient time thereafter, not to exceed six months, except at the
request of the said Clarke, to sell and dispose of the said last
subdivided moiety," the proceeds to be invested, the interest, excepting a certain portion, to be paid to Mr. Clarke,
and the principal reserved for the trusts of the will.
In 1815, on the application of Mr. Clarke, a supplemental
act was passed authorizing nim1 "to execute and perform
every act in relation to the real estate, with like effect that
trustees duly appointed under the said act might have done,
and that HE apply the whole of the interest and income of
the said property to the maintenance and support of his
family and the education of his children ;" and further providing that "no sale of any part of the said estate shall be
made by the said Clarke until he shall have procured the
assent of the chancellor to such sale, who shall, at the time
of giving such assent, also direct the mode in which the proceeds of such sale shall be vested in the said Clarke as trustee; and, further, that it shall be the duty of the said Clarke
annually to render an account to the chancellor, or to such
person as he may appoint, of the principal of the proceeds of
such sale only, the interest to be applied by the said Clarke
in such manner as he may think proper for his use and

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

benefit, and for the maintenance and education of his children."
In July, 1815, an order was made by the chancellor, on
the petition of Mr. Clarke, authorizing him to sell and dis-

pose of the eastern moiety of the estate, "to be divided by the
line in the manner for that purpose mentioned in the said
petition," the sales to be made under the direction of a master, and the proceeds to be paid to the master, and applied
and invested according to the directions of the order.
In 1816, a third act was passed, authorizing Clarke,
"under the order heretofore granted by the chancellor, or
under any subsequent order, either to mortgage or to sell
the premises which the chancellor has permitted, or hereafter may permit him to sell, and to apply the money so
raised, by mortgage or sale, to the purposes required by the
chancellor, under the acts" theretofore passed.
-InMarch, 1817, the chancellor, upon the petition of Mr.
Clarke, made an order that Mr. Clarke be authorized to sell
the southern moiety of the said estate .... instead of the eastern
moiety, as permitted and directed by the orders theretofore
made, and further authorizing him to mortgage all or any
part or parts of the said southern moiety of the said estate,
if in his judgment it would be more beneficial to mortgage
thau to sell the same; and to convey any parts of the southern moiety, in satisfaction of any debts due from him, upon
a valuation to be agreed on between him and his respective
creditors: provided, that every sale and mortgage and conveyance in satisfaction, that might be made by the said
Clarke, should be approved by one of the masters of the
court, &c.
In October, 1818, Clarke executed a deed of twenty lots to
one McIntyre. The consideration recited in the deed is the
indebtedness of the grantor to the grantee "in a large sum
of money," and $3750 paid.
In this state of things, Clarke having died in 1826, leaving
children, Mrs. Williamson and others, these all now brought
suit against Suydam to recover two lots in the westen moiety of
'he estate, as first divided, held by him under title from Me-

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

Statement of the case.

Intire. The court below held the title of the defendant good
The correctness of such view was now the matter here.
To understand the case better, it is necessary to state that
these statutes and what was done under them had been the
subject, previous to the present case, of consideration in
the State courts of New York, as, also, in this court. The
present case itself had been here twice before.
Questions under the statutes first arose in the courts of
New York, in Sinclairv. Jackson,* in which case the court
declined to express an opinion, respecting "the constitution-

ality of the laws, or the efficacy of the proceedings under
them." The next case was Cochran v. Van ,Srlay,twhere
the Court of Errors, by a much divided court, held, that the
statutes were constitutional, and that the proceedings shown
in that case had been taken in conformity to the statutes.
After this decision was made, proceedings under these
statutes came before the courts of the United States, and on
certificate of division were decided by this court in Williamson v. Berry,J Williamson v. The Irish Presbyterian Congregation,§ and Williamson v. Bal.Ii
This court then decided various questions, which arose
respecting the conformity of the proceedings to the requisitions of the statutes. But the decision in Clarke v. Van Suricy, having been so far from unanimous, the majority of this
court thought that the questions might be examined anew,
and their view was different from that of the majority in the
State court. The present case, which, as already mentioned,
had been here twice before, was first decided by the Circuit
Court, and in conformity to the decisions of this court just
mentioned. Coming here again the judgment was reversed,
on the ground that subsequently to the cases already referred
to in this court, the courts of New York had, in Towle v.
.Forney,** and Clarke v. Davenport,tt reiterated the decision
in Cocheran v. Van Surley, and thus by repeated decision had
- 20

* 8 Cowen, 579.

: 8 Howard, 495.
24 Howard, 483.
It 1 ]3oswell, 96.

\

Wendell, 865; S. C., 15 Id. 439.
118 Howard, 566.
8 Howard, 565.
** 14 New York, 426; S. 0., 4 Duer, 164.

WILLIAMSON V.

SUYDAM.

[S ul. O .

Opinion of the court.

established in a way which, by its unanimity, had fixed what
was decided a law of property, which the Federal courts must
now enforce, whatever might be their own opinion or decision.
Mr. David Dudley Field,for the plaintiff in error:
Since this court has thus determined, that it will look only
to the State courts for the exposition of statutes and documents affecting the title to land, even though it may have
previously adjudged that such exposition was erroneous, and
however contrary to reason that exposition may be, the
plaintiffs must abstain from debating any of the questions so
resolved. iBut two questions remain that have never been
passed on by any court, and these we now make:
I. The power to partition the estate into two equal parts
was exhausted by the partition into an eastern and western
portion.
II. Tle discharge of the trustees by the legislature of iew
York was in contravention of that clause of the Constitution
of the United States, which declares that no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligatioin of contracts.
These two points Mr. Field argued at length.
iNo opposing counsel appeared in this case. In one quite
like it- Williamson v. Moore-the defendant was represented
by Mr. H. . Davies, who contended1. That it was a matter of necessity, in the condition of
his health, that Bishop Moore should be discharged, and also
that the two female trustees named should be discharged,
and that provision by law should be made for the appointment of competent and proper trustees.
2. That both the questions now raised had been in fact
decided in the State courts and in the last decision in this
court.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was ejectment to recover the possession of two
lots of land, situated in the city of New York, and numbered
sixty-four and sixty-five, as delineated on a certain map made

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.
Opinion of the court.

by the city surveyor. 'Exceptions were taken by the plaintiffs to the instructions of the Circuit Court, in directing the
jury to return a verdict for the defendant. Judgment was
accordingly rendered for the defendant, and the plaintiffssued out this writ of error.
Detailed statement of the material facts of the case may
be found in the reported decisions of this court, when the
case was before the court on two former occasions.* Accurate report of the material facts involved in the controversy
is also given in the case of Williamson v. Be-ry,t which was
substantially overruled by the decision of this court, when
the case was last before the court prior to the present hearing.
Prior to her death the land in controversy belonged to
Mary Clarke, who died in 1802, having devised the same to
three persons in trust to receive the rents, issues, and profits
thereof, and to pay the same to Thomas B. Clarke during
hiis natural life, and upon his death, in further trust to convey the same to his lawful issue living at his death, in fee;
and if he should not leave any lawful issue at the time of his
death, then, in the further trust, to convey the premises to
Clement C. Moore and his heirs, or to such person in fee
as he might by will appoint, in case of his death prior to the
devisee of the life estate.
Admitted facts are that Thomas B. Clarke died on the
first day of May, 1826, leaving three children-Catbarine,
Isabella, and Bayard-who, with the husbands of the two
daughters, were the original plaintiffs. Two of the trustees
died before the devisee of the life estate, and the survivor
died on the fourth day of December, 1838. Title and right
of the plaintiff to possession are complete, unless the defendant can establish a valid alienation of the property. He
deraigned his title from Thomas B. Clarke, alleging that he
was authorized by certain private acts of the legislature of
the State of New York, and by certain orders of the chan.
* Suydam v. Williamson, 24 Howard, 427; Same v. Same, 20 Id. 427

f 8 Id. 495.

-WILLIAMSON

V. SUYDAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cellor of that State, to make the conveyance. Clarke conveyed to Peter Mclntire by deed of the twentieth of October.
1818, and Mclntire conveyed by deed of the thirtieth of Jan.uary, 1830, to Elijah Humphreys, and the plaintiff also introduced the deed from Philo T. Ruggles, one of the masters in
chancery of the State, of the nineteenth February, 1845, to
James HI. Suydam, the d6fendant. By the act of the first
of April, 1814, the Court of Chancery was authorized, on
the application of Th6mas B. Clarke, to constitute and appoint one or more trustees to execute and perform the several
trusts and duties specified in the will of Mary Clarke, in the
place of the testamentary trustees; and it also provided that
the trustees last named " are hereby discharged from the
trusts in the said will mentioned."
Provision was also therein made that the new trustees
should, as soon as conveniently might be, partition and
divide the land into two equal parts, one moiety whereof
should be held by them to the uses and upon the trusts
declared in the will, and the other moiety should be subdivided by the trustees, or the major part of them, into so
many lots as they, or the major part of them, might think
most likely to effect an advantageous sale thereof. Having
completed the subdivision, as required, the provision was
that the trustees, or a majority of them, were authorized and
required, within a convenient time thereafter, not to exceed
six months, except at the iequest of the petitioner, to sell
and dispose of the last subdivided moiety, and that they
should invest the proceeds as they, or a majority of them,
should deem most for the interest of the parties concerned,
paying the interest or income, except a certain portion of it,
to the petitioner, and reserving the principal for the trusts
of the will.

On the application of said Thomas B.'Clarke a supplemental act was passed March 24th, 1815, authorizing and
empowering the petitioner to execute and perform every act,
matter, and thing in relation to the real estate mentioned in
the preceding act, in like manner and with like efiet that'
trustees duly appointed under it might have done, and that

Dec. 1867.]

-6WILLIAMSON

V. SUYDAM.

Opinion of the court.

he might apply the whole of the interest and income of the
property to the maintenance and support of his family, and
the education of his children; and further providing that no
sale of any part of the real estate should be made by him
until he should have procured the assent of the chancellor
to such sale, who, at the time of giving such assent, was also
required to direct the mode in which the proceeds of such
sale, or so much thereof as he should think proper, should
be vested in the petitioner as trustee, and that it should be
the duty of the trustee annually to render an account to the
chancellor, or to such person as the chancellor might appoint, of the principal of the proceeds of such sale, leaving
the interest to be applied by the trustee in such manner as
he might think proper, for his use and benefit, and for the
maintenance and education of his children.
Pursuant to the authority therein -conferred, the chancellor, oil the petition of said Thomas B. Clarke, made an order,
dated the third day of July, 1815, authorizing him to sell
and dispose of the eastern moiety of the estate, "to be
divided by the line, in the manner for that purpose mentioned
in the said petition;" the sale to be made under the direction
of a,master, and the proceeds to be paid to the master, and
applied and invested as directed in the order. Subsequently
a second supplemental act was passed, approved March
29th, 1816, which authorized the petitioner, under the order
heretofore granted by the chancellor, or under any subsequent order, either to mortgage or to sell the premises which
the chancellor has permitted, or may hereafter permit him
to sell as trustee under the will, and to apply the money so
raised by mortgage or sale to the purposes required or to
be required by the chancellor, under the legislative acts
to which reference is made. Application was accordingly
made to the chancellor, May 30th, 1816, for authority to proceed under the second supplemental act, and an order was
passed on that day authorizing him to mortgage instead
of selling the lands embraced in the preceding order of the
court; the moneys thereby procured, and the debts therewith extinguished, to be appropriated and adjusted in the

732

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

[Sup.

Ct

Opinion of the court.

same manner and under the same checks as was provided
in the prior order.
Such power, however, proved to be unavailing, as the
trustee, on the eighth day of March, 1817, represented to the
chancellor that, notwithstanding that authority, he could not
effect any sales or raise any money upon mortgage without
a sacrifihe of property greater than he felt warranted to make;
that the pressure of his debts and the necessities of his family required some measures for their relief. The measures
of relief suggested were that the estate should be divided by
an eastern and western, instead of a northern and southern
line, and that power should be granted to him to sell or
mortgage the southern, instead of the eastern moiety of the
estate, as directed in the prior order. Authority was accordingly given to the trustee by an order made M arch 15th,
1817, authorizing him to sell and dispose of the southern
moiety of the estate, the same being divided by a line running east and west through the centre of Twenty-sixth Street,
&c., instead of the eastern moiety of the estate, as permitted
and directed by the orders heretofore made in the premises.
By virtue of that order he might convey any part of the
southern moiety in payment and satisfaction of his debts,
upon a valuation agreed on between him and his respective
creditors, but it was required that every sal6, mortgage, or
conveyance he might make for that purpose should be approved by a master of the court, and that a certificate of such
approval should be iudorsed upon every sale or mortgage
that should be made by the trustee. Power was also conferred upon him in the order to receive and take the moneys
arising from the premises, and apply the same to the payment of his debts, and to invest the surplus in such manner
as he should deem proper to yield an income for the maintenance and support of his family.
Clarke, October 20th, 1818, conveyed twenty lots to Peter
McIntire, including the two mentioned in the declaration.
Consideration, as recited in the deed, is that the grantor was
indebted to the grantee "in a large sum of money," and also
of three thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars, lawful

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAifSON V. SUYDAM.
Opinion of the court.

money. The proofl show that the defendant was in possession, and the actual occupant of the premises at the commencement of the suit on the thirteenth day of August, 1845,
and that the two lots in question are situated within the
southern moiety, and were also within the western moiety
as the estate was first divided.
Objections were made by the plaintiff'to the three orders
of the chancellor when offered in evidence by the defendant,
but the court overruled the several objections, and the plaintiff excepted to the rulings. He also objected to the admissibility of the deed of Charles W. MlcIntire, also to the indorsement thereon of the approval of the master, and also
to the admissibility of the several other deeds introduced by
the defendant, but the court overruled the several objections,
and the plaintiff excepted to the respective rulings, as more
fully explained in the record.
Testimony was also introduced by the defendant proving
that there was fbrmerly on file in the Court of Chancery
certain papers in which were the orders of the chaucellor,
but that they were lost, and the witness testified that he
knew nothing of their genuineness, whereupon the defendant rested, and the court ruled that he was entitled to a verdict, and the verdict and judgment were rendered in his
favor, and the plaintiff excepted and sued out this writ of
error.
1. Questions touching the validity of the before-mentioned
acts of the legislature of the State were first considered judicially in the case of Sinclair v. Jackson,* in the court for the
correction of errors, but the decision turned upon another
point, and the court cautiously avoided expressing any opinion as to their validity. The next case was Cochran v. Van
Sarlay,t decided originally in the Supreme Court of the
State. Statement of the court in that case was that when
the first act was passed all the parties interested in the trust
estate, who were capable of acting for themselves, were before the legislature, and were applicants for the law. Be* 8 Cowen, 579.

-f 15 Wendell, 439.

"WILLIAMSON V." SUYDAM[.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sides Clarke, the tenant for life, in his own right, and the
natural guardian of his children, to whom the remainder
was limited, there was Clement C. Moore, the contingent
remainder-man in fee, and the trustees named in the will,
who had the whole legal estate, and represented the minors
as fully as they could be represented in any form.
Leading features of the acts are that they changed the
trustees appointed by the will and authorized a sale of a part
of the estate without the consent of the minors, who were
entitled to the remainder in fee after the termination of the
life estate. Pursuant to their request the act of April 1st,
1814, discharged the trustees named in the will from the
execution of the trusts and authorizedthe court of chancery
to appoint one or more trustees in their place. Subsequent
act passed March 24th, 1815, authorized'and empowered
Thomas B. Clarke to execute and perform every act, matter,
and thing in relation to the real estate, in like manner and
with like effect thattrustees duly appointed under the former
act might have done. Decision of the court was that the
court of chancery, without an act of the legislature, could
have discharged the trhstees named in the will and might
have appointed others in their place, and that tlie act of the
legislature was not an act beyond their constitutional power,
as the mere substitution of a new trustee could neither defeat the trust nor divest the rights of those beneficially interested in the property. Critical examination of the power
to sell, as conferred under the act of April 1st, 1814, and as
modified under the act of March 24th, 1815, and of the power
to mortgage or sell as conferred under the act of March 29th,
1816, was made at the same time, and the unqualified conclusion reached was that the several acts were valid and constitutional, although they did not extend to other cases of a
like character.
Objections were also taken that the orders of the chan.
cellor were not made in pursuance of the acts of the legislature, but those objections were overruled as unsupported in
fhct or as entirely unavailing, unless presented in some direct
proceeding, as by appeal or by application to the chancellor

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.
Opinion of the court.

for new orders and directions in the premises. Conclusions
of the court were: (1) That the acts of the legislature an
thorizing the sale of the property for the support and maintenance of the tenant for life, and of his family, and the
education of his children, were fully warranted by the State
constitution, and that they did not in any manner conflict
with the Constitution of the United States; (2) That the orders
of the chancellor in carrying those provisions into effect were
regular and proper, and that the deeds of conveyance were
sufficient to convey the title to the estate to the grantees.
Dissatisfied with the judgment the plaintiff sued out a writ
of error and removed the cause into the court for the correction of errors, where the questions were again fully argued,
but the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State was in
all things affirmed.*
Pending that litigation certain suits were commenced in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and the justices of that court being opposed in opinion in respect to the principal question involved
in the controversy, they were certified into this court for -decision, and the majority of this court adopted in substance
and effect the views of the minority of the court for the correction of errors.t
Same questions in respect to the same estate were subsequently presented to the Superior Court of the City of New
York, and the court adopting the State decisions, held that
those acts of the legislature were not inhibited by the State
constitution, nor by that clause of the Constitution of the
United States which declares that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts.1
Judgment was for the plaintiff, and the defendant insisting that the views of this court, as expressed in the answers
given on the occasion when certain questions were certified
here by the circuit judges of that district, appealed to the
Court of Appeals that the questions might be re-examined.
* Cochran v. Surlay, 20 Wendell, 371.
t- Williamson v. Berry, 8 Howard, 495.
1 Towle v. Forney, 4 Duer, 164.

WILLIAMSON V.

SUYDAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Express decision of the Court of Appeals was that the judgment of the Court of Errors in Cochran v. Surlay, was a final
determination of the court of last resort in the State, not
only upon all the questions of law in the case, but upon the
identical title in controversy, and that they ought not to reexamine the grounds of that decision. They also held that,
as between judgments of their own courts and those of the

Federal government, where there is a conflict between them,
they ought to follow their own decisions, except in cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the Union.*
Present case was first decided in the Circuit Court in
favor of the plaintifi but the defendant being dissatisfied removed cause into this court by writ of error, where it was
affirmed because there was no bill of exceptions.t By consent a bill of exceptions was subsequently allowed and the
cause brought here on a second writ of error. Parties were
again fully heard and the court came to the unanimous conclusion that the decision of the Court of Errors, sanctioned
by-the subsequent decision of the Court of Appeals, established a rule of property in that State which it was the duty
of this court to follow in questions of real property situated
in that State.t
Plaintiff admits, in view of the ruling of this court in that
case, that it will regard the decision of the State courts as
rules of decision in respect to titles to real estate, that most
of the questions presented in this record are closed in favor
of the defendant. Where any principle of law establishing
a rule of real property is settled in the State court the same
rule will be applied by this court in the same or analogous
cases. Conceding that the rule established in that case was
to that effect, still the plaintiff" contends that two questions
arising in the record remain open for discussion. -One is a
question touching the construction of the second section of
the act of April 1st, 1814, which authorized the trustees to

partition and divide the estate into two equal parts for the
* Towle v. Forney, 14 New York, 428.

t Suydam v. 'Williamson, 20 Howard, 429.
1 Same v. Same, 24 Howard, 427.

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V.

SUYDAM.

Opinion of the court.

purpose before mentioned, which, as he insists, was never
before a State court; and that the other is a question which
belongs to this court to determine under the Constitution of
the United States.
Questions not determined in the State court, because not
raised and presented for decision by the complaining party
in the court below, will not in general be examined in this
court, but it is not necessary to place the decision in this
case upon any such ground. Authority to partition is conceded, but the argument is that when the estate was divided
into an eastern and western partition the power was exhausted. Assent of the chancellor was given in the first
order to the sale by the petitioner of the eastern moiety, to
be divided by the line in the manner for that purpose mentioned in the petition. By the second order the chancellor
gave his assent that the petitioner might mortgage instead
of sellin g the estate embraced in the former order. Third
order bears date on the fifteenth of March, 1817, and by it
the chancellor gave his assent that the petitioner might sell
and dispose of the southern moiety of the estate, the same
being divided by a line running east and west, instead of the
eastern moiety as permitted and described by the previous
orders. Even regarded as an original question there can be
no doubt of the power of the chancellor to make that order
under the act of the twenty-ninth of March, 1816, as construed in connection with the preceding acts to which it is
supplemental.
Reference to the principal case* will show that the order
in question was directly under the consideration of the court,
and it must be regardedas a necessary intendment that the
point now raised was determined adversely to the views of
the plaintiff. Same remarks also apply to the case of Towle
v. Forney, where this order, as well as those of prior date,
were again before the court. Judgment of the court was
that the title of the plaintiff in that case was valid, which
affirmed the power of the chancellor to issue the orders&
* Clarke v. Van Surlay, 15 WendolU, 447.
VOL.

VI.

47

WILLIAMSON V.

SUY3AM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Appeal was taken by the defendant to the Court of Appeals,
where the judgment was affirmed.*
Careful examination was also given to that order by this
court when the case was here on the last occasion before the
present hearing. Thorough examination of the whole case
was made at that time, and the court in conclusion say that
there is no room for doubt as to what the settled opinion of
the State courts is in reference to this title, and therefore
that there could be no hesitation as to the proper judgment
to be rendered.
Second question presented by the plaintiff is that the discharge of the trustees named in the will by the legislature
of the State, was in contravention of that clause of the Constitution of the United States which declares that no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Whenever the title of the estate conveyed has been put in
issue the validity of that act of the legislature has been drawn
in question, and the decision in every case, except the one
first made in this court, has sustained the validity of the act.
None of the adjudications in form dispose of the question,
but the clear and necessary intendment of each is to that
effect, especially the last decision of this court, as it reverses
the former views of the court in respect to the whole merits
of the controversy. All the persons interested in the will
who were capable of acting for themselves were before the
legislature when that act passed, and the trustees named in
the will were applicants for the law.
Trustees may undoubtedly be discharged by the chancellor, even without an act of the legislature, and as the mere
substitution of a new trustee could neither defeat the trust
nor divest the rights of those interested, it is not possible to
see how the proposition of the plaintiff can be sustained.
The rights of the trustees were not invaded, as they asked
to be discharged; and the ceswis que trust cannot complain,
for the reason that the substitution of a new trustoe did not
defeat ,'rimpair the trust or divest their interest. But the
* Thwle v. Forney, 14 New York, 426.

Dec. 1867.]

CRAWSHAY v. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

739

Statement of the case.

true answer to the proposition is that there is no matter of
contract involved in the substitution of new trustees, with
the assent of the chancellor, in the place of those named in
a testamentary devise, unless the act be one which infringes
some vested right of the trustees. .othing of the kind is
pretended in this case and there is no foundation for the
proposition.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED
WITE COSTS.

CRAWSHAY ET AL.

V.

SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

1. Where there had been a foreclosure and sale under a railroad mortgage
to secure certain bonds, exceptions to the sale were refused to be entertained in favor of such of the bondholders as had been parties to a
scheme under which the sale had been made for the formation of a new
company, and had surrendered their bonds in exchange for stock and
bonds of such new association.
2. Where as to a bondholder differently situated the decree below, in confirming the sale, had imposed the condition of payment to him by the
new company of the fall amount of his bonds of the old company, principal and interest, such decree was affirmed without considering the abstract validity of the exception taken by him.

THESE were two appeals from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, one by Crawshay and Oddie and one by Vose, to re-

view an order confirming the sale of a railroad under a
mortgage. The case was shortly this:
Soutter and Knapp, surviving Bronson, were trustees for
the benefit of bondholders of a mortgage called a land-grant
mortgage given by the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company on a part of its road. - The mortgage had been
foreclosed, and as is frequent in such cases in Wisconsin, a
new company, named the St. Paul, was formed by the purchasers, here the bondholders. Among the bondholders
were Crawshay, Oddie, and Vose, the appellants. The two
former surrendered all their bonds, and took certificates of
stock. The latter (who had been appointed by his cocreditors a trustee to t rganize the new company), however,

