Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. DE LA ORIX.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case of Gaines v.
Orleans, was decided another appeal in equity, from the
same circuit with it, and depending in the main upon the
same issues; the difference between the two cases being, that
in the last case the controversy concerned the sale of slaves
belonging to the succession of Clark, while in Gaines v.
New Orleans it related to real estate. The case just named
must be read in order to understand the one now reported,
of an adjectitious character.

Nye

GAINES V.

DE

LA CROIX.

1. As the law stood in Louisiana, in October, 1813, testamentary executors
could only sell at public auction after due advertisement of the property;
and the purchaser at a forced sale did not acquire a good title, unless
the formalities prescribed by law for the alienation of property were
observed.
2. A purchaser of property from an executor of a will of one date, who has
at the time strong reasons to believe, and had recently declared solemnly
that he did believe that a later will with different executors and different dispositions of property had been made, is not protected from liability to the parties interested under such later will, if established and
received to probate, by the fact that the executor of the first will made
the sale under order of court having jurisdiction of such things. He purchases at the risk of the later will's being found, or proved and established.
3. If the later will is found, it relates back as against such a purchaser, and
affects him with notice of its existence and contents as of the time when
he purchased.
4. Facts stated which affect such a purchaser with notice.

As we have mentioned in the preceding case, Daniel Clark
died on the 16th day of August, 1813, and his last will not being
fbund, letters testamentary on the will of 1811 were granted to
Richard Relf, who remained sole executor until 21st of January,
1814, when Beverly Chew was included in the trust. Do la
Croix made two purchases of slaves of Reif while thus acting as
sole executor. The first purchase was on the 16th of October,
1813. and the last on the 11th of December, 1813

GAINES v. DE LA CROIX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
The will of 1813 being established and received to probate,
Mrs. Gaines filed her bill against De la Croix. De la Croix, it'
will be understood, was the same person so frequently mentioned
in the preceding case as Dusuau De a Croix, or the Chevalier
De la Croix, one of the persons whom Clark appointed executor
of his will of 1813, and tutor to his daughter Myr#.
"
The same counsel who argued the preceding case argued this.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There are points of difference between this case and that of
Gainesv. -Mew Orleans, decided at this term; but, in our opinion,
they are not such as to defeat the recovery asked for by the
complainant.
It is contended by De la Croix that his titles derived from the
purchases from lRelf are valid, because he purchased wiThin the
year, while the functions of the executors were in fall force.
This is true if he purchased in good faith, and the requisites of
the law on the subject of the sales of succession property were
complied with. The examination of these points, in connection
with thb decision in the New Orleans case, will dispose of this
case.
The last sale conveyed no title, because it was a private one,
and was forbidden by the law. Executors could only sell at
public auction after due advertisement of the property, and the
purchaser at a forced sale did not acquire a good title, unless
the formalities prescribed by law for the alienation of property
were observed.* The bill of sale of October 16th, 1813, recites

that the property was sold at public auction in conformity to
the order of the register of the Court of Probate. This order
is not produced, and it seems the recital of it in the act of sale
does not prove it.But Relf, as executor, did petition the Court of Probate, on
the day that letters testamentary were issued to him, for leave
to sell the movables and immovable property of the succession,
and the order was granted for the sale to take place according
to law. It may be the effect of a sale under these circumstances
would be to confer a good title, if the purchaser bought in good
faith; but De la Croix got the property in bad faith, andl the
Donelson v.Hull, 7 Martin, 113; 4 Id. 573.
j"Lanfear v. Harper, 13 Louisiana Annual, 548.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. DE LA CROIX.

721

Opinion of the court.
vice of his title cannot be cured even if the sale were in all respects regular; nor can the plea of prescription help it. These
sales were made shortly after the death of Clark, when everything connected with his last will was fresh in De la Croix's
mind; and he knew the will, under the probate of which he was
buying, was not the true will of Daniel Clark. The law imposed on him altogether a different line of conduct from what
it would have imposed if he had been ignorant of the existence
and contents of the will of 1813. It was his duty as one of the
executors under that will, and the tutor of the testator's child
-both of which trusts he accepted-to test the question in the
courts of Louisiana whether that will could not be proved and
established, although it could not be found. If an earnest effort to do so had been made, can we say that the courts of that
day would not have reached the same conclusion that the Supreme Court of the State did twelve years ago ? Every day's
delay increased the difficulty of proving its validity, and yet so
full was the proof that the court, as late as 1856, did not hesitate
to recognize it. De la Croix doubtless acted on the assumption,
that as the will of 1813 could not be found, he had a right to
buy under the will which was proved. But he risked everything
by so doing; for if it should afterwards be found, or if not found,
established by oral proof, as he bought knowing all about it, he
would be considered a buyer in bad faith, and his title would
fail. As the will of 1813 is in fact now probated, it relates back
and affects him as of the time when he purchased with notice
of its existence and contents.
It is said he did not know enough about this will to be chargeable with notice. We are sorry to have it to say that there is
full proof to the contrary. He knew the will produced was not
the will which Clark had shown to him, because the superscription was different, and he was not named in it as one of the executors, and besides Clark had told him of a former will in'which
Relf'& Chew were named as executors. So sure was he that
Clark's last will had in some mysterious way disappeared, that
only two days after Clark died he requested the Court of Probate to summon the different notaries of New Orleans. to see if
a will posterior to the one produced had not been left with one
of them, as he had strong reasons to believe such a will was
executed, in which he was interested. If he had. acted. fartrher

GAINES V. DE LA CROIX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
on his convictions produced by "these strong reasons," his
memory would have been saved from the obloquy which attaches
to it, and his estate from considerable loss.
It is very clear that De ]a Croix knew of the existence of the
will of 1813, and it is equally clear he knew enough of its contents to be affected with notice. The testimony of Boisfontaine
removes from the mind all doubt on the subject. He swears to
being present at Clark's house a short time before his death,
when Clark took a sealed packet, and handed it to Do la Croix,
and said, "My last will is finished; it is in this sealed packet
with valuable papers. As you consented, I have made you in it
tutor to my daughter. If any misfortune happen to me, will
you do for her all you promised me? Will you take her at once
from Davis? I have given her all my estate in my will, an
annuity to my mother, and some legacies to friends." This information gave all the notice required, as it substantially communicated the contents of the will.
It is true Do la Croix denied in 1834 that he knew the contents of this will, but this was after controversy had arisen, and
when he was interested to sustain the will of 1811. It is a
little singular that Clark communicated less freely with De la
Croix than with Bellechasse and Pitot; for besides the trust to
execute the will committed to them jointly, he reposed especial
confidence in Do la Croix by intrusting his child to his care;
and yet Bellechasse swears Clark read the will to him and Pitot.
Bellechasse and Pitot, as Bellechasse says, believed the real will
was suppressed, and the provisional will of 1811 fraudulently
substituted in its place. De la Croix must have believed the
same thing when he asked for process against the notaries; and
he admits that he consented to serve as executor. Now is it
to be believed that these gentlemen, with the responsibilities
cast upon them, which they had voluntarily assumed, and under
the ciicumstances attending the execution and disappearance
of the will of a man of the wealth and position of Daniel Clark,
should never have met and consulted about it, and talked over
the provisions in it? It would require a credulity not often
met with to believe that no such meeting and consultation took
place.
That the executors of the last will of Daniel Clark and the
guardian of his child did not discharge their duties under the
will, and had no realizing sense of their nature and extent, can-

Dec. 1867.]

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.

723

Syllabus.

not be doubted. Whether the failure to act proceeded from
indifference, weakness, or something more censurable, we have
no means of determining. Be this as it may, in not doing what
duty to their deceased friend and their own honor required
them to do, they have entailed hardship and pecuniary loss on
others.
Enough has been said in this case to show that De ]a Croix
knew of the making of this will, and also knew substantially
what were its contents. If so, in law as well a in morals, he
purchased the property in dispute in bad faith, and must account
for it to the real owner.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana REVERSED, and this cause remanded to that court with

instructions to enter a decree for the complainant in conformity
with this opinion and the opinion in the case of Gaines v. l¥ew
Orleans, and to refer the case to a master to take proof, and
ascertain the amount due.

GRIER,SWAYNE, and MILLER, JJ., dissented.

WILLIAMSON V. SUYDAM.
1. A statute authorizing the chancellor of the State to discharge trustees
named in a will (the purpose of the trust being to hold real estate and
to pay the rents to a person named for life, and on his death to dispose
of the fee to his children), and to appoint new trustees in their place, is
valid; it appearing that the act was passed with the knowledge and at
the request of the original trustees.
2. The trustees having been discharged pursuant to the statute, it was competent for the legislature, by a supplemental act, to grant power to the
chancellor to appoint, as such trustee, in the place of those discharged,
the devisee of the life estate, and authorize him to execute the trust.
Such discharge and substitution did not violate the obligation of a contract.
3. The first statute having authorized trustees to be appointed by the chancellor to divide, as soon "as conveniently may be," certain real estate
which they held in trust for A. for life, remainder to his children, one
moiety whereof-the statute said-shall be held by them to those uses,
and the remaining moiety shall be subdivided by them into so many
lots as they think most likely to effect an advantageous sale, the proceeds to be invested and the interest to be paid to tenant for life: held,
-(Ihe charcellor having made an order that the eastern moiety of the

