RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

no power to organize a board of revision to nullify titles confirmed many years before by the authorized agents of the
government. And Congress became afterwards so well satisfied itself of this that it passed an act restoring to the purchasers the money which they had paid for titles obtained
on the assumption of such a right.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMIED

RIGGS V. JOINSON COUNTY.
A fter a return unsatisfied of an execution on a judgmentin the Circuit Court
against a county for interest on railroad bonds, issued under a State
statute in force prior to the issue of the bonds, and which made the levy
of a tax to pay such interest obligatory on the county, a mandamus from
the Circuit Court -will lie against the county officers to levy a tax, even
although prior to the application for the mandamus a State court have
perpetually enjoined the same officers against making such levy; the
mandamus, when so issued, being to be regarded as a writ necessary to
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court which had previously attached, and
to enforce its judgment; and the State court therefore not being to be
regarded as in prior possession of the case.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
The case somewhat fully stated was thus:
Statutes of Iowa enact:
That the county commissioners of any county may submit
to the people of it at any election, the question whether the
county will aid to construct any road which may call for extraordinary expenditure.
That when a question, so submitted, involves the borrowing
of money, the proposition of the question must be accompanied
by a provision to lay a tax for the payment thereof, in addition
to the usual taxes, and no vote adopting the question proposed will
be of effdct unless it adopt the tax also.
That the county judge, on being satisfied that the above requirements have been substantially complied-with, and that a
majority of the votes cast are in favor of the proposition submitted, shall cause certain records to be made; after which the
ERROR

Dec. 1867.]

R:IGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

167

Statement of the case.

vote and the entry t hereof on the county records, shall have the
force and effect of an act of the General Assembly.
That neither contracts made under propositions thus adopted,
nor the taxes appointed for carrying them out, can be rescinded.
That money raised for such purposes is specially appropriated,
and constitutes a fun.d distinct from all others in the hands of
the treasurer, until the obligation assumed is discharged.
The questions, whether the foregoing statutory provisions
authorized a county to aid in the construction of a railroad,
and whether, if so, the legislature could, under the State
constitution, confer such power upon counties, was adjudged
in several decisions by the Supreme Court of Iowa in the
affirmative. After these decisions, bonds were issued by
several counties in the State, in aid of the construction of
railroads. Subsequently to the issuing and negotiation of
them, the Supreme Court of Iowa, on a review of their former
decisions, overruled these decisions, and held that the above
statute did not confer the power in question upon counties,
and that the legislature could not constitutionally confer the
power; and that bonds issued by the counties and cities of
the State, in aid of the construction of railroads, were void.*
This court, however, in the case of Gelpcke v. The City of
Dubuque,t and in other cases afterwards, refused to follow
these later decisions of the Iowa court, and established, for
the Federal courts, that the earlier Iowa decisions, affirming
the power to issue the bonds, should be regarded as decisive
of the question, as to all bonds issued while those decisions
remained unreversed., Notwithstanding which, however, the
State courts apparently considered bonds in like case still
void.
While the State decisions, that the county could issue such
bonds, were yet unreversed, the commissioners of Johnson
County issued, in a negotiable form, a large number of
coupon bonds, payable to bearer. The bonds recited on
* See the history set out in Gelpcke v. The City of Dubuque, 1 Wallace,
175.
t 1 Wallace, 175.

RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

their face that they were issued under authority of the act
of Assembly, and of the required vote, &c., and (as the fact
was) tbat they had been issued by the county for stock in a
railroad company specified.
MXlarcus Riggs having become the holder of several of them,
brought suit and obtained judgment in the Circuit Court of
the United States for Iowa; but execution being issued, it
was returned vula bona. There was nothing which by the
laws of Iowa-where statutes exempt public property of a
county and the property of the private citizen from being
levied on to pay debts of a civil corporation-could be found
to satisfy the execution. After this, various tax-payers of
the county filed a bill in chancery in one of the State courts
against the county commissioners (none of the bond-holders,
however, being made parties to the proceeding or having
notice of it), alleging that the bonds and coupons were void
from the beginning, and bad been repeatedly held so by the
Supreme.Court of Iowa, and praying a perpetual injunction
to the commissioners against levying any tax to pay them:
which injunction the State court granted. After the injunction upon this proceeding instituted in the State court had
been issued, Riggs-by petition reciting his judgment, unsatisfied after execution, and the fact that it was obtained on
the bonds such as above described, reciting also the vote of the
county to pay the tax, and that it bad the effect of a law-applied to the Circuit Court of the United States for a mandamus to the commissioners to compel them to lay a tax,
"sufficient to pay the amount of the said judgment and cost
and of the principal and interest falling due for each year on
said bonds, and especially the interest warrants or coupons
included in the aforesaid judgment, and to continue the same
from year to year, until the said bonds and coupons or interest
warrants arefullypaid, in payment for the coupons or interest
warrants annexed to said bonds, now due and unpaid, and not
included in the aforesaid judgment, and of such coupons or
interest warrants as they shall become due." The commissioners answered, making as return the injunction previously
laid on them by ihe State court. Riggs demurred to the

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGs v.

JOHNSON

COUNTY.

169

Statement of the case.

answer, assigning four causes of demurrer, the substance of
the one chiefly relied on, and considered here, being, that
"after the judgment was rendered" in the Circuit Court,
the State court had "no jurisdiction, power or authority " to
prevent him "from using the PRocuss of this court by writ
of mandamus to collect his judgment."
The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer, and judgment
was given for the commissioners. The case was now here
on orror.
To better understand the argument it may be well to
state1. That by an act of Congress (sometimes called the
Process Act), passed, first in 1789, and improved and made
permanent in 1792,* it was provided:
"That the forms of writs and executions,.... and the modes
of process, in suits at common law, .... shall be the same in
each State respectively as now used or allowed in the Supreme
Courts of the States."
And by a later actt (May, 1828)"That writs of execution, and other final process issued on
judgments rendered in the Federal courts, and the proceedings
thereupon, shall be the same in each State as are now used in the
courts of such State."
2. That in the Revised Statutes of Iowa (A. D. 1860), a
mandamus is stated to be, and thus regulated under the
headACTION BY HANDAInIus.

"§ 3761. An order of a court of competent jurisdiction commanding an inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person to
do or not to do an act, the performance or omission of which the
law specially enjoins as a duty.
- § 3762. That the plaintiff shall state his claim and facts sufficient to constitute a cause for such claim."
"§ 3766. That the pleaditgs and other proceedings in any action
* I Stat. at Large, 93; Id. 276.

t" See 4 Id. 274, 5 I[d 499, 789.

RIGGS V. JOH1NSON COUNTY.

[Sup,. Ct.

Argument for the relator.

in which a mandamus is claimed shall be the same in all respects,
as nearly as may be, as in an ordinary action for the recovery of
damages."
"§ 4181. That when the action of mandamus is by a private
person there may be joined therewith the injunction of chapter
155, .... and the action shall be by ordinary proceedings."
3. That by the fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act,* it
is enacted that Circuit Courts among others named"Shall have power to issue writs of scirefacias,habeas corpus,
and other writs not specially providedfor by statute, which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respectivejurisdictions,and agreeable to the principles and usages of law."
4. That the same act, in the thirteenth sectiont enacts
thathave power to issue ....
"The Supreme Court shall ....
to any courts appointed or persons
writs of mandamus, ....

holding office under the authority of the United States."
At the same time with the present case was another,
Thompson v. -Henry County, exactly like it in principle; the
two being argued consecutively.
lljessrs. Fellows, Blair, Dick, Grant, Rogers, and Howell, for
the relator,plaintiff in error, in the different cases:
Since the cases of Gelpeke v. The City qf Dubuque, and
others after it, the Circuit Court of the United States for
Iowa has uniformly sustained the validity of these county
bonds, and numerous judgments have been recovered in it
by the bondholders against various counties and cities of the
State. On one of these judgiments the present proceeding is
founded, and the decision in this case is to settle the question, whether or not all these judgments, and all the bonds
and coupons not yet in judgment, are, for any practical purpose, so much waste paper; that is to say, whether it is in
* I Star. at Large, 81.

t" Id. 81.

Dec. 1867.]

RIGas v. JOHNSON COUNTY.

171

Argument for the relator.

the power of the Iowa State courts, not only to close their

own doors against any remedy in behalf of the bondholders,
but also to effectually defeat the collection of any judgments
which the bondholders may recover on their bonds in the
Federal courts, by the simple and easy process of perpetually
enjoining the officers of the several counties and cities
throughout the State from levying any taxes to pay the bonds
or judgments recovered or to be recovered thereon (a process
which amounts to enjoining them from paying such bonds
and judgments) in suits brought for that purpose by taxpayers against the county or city officers, without making a
single bondholder a party, or giving them notice. We submit that such a defence is in the face of all precedents in
this court.
1. The jurisdiction of the entire case, existed in the United
States court, from service of the writ of summons to appear
and answer to the action, down to the actual execution of all
process which the court might consider necessary to enforce

its judgment; and therefore such jurisdiction covered the
time when the proceedings in the State court were begun.
In Wayman v. Southard,* which involved the question,
whether executions issued by the Federal courts could be
controlled by State authority, the court, referring to § 14 of
the Judiciary Act, say:
"The jurisdiction of a court is not exhausted by the rendition of its judgment, but continues until that judgment shall be
satisfied. Many questions arise on the process subsequ%'t to the
judgment, in which jurisdictionis to be exercised. It is, therefore,
no unreasonable extension of the words of the act, to suppose
an execution necessary for the exercise of jurisdiction. Were
it even true that jurisdiction could technically be said to terminate with the judgment, an execution would be a writ necessary for the perfection of that which was previously done; and
would, consequently, be necessary to the beneficial exercise of
jurisdiction."
The court next proceeded to show that in the Process Act,
* 10 Wheaton, 1.

172"'

R IGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

L'Sup.

Ot

Argument for the relator.

from the language used, it was the intention of Congress to
provide for the entire proceedings in a case, down to the
enforcement of the execution. They say:
"To the forms of writs and executions, the law udds the
words, 'and modes of process.' These words must have been
intended to comprehend something more than the forms of writs
and executions. We have no right to consider them as mere
tautology. They have a meaning, and ought to be allowed an
operation more extensive than the preceding words.' The term
is applicable to writs and executions, but is also applicable to every
step taken in a cause. It indicates the progressive course of the
business from its commencement to its termination."

In The Bank of the United States v. Halstead,* land in Kentucky had been offered for sale under execution from the
United States Circuit Court, and as the State law would not
permit it to be sold unless it brought three-fourths its appraised value, the United States marshal followed the State
law, and returned the land not sold, because it did not bring
that much.
But this court, in speaking of the power of Federal courts
over its process, say:
"The judicial power would be incomplete, and entirely inadequate to the purposes for which it was intended, if after judgment it could be arrested in its progress, and denied the right
of enforcing satisfaction in any manner which shall be prescribed by the law of the United States. .

.

. The general policy

of all the laws on this subject is very apparent. It was intended
to adopt and conform to the State process and proceedings as a
general rule, but under such guardsand checks as might be necessary
to insure the due exercise of the powers of the courts of the United
States.

They have authority, therefore, from time to time, to

alter the process in such manner as they shall deem expedient,
and likewise to make additions thereto, which necessarilyimplies
a power to enlarge the effect and operation of the process."
Having thus shown the possession of this power in the
* 10 Wheaton, 51.

Dec. 18G7.]

1RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.
Argument for the relator.

courts, the next point settled was that it was beyond the
interference of the State government. Thus:
"If the court then had the power so to frame and mould the
execution in this case, as to extend to lands, the only remaining
inquiry is, whether the proceedings on the execution could be arrested and controlled by the State law. And this question would
seem to be put at rest by the decision in the case of Wayman v.
,Southard.
In Peck v. Jenness,* this court say:
"It is a doctrine of law too long established to require a citation of authorities, that where a court has jurisdiction it has a
right to decide every question which occurs in the cause; ...
and that where the jurisdiction of a court, and the right of a
plaintiff to prosecute his suit in it, have ever attached, that right
cannot be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another
court. These rules have their foundation, not merely in amity,
but in necessity; for if one may enjoin, another may retort by
injunction, and thus the parties be without remedy, being liable
to a process for contempt in one, if they dare to proceed in the
other."

0

2. When the Circuit Court rendered judgment on the coupons attached to the railroad bonds, all questions involved
in that cause, as between the relator, plaintiff there, and all
parties liable oni account of said bonds, became res adjudicata.
One of the questions and the main question involved in that
judgment, was the validity of the bonds; and it being determined therein, not only put the question at rest, but such
decision was necessarily accompanied by the order, that the
appropriate process of execution should issue.
3. Here then was nothing left undecided between the relator and the corporation of Johnson County, as to not only
whether it ought, but should pay said bonds. Nothing was
left behind for the State court to act upon, when the parties
* 7 Howard, 612, 624; and see Abelman v. Booth, 21 Id. 515; Dodge v.
Woolsey, 18 Id. 331.

RIGGS v. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. 0t.

Argument for the relator.

began proceedings to stop the execution of the judgment of
the United States court.
4. A writ of mandamus is simply a process of enforcbng the
execution of the judgment rendered in this cause. The Revised Statutes of Iowa show that mandamus is a remedy well
known and much used in that State. If not a "writ" or
"execution" within the old Process Act, it is yet a "mode
of process," s6mething regarded by that act as different from
"writ" or "execution," but which is to give the ;reditor
the fruit of his judgment. Or, if it be not "a mode of
process," it is assuredly a "proceeding" upon a judgment,
and within the act of May, 1828. If it be any one of these,
we are entitled to use it through the Federal courts as it is
used in the "courts of such State." It is moreover a "mode
of process" or a proceeding which falls within the original
understanding of the contracting parties. There has been
a return of nulla bona to the execution. Taxation is the only
means which can be relied upon, to meet the public obliga-

tions. Therefore the award of execution in the judgment,
to be effectual, carries the writ of mandamus to oblige the
county officers to raise the appropriate tax.

The case of Knox County v. Aspinwall,* as it came the
second time before this court, is in point. There the plaintiff having, in accordance with a prior decision on his case

in this court, recovered judgment on railroad bonds, and the
court determining that under the law of Indiana it was de-

fendant's duty to levy a tax to pay the judgment, granted the
mandamus, " to eiforce the execution of this judgment :" and
they decide, that this writ of execution is issued under the
fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,-referring to
the powers of the court under that act, as declared by the
above-cited case of Wayman v. Southard.
The power of the United States court to issue a mandamus
as a writ of execution was also and more lately decided in
. Von -Hoffman v. Wty of Quincy.t There this court denied the
power of the State legislature to withdraw the authority
* 24 Howard, 376, 383.

t 4 Wallace, -552.

Dec. 1867.]

eRIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.
Argument for the county.

which had been given to lay a tax, at the time the municipal
bonds had been issued, on the ground, that the remedy being
an essential part of the contract, could not be impaired in
the slightest degree; and that it was the duty of the United
States court to execute the process of mandamus, to enforce
the remedy, notwithstanding the act of interference on the
part of the State.
Messrs. Thomas Ewvng, Senior, of Ohio; Browning, Bankin,
and McGrary, Strong, Farrall, and Boal, contra:
1. The case of Knox County v. A.spinwall, which decided
that circuit courts might grant a mandamus to enjoin State
officers, is hardly, we submit, to be supported. This court
is specially authorized, by the 13th section of the Judiciary
Act, to issue "writs of mandamus, in cases warranted by the
principles and usages of law, to any courts appointed or persons
holding office under the authority of the United States"--not to
courts appointed or persons holding office under the authority of the several States. Thus the writ of mandamus is
"specially provided for by statute ;" and it is limited to issue
only to courts of the United States and persons holding office
under the authority of the United States. Expressio unius, exclusio est alterius.
Then the 14th section gives the courts of the United States
power to issue "writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all
other writs not specially provided for by statute, which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction."
The mandamus, however necessary it may be, having been
specially provided for by statute, is limited by the terms of the
statute providing for it, and does not come within the grant
of power in the 14th section. Such are the provisions of
the Constitution and the law, to guard against disastrous
conflicts of jurisdiction in the case of this writ, which were
likely, if not so limited, to arise.
In Knox Couny v. A.spinwall,* singularly enough, the provision of the 13th section of the Act of 1789, specially providing "by statute" for the writ of mandamus, and limiting its
24 Howard, 376.

RIGGS V.. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the county.

use, was wholly overlooked by the counsel, and consequently
by the court.
2. However, conceding that Knox Counily v. Aspinwall was
rightly decided, that is to say, that a mandamus may rightly
issue from a circuit court to compel State officers to levy a
tax where levy has not been previously enjoined by State
courts-that case is not this. Here preyiously to the issue
of the mandamus to levy, an injunction from the State courtforbade a levy. That is the special feature of our case. It
will be observed then, that in this case the mandamus cannot be granted ad enforced, without compelliig the respondents to do that which they are enjoined from doing by another court of competent jurisdiction. If the mandamus is
allowed, they must of necessity disobey the one process or the
other; and thus, by no possibility an they avoid liability to
punishment for contempt, and that punishment is generally,
if not always, imprisonment. If it be said that this result
would not be the fault of the Federal courts, we reply that
no more would it be the fault of the respondents. They
stand before this court in no attitude of contumacy. There
is no intimation in their answer of any wilful intent to disregard the orders of this court; but they do show us, we
think, that their hands are completely tied, and that what
the relator asks of them is a legal impossibility. They are
within the jurisdiction of the State court. That court having clearly the power so to do, has adjudged the bonds in
question void, and h'as enjoined the respondents from levying any tax to pay them. That injunction has been duly
issued and duly served. The'decisions of the State courts
upon the question of the validity of the bonds, are not, except in special cases, subject to revision by this court. Within
the scope of its jurisdiction, and as to all persons or property
coming within that jurisdiction, the State judiciary is supreme, and its adjudications final. Whatever may be thought
of the propriety or impropriety of its decisions, they must
be accepted as binding upon parties properly before it, and
persons legally brought within its jurisdiction.
The certainty of an occasional difference of opinion be-

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGS v. JoHNsox COUNTY.

177

Argument for the county.

tween two courts having jurisdiction over the same questions, long ago suggested the establishment of a rule to prevent any serious conflicts-a rule which will in every case,
when applied and enforced in its true spirit, promote perfect
harmony. -We refer of course to the well-known rule, thus
stated by this court,* and than which none can be more
firmly settled, that "iin all cases of concurrent jurisdiction,
the court which first has possession of the subject, must decide it." It is that rule, we submit, which governs this case,
and distinguishes it wholly from Knox Gounty v. Aspinwall.
There is no country in the world where so many distinct tribunals have a right to exercise complete jurisdiction over the
same subject-matter. And, to enable the State and Federal
courts, sitting in the same places, administering justice for
the same people, and over the same subjects, to work
smoothly, the rule is of inestimable value, and must be carefully acted upon.
Over this subject-matter we admit that the Circuit Court
of the United States sitting in Iowa has, in a proper case,
jurisdiction, and its having jurisdiction gives it power either
to compel or prohibit the levy of such tax. But we assert,,
further, that the District and Supreme Courts of the State
of Iowa have jurisdiction over precisely the same subjectmatter. This will not be denied, and needs no proof. It
follows, then, that neither the State nor Federal judiciary,
have exclusive jurisdiction over the subject-matter of this
proceeding. Either may compel the levy of the tax in question, and either may prohibit it. Nor can it be said that
the Circuit Court sitting within the State of Iowa, in construing and enforeing the constilution and laws of Iowa, is in any
sense superior to the State courts. The Federal courts are
the final judges of all questions arising upon the construction of the Constitution of the United States and the acts of
Congress, but in construing and enforcing the State constitution and laws they stand upon a perfect equality with the
*Smith v. McIver, 9 Wheaton, 532; and see SI elbyv. Bacon,, 10, Howard

67.
VoL. V1.

12

IGGS V.

JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup Ct

Argument for the county.

tribunals created by the constitution of the State for that
purpose.*
The State court having then got possession of the matter
hrst, cannot be disturbed in its jurisdiction of it.
3. The whole argument of the other side rests and must
rest upon an assumption that a mandamus is like a ft.fa.,
or habere facids possessionem, mere process issuing upon a
judgment. But this is assumption of that which is false; a
mistaken view of what a mandamus is. It is not a writ of
final process at all.
In most of the States, as in England, the proceeding is
not only begun by a petition or complaint and notice, but
all of the proceedings and pleadings are the same, precisely
the same, in every particular as in any other action at law.
The defendant may plead or demur to the information upon
which it is sought, or move to quash the alternative writ, or
the plaintiff may reply or demur to or move to quash the
answer or return of the respondent, andjudgment is rendered
as in any other cause. Such especially is the case in the
State of Iowa,t where the code calls it, over and over again,
an "action," and where its "form of pleading" is prescribed; being made the same as in assumpsit.1
As said by this court,§ in modern practice it is nothing
more nor less than an ordinary suit at law.
This is peculiarly the case when the proceeding as here is
against third persons who were not a party to any other action with the relator, and where the relief sought is not
simply to compel a defendant in a judgment to do some act,
which by the judgment he is legally required to do, but where
the relief is beside the judgment, and in aid of the rights
of the plaintiff against a defendant, who was no party to the
mandamus. In no court, under no circumstances, can this
writ be granted, except in term time, and upon due notice
to the party, the very person against whom it is sought. In
* Pulliam v. Osborne, 17 Howard, 471, and cases there cited.

-"Chance v. Temple,

5 Iowa, 179.
j See supra, pp. 169-70.
? Commonwealth v. Dennison, 24 Howard, 97; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 Id.

Dec. 1867.]

D IGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.
Argument for the county.

this important regard it differs from the ordinary writ of
execution incident to a judgment, and to which the creditor
is entitled as of course. It is a writ which the court may
grant or refuse to grant, depending upon the case made.
The idea that a mandamus will in any case issue as "process" in order to obtain the fruits of a judgment in the
event of a failure to get the money on ordinary execution, is
wholly new. As respects this special case we submit that it
is absurd. The petition for the mandamus sets forth a contract and relies on it; and accordingly asks for a mandamus
to compel the levy of a tax not only now to pay the judgment, but to pay also all coupons that have become due
since the judgment, and all that shall become due until the
maturity of the bond. Was ever "process" like this heard
of on an ordinary judgment upon an ordinary railroad bond?
As respects the State of Iowa, with which we are here concerned, this position is in the very face of its code. The
action cannot be got under the Process Act at all. When
you call it a "proceeding," the matter is given up, unless
you prove that it is a proceeding in the nature of final process, and not one in the nature of an action: the rule about
comity prevails. There is but one writ in Iowa, or elsewhere,
which issues to enforce a judIgment at law and as a part
of the suit, and that is the ordinary writ of execution. It
often happens indeed that a plaintiff ihils to get his money
by an execution, and has therefore to resort to some other
remedy, as ex.gr., to a bill in chancery. But is there, among
the numerous cases of such bills, one in which it has been
held that the court in which the creditor's bill is filed, gets a
jurisdiction dating friom the commencement of the original
suit? Yet if the court which is applied to for a mandamus
to aid in the collection of its judgment, may assume that its
jurisdiction in the mandamus case reaches back to the commencement of the original suit, why not the same thing
when a creditor's bill is filed for the same purpose? The
most that can be said of this mandamus is that it is a proceeding-a suit-instituted in aid of the execution, or to
create a fund on which the execution may be levied. But

RIGGS V. JOflNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the county.

such is.the fact in every case where a creditor's bill is #led.
We call in short upon counsel to point out to this court how,
in any single feature or particular, a suit by'mandarnus in
modern practice, differs from any other suit so as to authorize them to assume or conclude, that it is not simply a suit
at law, though a suit which the court will not entertain when
the party seeking it has other adequate remedy. They have
produced no such authority or anything analogous to it by
this or any other court. Would it not be at variance with
the history and spirit of this tribunal to court unnecessary
conflict with the co-ordinate tribunals of the States, and in
the face of all direct authority, and of controlling analogy,
to seek such occasion by holding that these suits are not
suits ?
In this particular case the mandamus is not only a new

suit, but is one separate and distinct from the former, in that
the subject-matter of the two are not the same. The object
of the suit on the bonds was to recover a judgment. The
object of this proceeding is to compel the levy of a tax.
In addition to all this, the court will not grant the writ to
compel a party to do an act which it is not in his power,
legally, to do, or which will subject him to punishment by
another court having jurisdiction of him, in obedience to
whose writ he is acting.' It will not, to use an expression of
3rinkerhoff, J.,* "place him between two.fires;" and this is a
universal rule of all courts, and has been as unifornily recognized in England as in this country. In The Queen v. Sit
Gilbert ileaheote,so far back as the Modern Reports,t Eyre,
J., speaking for the court, says:
"No instance could be produced where the courts have granted the writ, where obedience shall expose a man to trouble or inconvenience. Whereas, in this case, if Sir Gilbert obeys the man* Ohio and Indiana R. R. Co. v. The' Commissioners, 7 Ohio State, 278;
and see Insurance Co. v. Adams, 9 Peters, 571, and Ex parte Fleming, 4 Hill,

581.
t 10 Modern, 48; and see" The Queen v. The Justices of Middlesex, I
Perry & Davidson, 402.

Dec. 1367.]

RIGGS V.

JOHNSON COUNTY.

Argument for the county.

damus, he will be liable to an action for false return to the court
of aldermen."
Counsel replied that it was his own fault, and he might
suffer the consequence. But Eyre, J., further says:
"I agree, that unless some mandamus will lie in this case there
is no remedy. But it ought to be the concern of a court of justice to take care that while they are granting a remedy to one,
they do not at the same time expose others to great inconveniences."
In the same case Lord Chief Justice Parker, after saying
that there was no doubt about the jurisdiction of the court,
says:
"As to Sir Gilbert, if he obey the writ he is subject to an action for a false return to the court of aldermen, and no instance
yet has been produced where obedience to a mandatory writ of
this court exposes a man to an action."
Far less will a court grant a mandamus to compel a man
to do that which another court of co-ordinate power has enjoined him from doing. This follows necessarily and with
greater reason from the authorities already refe-red to.
It is quite impertinent to say that in a suit in the State
court for.damages, lie can plead the mandamus; and if the
plea is not respected, he can, if the highest court of Iowa
affirm the decision of the lower State court on that point,
come here term after term to 'Washington, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, and at a thousand miles
from Iowa, and at a cost which may ruin him, get the decision
reversed. Or to say that if imprisoned he can get out on
order of the Federal court through the Force Bill of 1833,
or some other Federal statute. The doctrine declared in the
case just cited is that a court will not subject an innocent
man, discharging his duty under judicial order, to this sort
of inconvenience and cost; an inconvenience which may
involve him in suits for the residue of his life, and costs
which it may he ausolutely impossible for him to pay.

RIGGS V. JOHNSON

COUNT r.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the county.

The case of Knox County v. Aspinwall, much relied on by
the other side, is not, as is there supposed, in point. Certainly it decides that a mandamus may issue from this court
after judgment to compel county commissioners to levy a
tax. But no injunction had been previously laid on the commissioners there not to do it. There was no State court
previously in possession of the matter on which the mandamus asked for was to act. That is the point of our present
case. That decision does not hold, nor say, nor suggest, that
a mandamus is "process" like an execution, nor that it
issues as a part of the original suit. The case needed no
such decision. The decision is not only wholly consistent
with the idea that it is an "action," a new suit, but is inconsistent with any other. The court, Grier, J., giving the opinion, speaks of it, not as an execution, nor as process; but as
"remedy," and one to enforce the execution of the judgment.
It does not hold that a mandamus is not a new suit. It has
in short, then, no bearing at all upon the questions raised in
this cause. The suit, moreover, in that case* was brought
for mandamus against the original defendants against whom
the judgment had been rendered, so that the parties in the
original and in the mandamus case were the same, while in
this they are different.
The point decided in Wayrnan v. Southard, and relied on
too, was that the Federal courts have power to issue executions for the enforcement of their judgments. Of course
they have; executions such as belong to the judgment and
grow out of it; the sort alone of which the court was speaking. So since Knox County v. Aspinwall, they may issue
mandamus even to State officers, if mandamus be "necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction." But
of course they can issue it only in subordination to fixed
principles of law; one of which is the rule of comity that
allows a court already in possession of a case to keep it.
But the right to issue a mandamus to a State officer does
not go one step to prove that a mandamus is final process,
* 21 Howard, 539.

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGs v. JOHNSON COUNTY.

183

Reply.

and so outside the rule; and to make the mandamus a part
of the former case. But to assume that it is a "process," or
quasi process, is to assume the whole case: to assume that
which is contrary to the settled definition of the word; contrary to what has been always adjudged; and to assume
what is wholly denied.
So of the other cases cited contra to the same effect as
Wayman v. Southard.
It is urged that without the allowance of a mandamus the
relator's judgment cannot be collected. If this were true,
the law would remain as we have stated it. There are many
judgments which cannot be collected. The same result
might have followed, if an execution issued upon the relator's judgment had been levied the day after a State court
had through its process levied upon the property of the
county subject to execution. But this court would, nevertheless, adhere to its well-settled and salutary rule, of yielding the property to the State court in such cases.
Reply: The doctrine of conity and prior possession is inequitably invoked in a case like this. The State court, not
regarding the principles laid down by this court in Gelpeke
v. The City of _Dubuque, as binding on them, but treating the
bonds still as void, will issue any number of injunctions.
There is nothing to prevent counties getting them, and unless the decision below is reversed they will all get them, of
coarse. The bondholders are powerless to prevent it.
It is true that the case of Maynian v. 3outhard, and cases
to the same effect cited by us, were cases of writs of execution.
But the principle which that case and the other cases establish is, that the jurisdiction continues till the judgment is
satisfied; satisfied, whether by writs of execution or by other
"modes

of process" or "proceeding , " is unimportant.

It

is not necessary to regard the mandamus as "process."
Iany cases have been decided in this court that a suppletory proceeding, either at law or equity, to execute or perform the prior judgments of the Federal courts, is auxiliary
to the original suit, and maintained without regard to the

RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

innesota Comjurisdiction of the court as to the parties.
pany v. St. Paul Comnpany,* where there had been a former
suit-an action of foreclosure against the La Crosse and
Milwaukee Railroad Company-was such a case. The
court there say: "The present suit is really a continuation
of that one." The "present suit" spoken of was by a different plaintiff against different defendants, for: a different
object; yet being connected with the same subject-matter,
about the same railroad, and the mortgaged property of the
same, the court overruled the plea to the jiurisdiction, holding the "present bill necessary in order to have a declaration of what was intended by the order and decree made in
that (former) suit, and to enforce the rights which were established
by it."
So too, Pratt and White, who had bought the railroad at
the marshal's sale, and held the title thereto, were citizens
of the same State with the plaintiff, and this matter was set
up to devest the Federal court of its jurisdiction, as undoubtedly it would, had the last suit been considered a new
suit; but the court refused to entertain the plea, saying:
"If the court has jurisdiction of the matters growing out of
that sale, and order of possession, as we have already shown
that it has, then it has jurisdiction to that extent of these parties without regard to their citizenship."
The argument drawn from position "between two fires,"
is without weight. The mandamus if pleaded will be a bar
to any suit for damages in the State court; and if not so regarded by it, a writ of error lies hence under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act. As to imprisonment, the
Force Bill of 1833 gives a complete remedy. We need not
enlarge on provisions so abundantly known.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court..
Application of the relator to the Circuit Court was for a
mandamus to compel the defendants, as the supervisors of
2 Wallace, 682.

Dec. 1867.]

IRIGGS V. JOHNSON

COUNTY.

185

Opinion of the court.

the county, to assess a tax upon the taxable property of the
county to satisfy the judgment described in the transcript.
Pursuant to the usual practice the court granted the alternative writ, commanding the defendants to assess the taxes,
or show cause to the contrary, on or before the second day
of the next term of the court. Service of the writ was duly
made, but they neglected to levy the tax, and elected to show
cause against the application.
They appeared, and in their return to the writ, they deny
that it is their duty to levy the tax to pay the judgment, or
that the relator is entitled to a peremptory writ, and allege
that they have been enjoined not to assess a tax for that purpose by the State court, and aver that they cannot do so
without being guilty of contempt and becoming liable to
punishment. Plaintiff demurred specially to the return, and
assigned the following causes of demurrer: 1. That the relator was no party to the proceedings in the State court. 2.
That the proceedings in the State court were subsequent to
the judgment of the relator in the Circuit Court. 3.That
the State court had no jurisdiction, power, or authority, to
prevent the relator from using the process of the Circuit
Court to collect his judgment. 4. That the decree for an injunction rendered in the State court was no bar to the application of the relator for relief. But the court overruled the
demurrer and decided that the return was sufficient. Judgment was thereupon rendered for the defendants, and the
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
I. Power was vested by law in the county judge of a
county in the State of Iowa, to submit the question to the
people of his county, whether theywould construct or aid
in the construction of roads or bridges; but when the question proposed involved the borrowing or the expenditure of
money, the requirement was that it must be accompanied by
a provision to lay a tax for the payment of the same in addition to the usual taxes, and the legislative enactment was,
that such special tax, if voted under those circumstances,
should be paid in money and in no other manner.
IL levision of the proceedings was also devolved upor

RtIGaS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the county judge; but if satisfied that they were correct,
and that a majority of the votes had been cast in favor of
the measure, it was made his duty to cause the proposition
and the result of the vote to be entered at large in the
minute-book of the county; and the same section of the act
provides, that the entry, when so made, shall have the force
and effect of an act of the General Assembly. Moneys so
raised for such a purpose are regarded as specially appropriated by law and as constituting a fund, distinct from all
others, in the hands of the treasurer, until the obligation
assumed is discharged. Contracts made under such regulations are declared irrepealable, and the provision is that
the taxes appointed for carrying the object into effect cannot be rescinded.*
III. Corporation defendants, acting under the authority
of those provisions of law, on the first day of December,
1853, issued fifty bonds to the Lyons Iowa Central Railroad
Company, of one thousand dollars each, with interest warrants, at the rate of seven per cent., payable semi-annually.
:Recitals in the respective bonds are, that they were issued
by the authority of that act of the General Assembly, and of
the required vote of the qualified voters of the county, taken
in pursuance of that act. They were issued in payment of
a subscription of five hundred shares in the capital stock of
the railroad, and the record shows that the plaintiff is the
holder of forty-seven of the bonds.
IV. Payment of the interest warrants having been refused,
the plaintiff sued the defendants in the Circuit Court and recovered judgment against them for the same in the sum
of five thousand one hundred and eighty-nine dollars and
twenty-six cents, which is in full force and unsatisfied. Execution was duly issued on the same, and the marshal returned that he found no corporate property. Unable to enfcorce payment of his judgment, th'rough the ordinary process
of an execution, the plaintiff applied to the Circuit Court in
which the judgment was recovered, for a mandamus to com.
Code,

114, 120.

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGS V.

ToHNs5G

COUNTY.

Opinion of the court.

pel the defendants to levy the tax as authorized by the people
of the county at the time they voted to aid in the construction of the railroad and to issue the bonds.
V. Principal defence stated in the return of the supervisors is, that they had been enjoined from levying the tax as
prayed, by a prior decree of the State court, and the record
shows that the State court, at the suit of a tax-payer of the
county, issued an injunction perpetually enjoining the defendants from levying the special tax voted at the time the
proposition to grant aid to the railroad was adopted. Want
of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court was not alleged in the
return, nor was any such ground assumed by the circuit
judge who refused the writ. Experienced counsel, however, have made that point in this court, and it becomes the
duty of the court to determine it before examining the
merits. Jurisdiction is defined to be the power to hear and
determine the subject-matter in controversy in the suit before the court, and the rule is universal, that if the power is
conferred to render the judgment or enter the decree, it also
includes the power to issue proper process to enforce such
judgment or decree.*
Express determination of this court is, that the jurisdiction of a court is not exhausted by the rendition of the judgment, but continues until that judgment shall be satisfied.
Consequently, a writ of error will lie when a party is aggrieved in the foundation, proceedings, judgment, or execution of a suit in a court of record.t
Process subsequent to judgment is as essential to jurisdiction as process antecedent to judgment, else the judicial
power would be incomplete and entirely inadequate to the
purposes for which it was confer'ed by the Constitution.
Congress, it is conceded, possesses the uncontrolled power
to legislate in respect both to the form and effect of executions and other final process to be issued in the Federal
* Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Peters, 718.

f Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheaton, 23; Suydam v. Williamson, 20
Howard, 437' 2 Tidd's Practice, 1134; Co. Lit., 288, b.

RIGGS V. JOHNSON

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

court.
Opinion of the

courts. Implied concession also is, that Congress might
authorize such courts to employ the writ of mandamus to
enforce a judgment rendered in those courts in a case where
the ordinary process of execution is inappropriate, and where
the judgment creditor is without other legal remedy; but
the defendants insist that Congress has not made any such
provision. Federal courts, it is argued, cannot act in any
way on State officers, except in the specified cases in this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Support to that proposition is attempted to be drawn from
the last clause of the thirteenth section of that act, which,
in terms, authorizes this court to issue writs of mandamus,
in cases warranted by the principles and usages of law, to
anycourts appointed or persons holding office under the
authority of the United States.*
Neither State courts nor State officers are named in the
clause, and the argument is, that the authority to issue the
writ does not extend to any courts or persons except those
enumerated. Expressio unius est exclusio alteris. Particular
consideration of that point, however, is unnecessary, as
there is no application to this court for any such writ. Examination of the record, even for a moment, will show that
the application for the writ in this case was to the Circuit
Court, and that the case was brought here by writ of error
to the judgment of that court. But this court cannot issue
the writ of mandamus in any case in the exercise of original
jurisdiction, as no such power is conferred by the Constitution. Direct decision of this court in the case of Marbur
v. Madison,t was that the clause of the thirteenth section of
the Judiciary Act referred to by the defendants, so far as it
professes to authorize this court to issue the writ to persons
holding office under the United States, other than judicial
officers, was not warranted by the Constitution, because it
contemplated the exercise of original jurisdiction in a case
other than those enumerated in the instrument.
Second proposition of the defendants is, that the four* 1 Stat. at Large, 81.

t I Craneh, 175.

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGS v. JoHNsoN COUITY:

189

Opinion of the court.

teenth section of the Judiciary Act does not confer the power
upon the Federal courts to iss-6e the writ to a State officer in
any case. They argue that it does not authorize those courts
to issue it at all, as it is not one of the writs named in the
section, and is specially provided for, as appears in the preceding section. Nothing, however, is better settled than the rule
that the Circuit Courts in the several States may issue the
writ in all cases where it may be necessary, agreeably to the
principles and usages of law, to the exercise of their respective jurisdictions. Such was the construction given to the
fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act at the same time that
the last clause of the preceding section, except as applied to
judicial officers, was held to be unconstitutional and void,
and that construction has been followed to the present tiTre.*
None of the Circuit Courts in the several States can issue
the writ as an exercise of original jurisdiction, any more
than this court, but they may issue it whenever it is necessary, agreeably to the principles and usages of law, to the
exercise of their proper jurisdiction, and their judgments in
such cases may be re-examined in this court, on writ of error,
under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act. Objections to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and of this
court, are therefore overruled.
VI. Before proceeding to consider the operation and effect
of the injunction issued by the State court, it becomes necessary to examine more closely into the source, nature, and
operation of Federal process, and the jurisdiction and power

of the Circuit Courts in the several States. Circuit Courts
were created by the act of Congress, under which the judicial system of the United States was organized, but the act
made no provision for the forms of process. Forms of processes in the Federal courts were regulated by the act of
Congress, which was passed five days later.t
Writs and processes issuing from a Circuit Court were
required by that act to bear the test of the chief justice of
* Mclntire v. 'Wood, 7 Craneb, 504; McClung v. Silliman, 6 Whoaton
601; Conklin's Treatise, 161.
f 1 Stat. at Large, 93.

IRIGGS V. JOIINSON

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the Supreme Court, to be under the seal of the court, and
to be signed by the clerk. By the second section of the
act, it was provided that the forms of writs and executions, ....
and the modes of process, in suits at common
law, ....
should be the same as were then used in the Supreme Courts of the States. Subsequent act adopted substantially those provisions, and made them permanent.*
Legal effect of those enactments was, that Congress adopted
the forms of writs and executions, and the modes of process,
as then known and understood in the courts of the States,
for use in the several Circuit Courts.
Modes of process, and forms of process, were in use in
the States at that period, other than such as were known at
common law as understood in the English courts. fRadical
changes had been made in some of the States, not only in
the forms of mesne process, and the rules of pleading, but
in the modes of process in enforcing judgment, as was well
known to Congress when the Judiciary and Process Acts
were passed.
Executions, it is admitted, may be issued by the Circuit
Court, but the power of such courts to issue the other writs
necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction, is equally clear,
with the single restriction that the writ, and the mode of

process, must be agreeable to the principles and usages of
law. Usages of law, and not of the common law, it will be
observed, are the words of the provision, which, doubtless,
refers to the principles and usages of law as known and understood in the State courts at the date of that enactment.
Forms of process, mesne and final, and the modes of process varied in essential particulars from the principles and
usages of thencommon law, and in many cases they were
different in the different States. Intention of Congress, in
passing the Process Acts, was, that the forms of writs and
executions, and the modes of process, and proceedings in
common law suits, in the several Circuit Co)urts, should be
the same as they were at that time in the courts of the re.
1 Stat. at Large, 276.

Dec. 1867.]

IRIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

spective States. Instead of framing the forms of process,
and prescribing the modes of process, Congress adopted
those already prepared and in use in the respective States,
not as State regulations, but as the rules and regulations
prescribed by Congress for use in the several Circuit Courts.
Adopted as they were, by an act of Congress, they became
the permanent fbrms and modes of proceeding, and continue
in force wholly unaffected by any subsequent State legislation. Alterations can only be made by Congress, or by the
Federal courts, acting under the authority of an act of
Congress.
Practical effect of the c6urse pursued was, that the forms
of writs and executions and the modes of process and proceedings were the same, whether the litigation was in the
State court or in the Circuit Court of the United States.
They were not always the same in different States nor in
different circuits; and in some instances they were widely
different in the diffirent States of the same circuit. Those
diversities, or many of them, continue to the present time.
Great diversity in the forms of real actions and of indictments were the necessary effect of the system. Different
rules of pleading necessarily followed. Modes of process
also were different, both in respect to mesne and final process. Attachment of personal and real property upon mesne
process is allowed in one district, while the power to create
any such lien in the service of .such process is entirely unknown in another district, even in the same circuit. Lands
of the debtor were subject to seizure and sale on execution
in one district, while in another real property was only subject to seizure and an extent corresponding to a modified
elegil as at common law. MNoney judgments in one district
became a lien upon the lands of the judgment debtor, while
in another the judgment creditor must first seize the lands
before he was entitled to any such preference.
Remedies on judgments against municipal corporations
partook of the same diversity in the different districts as
that appearing in the modes of process to enforce judgments recovered against private persons. Judgment against

RIGGS

V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

such a corporation might be enforced in one district by levying the execution, as issued against the corporation, upon
the private property, personal or real, of any inhabitant of
the municipality, while in another the appropriate remedy,
in case the execution against the corporation was returned
nulla bona, was mandamus to compel the proper officers of
the corporation to assess a tax for the payment of the judgment.*
Circuit courts, by virtue of those acts of Congress, became armed with the same forms of writs and executions,

and vested with the authority to employ the same modes of
process, as those in use in the State courts. Permanent
effect of that wise measure was, that the forms of writs and
executions and the modes of process were the same, whether
the litigation was in the forums of the State or in the Circuit
Court of the United States.
Remark should be made that those Process Acts in terms
apply only to the old States, but the Federal courts in States
since admitted into the Union are, in yirtue of subsequent
enactments, governed by regulations substantially similar.t
Express provision in the third section of the act of the
nineteenth of May, 1828, is, that writs of execution, and
otherfinal process issued on judgments rendered in the Federal
courts, AND THE PROCEEDINGS THEREUPON, shall be the same
in each State as are now used in the courts of such State.
VII. Public buildings and all other public property of a
county in the State of Iowa, are exempt from execution
under the law of the State, and the same law enacts that
the property of the private citizen can in no case be levied
upon to pay the debt of a civil corporation.1
Return of aulla bona in this ease therefore showed that
the creditor was without remedy, unless the Circuit Court
in which the judgment was recovered could issue the writ
of mandamus to compel the proper ofitcers of the cohnty to
Angell & Ames on Corporations, § 629.
t 4 Stat. at Large, 274; 5 Id. 499, 789.
$ Code, sec. 1895; Revision, sec. 3274.

Dec. 1867.]

RrGGS v. JoHNsoN COUNTY.

193

Opinion of the court.

levy the tax voted for that purpose when the consent of the
county was given to incur the liability.
VIII. Definition of mandamus, as given in the code of
the State, is, that it is an order of a court of competent jurisdiction commanding "an inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to do or not to do an act, the performance
or omission of which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station."
Established rule in the Supreme Court of the State is, that
where the debt of a municipal corporation has been reduced
to judgment and the judgment creditor has no other means
to enforce the payment, mandamus will be issued to compel
the proper officers of the municipality to levy and collect a
tax for that purpose.t-I
Apart from the injunction,therefore, it is an incontrovertible fact that the appropriate remedy of the plaintiff, if his
judgment had been recovered in the State court, would have
been mandamus to compel the defendants, as the supervisors
of the county, to levy the tax previously voted to pay the
judgment.
Same views have also. been advanced by this court in several cases, in which there was no dissenting opinion. Mandamus, said Mr. Justice Grier, in an analogous case, is a
remedy, according to well-established principles and usages
of law, to compel any person, corporation, public functionary, or tribunal, to perform a duty required by law, where
the duty sought to be enforced is clear and undisputable,
and the party seeking relief has no other legal remedy.1
Petitioner in that case had previously recovered judgment
for interest due on bonds issued by the county as material
aid in the construction of a railroad, and the report of the
case shows that the same legislative act which authorized
the subscription made provision that the commissioners
should annually "assess a special tax sufficient to realize. the
Code, see. 2179; Revision, 3761.
t Coy v. City Council of Lyons, 17 Iowa, 1; Dox v. Johnson Cc., 12 Id.
237; Clark v. City of Davenport, Id. 335.
1 Commissioners of Knox Co. v. Aspinwall et al., 24 Howard, 303.
13
voL. Vi.

RIGGs v.

JOHNSON COUNTY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

amount of interest to be paid for the year." Unanimous
decision of this court was, that the writ of mandamus was
the proper legal remedy to enforce that duty in case of neglect and refusal, and the judgment of the Circuit Court
granting the writ was affirmed. Decision of the court was
placed upon the ground not only that the writ was necessary
to the exercise of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, but that
the law providing for a special tax was a part of the contract.
Necessary conclusion is, that the decision in that case is
an authority for everything asked in the plaintiff's application, unless it be held that the power of the Circuit Court to
grant relief in this case was displaced and overruled or perpetually suspended by the injunction issued from the State
court.
Exactly the same views have been expressed by this court
in later cases. Where a State has authorized a municipal
corporation to contract and to exercise the local power of
taxation to the extent necessary to meet the engagement, the
power thus given cannot be withdrawn until the contract is
satisfied.*
Regularity ofthe proceedings in the primary suit are not
open to inquiry, and it is conceded that the judgment was
in regular form; and if so, then the power of the Circuit
Court to issue final process, agreeably to the principles and
usages of law, to enforce the judgment, is undeniable.t
Authority of the Circuit Courts to issue process of any
kind which is necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction and
agreeable to the principles and usages of law, is beyond
question, and the power so couferred cannot be controlled
either by the process of the State courts or by any act of a
State legislature. Such an attempt was made in the early
history of Federal jurisprudeuce, but it was wholly unsuccessful.1 Suit in that case was ejeetment and the verdict
*Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wallace, 554; Supervisors v. United States,
Id. 444.
- Wayman v Southard, 10 Wheaton, 22; Bank of the Unite" States v.
Halstead, Id. 56.
j M c:Kim v. Voorhies,' Oranch, 281.

Dec. 186i.J

fRIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

195

Opinion of the court.

was for the plaintiff. Defeated in the Circuit Court, the defendant went into the State court and obtained an injunction
staying all proceedings. Plaintiff applied for a writ of Iabove
facias possessioneem, but the judges of the Circuit Court being opposed in opinion whether the writ ought to issue, the
point was certified to this court; and the decision was that
the State court had no jurisdiction to enjoin a judgment of
the Circuit Court, and the directions were that the writ of
possession should issue. Prior decisions of the court had
determined that a Circuit Court could not enjoin the proceedings in a State court, and any attempt of the kind is
forbidden by an act of Congress.-,Repeated decisions of this court have also determined
that State laws, whether general or enacted for the particular case, cannot in any manner limit or affect the operation
of the process or proceedings in the Federal courts.t
The Constitution itself becomes a mockery, say the court
in that case, if the State legislatures may at will annul the
judgments of the Federal courts, and the nation is deprived
of the means of enforcing its own laws by the instrumentality of its own tribunals.t
Congress may adopt State laws for such a purpose directly,
or confide the authority to adopt them to the Federal courts,
but their whole efficacy when adopted depends upon the
enactments of Congress, and they are neither controlled or
controllable by any State regulation.§
State courts are exempt from all interference by the Federal tribunals, but they are destitute of all power to restrain
either the process or proceedings in the national courts.j
Circuit courts and State courts act separably and independently of each other, and in their respective spheres of action
the process issued by the one is as far beyond the reach of
* Diggs et a]. v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179; 1 Stat. at Large, 335.
f United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 136.
I Slocum v. Mlayberry, 2 Wheaton, 9; Beers et al. v. Haughton, 9 Pete-s,
359.

P United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 136; Boyle v. Zacharie et al., 6
Peters, 658.

U Duncan v. Da "st et al., 1 Howard, 306; Peck v. Jenness, 7 Id. 625.

.1IGGS V. JOtNSON

COUNTY.

[SLp. Cat.

Opinion of the court.

the other, as if the line of division between them "was
traced by landmarks and monuments visible to the eye."*
Appellate relations exist in a class of cases, between the
State courts and this court, but there are no such relations
between the State courts and the Circuit courts.
Viewed in any light, therefore, it is obvious that the injunction of a State court is inoperative to control, or in any
manner to affect the process or proceedings of a Circuit court,
not on account of any paramount jurisdiction in the itter
courts, but because, in their sphere of action, Circuit courts
are wholly independent of the State tribunals. Based on
that consideration, the settled rule is, that the remedy of a
party, whose property is wrongfully attached under process
issued from a Circuit court, if he wishes to pursue it in a
State tribunal, is trespass, and not replevin, as the sheriff
cannot take the property out of the possession and custody
of the marshal.t Suppose that to be so, still the defendants
insist that the writ was properly refused, because the injunction was issued before the plaintiff's application was presented to the Circuit court. Undoubtedly Circuit courts
and State courts, in certain controversies between citizens
of different States, are courts of concurrent and co-ordinate
jurisdiction, and the general rule is, that as between courts
of concurrent jurisdiction, the court that first obtains possessiou of the controversy, or of the property in dispute, must
be allowed to dispose of it without interference or interruption from the co-ordinate court. Such questions usually
arise in respect to property attached on mesne process, or
property seized upon execution, and the general rule is, that
where there are two or more tribunals competent to issue
process to bind the goods of a party, the goods shall be considered as effectually bound by the authority of the process
under which they were first attached or seized.T
Corresponding decisions have been made in this court, as
Ableman v. Booih, 21 Howard, 516.
t- Freeman v. Howe et al., 24 Id. 455; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wa.lace, 341.
523.
-. Payne v. Drewe, 4 East,

Dec. 1867.]

RIGGS V. JoHNsoN COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

in the case of Hagan v. Lucas,* where it was held that the
marshal could not seize property previously attached by the
sheriff, and held by him or his agent, under valid process
from a State court. Rule laid down in the case of Taylor v.
Uarryl el al.t is to the same eflect as understood by a majority of the court.1
Argument for the defendants is, that the rule established
in those and kindred cases, controls the present controversy,
but the court is of a difierent opinion, for various reasons,

in addition to those already mentioned. Unless it be held.
that the application of the plaintiff for the writ is a new suit,
it is quite clear that the proposition is wholly untenable.
Theory of the plaintiff is, that the writ of mandamus, in a
ease like the present, is a writ in aid of jurisdiction which
has previously attached, and that, in such cases,it is a process
ancillary to the judgment, and is the proper substitute for
the ordinary process of execution, to enforce the payment
of the same, as provided in the contract. Grant that such is
the nature and character of the writ, as applied in such a
case, and it is' clear that the proposition of the defendants
must utterly fail, as in that view there can be no conflict of
jurisdiction, because it has already appeared that a State
court cannot enjoin the process or proceedings of a Circuit
court.
Complete jurisdiction of the case, which resulted in the
judgnient, is conceded; and if it be true that the writ of
mandamus is a remedy ancillary to the judgment, and is the
proper process to enforce the payment of the same, then
there is an end of the argument, as it cannot be contended
that a State court can enjoin any such process of a Federal
court. When issued by a Federal court, the writ of mandamus is never a prerogative writ.§ Outside of this district
no Circuit court can issue it at all in the exercise of original
jurisdiction.
Power of the Circuit courts in the several States to issue
* 10 Peterl, 400.

M
Mallett v. Dexter, 1 Curtis C. 0. 174.
Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 Howard, 97.

t 20 roward, 595.

198

RIGGS V. JO NSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court. '

the writ of mandamus is confined exclusively to those cases
in which it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction. Express determination of this court is, that it can
only be issued by those courts in cases where the jurisdietion
abeady exists, and not where it is to be acquired by means
of the writ.*
Proposition of the defendants proves too much; for if it
be correct, the Circuit courts in the several States cannot
issue the writ in any case. Such a proposition finds no support in the language of the Judiciary Act, or in the decisions
of this court. Twice this court has affirmed the ruling of
the Circuit court in granting the writ in analogous cases,
and once or more this court has reversed the ruling of the
Circuit court in refusing the writ, and remanded the cause,
with directions that it should be issued.t Learned courts
in the States have advanced the same views, and it does not
appear that there is any contrariety of decision.t
Tested by all these considerations, our conclusion is, that
the propositions of the defendants cannot be sustained, and
that the Circuit courts in the several States may issue the
writ of mandamus in a proper case, where it is necessary to
the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, agreeably to the
principles and usages of law. Where such an exigency arises,
they may issue it, but when so employed, it is neither a
prerogative writ nor a new suit, in the jurisdictional sense.
On the contrary, it is a proceeding ancillary to the judgment
which gives the jurisdiction, and when issued, becomes a
substitute for the ordinary process of execution to enforce
the payment of the same, as provided in the contract.§
Next suggestion of the defendants is, that if the writ is
* Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 615-627; McClung v. Silliman, 6
Wheaton, 601; McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 506.
t Knox County v. Aspinwall et al., 24 Howard, 385; Von Hoffman v.
Quincy, 4 Wallace, 554; Supervisors v United States, Id. 446.
1 Thomas v. Allegheny County, 32 Pennsylvania State, 225; Hamilton v
Pittsburg, 34 Id. 509; Armstrong v. Allegheny, 37 Id. 279; Graham ct al.
v. Maddox et al., 6 American Law Register, 620; Carroll v. Board of Police,
28 Mississippil 38; Moses on Mandamus, 126.
Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 Howard, 97.

Dec. 1867.]

IeGGS v. JOHNSON COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

issued, and they should obey its commands, they may be
exposed to a suit for damages or to attachment for contempt,
and imprisonment. No such apprehensions are entertained
by the court, as all experience shows that the State courts
at all times have readily acquiesced in the judgments of this
court in all cases confided to its determination under the
Constitution and laws of Congress. Guided by the experience of the past, our just expectations of the future are that
the same just views will prevail. Should it be otherwise,
however, the defendants will find the most ample means of
protection at hand. Proper course for them to pursue, in
case they are sued for damages, is to plead the commands
of the writ in bar of the suit, and if their defence is overruled, and judgment is rendered against them, a writ of
error will lie to the judgment, under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
Remedy in case of imprisonment is a very plain one, under the seventh section of the act of the second of March,
1833, entitled, an act further to provide for the collection
of the duties on imports. Prisoners in jail or confinement
for any act done or omitted to be done in pursuance of a
law of the Tnited States, or any order, process, or decree
of any judge or court thereof, may apply to either of the
justices of the Supreme, or a judge of any District court of
the United States for the writ of habeas corpus, and they are
severally authorized to grant it, in addition to the authority
otherwise conferred by law.*
Under any such circumstances, the wisdom of Congress
has provided the means of protection to all persons sued or

imprisoned for any act done or omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of the United States, or any order, process,
or decree of any Federal judge or court of competent jurisdiction.
Views here expressed also control the decision in the case
of Thomson v. Henry County.
JUDGMiNT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with direc* 4 Stat. at Large, 634.

RIGGS

V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

tions to sustain the demurrer and for further proceedings in
conformity to the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
In the case of Gelpcke v. Dubuque, reported in 1st Wallace,*
I felt called upon to point out the evil consequences likely
to flow from the doctrine there asserted for the first timethat the construction given by the State courts to their own
constitutions and statutes, could be disregarded and overruled by the Federal courts sitting in the same States and
deciding the same controversies.These consequences are now apparent in the judgments
just rendered, whereby the State officers are commanded to
disobey an injunction of a State court, rendered in regular
judicial proceedings, to which they were proper parties, in
a matter of which that court had undoubted jurisdiction,
concerning the levy of a tax under State laws.
It may not be inappropriate to review the steps by which
this court has gradually arrived at the conclusion that it can
do this, for the purpose of enforcing the payment of bonds,
issued without authority of law, out of the property of those
who never consented to their issue or agreed to pay them.
In almost all the cases where municipal corporations have
any authority at all to issue such bonds, the statutes which
give the authority require that there shall first be a vote of
the 'majority of the people of the municipality, approving
the purpose for which they are issued, and authorizing their
issue. Of course the law fixes the manner of taking this
vote; and I believe that, until this court decided to the
contrary, no court had ever held that such bonds were valid
without a substantial compliance with the statutes on that
subject.
But in the case of the Commissioners of Knox Couty v.
Aspinwall, 21 Howard,t it was held that the commksioners,
whose.duty it was to issue these bonds in the event that a
majority voted them, were to be the exclusive and final
* Page 207.

t :Pago 539.

Dec. 1867.]

e

.GGS
V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

judges of their own authority.

It was said that because it

became their duty to determine whether the bonds had been
legally voted or not, before they issued them, therefore the
fact that they had issued them was conclusive of the vote
and of their own authority, and precluded all inquiry into
that question.
These commissioners were merely the agents of the people
of the municipality. Their authority depended on no private
instructions, but on the public statutes of the State, which
every person who dealt with them could examine. The
proceedings fbr a vote were all of record, as well as the return of the officers taking the vote.
Yet, in the face of all thi§, when these agents transcend
their authority, and attempt to bind upon the people of the
county a load of debt which may absorb all their property,
and heavily burden them for years, we are told that the
agents were the final and exclusive judges of their own
authority. When the highest ,ourt in the land renders a
judgment or a decree, any other court before which the
matter may come has a right to inquire into its authority to
pass such judgment; but these mere agents of the people,
whose powers are limited by law, may, by merely asserting
their authority, pass a decree which no court can examine,
because none can dispute their jurisdiction.
After this decision, no matter how illegal, fraudulent, or
unauthorized were corporation bonds, no defence could be
made to them in the Federal courts, and, of course, they
were all sued upon in those courts.
But when judgments were obtained, it was found that the
ordinary executions did not always produce the money, and
some new device was to be resorted to for this purpose.
Accordingly, we find Mr. Aspinwall applying for a writ of
mandamus to compel the board of commissioners to levy the
tax necessry to pay his judgment. This court held, in 24th
Howard,* that he was entitled to the writ. This was decided
only seven years ago, and is the first instance in which a
* Page 376.

IRIGGS V. JOHNSON

COUNTY.
I

[Sup. Ot.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J , dissenting.

Federal court ever issued a writ of mandamus to a State
officer in the history of this government.
I shall examine into its authority to do so hereafter, but
mere]y note it in passing as among the new doctrines which
this court has found it necessary to establish to enforce payment of county bonds.
The next step was the decision already mentioned of
Gelpeke v. -Dubuque,in which the court held that the later
decisions of a State court on the construction of its own
constitution, although unanimous, would be disregarded in
this court in county bond cases, in favor of earlier decisions
made by a divided eourt.
In the present case we are required to take another step
in the same direction, and one still more serious. *We are
asked by mandamus to compel these municipal officers to
disobey an injunction of the State court duly served on them,
and made perpetual by a decree to which they were parties,
and which, if they disobey, they will be imprisoned for such
disobedience. Before doing this we are requested to reconsider the question of the right of the Federal courts to control the officers of the State in the execution of State laws,
by writ of mandamus, by counsel who is commended to our
consideration not more by his age and experience in the law,
than by his acknowledged ability as a constitutional lawyer.
In doing this, he points out that a provision of the statute
bearing directly on the question did not receive the attention either of counsel or of the court, in the decision of
Aspinwall v. Knox County, nor in any subsequent case.
This question must be determined by a consideration of
sections thirteen and fourteen of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The court, in the case above mentioned, bases the authority to issue this writ on the following language of section
fourteen: "All the befbre-mentioned courts of the United
States shall have power to issue writs of seirefacias, habeas
corpus, and other writs not specially provided for by statute,
which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of
law." The writ of mandamus is not here mentioned spe-

Dec. 1867.]

RiGts V. JouxsoN COUNTY.

203

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

cifically, and can only be authorized when it is necessary to
the exercise of jurisdiction ah'eady existing, and when agreeable to the'principles and usages of law; and if it is specially
provided for by statute, it is not included in the "other
writs" referred to in this section.
It is asserted, in this class of cases, to be necessary to the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the court.
It is a little remarkable that the first case which required
rts use by a Circuit court against State officers, should have
arisen seventy years after the authority was granted, under
which it is now called into exercise. While this consideration may not be conclusive, that the writ is unnecessary to
the exercise of that court's jurisdiction, it affords a strong
presumption against the existence of such necessity; and
also that its issue in such cases is not agreeable to the principles and usages of law.
But any doubt we may have in the construction of the
fourteenth section, standing alone, is removed by the provisions of the section which immediately precedes it. It is
there said that "the Supreme Court shall also have appellate
jurisdiction from the Circuit courts, and courts of the several States, in cases hereinafter specially provided fbr, and
shall have power to issue writs of prohibition to District
courts when proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, and writs of mandamus, in cases warranted by
the principles and usages of law, to any courts appolted or
persons holding offiee under the authority of the United States."

I shall not attempt, in the face of this statute, to argue
that the power granted by it to the Supreme Court to issue
the writ of mandamus is limited to courts appointed and to
persons holding office under the United States, when, as in
the present case, it is to be directed to a person, by virtue
of his office. The concluding words of the section are useless but fbr the purpose of so limiting it, and if these words
are useless, they are the first which, in eighty years, have
been found to be so in this admirable statute.
If, then, Congress, in the very sentence in which it gives
appellate jurisdiction over State courts, expressly denies to

RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

this court the right to issue the writ of mandamus to State
courts and State officers, while it grants it in cases of Federal
courts and Federal officers, did it intend in the next section
to authorize the inferior courts, which have no appellate
jurisdiction whatever over any State tribunal, to issue mandamus to State courts or to State officers ? Or did it intend
that while the Supreme Court itself was forbidden, both in
its appellate and original jurisdiction, to issue a mandamus
to State officers, that court might effect the same purpose by
ordering the Circuit courts to do it? This would be an inconsistency of which there is no other like instance in the
statute, and which, is at variance with the care and skill
which are apparent in all its parts. This view could be well
supported, if the occasion justified it, by an examination of
all the legislation of that period, showing the jealousy with
which the rights of the States and of the State courts were
guarded.
If, however, the Federal courts can, under proper circumstances, take control of these officers for the purpose of compelling them to levy taxes, it is incontrovertible that the
power of fhe State courts over such officers, and over the
subject of their right to tax, is as full and complete as that
of the Federal courts can possibly be. It is, indeed, a concession to say that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts is
concurrent with that of the State courts.
In the cases now under consideration it is conceded that
the State courts had issued their injunction after due course
of legal proceedings, in which the tax-payers were complainants and the supervisors were defendants, before any application was made to the Federal court for a mandamus.
In order to prevent such conflicts as threaten to grow out
of the matter before us, in cases of concurrent jurisdiction it
has been established as a rule that the court which first obtains jurisdiction of the case shall have the exclusive right
to decide the matter in issue, and that any other court which
may have subsequently assumed to act in the matter must,
when the fact of this priority of jurisdiction is brought to its
attention, proceed 'no further.

Dec. 1867.]

RGS v. JoHNsoN

COUNTY.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

This principle is necessary, and is recognized in all courts;
and when properly applied in the spirit of comity which
should actuate courts, will be found sufficient to prevent unseemly collision between them. It has been recognized by
this court so repeatedly as the rule which governs in matters
of concurrent jurisdiction between the State and Federal
courts that a citation of authorities is hardly necessary, but
I mention Slielby v. Bacon,* Carroll v. Toylor,t Freeman v.
llowe,j and Buck v. Colbalh.§
This principle being conceded. and the return of the supervisors to the alternative writ of mandamus, showing that they
were enjoined from levying the tax to pay these bonds before
the application was made to the Federal court for the writ
of mandamus to, compel them to levy it, it would seem to
follow that the decree of the State court must be respected,
andthe return be held sufficient.
But here we are met with another of those judicial subtleties of which the corporation bond litigation seems to be
the prolific parent.
We are told that the writ of mandamus is not a new or
original proceeding, but is merely the ordinary exercise of
the court'sjurisdiction in enforcing ajudgment at law already
rendered for the payment of money; that a judgment had
been rendered in favor of the relator against the County of
Johnson before the injunction issued from the State court,
and therefore the Federal court had first acquired jurisdiction of the case.
Let us inquire for a moment of what case the Federal
court had acquired jurisdiction. Of an action of assumpsit,
in which Mlarcus Riggs was plaintiff and Johnson County
was defendant, and in which the plaintiff recovered a judgment for his debt. Of what case was it the State court had
jurisdiction? Of a bill in chancery, brought by the resident
tax-payers of Johnson County against the board of supervisors of that county, to enjoin them from levying a tax to
pay certain boads. Neither party to the suit in the Federal
* 10 Howard, 56.

$ 24 Id. 454.

-"

20 Id. 583.
3 Wallace, 334.

RIGGS V. JOHNSON

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

court was party' to the suit in the State court, or was a necessary or a proper party to it. The subject-matter of the suit
in the Federal court was the ordinary collection of a debt
from Johnson County. The subject-matter of the suit in the
State court was the attempt of the board of supervisors to
levy an illegal tax. The County of Johnson is a corporation
capable to sue and be sued. The supervisors are officcrs of
whom certain duties are required. They are not identical,
and cannot be sued for the same purpose.
It surpasses my ingenuity to see how the suit in the Federal
court can be said to have first obtained jurisdiction of the
case in the State court. The parties, plaiutiff and defendant,
are all different, and the subject-matter of the suit is different, and the relief sought is different.
Much has been said in the course of argument by counsel
of the incapacity of a State court to enjoin the judgment of
a Federal court, or to restrain or interfere with its process.
Nothing of the kind is attempted, nor any such power
claimed by the State court in the proceedings relied on in
the return. The judgment of the Federal court is not mentioned or alluded to in the proceedings in the State court.
Neither plaintiff nor defendant in the Federal court are made
parties to the suit in the State court. Nor is any decree rendered touching its process or designed to interfere with it.
All the ordinary writs, and all the ordinary powers of a court
in a judgment at law, may be exhausted by the Federal court
without the possibility of any collision between that court
and the decree of the State court. It is only when the plaintiff in the Federal court, having exhausted his remedy in
that action, brings a new suit, with new defendants, praying
for a new and different relief, that the courts come into collision.
It is said in answer to all this that the writ of mandamus
as applied for in this case is no new action, but is the ordinary process by which the court enforces its judgment, and
that this is especially so in the Iowa Circuit, because such is
the case in the Iowa State courts.
The Revision of 1860, of the Iowa statutes, must determine

Dec. 1867.]

RIGG6s V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

the soundness of this proposition so far as the courts of that
State are concerned. Chapter 153 is headed in capitals,
"Action of mandamus." § 3761 describes the cases to which
the action is applicable in the language used by common
law writers. § 8762"says the plaintiff shall state his claim
and facts sufficient to constitute a cause for such claim.
§ 3766. The pleadings and other proceedings in any action
in which a mandamus is claimed shall be the same in all
respects, as nearly as may be, as in an ordinary action for
the recovery of damages. § 4181 says that when the action
of mandamus is by a private person, there may be joined
therewith the injunction of chapter 156, ....and the action
shall be by ordinary proceedings.
I believe I have quoted substantially all that there is on
this subject in the statutes of Iowa, and these govern the
practice of her courts. I think I am also entitled to speak
of the actual practice in those courts. It is clear that it is
not a mere ancillary writ, but is in all cases a separate action,
with pleadings as in other actions, and judgment thereon.
How then can it be said that this is one of the ordinary
powers of the court, incident to, and consequent upon, the

judgment of the court, in an action of debt or assumpsit?
But the statutes of Iowa in this respect have not changed
the common law. Bacon, in his Abridgment, says, that
"since this statute (9 Ann., chap. 20), a mandamus is in the
nature of an action, special replications and pleadings therein
being admitted, and costs awarded to either side that prevails."
Kendall v. Sokes,* this court held, that "the
In the case oft
proceeding on mandamus, is a case within the meaning of
the act of Congress ..... It is an action, or suit brought in
a court of justice, asserting a right, and is prosecuted according to the forms of judicial proceedings." And in another
case between the same parties, reported 3 Howard, 100, the
court says, it is now regarded as an action by the party on
whose relation it is granted, and holds that the former action
12 Peters, 615.

"208

R IGGS V.

J0ilNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

of mandamus is a bar to an action of assumpsit for the same
cause. So il Kentucky v..Denison, it is said, "a mandamus,
in modern practice, is nothing more than an action at law
between the parties."
Passing from these conclusive evidences of what this very
court considers to be the nature of the writ of mandamus,
and what the statutes of Iowa (appealed to in the opinion of
the majority as the basis of their judgment) intend it to be, if
we look to the essential nature of the present proceeding we
shall still be more convinced that it is a new suit in every
sense of the word. We have already shown that the parties
are different. The purpose of it is to enforce the levy of a
tax; an object which could never be obtained, and which is
not within the scope of an action of assumpsit. The parties
seeking the writ in the information which they filed in the
present case, did not rest their claim on the statement that
they had ajudgment against a corporation which they could
not enforce by execution, but they go back of that and redite
the issue of the bonds, and the vote of the tax to pay them
by the county, and pray for this writ to enforce specifically
that contract. And in the opinion just delivered, it is declared to be the object of the writ to enforce the judgment
of the court, by levying the tax, "as proridedin the contract."
So thatvit is clear, that both the plaintiff in his information, and the court in its opinion, consider the writ in this
case as in the nature of a bill in chancery, to enforce specific
performance of a contract.
And that is precisely what it is. Was it ever heard that
such a bill is merely ancillary to a judgment at law, and is
only used for the purpose of enforcing a judgment for damages, for failing to pay a note or bond ? The obligation of
the supervisors to levy this tax, if it exist at all, is as perfect
in regard to bonds on which there is no judgment, as it is
where judgment has been rendered; and this duty can as
well be enforced by mandamus in the one case as in the
other. It is this duty which is sought to be enforced in the
* 24 Howard, 97.

Dec. 1867.]

RrGGs v. JonxsoN CounTY.

209-

Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Grier, J., dissenting.

present case. If a mandamus is liable to issue without the
judgment, how can it be said to be an incident to the judgment, and a part of that suit?
But if I am mistaken in all that I have thus far been saying, there is another proposition, supported by a uniform
current of authorities, which would preclude the issuing the
writ of mandamus in this case. That is, that the writ is
never issued to a party whom it would expose to imprisonment or other serious damage for obeying it.
I have not time to quote from the authorities on this subject, but they are numerous and without contradiction.*
The cases before us have been argued with great zeal and
ability on both sides, and counsel for the relator were challenged to produce a single reported decision in which a mandamus had been issued to parties who would be subjected
to danger, to expense, or to guffering, by obeying its order.
No such case has been found, and I feel authorized to say
none call be found. With all the respect which I have for
this court, and for my brethren who differ with me, I take
the liberty of saying it has no right to set aside all precedent,
and disregard established rules in the belief, however confidently entertained, that it is done in the cause of justice.
The CHIEF JUSTICE. I concur mainly in the views
and wholly in the conclusions of my brother Miller
GRIER, J. I concur.
NOT.

Immediately after the delivery of the judgment in the
preceding case, was delivered by CLIFFOnD, J., the opinion
in another, in all essential matters just like it; the doctrine
of the preceding case being affirmed. It was the case of
Weber v. Lee Counry.
See The Queen v. Sir Gilbert leatheote, 10 Modern, 48; The Queen v.
Justices of Middlesex, 1 Perry & Davidson, 402; King -'. Dyer, 2 Adolpbus & Ellis, 606; People v. Gilmer, 5 Gilman, 243; Ex parte Fleming, 4
Hill N. Y. 581; The Ohio and Indiana Railroad Company v. Commissicners of Wyandot, 7 Ohio State, 278.
VOL. VI.

14

WEBER V.

LEE COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

WEBER V. LEE COUNTY.
In this case, where the questions presented for decision were the same as
those decided in the preceding case, the doctrine of that case was
affirmed.
ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

Messrs. _Dick and Grant,fortheplaintiffin error; Mr. Thomas

Ewing, Sr., contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court;
stating the case.
Bonds to the amount of four hundred and fifty thousand dollars
were issued by the proper officers of Lee County in the State of
Iowa, in favor of three railroad companies, in equal proportions.
fRecitals of the respective' bonds were, that they were issued to
some one of those railroad companies; pursuant to a vote of the
people of the county, at an election held September 10th, 1856,
authorizing the county judge to make a subscription to the capital stock of the railroad, and issue the bonds for the amount of
the subscription.
Irregularities occurred in the preliminary proceedings, but
the legislature of the State, on the twenty-ninth day of January,
1857, passed an act declaring, in substance and effect, that all
of the votes taken in the county, in the form of a joint or several
proposition, whether the county would aid in the construction
of one or more railroads, specifying the amount to be given to
each, as a joint or several proposition, and the subscriptions
made by the county, and the bonds of the county, issued or to
be issued in pursuance of those votes and subscriptions, should
be regarded as legal and valid, and that such bonds, issued or to
be issued under such votes and subscriptions, should be a valid
lien upon the taxable property of the county.
Second section of the same act also provided that the county
judge, or other proper authority of the county, should levy and.
collect a tax to meet the payment of the principal and interest
of such bonds; and that the county, in any suit brought to recover the principal or interest of the bonds, should not be allowed to plead that the same were usurious, irregular, or invalid,
in consequence of the informalities cured by that act.

Dec. 1867.]1

"WEBER v.

LEE COUNTY.

Opinion of the court.

Determined, as it would seem, to cure all informalities, the
legislature added a third section, which provides that all bonds
issued by the county, in pursuance of any such vote of the people
of the county, shall be valid and of full legal and binding force
and effect, notwithstanding any informality or irregularity in
the submission of the question to a vote of the people, or in the
taking of the vote authorizing the subscription to such railroad
and the issuing of such bonds.
On their face they purport to have been issued under the authority of a vote of the people of the county, and therefore fall
directly within the terms of the curative act of the General Assembly. They are for one thousand dollars each and are payable in twenty years from date, with interest at the rate of
eight per cent., payable semi-annually, on the delivery of the
interest coupons.
Plaintiff was the holder of a large number of these bonds, and
the corporation defendants failing to pay the interest as it accrued, he commenced an action of assumpsit against them to
recover the same, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa, and the judges of the Circuit Court for that
district being interested in the event of the suit, the same -was,
with the consent of the defendants, transferred to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
Defendants appeared and demurred to the declaration, and the
judgment was for the plaintiff in the sum of eighteen thousand
two hundred and seven dollars and ninety-two cents.
The undisputed facts are that the judgment remains unsatisfied
that the county has no prpperty subject to execution; that the
property of a private citizen cannot be taken in that State to
satisfy a judgment against a municipal corporation; that the
general laws of the State provide that where a judgment has
been recovered against such a corporation, a tax must be levied
to pay the judgment; that the power to levy the special tax,
as authorized in the curative act of' the General Assembly, has
been by law transferred from the county judge to the defendants, and that they have neglected and refused to levy and collect any tax to pay the judgment.
Unable to enforce the judgment, the plaintiff, being without
other logal remedy, applied to the Circuit Court, in which he recovered judgment, fbr a writ of mandamus to compel the defendants to levy the special tax, as provided in the act of the

212

WEBER V. LEE COUNTY.

[Sup. 't.

Opinion of the court.
General Assembly. Adopting the usual course, the cDurt issued
the alternative writ and it was duly served. Due return was
made by the defendants to the writ, in which they state that
they refuse to revy the tax, and assign for cause that, at the
suit of certain tax-payers of the county, they had previously
been enjoined by the State court from levying any tax to pay
the judgment, and allege, as matter of belief, that if they
should obey the writ they would be subject to a penalty for contempt, and therefore that they cannot obey the writ and levy
the tax.
Views of the plaintiff were,that the return was insufficient,
and he accordingly moved the court to quash it, for the following reasons: 1. Because the decree of injunction, having been
pleaded as a. bar to the action to recover the interest, and the
plea having been overruled in that suit, is not a sufficient answer
to the application and alternative writ to enforce the judgment.
2. Because the relator was no party to the suit in which the injunction was obtained.
Parties agree that the plaintiff was not a party to that suit.
They were heard at a subsequent day and the court overruled
the iotion to quash, discharged the rule for a peremptory writ,
and rendered judgment for the defendants.
Exceptions Were duly taken by the plaintiff to the decision of
the court in overruling the motion to quash, discharging the rule
fbr a peremptory writ, and in rendering judgment in the ease;
and he, the plaintiff, sued out this writ of error.
Attention to the facts of the case as stated will show that the
questions presented for decision are the same as those just decided in the preceding case.
Public property of a county in the State of Iowa is exempt
from execution, and the act of the General Assembly provides
that the property of the citizen shall in no case be taken to
satisfy the debt of the municipality.
Proper remedy of the judgment creditor in such a case in the
State court, is by mandamus to compel the proper officers of
the county to levy a tax to pay the judgment. Such a creditor
having recovered judgment in the Circuit Court, is entitled to the
same remedy under the Process Acts passed by Congress.
Mandamus, when issued in such a case by the Circuit Court,
is neither a prerogative writ nor a new suit. On the contrary, it

Dec. 1867.]

THE ROCK ISLAND BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

is a writ authorized by the fourteenth section of the Judiciary
Act, as necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction which has previously attached; and when issued in such a case becomes the
substitute for the ordinary process of execution to enforce the
judgment. State courts cannot enjoin the process of proceedings in the Circuit courts, not on account of any paramountjurisdiction in the latter, but because they are entirely independent
in their sphere of action.
JUDGMENT REVERSED and the cause remanded, with directions
to grant the motion of the plaintiff and quash the return as insufficient., and for further proceedings in conformity to the
opinion of the court.

3Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in this judgment, being a
tax-payer in Lee County.

THE ROCK ISLAND BRIDGE.
A maritime lien can only exist upon movable
or upon things which are the subjects of
navigable waters. It cannot arise upon
immovable. It does not, therefore, exist

things engaged in navigation,
commerce on the high seas or
anything which is fixed and
upon a bridge.

THIS was a libel filed in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, against that part of the Rock Island
Railroad Bridge which is situated in the Northern District of
Illinois, for alleged damages done by that part of the bridge
to two steamboats, the property of the libellant, employed
in the navigation of the Mlississippi River. It alleged that,
by law and the public treaties of the United States, the
Mississippi River is, for the distance of two thousand miles,
a public navigable stream and common highway, free and
open to all the citizens of the United Statds, who are entitied to navigate the same by sailing and steam vessels, and
otherwise, without impediment or obstruction; that the Rock
Island Bridge obstructed the free navigation of the stream;
and that by col'isio. with thiq obstruction the steam vessels

