TURTON v. DUE[uF.

[Sul). ot

Statement of the case.

TUaTON v. DUFIEF.
A gratuitous bailee of money to whom it is given for the purpose of lending
it on good and sufficient security, and who, lending it to a person on
property worth much more than the sum, and taking a properly executed mortgage, delivers the papers to his principal without having
placed them on record, is not responsible for a loss occurring after the
efflux of the term for which the money was lent, by non-recording of
the papers; the owner of the security having had abundant opportunity
to have them recorded himself.

ER.oPR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.

Dufief, acting without compensation and merely as a friend
of a certain Mrs. Fowler, then a widow, in July, L851, lent
for her $2000 (money belonging to her) to Wheeler, taking
from him a note payable in one year, and a deed of trust or
mortgage security amply sufficient to secure the sum lent.
These were delivered to Mrs. Fowler some time previously
to October, 1851. Mrs. Fowler received interest in three.
different payments, up to January, 1853, and in March of
that year, $500 of the principal. Some time between this last
date and August of the same year, 1853, she was married to
one Turton, and in August and December, he, as her husband, received two payments of interest. Wheeler was a
man in good credit and solvent when the money was lent,
and continued so till 1855. In that year he executed another mortgage, or deed of trust, to one Liuthicum, dated
20th December, 1854, which was put on record, May 4th,
1855. The mortgage of the plaintiff had never been put on
record, and the security was cut out and lost on that account.
Purton, the husband, now sued Duflef for this loss.
The substance of the narr., when eliminated from various
epithets which tended to give it the character of an action
for deceit and not of one on contract, and which, as such,
the court observed "would be wholly unsupported by the
evidence," was as follows:
"That the defendant, having for the use of a certain Mt. R.
Fowler (who hath since intermarried with the plaintiff) the sum

Dee 1867.]

TURTON v. DUFiEF.
Argument for the bailor.

of $2000, in consideration that she, the said Mt. R. F., would
consent and agree that he, the said defendant, should lend the
money to some person on good and sufficient security for the
repayment thereof, and in consideration of the authority given
by the said Mt. R. F., undertook and faithfully promised that
he would diligently and carefully lend the said money to some
person on good and sufficient security for the repayment thereof,"
&c. "Yet, that the said defendant contriving, &c., did not perIbrm or regard his said promise, and did not diligently lend and
invest the said sum of money to some person on good and sufficient security for the repayment thereof; but, on the contrary,
lent the same to a certain Wheeler, and did not take good and
sufficient security from him for the repayment of the same,
whereby the same was wholly lost."
The court below charged that if the jury should find that
the note was given by the drawer to the defendant as agent
of Mrs. Fowler, and that the defendant, with her consent,
had lent the amount for which the note was given, from
funds in his hands belonging to her, and that the defendant,
shortly after the making of the note, and before it reached
maturity, indorsed the same to Mrs. Fowler, and at the same
time delivered to her the note so indorsed, with the deed
of trust executed to secure its payment; and further, that at
that time, and when the note became due, the drawer,
"Wheeler, was solvent, and fully able to pay the same, and
that the security for its payment was at that time free from
the incumbrance of any subsequent deed from Wheeler, and
sufficient for the payment of the said note-then that the
plaintiff could not recover, although the jury might find that
the debt was lost by the failure to place the deed on record
before the recording of the subsequent deed to Linthicum.
The case was now here on exception by Turton to that
charge.
Xessrs. Brent and Phillips, citing Coggs v. Bernard,* contended that the bailee having entered upon the performance
1 Smith's Leading Cases, 346; reported from 2 Lord Raymond, 913.

TURTON

V.

DUFIEF.

[Sup,

Ct,

Opinion of the court.

of his contract, had become liable for its discharge with
diligence and correctness; that the contract here had been
attended to with gross negligence; the recording of the
papers having been obviously and indispensably essential to
any "good and sufficient security" for the money lent. Mr. Bradley, Senior, contra, citing "The American Jurist,"
vol. xvi, p. 254,* as containing true views of the liability
of gratuitous as distinguished from paid bailees, contended,
first, that there was no such consideration set forth in the
declaration here as made a "contract;" the act having b'een
wholly for the ease and benefit of the bailor, and a mere
burden to the bailee; that there was accordingly no "contract" in legal sense in the case; that the defendant could
be liable for nothing but fraud, of which there was none
in the case; contending, secondly, that whatever engagement
Duflef had entered into had been fully performed with due
diligence, and as exactly as it was agreed to be.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not consider it necessary to vindicate our opinion
in affirming the charge of the court below, to enter into a
discussion of the law of bailment in general from Coqgs and
Bernard down to this time, or clearly to define the difference
between negligence and gross negligence. The evidence
clearly establishes the fact that the defendant "did diligently
and carefully lend and invest the sum of money intrusted
to him on good and sufficient security for the repayment
thereof." It is the gravamen of the charge in the plaintiff's
narr. that he did not do so.
The mortgage was a sufficient security without being recorded, and continued to be so for three years. It was in
the possession of the plaintiff and his Wife. The plaintiff
himself had it in his possession near four months before the
second mortgage was put on record. The neglect to put it
* And see the American note to Coggs v. Bernard, 6th American edition,
419; "1Unpaid Agents."

Deu. 1867.]

MUMFORD

V. WARDWELL.

Syllabus.

on record may more properly be imputed to himself than
to the defendant.
We are asked to decide that the gentleman who did Mrs.
Fowler the kindness to make the investment for her should
have anticipated her negligence, and that also of her husband, and have anticipated the insolvency, also, of the mortgagor, and that he has been guilty of negligence, either
simple or gross, which should make him liable in the present
action.
We do not take this view of the case, and find no error
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
in the charge of the court.
The OIEF JUSTICE did not sit in this case.

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.
1. Where a paper in the form of a special verdict-except that after stating
the facts, it did not refer the decision on them to the court in the conditional and alternative way usual in such verdicts, but found "a general verdict for the plaintiff subject to the opinion of the court upon the
foregoing recited facts "-was IIagreed to as a special verdict " by counsel in the cause, filed of record and passed on as an agreed case by the
court below, this court-remarking that as a special verdict the paper
was defective, because not ending with the usual conclusion-in view
of the facts just mentioned considered it as a special verdict or agreed
case, and on error to a judgment given on it below adjudged the case
prebented by it.
2. Where a btatute gave to a city named, certain lands of the State, excepting such as had been sold or granted by a certain body or certain officers
in accordance with terms specified, or had been sold or granted by a certain officer and confirmed by a certain body, but declared also that the
deed by which any of the excepted lands were conveyed by such body
or officer should be "prima facie evidence of itle and possessicn, to enable the plaintiff to recover possession of the land so granted:" Held,
that the deed made under the statute being in evidence, a compliance
with the terms upon which sales were to be made (such as sufficient
notice) was, under its terms, primarily to be presumed, and that it was
cast upon any one alleging non-compliance to prove it.
S. Where a statute of California, passed in 1851, granted certain lands, excepting from the grant such as had been granted by a particular officer,

