GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
1. By the law of Louisiana, if a man bond fide believe a woman free to
marry him on account of the invalidity of a former marriage; and
with such a belief of this, does marry her, such marriage has its civil
effects; and the child born of it is legitimate, and can inherit its father's estate.
2.' The'fact of marriage being proved, the presumptions of law are all in
favor of good faith.
The court finds as a fact that there was a marriage in good faith .between
the late Daniel Clark, of New Orleans, and Marie Julie (Zulime) Carriere, of the same place, some time before the birth of the present Myra
Clark Gaines.
The said Myra can, therefore, take the estate of Clark left to his said
daughter by an olographic vill made in 1813; the same having been
the last will made by him; and having been duly admitted as such to
probate by the courts of Louisiana having competent jurisdiction.
3. The probate of a will duly received to probate by a State court of competent jurisdiction, is conclusive of the validity and contents of the will
in this court.
4 A will made a short time before a testator's death acknowledging a child
as his legitimate and only daughter, is to be regarded, on a question of
legitimacy, as an affirmative evidence of great weight; and in the na.
ture of a dying testimony of the testator to the fact.
5. The probate of a will of later date necessarily and by the mere fact of its
probate annuls a prior will, so far as the provis.ons of the two are inconsistent, and so far as the estate was not legally administered under the
earlier will.
Accordingly, Clark's will of 1811 was annulled by his will of 1813.
6. The power of executors in Louisiana to make sale of real estate there,
terminated by the code in force in 1813, in that State, at the end of a
year from their appointment, unless there was an order of court to sell.
A sale made after the expiration of the year, in a case where no order of
court was shown, and where the will itself gave no power of sale, was a
nullity.
Accordingly, sales made in 1819-20-21, &c., by Relf & Chew, as executors of Clark's will of 1811, proved in that year, passed no title.
7. The deed of a sole instituted heir gives no title by the law of Louisiana
as against the real and paramount heir.
Accordingly, deeds of Mrs. Mary Clark, mother of Daniel Clark, did not
pass his property as against Mrs. Gaines, his only legitimate daughter.
8. On suit brought by such real and paramount heir claiming under a will
of one date to recover possession, it is no defence by a party in possession under sales made by the exegutors or alleged instituted heir
rnder an earlier and now annulled will, that the estate of the testator

Dec 1867.]

GAINES V. NIEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

ws insolvent; a fact, however, which the court considers not to be
predicable of Clark's at his death.
9. Testamentary accounts confirmed by a probate court "in all respects
in which they are not opposed," cannot be regarded as "duly homologated," so as to conclude persons whose opposition has never been
withdrawn, but is still active.
Of this character has been the opposition of Mrs. Gaines to the accounts
filed by Relf& Chew, executors of the will of Clark made in 1811.
10. A probate court cannot by subsequent order give validity to sales of
real estate made by executors, which were void by the laws of the State
where made.
11 'Where each of two parties claim title from one person Ps a common
source, neither, by the law of Louisiana, is at liberty to deny that
such person had title.
Accordingly, where Mrs. Gaines, out of possession, claimed under a will
of Clark made in 1813, and adverse parties claimed under an earlier
will of the same person, it was not competent for these last to show
that as to two-thirds of the property in contest, the equitable title
was not in Clark at all, at his death, but in his partners in trade, Chew
& Relf.
Independently of this, the court expresses itself as not at all disposed to
regard as a 11valid and executed contract" a partnership agreement by
which it was sought to prove such ownership out of a testator at his
death, and in his partners (who were the executors also of one will of
his), the agreement itself having for twenty-five years not been made
known either to creditors, purchasers, or the Court of Probate, and only
now produced to bd used in a collateral way, and one which, in effect,
would show that neither party to a suit wherein each claimed title,
had it.
12. Although, when a claimant is endeavoring to establish an equitable title,
a court of equity may refuse the use of its peculiar powers in aiding to
establish it against the purchaser of the legal estate, who has acquired
it fairly and honestly, yet where the complainant is not doing this, but
is asserting a right to the legal estate, it does not follow that he loses
that right, because the defendant may have purchased in good faith
what he supposed was the legal title.
13. The case of Gaines v. Hennen (24 Howard, 615) concludes question upon
the sufficiency of any plea of prescription, similar to the one set up in
that case. The one in the present case being similar, the court treat
its sufficiency as a question not open for argument.
14. The questions of law and'fact applicable to the rights of Mrs. Gaines in
the estate of her father, Daniel Clark, were determined in the case of
Gaines v. Hennen, a case here solemnly affirmed.

Tuis case came here upon appeal from the Circuit Court
of the District of Louisiana.
It was a bill in equity, filed by MIrs. Myra Clark Gaines,

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

December 22d, 1856, against certain defendants, iq which
she sought to recover very valuable real estate, situated in
New Orleans, which belonged, as she alleged, to Daniel
Clark, her father, who died in New Orleans, in August, 1818,
Mrs. Gaines claiming title as universal legatee under a last
will of his made in 1818.
I
The bill alleged,1st. That the complainant was the only legitimate child
of Clark.
2d. That all the property sought to be recovered belonged
to Clark at his decease.
3d. That at his death he left a valid last will and testament in which the complainant was declared his only legitimate child, and made his universal legatee, subject to certain payments.
4th. That this will of 1813, having been lost or destroyed,
it was duly recognized and admitted to probate by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in 1856, and ordered to be executed.
5th. That Clark had made a provisional will in 1811, in
which he made his mother, Mary Clark, his universal legatee
and sole heir, and appointed Richard Relf and Beverly Chew
the testamentary executors thereof; which will of 1811 was
revoked by the will of 1813, but that Rclf & Chew wrongfully obtained the probate of the will of 1811, and illegally
administered the estate under it; making sales fraudulently
and with notice of the complainant's equities, &c.
6tb. That the complainant was a minor until 1827, and
ignorant of her parentage and rights in her father's estate
until 1834, and that from that time to the present she had
persistently clainied this estate, and diligently sought its recovery by all the legal means in her power.
The bill sought a discovery from the defendants, and
prayed a delivery of the property, and an account of the
rents and profits, and for general relief.
Tnz ANSWER of the defendants admitted the possession in
them of the property claimed in the bill, and that the lefal

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

title thereof was in Clark, at the time of his death in 1813;
but they set upThat Clark's title passed- to them or their grantors by virtue of sales made by Relf & Chew, as testamentary executors of the will of 1811.
That this title passed also under sales made by Relf &
Chew, as attorneys of Mary Clark, "sole heir and legatee"
of the will of 1811.
That the -estate of Clark was insolvent.
That the accounts of Chew & Relf reporting the sales had
been duly approved by the Probate Court of New Orleans;
and that this was binding on the complainant.
That an equitable title to two-thirds of the property was
in Relf & Chew, and creditors of Clark, by virtue of certain
partnership articles, of June 19th, 1813.
They also pleaded the prescription of five, ten, twenty,
and thirty years; and that they are "purchasers in good
faith, without notice, for a valuable consideration ;" and
that they are purchasers from "purchasers in good faith,
without notice, for a valuable consideration."
They also relied upon the nullity of the probate of the
will of 1813, by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in 1856,
there having been no decree of nullity of the prior will of
1811.
Upon these issues judgment was rendered against the
complainant, and from such judgment it was that the present appeal was taken.
The case with two accompanying it constituted the seventh, eighth and ninth appeals to this court of a controversy
known as the "Gaines case." For more than one-third of
a century, in one form and another, it had been the subject
of judicial decision in this court, and the records now-complicated in the extreme-reached nearly eight thousand
closely printed pages. If this court, when the case was last
heard before it,* spoke of it as "one which, when hereafter
some distinguished American lawyer shall retire from his
A.D. 1860, 24 Howard, 615.

GAINES V.

NLEW

ORLEANS.

[SLup. CL

Statement of the case.

practice'to write the history of his country's jurisprudence,
will be registered by him as the most remarkable in. the
records of its courts," the present reporter will surely be excused, if, in that haste which a speedy publication of current
decisions requires, he shall, from such records as he has
described,-and in a matter where as to facts, simply, this
high tribunal has been always largely divided on the evidence,-have attained much less than perfect accuracy of
detail or even than the truest form of presentation generally.
As far as he has himself conceived the case from the huge
volumes in which it was imbedded-but deprecating reliance
upon his statement in any matter affecting property involved
in these issues if, contrary to the hope expressed by this
court, further question about property is anywhere to be
made-the subject, in its outlines and general effect, seemed
thus to present itself:
The close of the last century found residing at New Orleans, then but a small town, a person named Daniel Clark.
He was a native of Ireland, born ut Sligo about the year
1766, but had received an education in England, at Eton and
other places there. Before reaching the age of 21 he had
come to New Orleans by invitation of an uncle already resident. there; a person of some consideration, and to whose
property he succeeded in 1799. He is described as having
been a nian of much personal pride and social ambition, of
high intelligence, full of enterprise, and though "very peculiar in some respects" (and, in at least one, censurable), to
have been characterized by numerous chivalric and honorable dispositions. His pecuniary integrity was unquestioned. He became early an actor in the events of his
day and region, a leader of party there, and connected either
by concert or by opposition with many public men of the
time. To him more than to almost any one, as it seemed,
was to be attributed the acquisition by our country of the
State of Louisiana. He had been consul of the United
States there before the acquisition, and in 1806-8, reprerented the Territory in Congress; its first representative in

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

NEw

ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.

that body. Everywhere his associations were of a marked
kind, and with people of social importance. Up to 1808 or
1810 he was engaged in commercial affairs on a considerable
scale, and extending from New Orleans to Montreal; being
associated at New Orleans with two gentlemen, both long
known there as occupying positions of public trust, Messrs.
Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, as partners, and in Philadelphia with the late Daniel W. Coxe, a person of distinguished standing in that city. With Mr.,Coxe his relations
began so far' back as 1791. Mr. Clark died in New Orleans
August 16th, 1813, at the age of 48, and, as was commonly
reputed, a bachelor; but as was testified, engaged to be married to a lady of that place, Madame , previously married
and now divorced. No will but one, dated in 1811, was found
after his death. It left his property to his mother, who with
her husband had followed Daniel Clark to this country, and
was now resident at Germantown, near Philadelphia; but
of any wife or child, or children, lawful or illegitimate, it
said nothing. That document had been made on the eve
of a voyage from New Orleans to Philadelphia, and was in
these words:
"IN THE NAME OF GOD, AIEN ! I, Daniel Clark, of New Orleans, do make this my last will -and testament: Imprimis, I
order all my just debts to be paid; second, I leave and beqaehth
unto my mother, Mary Clark, now of Germantown, in the State
of Pennsylvania, all estate, whether real or personal, which I
may die possessed of; thirdly, I hereby nominate and appoint
my friends, Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, my executors, with
power to settle everything relating to my estate.
" DANIEL CLARK.
£NEw ORLEANS, 20th

May, 1811."

A few hours after Clark's death allegations were made by
one Chevalier Dusuau De la Croix,--who represented that
he had "strong reasons to believe, and did verily believe,
that such a will was executed," and that he was interested
in it,-of a later will, and a petition was presented to the
Court of Probate, in New Orleans, setting forth the probable

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

existence of such a will, and praying that each one of the
different notaries of the city might appear before the court
immediately, "in order to certify if there does or does not
exist in his office any testament or codicil or sealed packet
deposited by the said late Daniel Clark." None such was
produced. The will above quoted was therefore proved
before Judge Pitou, Judge of Probate, hereafter mentioned,
and under it Relf and Chew, the persons named in it as executors-his already mentioned partners in trade-disposed
of Clark's estates.
Soon after the time that Clark first found himself at New
Orleans, was living there also a native of Clermont, France,
named Jerome Des Granges. Des Granges made some pretensions to family importance at home, but in New Orleans
was a confectioner; making and vending syrups and liquors
also, and having a distillery. He had married in 1794,
wirh the ceremonies of the Roman church, a young person
of New Orleans, Zulime de Carriere, not then, as it seemed,
above fourteen or fifteen years old, a native of New Orleans,
from French parents in Gascony and Bordeaux, and was
living with her as, his wife: a person whom various testimony proved to have been remarkable for beauty.
With Zulime, Clark became acquainted, and formed an
illioit connection in or prior to 1801.
In the spring of the year just named Des. Granges sailed
for France, his apparent purpose there being the recovery
of Esome property, to which his wife and her sisters, two of
whom were Madame Despau and Madame Caillavet, were
entitled. On the 26th of March, in the Same year, these
all gave to him-describing him as "our brother-in-law"a power of attorney of the fullest kind to act for them. Des
Granges in turn on that same day gives to Marie Zulime
Carriere, describing her as "my legitimate wife," a like
power to act for him. Under this last, Zulime did act for
him frequently; and on the 9th of November, 1801, being then
in New Orleans, substituted her'brother-in-lawCaillavet to,receive
for her certain moneys, &c. In this she describes herself, as
in previous papers, as "the legitimate wife" of Des Granges.

Dec. 1867.j

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

When exactly Des Granges sailed did not appear; but he
was in Bordeaux in July, 1801, and in that month writes to
Clark, thanking him for letters of introduction, &c. He adds:
"When one has a friend such as you, he cannot feel too deep
an interest in him. .... [ have taken the liberty to inclose a
package for my wife, which I beg you to remit to her. Permit
me, my dear friend, to reiterate my acceptance of the kind offer
you made me before I came away, and should my wife find herself embarrassed in any respect, you will truly oblige me by aiding her with your kind advice."
Des Granges returned to New Orleans "a few months"
prior to the 4th of September, 1802. He was there on that
day.
While Des Granges was absent in France, Zulime was found
pregnant, and was sent by Clark from New Orleans to Philadelphia, with letters introducing her to his friend and partner,
Mr. Coxe. These letters informed Coxe that the pregnancy
was by him, Clark, and asked that Madame Des Granges
might be provided with suitable lodgings, medical attendance, and other matters necessary in such a case. The matter
was all attended to by Mr. Coxe, "as the friend of Clark,"
and arriving at term the child was born; a girl, who received
the name of Caroline. She lived in Philadelphia during
childhood with her nurse, and more or less under Mr.
Coxe's eye, until, becoming older, she was placed in another
family in the country, in accordance with Clark's desire to
have her put vhere her "health, morals, and education
would be attended to." She remained in or near Philadelphia till she grew up, Clark, while he lived, paying her
expenses. Arriving at womanhood, she was respectably
married to a person named Barnes.
Madame Despau, a sistel' of Madame Des Granges, was
with this last on the occasion of the birth of this child. As
to Clark's presence in Philadelphia at the same time with
these two sisters, and as to the date of this common presence
there,-a matter of some importance, it may perhaps be
thought, in a sibsequeut part of the narrative,-we speak

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

further oil. There was no doubt that the two sisters were
in Philadelphia while Clark was ther.e, not long before a
certain voyage which he made from Philadelphia and New
York for Europe, and of whose date we speak hereafter.*
The birth of the child was stated by Madame Despau to
have been in 1801, though she said nothing about the place
or circumstances of its birth. Ir. Coxe fixed it, according
to his belief, in April, 1802.t
As soon after the birth of the child thus just mentioned as
was prudent, Zulime returned to New Orleans, Des Granges
apparently knowing nothing of what had occurred.
An incident of some importance now took place; deserving mention here chiefly as being much referred to in testimony given further on by the sisters of Zulime. It was an
arrest by the church authorities of Des Granges, for bigamy.
An ecclesiastical record, dated 4th September, 1802 (Louisiana being still under Spanish and Catholic regulations)
recited that it had been reported in all the city, publicly and
notoriously, that Des Granges, at the time of his marriage
with Zulime in 1794, and now, was married "to Barbara
Jeanbelle, who has just arrived;" that the said Des Granges,
having arrived from France "a few months since," had
caused another woman to come here. The record continued: "And as it has been ascertained that the said Des
Granges is about to depart with the last of his three wives,
let him be placed in the public prison during these proceedings." Des Granges, Barbara Jeanbelle (signing herself,
• See infra, p. 678.
t The exact date of Zulime's arrival in Philadelphia was not fixed. Mr.
Qoxe, who *yas examined in different branches of the Gaines controveray,
once in 1841 and once in 1849, said, on the first occasion: "In or about the
year 1802, Madame Des Granges brought me a letter from Daniel Olrk, inIn the second he said:
troducing her, and informing me in confdence."
"1In the early partof the year 1802." . . . With regard to the letter itself
introducing Zulime, be stated his impression to be, that owing to its nature
he had destroyed it at the time, or soon after reading it; if not, that it had
been burnt in 1806, in which year his counting-house was consumed by fire.
The records in New Orleans showed that Zulirae was in that city, Ahroveber
9th, 1801; as also on the 6th September, 1802.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.

"B. M. Zambell de Orsi," and sometimes so styled in the proceedings), Zulime, and the "other woman," whose name, it
seemed, was Yllar, were all examined by these ecclesiastical
authorities. Des Granges and Barbara both stated that,
about eleven years previously, he, Des Granges, had courted
her in New York. She said that it had been her intention
to marry Des Granges; that she obtained her father's permission to go to Philadelphia in order to be married; that
while there, Des Granges begged her to come to New
Orleans to consummate the marriage, which she refused to
do, and as he was coming away that she changed her mind;
that she then afterwards, at Philadelphia, married one
Soumeyliat, with whom she went to Bordeaux; and was
living there at the time ivhen Des Oranges lately arrived
there; that he there found her-Des Granges himself stated,
"by mere accident." According to Des Oranges' account,
the father of Barbara bad refused his consent to the marriage
because he was poor. What brought Madame Soumeyliat
just now to New Orleans did not at all appear.
The other woman testified that she had come to this country only because, having asked Des Granges at Bordeaux,
to tell her if it held out better inducements in order to gain
a livelihood by sewing, he had advised her to come.
Zulime, being asked if she had heard that her husband
was married to another woman, answered that, "about a
year since, she heard it stated in :New Orleans that her husband was married in the North, and that in consequence she
wished to ascertain whether it was true or not, and she left
this city for Philadelphia and New York to ascertain the
truth of the report. She had learned only that he had
courted a woman, whose father, not consenting to the match,
it did not take place, and she married another man shortly
afterwards." She added, that the report of her husband
marrying three women had caused her no uneasiness, as she
was satisfied it was not true.
Des Oranges being asked, "why his wife went to the North
last year?" answered, "that the principal reason was that
a report had circulated in this city that he was married to

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

another woman; and that she went because she wished to
ascertain whether it was true; that he had brought no documents to prove his innocence," taking it for granted that it
would naturally fall, his wife being satisfied of it.
The record concluded with this
DECREE.

"Not being able to prove the public report which is contained
in the original decree of these proceedings, and having no more
proofs for the present, let all proceedings be suspended, with
power to prosecute them hereafter, if necessary, and let the person of Geronimo des Granges be set at liberty, he paying the
costs."*

'It is, however, a noteworthy cilcumstance, perhaps, that
though no evidence of the marriage of Des Granges and
Barbara was produced in the ecclesiastical proceeding, there
was produced in the present case a certificate in Latin, dated
New York, 11th September, A.D. 1806, apparently from the
Rev. W. V. O'Brian, pastor of St. Peter's Roman Catholic
Church in that city, certifying that he had married, on the
6th July, 1790, "Jacobum Degrange and Barbara M. Orci."
The original records of the church were now burnt.
However, Des Granges left the place, and did not return
to New Orleans prior to 1805.
As respected the fact of bigamy, Madame Benguerel, a
witness in this case, testified that she and her husband
were well acquainted with Des Granges, and with a'person
whom he married "before he imposed himself on Zulime,"
and that reproaching him for his baseness in the latter act,
"he endeavored to excuse himself by saying, that at the
time he married Zulime he had abandoned his lawful wife,
and never intended to see her again."
At this 15oint of the history arose the great question of this case,
In addition to this ecclesiastical proceeding the complainant alleged
that there had been a criminal prosecution. Indices of such proceedings in
New Orleans, prior to 1803, existed there, but disclosed none against Des
Granges. However, about the time of the cession, the Spanish Government
had carried off many records, which were now lost, or difficult of access.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

I]TEW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.

a question namely, whether anywhere about this time, that is to say,
in or anywhere between the early part of 1802 and the end of
1803,-after the birth of the child just mentioned,-any marriage
cereononq had been peiformed between Clark and Zulime. It was
alleged on the one side that one had been performed in Philadelphia in 1803, or, possibly, in 1802. The other side denied that one had been performed anywhere. The matter
will be entered upon hereafter.
Whether really married or not, Zulime became pregnant
again, and of this pregnancy, Myra, the present complainant (wife in first marriage of W. W. Whitney, Esq., and in
second of General E. P. Gaines, and now widow of this last),
was born in New Orleans some time in 1804 or 1805 or
1806. The immediate place of the birth was the house of
a friend of Clark named Boisfontaine, then casually unoccupied; another friend, a protdg6 of Clark's, who had been
a sea-captain and afterwards in the army, Colonel Davis, a
brother-in-law of Boisfontaine, making the specific arrangements.
"The child," said Davis, in an account found in the record,
"was placed where it was supposed she would be properly
attended to, and Mr. Clark having left New Orleans for a
short time soon after, I consented to see that this was done.
It was soon apparent that the infant was neglected, and after
some hesitation I communicated th facts to my wife. She
went at once to see the child, was touched with compassion
at her forlorn and desolate condition, and consented to take

her at once to her own house. There Mr. Clark found her on
his return. He did not w'ish to acknowledge her publicly as
his own, and Mrs. Davis having no daughter and becoming
attached to the infant, of which she thus accidentally became, as it were, the mother, determined to keep her until
she should be claimed by her parents."
When about two weeks old the child was brought to Mrs.
Davis's house and there given to a niece of Colonel Davis,
Mrs. Harriet Harper, resident in his family. Mrs. Harper
had recently had an infant of her own, and this new one
was nursed at her own breast instead. The name "Myra"

654

GAINES V.

TEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

was given to the child by Colonel Davis, after a niece of his
Own.

Returning with the narrative to the mother. The exact
relations between Clark and Zulime from the birth of the
second child up to 1808, did not appear minutely. Clark at
all times kept house for himself in New Orleans, and after
the birth of the child, Zulime apparently had a house, also
supported by Clark. In 1806 he was sent to Congress. A
quarrel took place between himself and Zulime while he was
away. According to one of her sisters he had "heard things
about her," things which, according to the same account, he
was satisfied, though at a day too late for any advantage,
were "1calumnious."* She, according to the same account,
was fretted because he would not promulgate what was asserted in the present case to be a marriage. Whatever the
cause, the estrangement seemed to have been complete in
1808, or perhaps earlier. Clark, then in Congress, addressed a lady of Baltimore, at this time in Annapolis, of the
highest social position. ,He thus wrote to Coxe in 1808:
l DEAR SIR:

"ASRWASIUGTON,
12th January, 1808.

Your accounts of my visit to Annapolis have been, as usual,
much ahead. Whenever I am fortunate enough to induce any
one to engage herself to me, I shall let you and Mrs. Coxe both
know it; but until I seejour a mes affaires, I shall make no engagement.
Remember me respectfully to Mrs. Coxe, and believe me, my
dear friend,
Yours sincerely,
DANIEL CLARK.
Mrs. Harriet Harper, another witness, stated that Clark, on going to
Washington, left as a servant with Zulime at New Orleans the wife of his
own personal servant, a slave whom he much liked, named Lubin; that
while he was thus absent, certain individuals who had or supposed they
had "a great interest in dissolving his connection with the mother of his
child, commenced a plan of breaking it up, by writing to Mr. Clark imputations against her, and by filling her mind with unfavorable impressions
against him, till at length his mind was so poisoned, that when he arrived
at New Orleans he and she had a severe quarrel and-separated; immediately
after which she left New Orleans "

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. IEW ORLEANS.

655

Statement of the case.
WASHINGTON, 9th February, 1808.

MY DEAR FRIEND:

I shall set off this evening for Annapolis, and shall pass two
or three days there. If I find Miss
as favorably inclined toward me as you have hinted, I shall endeavor so to
secure her affections as to permit me to offer myself to her, at
my return to this country in the course of the ensuing winter.
I shall first go home to settle my affairs. On this subject I have
never yet spoken to her, and I now communicate my intentions
to you, that you may inform Mrs. Coxe, who will, I hope, as
well as yourself, keep the affair quiet. At my return I shall
inform you of the result.
Yours affectfonately,
DANIEL CLARK.

WAsHINGToN, 14th February, 1808.

MY DEAR FRIEND:
Previous to setting off for Annapolis I informed you of my
intention. I am sorry to have now to mention that it not only
has not been effected, but that the affair is fbrever ended. The
reasons I will give you when we meet, although they are too
trifling in themselves to have caused the effect produced by
them. I beg you to state this to Mrs. Coxe, and if you are
spoken to on the subject, to state that you have had no knowledge of the affair.
Yours sincerely,
DANIEL CLARK.

This part of the history, Mr. Coxe, in his testimony, narrated thus:
"Clark paid his addresses, with a view to marriage, to Miss
-,
of Baltimore, granddaughter of the lateof-,
and was partly engaged to her. He addressed herin the
years 1807 and 1808. The engagement was afterwards dissolved
in consequence of demands, on the part of the lady's family, of
settlements and other stipulations, which convinced him that
the match would be ineligible. She afterwards married the
Marquis of Carmarthen now Duke of Lseds. Soon after the
rupture of the engagement in the year 1808, he went to New
Orleans. The engagement with Miss was afterwards, as
I understood from Mr. Clark, attempted to be renewed through
the intervention of Robert Goodloe Harper, Esq., who had mar

[Sup. CL.

GAINES V. N EW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.
tied into the family;. but on reflection 21r. Clark thought
the connection not desirable, and that the settlements and other
stipulations demanded on her part might ruin him; and he relinquished it from these causes, and also in part in consequence
of my disapprobation of it, and my belief that it might affect
both him and me injuriously."
Some time prior to June 24th, 1806, Zulime filed a petition
in the District Court of New Orleans against Des Granges
for something. For what exactly, the reporter cannot assert, owing to the fact that the petition itself, having been
lost from the court office, made no part of the transcript.
The record disclosed ouly a summons dated June 24th, 1806,
to "1Mr.Ellerly, curator of Des Granges," "to comply with
the prayer of the annexed petition," or to file an answer in
eight days. To this petition, Ellerly f'ir the defendant put
in for plea"That this court ought not to have cognizance of the same,
because the laws by which this court was created and the juris.
diction thereof established, do not extend the same to cases oJ
divorce, or give this court any authority to pronounce therein,
and because the damages in the said petition prayedfor cannot be
inquired into or assessed, until after the judgment of this courtin
touching the validity of the marriage between the petitioner and
this defendant shall be first declared."
The defendant subsequently, for answer, said, "that the
facts in the said petition are untrue." The certificate of marriage between Des Granges and Zulime made part of this
record; and the docket entries completed it, thus:
ZULIME CAR IERE

DEs

V.
GRANGES.I

No. 35 .- Brown & Fromentin for plaintiff; Ellerly
for defendants.

Petition filed June 24th, 1806. Debt or damages, $100.
1st, 1806. Set for trial on Thursday, 24th July.

Plea filed July

Summons issued for U. Coudrain, Chovot, Mary 3tarr, Rose Carriere,

Christopher Joseph Le Provost, Trouque, Le Breton d'Orgenoy, and Joseph
Villar, Senior.
Attorneys, $10 00

Cern,

Mr. Fourke, sworn.

0
M r. d'Orgenoy.
Clerk, .•
7.874 tMadam Marr.
Judgment for plaintiff. Damages, $100. July 24th, 1806.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

657

-NEW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.

In the summer of 1807, Zulime came to Philadelphia with
her sister, Madame Despau, again bringing a letter of introduction from Clark to Coxe. Clark was there in April, 1808,
and in that month left it for New Orleans. In August, 1808,
at Philadelphia, Zulime, in regular form of the church, was
married, under the name of Carriere, to a French gentleman
of good standing, named Gardette. The marriage register
of St. Joseph's Church there thus recorded the fact:
MARRIED. By Right Rev. Michael Egan, James Gardette and
Mary Zulema Carriere,in the year of our Lord 1808, August 2.
Witnesses: John Morges, John Dubarry, William Martin, Johr
Rowan, and Isabel Rowan.

On this subject, also, Mr. Coxe testified.

He said:

"Zulime did know of 31r. Clark's addresses to Miss
In an interview between her and me at her request, at her lodgings, she complained to me of Mr. Clark's desertion of her, said
and intimated
she understood he was going to marry Miss -,
that she considered herself at liberty to marry another. While
I was there, Monsieur Gardette came in, and I took my leave.
This was the only conversation I ever had with her on the sub.
ject. She never informed me, either before or after the death
of Daniel Clark, that she had been married to him, nor that
Myra Gaines was the legitimate offspring of that marriage."
The parties to the connection above recorded lived for
several years after it, in Philadelphia, and resided next in
France. They lived reputably together, as it seemed, in
both countries, for twenty-three years, acknowledged as man
and wife, and on the death of Monsieur Gardette, in 1831,
Zulime went into mourning, and, as was said by her sister,
received property as his widow. Having had three children,
always acknowledged, by this connection, Zulime, after M.
Gardette's death, returned with them, or those who survived,
to New Orleans; and after living there with them respectably for many years after this controversy began, died in
that city in the autumn of 1853. In May, 1836, she transferred to the (omplainant all rights that she had "in. the
Vol. v]

42

GAINES V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

estate, property, or succession of the said Daniel Clark."
She was never examined as a witness, so far as her testimony appeared of record, in any part of the controversy;
nor did she ever, through the courts, claim his estate, or so
declare the fact of a marriage with him.
We have mentioned that, in New Orleans, Mr. Clark's
child was taken by Colonel Davis tQ his own house. In the
spring of 1811, bein-g about to sail from New Orleans to
Philadelphia, Clark made the will, already mentioned, of
1811, and wrote to Davis from shipboard, at the mouth of
the river, mentioning certain evidences of property-then
standing in Colonel Davis's control-which, "in case of
misfortune," he says, "you will dispose of as I have directed." And setting sail from Philadelphia, on his return,
in July following, he incloses to him a communication,
which, "in case of accident or misfortune to me," he directs
Davis to open, and to act in regard to the contents as "I
directed you with respect to the other afihirs committed to
your charge before leaving New Orleans." "To account,"
he says, "in a satisfactory manner, to the person committed
to your honor, will, I flatter myiself, be done by you when
she is able to manage her own affairs; until when, I commit
her under God to your protection." These deposits of property, as Davis stated, related to Myra. Clark had, prior to
all this, placed in Davis's name "as owner" a large amount
of real estate, with instructions to use and place it, f6r the
best advantage, for his daughter Myra's interest.
In 1812, Davis came with his family to reside in Philadelphia, and brought the child with him; Clark now giving
him a sum of twenty-three hundred and sixty dollars.* In
Philadelphia the child was brought up by Colonel and Mrs.
Davis; and commonly known by the name of "Myra Davis,"
though a few particular friends of Davis knew, perhaps, that
shc was but an adopted child.
Arriving in Philadelphia, Colonel Davis found the mother
Suit was subsequently brought for this money by the executors of the
will of 1811, and recovered from Davis. He had left his note for it with
Clark

Dec. 1807.]

GAINES

V. NEW ORLEANS.

659

Statement of the case.
a resident there, not far from his own house. Sie visited
Colonel Davis's but on a single occasion; and had no interviews with the child there or elsewhere, though not in any
way formally forbidden to see her. "She once met me,"
testified Davis, "in the street, with Myra, and stopped to
speak to me. She did not speak to Myra, or take any such
notice of her that the latter remarked it. But she looked
very hard at her."
In 1830, Davis, who had been elected to the legislature
of Pennsylvania, being away from home, and having need
for certain papers which he had left there, Myra in a search
for them came accidentally upon some letters which partially revealed the circumstances of her birth. Exceedingly
distressed, it was necessary that Davis, on his return, should
disclose to her more fully the history. She was still commonly known as "M iyra Davis."
In 1832, she was married to Mr. W. W. Whitney, of New
York, whose marriage to her was announced in the newspapers of Philadelphia, as to Miss Myra, "daughter of Col.
S. B. Davis." The husband, receiving a number of'old letters from Colonel Davis, was struck by an account in one
of them, from a person named Bellechasse, and then resident
in Matanzas, Cuba, of a will made by Clark just before his
death, in 1813, which was said to have been fraudulently
suppressed, and by which his now wife, then seven or eight
years old, was made sole devisee by Clark of vast property.
Whitney and his wife went to Matanzas, Cuba, saw Bellechasse-an old resident of Nerv Orleans, as it appeared, and
an intimate friend o f Clark; with him in his last hours, and in
his house after his death. From him they got such accounts
and such references, that they proceeded to New Orleans to
endeavor to establish this will. Whitney began by charging
a fraudulent suppression of it on certain persons there, for
which he was arrested and put into prison, and compelled
to give large bail in order to get out. Getting out, he proceeded to collect his proofs. They consisted chiefly of the
testimony of Mrs. Harriet Harper, already named, now sixty
years old, by whom the child had been nursed; of Mr.

GAnm~s v. NEw ORLEANS.

[S.
[Slip.
U.t

Statement of the case.

Pierre Baron Boisfontaine, a man of about the same age,
who had been for eight years in the British army, and afterwards for several years agent of Clark's plantations; and of
Bellechasse himself, an army man like Boisfontaine, till
'Louisiana had passed to the control of this country. He
was now seventy-two years old. The substance of their
evidence was this-(one point in controversy, at that time
especially, being whether Mgra was a child of Clark at all;*
then whether legitimate; and, finally, whether Clark had left
a will in her favor):
Airs. Harper testified, at different times and in substance,
thus:
"Mr. Clark and my late husband were intimate friends. I
suckled in her infancy Mr. Clark's daughter Myra. I did it
voluntarily, in consequence of her having suffered from the hired
nurses. Mr. Clark considered that this constituted a powerful
claim on his gratitude, and he afterwards gave me his confidence
respecting her. I was residing with my late husband in the
family of his uncle, Colonel Davis, when the infant Myra was
brought into the family by Colonel and Madame Davis. I had
at that time an infant of my own. I was solicited by them to
suckle the infant they had brought. Colonel and Madame Davis
told me she was the child of Daniel Clark. Mr..-Clark afterwards assured me she was his child, and always told me she was
his only child; she was always called Myra Clirk by the whole
family. I never knew her by any other name till after her marriage. Mr. Clark, during his continual attentions to, and while
caressing her, ever called her his dear little daughter Myra; his
affections and attentions to her seemed to increase with her age;
in fact, he showed, and seemed to feel, all the paternal regard
for her that the most affectionate father could show to an only
child. Her clothing and playthings, Which were of the most
extravagant and costly description, were provided for her by
- One allegation of the defence all through it, and pressed in differen
stages with more or less confidence, was that the only child of Clark was
Caroline, and that, as had been confessed by Zulime, and as others, assuming to know, had verified, "Daniel Clark was imposed upon and deceived
into the belief that the said Myra was his child, when in truth she wai
the child of another man."

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES

v.

NEW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Clark; he also purchased for her a valuable servant. 'Mr.
Clark invariably spoke of her to me as his only child, and as
destined to inherit his splendid fortune. I witnessed the continued and increasing parental solicitude of Mr. Clark for his
daughter Myra, from her early infancy till 1812, when her departure for Philadelphia with the family of Colonel Davis took
place. Mr. Clark continued his frequent visits to my husband
and self till his last sickness in 1813. Up to that period he
always spoke of his daughter Myra with the most enthusiastic
affection.
"On the occasion of the duel which he had with Governor
Claiborne, in, I think, 1807, he told me after that affair, that he
had previous, by way of precaution, secured to his daughter
Myra the amplest provision, in case he should have fallen, and
that be had also left documents so arranged as to manifest everything of interest to her. Afterwards, in 1811, when he was about
to visit Philadelphia, he told me he had made arrangements, by
means of confidential transfers of property, to secure the interests of his said child, and had also left with Chew and Reif
a will in favor of his mother; that this will was the result of
his situation at the time.
"In 1813, some few months before his death, he told me he
felt he ought no longer to defer securing his estate to his
daughter Myra by a last will. Near this period he stopped one
day at my house, and said to me he was on his way to the plantation of Chevalier do la Croix, for the purpose of requesting
him to be named in his will one of his executors, and tutor to
his daughter Myra. On his return he told me, with much ap.
parent gratification, that De la Croix had consented to serve,
and that Judge Pitot and Colonel Bellechasse had consented to
be the other executors. Between this period and the time he
brougt his last will to my house, Mr. Clark spoke very often
of being engaged in making his last will; he always spoke of it
in connection with his only and beloved daughter Myra, and
said he was making it for her sake, to make her his sole heiress,
and to insure her being educated according to his wishes. At
the times Mr. Clark spoke of being engaged in making his last
will, he told me over and over again what would constitute its
contents; that he should in it acknowledge tho said Myra as his
legitimate daughter, and bequeath all his estate to her, but direct
that an annuity of $2000 should be paid to his mother during

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

her life, and an annuity of $500 to a young female at the north
of the United States, named Caroline Des Granges, till her majority, then it was to cease, and $5000 were to be paid her as P
legacy; that his slave Lubin was to be freed, and a maintenance
provided for him. He often spoke with earnestness of the moral
benefit to his daughter Myra, from being acknowledged by him
in his last will as his legitimate daughter, and of the happiness
it would give his mother; he expressed the most extravagant
pride and ambition for her; he would frequently use the emphatic language, that he was making her 'a bill of rights.?
About four weeks before his death, Mr. Clark brought his will
to my house; as he came in he said: 'Now my will is finished,
my estate is secured to Myra beyond human contingency; now,
if I die to-morrow, she will go forth to society, to my relations,
to my mother, acknowledged by me in my last will as my legitimate daughter, and will be educated, according to my minutest
wishes, under the superintendence of the Chevalier de ]a Croix,
and her interests will be under the care of Chevalier de la Croix,
Judge Pitot, and Colonel Bellechasse; here is the charter of her
rights, it is now completely finished, and I have brought it to
you to read.' He left it in my possession until the next day;
I read it deliberately from beginning to end.
"After Mr. Clark's death, Colonel Bellechasse stopped at my
house, and told me Mr. Clark's last will was suppressed, and
that the old provisional will of 1811 was brought forward; he
repeated what Mr. Baron and Lubin said (as he said) about the
matter. Knowing well the unbounded confideneo reposed in
Lubin by Mr. Clark, I sent for him; he came and related to me
what he said occurred soon after Mr. Clark's death. I understood that the notaries of New Orleans were summoned in court
on the petition of Mr. Dusuau de la Croix, to swear whether
they had a duplicate of Mr. Clark's last will. The late John
Poultney, of New Orleans, deceased, came with several friends
to examine an iron chest of Mr. Clark's that stood in my house,
in the faint hope, as they said, of finding a duplicate of Mr.
Clark's last will, that is, the will of 1813. 'This was immediately subsequently to Mr. Clark's death.
" Mr. Clark was a man of powerful and acknowledged talents,
towering ambition, great pride and dignity of character, strong
feelings and affections. The spectacle of such a man absorbed
in one object that seemed to engage all his faculties, was of

Dec. :1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

itself highly impressive. To the excessive love for his child, all
who were intimate with him could bear witness; but when be
came to frame his last will, arrange his plans for her future
aggrandizement, for her education, and embody principles and
advice for her government through life, his wish and effort by
means of his last will to carry himself beyond the grave, in all

the relations as a parent to his sole and orphan child, these
scenes are as vivid to my mind as if they had lately occurred."
Baron Boisfontaine testified, in the same manner, thus:
"Mr. Clark left at his death a daughter named Myra, whom he
acknowledged as his own before and after her birth, and as long
as he lived. In my presence he spoke of the necessary preparations fbr her birth, and asked my brother's wife to be present
at her birth, and in my presence he proposed to my sister and
brother-in-law, Mr. S. B. Davis, that they should take care of
her after her birth. After her birth he acknowledged her to me
as his own, constantly, and at various places. He was very fond
of her, and seemed to take pleasure in talking to me about her.
"I was present at Mr. Clark's house about fifteen days before
his death, when he took from a small black case a sealed packet,
handed it to Chevalier de la Croix, and said, 'My last will is
finished; it is in this sealed packet, with valuable papers; as
you consented, I have made you in it tutor to my daughter. If
any misfortune happens to me, will you do for her all you promised me? Will you take her at once from Davis? I have given
her all my estate in my will, an annuity to my mother, and
some legacies to fr-iends. You, Pitot, a-nd Bellechasse, are the
executors.' About ten days before this, Mr. Clark, talking of
Myra. said that his will was done. Previous to this he often
told me, commencing about four months befbre his death, that

he was making his last will. Two or three days befbre his death
I came to see him on plantation business; he told me that he
felt quite ill. I went to the plantation to set things in order,
so that I might stay with him, and returned the same day and
staye(l with him constantly till he died. The day before he
died, speaking of his daughter Myra, he told me that his last
will was in his office-room below, in the little black case; that
he would die contented, as he had insured his estate to hey in
the will. He mentioned his pleasure that he had made his

664

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup.

(TL

Statement of the case.

mother comfortable by an annuity in it, and remembered some
friends by legacies. He told me how well satisfied he was that
Chevalier de la Croix, Judge Pitot, and lBelleebasso were executors in it, and Chevalier de la Croix Myra's tutor. About two
hours before his death he showed strong feelings for said Myra,
and told me that he wished his will to be taken to Chevalier
de ]a Croix, as he was her tutor, as well as one of the executors in it; and just afterwards told Lubin, his confidential
servant, to be sure, as soon as he died, to carry his little black
case to Chevalier de la Croix. After this, and a very short time
before Mr. Clark died, I saw Mr. take a bundle of keys
from Mr. Clark's armoire, one of which I believe opened the
little black case; I had seen Mr. Clark open it very often. After
taking these keys from the armoire, Mr. went below.
When I went below I did not see Mr. , and the office-room
door was shut. Lubin told me that when Mr. went down
with the keys from the armoire, he followed, saw him then, on
getting down, go into the office-room, and that Mr. -,
on
going into the office-room, locked the office-room door. I was
with Mr. Clark when he died, and by him constantly for the
last two days of his life. About two hours before he died he
spoke of his last will and his daughter Myra in connection, and
almost his last words were about her, and that his will must be
taken care of on her account.
"When, after Mr. Clark's death, the disappearance of his last
will was the subject of conversation, I related what he told me
about his last will in his last sickness. Judge Pitot and John
Lind* told me that they read it not many days before Mr.
Clark's last sickness; that its contents corresponded with what
Mr. Clark had told me about it; that when they read it it was
finished, was dated, and signed by Mr. Clark; was an olographic
will; was in Mr. Clark's handwriting; that in it he acknowledged the said Myra as his legitimate daughter, and bequeathed
all his estate to her, gave an annuity to his mother, and legacies
for some friends.
"The mother of Myra Clark was a lady of the Carriere family; not being present at any marriage, I can.only declare it my
belief that Mr. Clark was her husband. It was represented to me
* A notary.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.
that this lady married Mr. Des Granges in good faith, but it was
found out some time afterwards that le already had a living
wife, when the lady separated from him. Mr. Clark, some time
after this, married her at the North; when the time arrived for
it to be made public, interested persons had produced a false
state of things between them; and this lady, living in Philadelphia, and Mr. Clark not there, was persuaded by a lawyer employed, that her marriage with Mr. Clark was invalid, which
believing, she married Monsieur Gardette. lie frequently lamented to me that this barrier had been made, but that she was
blameless. ie said he would never give Myra a stepmother.
ie spoke to me of his daughter Myra from the first as legitimate; and when he made known to me that he was making
his last will, he said to me he should declare her in it as his
legitimate daughter. From the above I believe there was a marriage. The said Myra is the only child Mr. Clark ever acknowledged to me as his.
"From the time of said Myra's birth Mr. Clark treated me as
a confidential friend, in matters relating to her and to his affairs
generally."
The testimony of Belleehasse, in effect, was thus:
"Clark carried me with him on divers occasions to see Myra,
and in my presence he manifested for her the most ardent
love. He always gave me to understand, as well by reason
of his extraordinary affection for said Myra, as by his positive
declaration to that effect, that she would be the heiress of his
fortune. In 1811, when he was about to make a visit to the
North, in a formal act or deed of sale before a notary public, he
conveyed to me some lots, perhaps fifty, as if I had paid the due
price for them, when in truth nothing had been paid, for the
sale was made with or under the confidential understanding that
I should hold them for the sole use and benefit of said Myra, in
the event of his death before his return. On his return I wished
to reconvey them to him, but Clark would not allow me to do
so, wishing, as I suppose, to give another proof of his confidence
in my honor and rectitude, particularly as he, Clark, never
wished to receive any written acknowledgment of the confidential nature of the sale. In 1813 he told me he was thinking of
reducing to order his affairs, and of making his last will, so as

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ci;.

Statement of the case.
not to leave any longer exposed to risk the standing and fortune
of his child, and that he wished me to consent to become one of
his executors; I did so consent. He spoke of Judge Pitot and
Chevalier de la Croix as persons whom he contemplated to have
associated with him. He spoke with much reflection and deliberation of his being occupied in preparing his last will. On
these occasions he spoke in the most impressive and emphatic
manner of Myra as the object of his last will, and that he should
in it declare her to be his legitimate child and heiress of all his
estate, and he accordingly so made his last will. A very short
time before the sickness that ended in his death, he conversed
with us about her in the paternal and affectionate terms as
theretofore; told us that he had completed and finished his last
will. He thereupon took from a small black case his said last
will, and gave it open to me and Judge Pitot to look at and examine. It was wholly written, dated, and signed, in his own
handwriting. Pitot, De la Croix, and myself, were the executors.
In it Myra was declared to be his legitimate daughter, and the
heiress of all his estate. Some short time afterwards I called
to see him, and learned from that he was sick in bed, too
sick to be seen by me; however, indignant at an attempt to prevent me from seeing my friend, I pressed forward into his room.
He took me by the hand, and with affectionate reprehension
said, 'How is it, Bellechasse, that you have not come to see me
before since my sickness? I told to send for you.'
iy
answer was that I had received no message or account whatever
of his sickness. I said further: 'ly friend, you know that on
various occasions I have been your physician, and on this occasion I wish to be again.' Re looked at me and squeezed my
hand. Fearful of oppressing him I retired, and told that
I would remain to attend occasionally to Clark. said there
was no occasion for it; that the doctor or doctors had ordered
that he should be kept as quiet as possible. On -'s
promising
to send for me if there should appear to be any danger, I departed. On the next day, without receiving any message, I went
and found Clark dead. I continued my way till I reached Pitot's, whom I found much affected by the death of Clark, and
very indignant at the conduct of -,
as well for having always
prevented the assistance of Clark's friends, as for not having
informed them (particularly him, Pitot, who lived near Clark),
of his approaching dissolution, that by their presence the fraud-

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES 1'. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

ulent suppression of the last will of Clark might have been prevented. ' What!' I said, ' has Clark's last will disappeared?'
' Yes, my friend; it was not in the case in which he had placed
it, and the succinct and provisional will of a dozen lines, which
he previously made when about sailing for the North, and which
he delivered to Relif, has been brought forward.'
"To fill my sacred duty towards Clark and his daughter, I
wrote and sent her, many years befbre I saw her in Matanzas,
in 1833, two letters, to Philadelphia. In these letters I informed
her of' the confidential trust held by me for her from her father,
and of the fraudulent suppression of her father's last wil, made
in her favor; but neither of these letters, although sent by a
safe conveyance, got into her hands, as she assured me afterwards in Matanzas. In that place I spoke at length with her
and her husband of her rights, and of the cruel suppression
of those rights. Since that time I have never seen them. On
some occasions I wrote to them again, always assuring them
of my friendly and almost paternal feelings towards the child
of my old friend. I never heard Clark speak of having any
other child besides the said Myra; I never heard him say that
she was a natural child; I never heard him speak of any stain
upon her, or her birth, but on the contrary he styled her in
his will of 1813 his legitimate daughter; he told me that she
was his only child.
"The last will of Clark, viz., his will of 1813, was legal in
form. Few men were equal to Clark in talents and intelligence.
He was well instructed in the principal matters that appertain
to a gentleman and the proprietor of vast possessions; and the
future happiness, fortune, and standing of his child were the
objects dearest to his heart, and he satisfied himself that there
was no obstacle to his bestowing his fortune upon her. Pitot,
the j'udge of the Court of Probates at New Orleans, was one of
the executors in Clark's last will, viz., that of 1813. He examined it after it was finished, and he should have known whether
it was legal in form and in its provisions. Few lawyers in
Louisiana were better acquainted with the laws than Clark;
and had he not been. he numbered among his intimate friends
some of the ablest lawyers of that State, and he was the last
man to neglect any means necessary to accomplish an object
which he was so intent upon."

GAINES

e.

NEW ORLEANS.

[S up. Ct

Statement of the case.

Dusuau de la Croix, already mentioned as having, in 1813,
caused the notaries of New Orleans to be summoned to see
if no will of 1813 existed, now, A. D. 1834, testified in substance, thus:
That he was very intimate with Clark, for a great many years,
and up to the time of his death; that some few months previous
to this event, Clark visited him, and expressed a wish that he,
the deponent, should become his executor. In this conversation
Clark spoke of a young female, named Mtyra; he expressed a
wish that the deponent should become tutor to this female, and
that she should be sent to France for her education, and said
that he, Clark, would leave her a sufficient fortune to do away
with the stain of her birth; that a month or two after this, the
deponent called to see Clark at his house, and found him in his
cabinet; he had just sealed up a packet. The superscription on
it was as follows: "To be opened in case of death." Clark
threw it down in the presence of deponent, and told him that it
contained his last will, and some other papers which would be
of service. The deponent did not see the will, nor does he know
anything about its contents; he only saw the package with the
superscription on it.*
In this conversation Clark observed that he had named R.
Relf and B. Chew as his executors in a former will.
On this and other evidence of its specific contents, the
will thus lost or destroyed and sworn to, was finally, on
the 18th of Febr'uary, 1856, received by the Supreme Court
of Louisiana as the last will of Daniel Clark; reserving to
lRelf (the surviving executor of the former one) the right,
"if he have any, to oppose the will in any manner allowed
* This testimony of De ]a Croix is commented on by the court, infra,Gaines
v. De la Croix, p. 721, and in so far as it goes to militate against the will
of 1813, discredited. It seemed that when the notaries answered that no will
of Clark was in their possession, De la Croix, assuming that none existed,
or could be proved, made purchases of slaves from Relf, acting executor
of the will of 1811. Suit was now brought against him for their value. fHe
thus had a direct interest to support the will of 1811, as against that of 1813.
What he said in favor of the existence of the will of 1813 was an admission
against himself; while his declaration that he knew nothing of its contents
was not allowed to impair the value of the testimony of other witnesses who
swore to their nature.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

by law as fully as he could have done had he not been a
party to these proceedings."
The will now established contained these clauses:
"I do hereby acknowledge that my beloved Myra, who is now
living in the family of Samuel B. Davis, is my legitimate and only
daughter; and that I leave and bequeath unto her, the said Myra,
all the estate, whether real or personal, of which I may die possessed, subject only to the payment of certain legacies hereinafter named."
"I further give and bequeath an annuity of five hundred dollars to Caroline Des Granges, until she arrives at the age of majority; after which, I give and bequeath her a legacy of five
thousand dollars."
But the establishment of this will did not end the matter.
By the law of Louisiana, it is not allo~ced to a testator to
make devises to his adulterine bastard. The question of
a marriage ceremony performed between Clark and Zulime became, therefore, a matter of primary importance.
Had any marriage ceremony been performed between them
before the birth of Myra? There were evidences on both
sides.
I. AGAINST such a conclusion were supposed to be:
1. The fact, in coninection with Clark's special character,
of the different social positions and reputation of the parties; the fact that the first child was, in reality, illegitimate,
and was known to be so at least by Mr. Coxe; and that in
New Orleans, a place, at this time, of a few thousand inhabitants, and where he was himself the most conspicuous
and best known person in it-a leader of party there-he
was looked upon by the community generally to be an unmarried man.
Thus one witness-Cavillier, a merchant in New Orleansafter stating that he"was long and intimately acquainted with
Clark, said:
"I never knew him as a married man; I never heard of his
being married; I always knew him as a bachelor. .. . LTe was

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case*
considered as the lover of Mrs. Des Granges; was considered
an honest man, a man of good reputation. It is for that very
reason that I think he was never married to that woman, because he well knew her conduct, and was himself a man of delicacy of feeling."
So Julien Domiogon, another witness:
"I am sixty-one years of age. I have lived in New Orleans
forty-five years. I knew Clark as well as ayoungman of fifteen
years and some months could know a man of about forty years.
I first knew him in 1804. I always thought he was a single
man. He was much before the public in those days; his character was much discussed in the public papers. It was never
rumored or said, in public, that he was married. He had the
reputation of having several mistresses. I do not recollect that
at that time Madame Des Granges was reputed to be his mistress."
Mr. W. W. Montgomery:
"He -was always considered a bachelor by his friends and acquaintances in general. I never heard him spoken of in New
Orleans as a married man during his lifetime. He was a highminded, honorable man. I do not believe that he was capable
of addressing a-young lady with a view to marriage if, at the
same time, he had been, in truth, a married man. He had too
much honor."
J. Courcelle said:
"Clark was never married, so far as I know. I have said that
he was never married, because the population was so small that
we knew everything that took place. 1 knew Madame Des
Granges. I have been in certain eiircles where her reputation
was spoken of lightly; but I cannot give any positive testimony
about it. She was very coquette et legere."
Mr'. Charles Harrod:
"I have always heard him speak of hiniself as a bachelor, and
w' frequently joked with him about a lady in Baltimore, whom
we supposed he was going to marry. Frequently, when dining
together, we conversed on such subjects, and the course of conversrtibn was that of bachelors; it led me always to believe he

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

Statement of the case.
was a bachelor. I think he was considered a bachelor by the
community of New Orleans."
E. Carraby:
"Clark and Madame Des Granges lived together in an illicit
connection. I mean, this was the general report. Her reputation was known enough not to have been misunderstood by
Clark. Mr. Clark was a too high-minded man to contract mar
riage with his paramour."
Mrs. Julia Wood:
"I lived in Mr. Relf's house when Clark lived there also. My
conviction on this subject results from my intimate knowledge
of him; and I know that he was not married as certainly as I
know any other negative fact. I ought to add, that his peculiar
tone and style of character was such that he would have been
one of the very last men on earth to marry clandestinely, or to
marry any woman whose social position was not in all respects
equal to his own, or whose personal character was not of the
highest order."
P. J. Tricou:
"She was considered as the amante of Clark."

J. B. Dejan:
"Was well acquainted with Clark from 1797 up to the time
of his death in 1813. He stood high in the opinion of all the
respectable families of New Orleans. H1e was a single man. I
never heard from any person, up to the time of his death, that
he was a married man."
Jean Canon:
"Knew Clark intimately. He never told me he was married.
I aiways forbore questioning him about Madame Des Granges.
Their connection was kept very secret. Clark kept such things
concealed as much as possible; as he had several such connections, and it would have given him trouble had his particular
fbinale" friends known them. Whenever he spoke of her, he
spoke of her as a beautiful woman, and deservedly, for she really
was a beautiful woman. When Clark saw a pretty woman he
fell in love with her."

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. ilulings, an intimate acquaintance:
"I firmly believe Clark was never married."
WNrs. ttulings :
"It was as perfectly understood that Mr. Clark was an unmarried man as that Ilelf and Chew were married men."
D. W. Coxe, the partner of Clark:
"My personal relations with Daniel Clark, in the years 1802
and 1803, were of the most intimate and confidential character.
I do not believe it possible that Daniel Clark, standing in the
business and personal relationship of unlimited cordial confidence which he did to me, would have been married in the city
of Philadelphia, or anywhere else'where I was, at the time
mentioned in the interrogatory, without his informing me of it,
and inviting me to the wedding. Such a thing is, of course,
possible, but I can imagine few events in life less probable."
Coxe further testified, that when Zulime was in Philadelphia, just before her marriage with Mr. Gardette, she
told him "she had heard that Mr; Clark was going to be
, of Baltimore, which she complained
married to Miss was a violation of his promise to marry her."
2. In all of the public and notarial acts signed by Daniel
Clark, he represented himself as a. single man.
3. His relations regarded him as unmarried. Thus his
mother in her will so speaks of him; and on the representations of Mr. Coxe and others that they were so, makes provision for both his "natural" children.
4. He declared himself (a) by words and (b) conduct, unmarried.
(a) In 1806 his sister writes to him in regard to a "toilet"
which he had bought in London:
iavEnroOL, MIay 3d, 1806.

MY DEAR BROTHER:
I scarcely know whether you will be obliged to ne,'or not,
for the share I had in fitting up your truly elegant toilet, but
the idea of its being intended for Mrs. D. Clark got strong
possession of my mind, and so much do I wish to see one bear

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES v. N EW ORLE I.NS.

Statement of the case.
that name worthy of you, that nothing in my opinion would
be too good to trust in it. I cannot think how the plan of such
a thing could enter into your head, for I assure you it has been
exhibited in London as a masterpiece of elegance and fashion.
Do pray write soon to me; you cannot think how uneasy I
made myself when I heard you went to Vera Cruz. Why will
you be forever toiling? Surely you should now sit down and
enjoy life. Let me know if my suspicions are right about the
destination of the toilet. If they are, may you be as happy in
your choice as your affectionate sister,
JANE GREEN.
DANIEL CLARC, ESQ., New Orleans.

Clark replies to her:
NEW ORLEANS, 14tb October, 1806.

MY DEAR SISTER:
I have received your letter of the 3d May, and thank you
kindly for the pains you took in filling the toilet. I assure
you that it would have given me infinite pleasure to have offered
it either to Mrs. Clark, or any person likely to become Mrs.
Clark; but this will not be the case for some time to come, for
as long as I have the misfortune to be hampered with business,
so long Will I remain single for fear of misfortune or accident.
DANIEL CLARK.

(b) He addressed other ladies. The matter has been already
in the year 1808. So it
spoken of in regard to Miss -,
was testified by a female witness, that Clark "paid his ad(sister of the witdresses and was engaged to Madame ness), up to the time of his death; that the courtship began
about a year before Clark's death; that the engagement took
place about eight months before; that the marriage was
delayed, from causes which the wtness did 'not particularly
understand, from time to time, and was to have been celebrated within about two months, when it was put an end to
by the death of Clark. The witness stated that she had
never heard any cause assigned why the marriage was not
celebrated immediately after the engagement; that her sister

had been divorced; and, finally, in 1815, and after Clark's.
VOL. V1.

43

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

death, thnt she was reunited by civil contract to the same
man from whom she had been separated."
5. lHe suffered another man to possess Zulime as a wife.
On the matters presented in these two last heads, Mr. Coxe
said on cross-examination:
"Daniel Clark was a high-tempered and chivalrous man, and
his disposition was quick and impetuous. I have known no man
who would have more promptly resented an imputation against
his honor or integrity. I can express most decided belief that
he would not have submitted to the indignity of allowing a man
to take from him his wife, if he had any, and appropriating her
to himself.
"I can express, also, a decided opinion upon the other point inquired of and it is this: That I am perfectly sure, that if Daniel
Clark had been in truth a married man (whether that marriage
had been public or private), and his wife still living, he would
never have held himself out to the community and the social
circles in which he moved, directly or indirectly, as an unmarried man. I am equally sure, that in the case supposed he
would never have approached a lady with overtures of marriage,
nor would he have announced to his friend an intention of addressing a young lady with a view to marriage. There ought
to have been no doubt upon the mind of any man who knew
anything of Daniel Clark on this subject, that he would neither
have been guilty, or even conceived, of acts so atrocious."
6. So it appeared that on the 30th N~ovember, 1805, Zulime,
by her attorney, one "Eligius Fromentin," reciting "An act
concerning alimony," &c., and that it was provided in it
"that the county court shall have jurisdiction on applications
from wives against their husbands for alimony on their husbands deserting his wife for one year successively, and in
cases of cruel, inhuman, and barbarous treatment," and that
she had been so treated "by Jerome Des Granges her husband," and "likewise deserted by him for three years past, to
wit, from the second day of September, 1802, even unto this
day, although she has been told that the said Jerome Des
Granges returned from France to New Orleans some time in
the course )f last month, and is now in the city of 'ew Or-

De< . 1 867.]

GAINES V. NEw ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

leans," petitioned the county court of New Orleans to condemn the said Des Granges "your petitioner's husband," to
pay her alimony for her support, at the rate of $500 per
annum. To this petition Des Granges never appeared, and
judgment went against him by default.
7. So too it appeared that in June, 1817, application was
made in behalf of the child, by the law firm of Davis &
Pierce there,-Davis being a son of Co]. Davis,-to the District Court of New Orleans, for alimony. The petition was
entitled, "Myra Clark and her curator ad litem, S. B. Davis,
v. B. Chew and R. Relf, executors of Daniel Clark, deceased," and sets forth that Myra Clark, 13 years of age, was
"the naturaldaughterof Daniel Clark," acknowledged by him
as such, and entitled to "alimony," from his estate. It further
stated that "the petitioner had heard that some instrument
was executed by her said father making some provision for
her, and concluded with a prayer that the executors produce
all papers relating to her," &c. This petition was-withdrawn
soon after being filed, in consequence, as it seemed, of an
assurance from either Mr. Relf or Mr. Chew "that they
would do all that was right if they could have a little time
and that it was not worth while to have a suit about it."
8. Mr. Coxe stated that some years before the one when he
was now speaking (1849), having heard much of the will of
1813, and also that the late Stephen Mazureau, then a distinguished lawyer of New Orleans, was cognizant of certain
matters connected therewith, and having in February, 1842,
conversed with Mr. Mazureau ov the subject, and being, as
he testified, desirous not to rely on his own recollections of
what lazureau said, he had addressed Mazureau a letter,
and that Aazureau's reply-which was annexed to Coxe's
deposition-was as follows:
NEW ORLEANS, May 1st, 1842.

Sia: In the conversation with you in February last, I mentioned, in reply to your inquiries, that the late Daniel Clark
once consulted me and the late Edward Livingston, Esq.,-not

"to aseertain whether he could make some provision by will for

676

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sap. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Myra, his supposed illegitimate daughter,"-but whether a certain will, of which he showed m'e a rough sketcl, would be valid
in law in this then Territory. The will thus intended to be
made, stated Myra to be his natural child, and instituted her his
universal heir, leaving to his own mother an annual rent of, I
believe, $3000. U~pon asking Mr. Clark what the name of the
girl's mother was, he answered me: "You know the lady, it is
Madame Des Granges." "But that woman was married, and
Des Granges was alive when the girl was born. I recollect having heard a great deal of talk about it at the time, but never
heard your name mentioned as connected with that love affair."
"Yes," said Clark, "she was married, I know; and what matters it? The ruffian (who kept a confectionery-shop here) had
deceived that pretty woman; he was married when he courted
her and became her husband, and, as it was reported, he ran
away afterwards from fear of being prosecuted. So, you see,
this marriage was null." "That may be, but, until so declared
by a competent tribunal, the marriage exists, and the child is
of such a class of bastards* as not to be capable by our laws of
receiving by will, from her supposed father, anything beyond
what may be necessary for her sustenance and education. Such
are the positive provisions of our code. The Spanish laws were
somewhat more favorable. They permitted the father to leave
to such a child one-fifth of the whole of his estate, bat our code
has restricted that to mere alimony."
I showed Clark both our codes and the Spanish laws, and,
though apparently disappointed, he expressed his satisfaction
that he could not'make the will he intended to make. I went
further, and showed him the girl could not be legitimated or
even acknowledged as his child, by subsequent marriage or
otherwise. I showed him, also, that if his mother survived
him, she was his forced heir, and that in supposing that he could
leave to the child anything beyond what is necessary for her
sustenance, it could not be of the value of more than one-third
of his estate, as his mother was entitled to take and receive twothirds clear of all charges or dispositions.
"What shall I do, thbn ?" asked M1r. Clark. "Sir, if you have
Friends in whom you can place your confidence-you probally
* An adulterous bastard.

.Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

have some-convey them secretly some of your property, or
give them money for the use of the child, to be given to her by
them when she becomes of age." "That I'll do," said Clark,
and we separated.
I heard afterwards from him, and from Mr. Bellechasse, that
he, Clark, had done what he told me he would do.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

As this is written in haste, I would not like it to meet the eye
of the public, though every particle of it is most substantially
true.
I remain, with great respect, sir,
Your obedient servant,
MAZUREAU

D. W. CoxE.

Mr. Mlazureau had not apparently been called as a witness
to prove the facts stated in his letter.
9. If any marriage had been solemnized, it was at Philadelphia, and as primarily testified by the only witness who
swore to being at it, in the year 1803, though in one deposition she said it was perhaps in 1802. None other was set
up. Yet it seemed that in 1803 Clark had not been in Philadelphia; and that be was there in 1802 only at and near
the time when he had sent Zulime to be delivered of Caroline, a circumstance, which, as the reader will, perhaps, see
hereafter, the testimony to prove the marriage appeared
rather to separate from the date of that event.
On the subject of Clark's presence in that city, in the
years 1802 and 1803, the testimony was thus:
A letter from Clarke to Chew & Relf,dated Philadelphia,
18th February, 1802, said:
"I returned three or four days from Washington, where I had
an opportunity of seeing the President and officers of government, by whom I was well received. . . .It has been hinted
to me that a great deal is expected from my services."
How long he had staid at Washington, except by the expressions quoted, did not appear; nor when he first arrived
in Philadelphia before going to Washington.
Mr. Coxe-having stated that Clark had sent Madame

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Des Granges to him in an advanced state of pregnancy, and
that she had been delivered under his care, as Clark's friend
-testified, at different times, to this effect:
Clark arrived in Philadelphia within a very short time after
the birth of Carolin , which was, I believe, in April, 1802. 1
then received from him the expression of his wishes in reference
to the child. At this time he left with me a power of attorney,
which is annexed, and to which I refer.* Immediately thereafter
he left for New Orleans, and arrived in Philadelphia again, in
a vessel from New Orleans, during the last days of July, 1802.
He was at Wilmington, below this city, on the 22d of July, 1802,
'as will be seen by his annexed letter to me of that date.t He had
pressing business of great magnitude, which occupied his entire
time during his stay in Philadelphia. My impression is that I
saw him every day during his stay in Philadelphia. On his arrival in Philadelphia he commenced making preparations for an
immediate departure for Europe, on business of importance; and
left the city in a few days for New York, from whence he sailed
for Europe in a very short time; I am quite certain, previous
to the middle of August, 1802.4 He remained in Europe until, I
think, the latter days of November, 1802, at which time he sailed
directly from" Europe to New Orleans, where he arrived, as I
understood, in the last days of February, 1803; the vessel having put into Kingston, Jamaica, from some cause, which caused
her to make a longer passage. He was not in Philadelphia at
any time during the year 1803, to my knowledge; and I believe
* This power, executed by Clark at Philadelphia, was dated 22d April,

1802. It had no reference to the child.
j- This document was annexed to testimony taken in the case. A letter
of Clark, dated ,1Plaquemines, Sunday, 27th June, 1802," speaks of himself
as hoping "to-morrow to get to sea."
I An original letter from Coxe to lelf & Chew, dated August 6th, 1802,
produced, said:
"1Mr. Clark wrote you very fully per mail some days since; since when
he has come up to Germantown, and to-morrow sets out for New York, there
to embark fo: England."
A letter from Clark to them, New York, 17th August, 1802, mentions his
being about to sail "to - morrow."
In an original letter from Clark, in Liverpool, dated 7th October, 180%
he speaks of himself as having been there three days.

J)ec. 1867.]

GAINES

V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

679

Statement of the case.
if he had been I would have known it. It could scarcely have
been otherwise. As to the time of his arrival in New Orleans,
I refer to the letter annexed.* . . . The occasion of his visit to
Europe was urgent business connected with our commercial
transactions, making it necessary that he should arrange certain
business matters with our mercantile friends in that country,
rendering it necessary for us to know the existing and probable
future political state of England and the continent generally.

Coxe, as already mentioned, testified that he knew nothing
whatever about any marriage, and wholly disbelieved that
any had ever taken place.t
H. ON THE OTHER HAND were various te timonies relied on
to prove a marriage; as1. The acknowledgment and declaration, testamentary
and oral, of the child's legitimacy, already mentioned in the
history of the will of 1813.
2. Positive testimony given in 1849, by one witness, Madame Sophie Despau, the sister of Zulime, to the fact of
marriage. The testimony ran thus:
"I do know that Daniel Clark was married. lHe was married in Philadelphia, by a Catholic priest, to my sister Zulime.
I was present at this marriage. This, to the best of my recollection, was in the year 1803; although there are some associations in my memory which make me think it not improbable
* This letter, dated 31st January, 1807, was one from Clark to Coxe,
giving an account of a particular transaction, and in which he says: 'WWhen
I returned from Europe, in the beginning of the year 1803, . . . the French
making immediate preparations to take possession of Louisiana," &e.
Other letters were produced, two addressed to him at New Orleans, April
18th, and 'May 27th, 1803; others from himself, dated New Orleans, 8th
June, 13th July, 21st July, 18th August, 6th October, 1803, showing Clark's
presence there then, and others from Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison to him
during the same year; the last dated 31st October, 1803. This last letter
pointed plainly to the critical condition of things at that time in Louisiana,
and to the reliance had on Clark by the Federal government, in case of "a
coup den
main." There were also letters to Clark at New Orleans from Coxe,
dated November 18th, and December 23d, 1803.
f See his testimony, supra, p. 672.

GAiNES V. NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

that the marriage may have taken place in the year 1802.* My
impression, however, is, that the marriage took place in 1803.
It was, I remember, a short while previous to Mr. Clark's going
to Europe.t There was one child, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, only one child, born of this marriage, to wit,
Myra. The circumstances attending the said marriage, were
these: Zulime had previously been married to a man named Des
Granges, with whom she lived several years, until she heard
that he had another living wife at the time of his marriage with
her. This information, confirmed by the subsequent admissions
of Des Granges himself, led to a separation, when Zulime returned to her family. These circumstances were known to the
public. While thus residing with her family, Mr. Clark made
proposals of marriage with her. These proposals were made
with the full knowledge of all the family. But it was considered essential, before any marriage could take place, that record
proof of the invalidity of her marriage with Des Granges should
be first obtained. *To obtain this proof from the records of the
Catholic church in New York, where Des Granges' prior marriage was celebrated, my sister and myself embarked for that
city. It was agreed and understood that Mr. Clark should follow
after us. On our arrival in New York, we learned that the registry of marriages of which we were in search had, in some
way, been destroyed. Mr. Clark arrived after us. We were
told that a Mr. Gardette, then living in Philadelphia, was one
of the witnesses to Des Granges' prior marriage. We proceeded to Philadelphia, and found Mr. Gardette, who told us
that he was present at said prior marriage of Des Granges; that
he afterwards knew Des Granges and his wife by this marriage;
and that this wife had gone to France. Mr. Clark then said to
my sister, 'You have no longer any reason to refuse being married to me. It will, however, be necessary to keep our marriage
secret until I have obtained judicial proof of the nullity of your
. * The year of the alleged marriage as given in the text, is that given by
Madame Despau, in a deposition of 1849. In a deposition taken in 1845,
now offered by the defendants to contradict and discredit her, and, in connection with a deposition of her sister, who stated that same year (while
both stated that they had personal knowledgeof Caroline's birth and Madame
Despau that she was born in 1801), to show conspiracy between the two sis.
ters, she stated that the marriage was "1in 1803."
t For the date of this voyage, see supra, p. 678, and notes.

Dec. 1867.]

Dec.
GAINES
867.] v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

marriage with Des Granges?' They, the said Zulime and the
said Clark, were then married. Soon afterwards, our sister,
Madame Caillavet, wrote to us from New Orleans, that Des
Granges' former wife (the one he had at the time of marrying
with Zulime) had arrived at New Orleans. We hastened our return to New Orleans, where Des Granges was prosecuted for
bigamy.* Father Antoine, of the Catholic church in New Orleans, took part in the proceedings against him. Mr. Des Granges
was condemned for bigamy in marrying the said Zulime, and was
cast into prison, from whence he secretly escaped by connivance
of the governor, as it was understood, and was taken down the
Mississippi fRiver by 11r. Le Brenton D'Orgenois, where he got
to a vessel and escaped from the country. This happened not
a great while before the cessation of the Spanish government
in Louisiana. Mr. Clark told us that before he could promulgate his marriage with my sister, it would be necessary that
there should be brought by her an action against the name of
Des Granges. The change of government, which took place
about that time, created delay; but at length, in 1806, Messrs.
Brown and Fromentin, as the counsel of my sister, brought suit
against Des Granges, in, I think, the City Court of New Orleans.
The grounds of said suit were, that Des Granges had imposed himself upon her in marriage at a time when he had a lawful living
wife. Judgment in said suit was rendered against Des Granges.
But Mr. Clark still continued to defer promulgating his marriage with my sister, which very much fretted and irritated her
feelings. While he was in Congress, my sister heard that
, of Baltimore. She was dishe was courting Miss tressed, though she could not believe the report, knowing her.
* In the deposition of 1845, Madame Caillavet said thus:

"The circumstances of her marriage with Daniel Clark were these: Several
years after her marriage with Mr. Des Granges, she heard that he had a
living wife. Our family charged him with the crime of bigamy in marrying the said Zulime. He at fir.t denied it, but afterwards admitted it, and
fled from the country. These circumstances became public, and Mr. Clark
made proposals of marriage to my sister, with the knowledge of all our
family. It was considered essential first to obtain record proof of Des Granges
having a living wife at the time he married my sister; to obtain which, from
the records of the Catholic church in New York, we sailed for that city."
[She then describes the visit to New York and Philadelphia, and marriage
there as in the text.] "Soon afterwards our sister, Madame Caillavet,
wrote to us from New Orleans that Des Granges' wife, whom he had mar.
ried prior to marrying the said Zulime, had arrived at New Orleans. We
hastened , r r turn to New Orleans. He was prosecuted for bigamy," &c.

GAINES V. N]EW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

self to be his wife. Still, his strange conduct in deferring to
promulgate his marriage with her had alarmed her, and she and
I sailed to Philadelphia to get the proof of his marriage with
my sister. We could find no record of the marriage, and were
told that the priest who married her and Mr. Clark was gone
to Ireland. My sister then sent for Mr. D. W. Coxe and mentioned to him the rumor above stated. He answered that he
knew it to be true that Mr. Clark was engaged to the lady in
question. My sister replied that it could not be so. lHe then
told her that she would not be able to establish her marriage
with Mr. Clark, if he were disposed to contest it. He advised
her to take the advice of legal counsel, and said he would send

one. A Mr. Smith came, and, after telling my sister that she
could not legally establish her marriage with Mr. Clark, pretended to read to her a letter in English (a language then unknown to my sister), from Mr. Clark to Mr. Coxe, stating that
be was about to marry Miss -.
The marriage between Mr.
Clark and my sister was a private one. Besides myself, there
was present at the marriage a Mr. Dorsier, of Now Orleans, an
Irish gentleman, a friend of Mr. Clark's, from New York, whose
name I do not recollect. Mr. Clark told me in his lifetime that
he had informed Colonel Davis, Mr. Coxe, and Mr. Relf, of this
marriage. It was known only to a few friends. By the marriage of my sister with Mr. Des Granges there was born two
children, a boy and a girl. The boy died. The girl lived, and
was named Caroline.*

She afterwards married a physician

named Barnes. She was born in the year 1801. The marriage
was privately celebrated at a house in Philadelphia, rented by
Mr. Clark for my sister, but I am unable to remember the
name of tho street on which it was situated, or of the priest
who officiated. The great lapse of time which has taken place
since these events, renders it impossible for me to answer with
the precision the question demands. As well as I can remember, it was in one of the early months of spring, in 1802 or 1803.
* In another deposition, this witness, after stating that Caroline was Des

Granges' child, testified about her thus:
"Since the drath of Mr. Clark, Mr. D. W. Coxe and Mr. Hulings, of
Philadelphia, gave her the name of Caroline Clark, and took her to Mr.
Clark's mother, and introduced her as the daughter of lier son. She, of
course, believed their story, which induced her, in her will, to leave a portion of her property to Caroline. Caroline was born in 1801. I was present
at her birth.'

Dec. 18,37.]

GAINES v. NEW ORLEANS.

683

Statement of the case.

Mr. Clark was several weeks in Philadelphia before the marriage. I did not know, or cannot now remember, where he
lived during that time. We stopped first at a boarding-house
kept by an American lady, I think a widow, whose name I cannot remember. We were in Philadelphia but a short time previous to the marriage. My sister was about nineteen or twenty
years old at the time of her marriage with Mr. Clark. After
the marriage we resided together in the house provided for my
sister, as I have already stated.
"I have stated fully my recollection of all that concerns the
marriage. Not a great while after the marriage, Mr. Clark &,t
out for Europe. Soon after his departure, in consequence of information received from our sister, Madame Caillavet, at New
Orleans, in regard to the arrival there of the first wife of Des
Granges, we set out for that city. We arrived there, I ti.ink,
in the summer. I do not remember the precise time of Mr.
Clark's arrival there, but it was afterwards. It is impossible
for me to recollect with certainty the precise time occupied by
each one of so many events that happened so many years ago.
"Mr. Clark furnished my sister with a handsome house in
New Orleans, in which she and I resided together, and where
he frequently visited my sister, taking his tea with us almost
every evening. This house was situated on a corner, and, I
think, near what was then called the Bayou Road; but I cannot
recall the name of the street, or fix with certainty the precise
locality.
"Mr. Clark enjoyed throughout Louisiana, as far as my knowledge extended, the character of a highly honorable man. He
had great pride of character, and was as quick to resent and
punish any personal indignity as any man I have known. I
have always believed that his feelings and purposes towards my
sister were sincere and honorable, and that he would have
proven this by giving her her true position before the world as
his lawful wife, if it had not been for the unfortunate state of
feeling that was produced between them. I do not believe he
was a man to impose designedly upon any one, or to suffer it to
be done where he was concerned. What would have been his
course in the matter if he had been apprised of the contemplated
marriage between-her and Gardette, it is impossible for me to
say. M y sister has told me, that in an interview had with him
il Philadelphia, after the marriage with Mr. Gardette, he ex-

GAINES V.

'EW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

pressed the deepest regret that that barrier had been placed
betwen them; stating that he had become thoroughly satisfied
that things he had heard in regard to her, and which had influenced him to postpone the promulgation of his marriage with
her, were calumnies; that he acquitted her of all blame; and
that but for the marriage with. Gardette, he would then have
claimed and recognized her before the world as his wife.
"It was the misfortune of my sister, only a girl of thirteen,
to be deceived in her first marriage with ir. Des Granges, who,
as I before stated, was a married man at the time he married
my sister. Being satisfied that she had been imposed upon by
Mr. Des Granges, and was no longer Lis wife, she married Mr.
Clark. H~ad it not been for the interested wickedness of Mr.
Coxe, in assuring her, and employing counsel to aid him in misrepresenting to her, that her marriage with Mr. Clark was illegal, she never would have married Mr. Gardette. It was the
misfortune of my sister to have been deceived by those whose
duty it was to protect her, and it is my firm belief, that neither
in the eye of God nor highly honorable men or women, will she
be condemned; but, on the contrary, be pitied for her. unprecedented afflictiofis."
3. To the same general purpose was the testimony of another sister, Madame Rose Caillavet, taken in 1849, at the
age of 83:
"1 was not present at the marriage of my sister-with Mr
Clark; but it is within my knowledge, both from information
derived from my sisters at the time, and from the statements of
Mr. Clark, made to me during his lifetime, that a marriage was
solemnized between them. It is to my personal knowledge that
Mr. Clark, about the year 1802 or 3, made proposals of marriage
with my sister Zulime, with the knowledge of all our family.
They were discussed, and the preliminaries of the marriage
arranged by my husband, in his house, in my presence. But my
sister, having been previously married to one Des Granges, who
was found to have had a lawful wife living at the time of his
marriage with her, the marriage of Mr. Clark could not take
place until proofs of the invalidity of her marriage with- Des
Granges were obtained. To procure these proofs from public
records, my sisters, Zulime and Madame Despau, went to the

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

685

Statement of the case.

north of the United States, where Des Granges' prior marriage
was said to have taken place. While there, my sister Zulime
wrote to me that she and Mr. Clark were married.* I have always understood that the marriage between my sister and Mr.
Clark was a private one, and that it was not promulgated by
Mr. Clark in his lifetime, unless he did so in a last will made a
short time previous to his death. Mr. Clark stated to me frequently that Myra was his lawful and only child.
"Some years after my sister's marriage with Mr. Des Granges,
it became known in New Orleans that he had a prior wife living.
My sister immediately separated herself from him, and came to
reside with her family. At a later period, Mr. Des Granges
was prosecuted, found guilty of bigamy in having married my
sister Zulime, and cast into prison. I did not know the first
wife of Des Granges, but it is within my knowledge that she
came to New Orleans, and while there fully established her pretensions as his lawful wife."

* This deposition of Madame Caillavet was taken, as above said, in 1849.
In it the witness said that she desired to state as she now did, under the
solemnities of her oath, that a certain deposition of hers taken in 1835 was,
as it had been translated to her from the English copy filed, in very material
parts a garbled and mistranslated statement of what she had really said.
She had mentioned in this deposition that while Zulime and Madame Despau
were at Philadelphia, "1DesGranges returned from France, and at the same
time or a very short time after his first wife made her appearance." The
deposition proceeded; the italicized part being the part which she stated was
a misconception of what she had said:

" Upon this, witness immediately apprised her sister of this fact, and she
returned immediately to -New Orleans. On the arrival of the said first wife
of Des Granges, she complained to the governor, who caused Des Granges
to be arrested-(it was under the Spanish government); after some time, he
obtained bi., release, and left the country. Before his departure, he confessed
that he had previously married. Witness under.,tood afterwrards from her
sister, by letters which she received from her secretly, that she was married
with Mr. Daniel Clark. The preliminaries of the contemplated marriage
were settled-by the husband of witness, at his house, in the year 1802 or 1803,
in the presence of witness.
"Cross-examination: When her &s-terwrote to her about her mary7iagewith
Daniel Clark, she informed her afterwards that she had had a child (a daughter) by that marriage, who, she understood, was called 1M1yra."
The witness, in making the correction, stated that " the infermation of
witness, so far as derived from heir sister in reg.rd to the said marriage with
Daniel Clark, was derived at the time the event took place."

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The same witness, examined in 1845, said:
"1Mr. Clark's marriage -with my sister Zulime was after the
detection of Des Granges' bigamy. The birth of their daughter,
Myra Clark, was some years after the marriage. I was not
present at the marriage of my sister with Mr. Clark. I believe
they were married, because my sister wrote me from Philadelphia that she was married to Mr. Clark; Mr. Clark also told me
the same on his arrival at New Orleans.. They were married at
Philadelphia. Not being in that city at the time, I am unable
to answer the numerous questions on that subject.* I first saw
Mr. Clark, I think, in the year 1802. I was introduced to him
by Mr. Dosier, of Louisiana. My sister, after her marriage
with Mr. Clark, arrived at New Orleans, accompanied only by
her sister, Madame Despau. She was married to Mr. Clark as
Miss Zulime de Carriere, in the year 1803; I do not remember
the month; I do not remember the season of the year that Mr.
Clark returned to New Orleans; she did not accompany him.
I very frequently saw Daniel Clark after his marriage with my
sister; as the marriage was a private one, it was not advisable
that they should reside in the. same house; he, however, provided her with all the elegancies of life, and was devoted to his
wife and child."
4. Bellechasse, also (already mentioned):
"I cannot swear that Clark was married to Miss Carriere. the
mother of his child, although many persons affirmed that such
was the fact; but I am well assured that, if he was not married to her, he was never married to any other woman."
5. In regard to the petition presented by the law firm of
Davis & Pierce, as at the suit of Myra Clark, Colonel Davis
testified that if it contained such words, as "that the petitioner, Myra, was the natural daughter of Daniel Clark, late
of the city of New Orleans, deceased, acknowledged by him
* In other depositions of the same witness (which were relied on by the defendants to prove falsehood in her), Madame Caillavet stated that the birth
of both Des Granges' children (one being specified as "Caroline"), was
k9well known to her of her personal knowledge."

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

as such," or words to that effect, they were never made use
of with or by his knowledge or consent.
6. The fact, that while several persons supposed that they
each possessed Clark's entire confidence about all his domestic concerns, it was now evident that they possessed it
only in relation to single, separated, and particular parts or
items of them; and that on other things, even of a kindred
kind to those which they knew much or all about, he kept
his confidences habitually and closely locked up from them.
Why not then about a marriage meant to be a secret one,
supposing such a marriage to have been performed?
Thus the testimony showed conclusively, that his most
intimate friends in New Orleans, Boisfontaine and Bellechasse, both of whom knew all about Myra there, knew
nothing whatever about Caroline in Philadelphia. Baron
Boisfontaine testified:
"From the time of Myra's birth, Mr. Clark treated me as his
confidential friend, in matters relating to her and to his affairs
generally. The said Myra is the only child he ever acknowledged to me as his."
So Colonel Bellechasse:
"I never heard Clark speak of having any other child beside
Myra. He told me that she was his only child."
On the other hand, his partner Coxe, in Philadelphia, with
whom he was undoubtedly most intimate, and who knew
all about Caroline, knew nothing whatever about the history
of Myra, living, after 1812, in the same city with him; and
with difficulty would believe that she was a child of Clark's
at all, or of anybody except Colonel and Mrs. Davis. He
thus testified:
"Daniel Clark had not to my knowledge any other child be
sides Caroline. He never acknowledged any such child to me.
My intimacy with him would have justified, and would have
been likely to induce, such a disclosure to me, if there had been
any such child or childret,. Such, at least, is my belief, though
in some respects MTr. (larl, was a man of very Peculiarcharacter.

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

After his death, I was informed by Dr. Hulings'and S. B. Davis,
for the first time, that he had another daughter by Madame
'Des Granges, born in New Orleans, called Myra."
So in February, 1802, a date very near (either before or
after) to the birth of Caroline, Clark, having just returned
from Washington, and being then in Philadelphia, where
Zulime and her sister were, writes on the 18th of that month
to Chew & Relf:
"When you write to me on private matters, let your letters
come direct to Mr. Earle, as things will often occur which I wish
only to see. .

.

. Forward me the $2000 which I wrote to you

for in one or two good bills, that I may have some funds at my
own disposal, without calling on Mr. Coxe for trifles, as I may
want money. This must be a business kept to yourself."
III. The testimony of Colonel Davis, now aged eighty-one
and upwards, was not perhaps of a very positive kind in any
direction. He proved that Clark spoke of the child as his
daughter, was proud and devotedly fond of her, and so spoke
of her as to leave no other impression than that she was to be
the recipient of all his property. He had never heard Clark
"speak of Zulime as his wife, nor as holding a very different relation to him;" never having conversed with him on
this subject. Clark had never made use of any expression
to him which would convey the idea that Myra was an illegitimate child. He had no particular knowledge of Mr.
Clark's ever having married. He never told Davis that he
was married. The matter was never a subject of conversation between them. He did not think Mr. Clark would
have been likely to marry two wives. He had never had
any conversation with the sisters of Zulime (Mesdames
Despau or Caillavet) in connection with Myra's legitimacy.
They had never urged him to claim the estate for her. He
added"Could I have had the satisfactory means of proving that
Myra was Mr. Clark's legitimate child, and could I have had
reason to believe that anything would have been gained from

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

out the estate, I certainly should have taken legal advice, and
should have followed it. It was reported that Clark's estate
was inselvent, and before I had any means of ascertaining the
precise situation of the estate, Myra was married. I never
doubted but that some arrangement had been made by Mr.
Clark in relation to her."
In regard to this testimony of Colonel Davis, Peter A.
Browne, a member of the Philadelphia bar-and on terms
of intimacy with Davis, and an administrator pendente lite of
his estate-testified:
"Colonel Davis frequently told me that she was the natural
daughter of Clark, and his (Colonel Davis's) adopted child only.
I cannot point out any time in particular in which this was said,
because it happened in the course of conversation at intervals
extending over the whole time of our acquaintance. On one
occasion Colonel Davis told me that his deposition had been
taken in one of the suits heretofore brought by the plaintiff,
upon which I said that I supposed that he had declared that
Daniel Clark had hot been married to the plaintiff's mother.
To which he answered that that question had not been put to
him in such a direct manner as to elicit an answer; but added
that Clark was no more married to her than he (Davis) was."
IV. So far as respected the great point of the marriage.
On the other matters set up, the reportyr must be brief.
The defendant's title, as shown from IRelf & Chew, and
relied on, was through sales made more thana year after
Clark's death-sonie in 1820 and thereabouts. They were
not apparently made in virtue of any order of court, directing them.
As respected Clark's insolvency at the time of his death,
it was plain enough that in 1811, 1812, and even in 1813, and
almost or quite up to the time of his death, he had no ready
money, and was greatly straitened for the want of it: not
being able to supply even his mother's small requirements..
le was very gloon~y and despondent as to the issue of commercial things, including his own; all then greatly embar.
ras-ed and depressed by our war of that day with Great
VOL. V.

44

690

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Britain. But not long before Colonel Davis's departure
from New Orleans, Clark had exhibited to him a schedule
of his affairs, showing a surplus of $500,000.
The other defences set up were chiefly matters of law, and
need not, perhaps, be presented more fully than they are
given at p. 644-5.
Such in a general way was the case as the reporter conceives it. And yet a good deal more, some may think, -s
required-to give it its proper aspect. It must suffice to say
that there was, hardly a witness who was not directly or indirectly attacked. Forgeries and thefts were charged or
insinuated in regard to document after document. The chastity of Madame Despau, who was divorced, and of Madame
Caillavet in early life, as of Zulime herself, were assailed.
Mrs. Harper's veracity was put to similar proof. A son of
CoTonel Davis (who, however, had had a newspaper quarrel
with Mrs. Gaines), was a witness to disprove his father's
statement as to what was directed to be put in the petition
of 1805 for alimony, and to prove that in his father's family
she was regarded as the natural child of Clark; while Mr.
Coxe, examined on his voir dire, to show that he had settled
a large claim against Clark's estate with Relf & Chew, the
executors of the will of 1811, was argued not to be relieved
of bias by the fact that he stated that he considered he
had no interest, whatever, in the result; it being indifferent
to him who succeeded to Daniel Clark's estate,.the estate
itself being liable to him into whosesoever hands it passed.
But these parts of the controversy the reporter does not
deem it necessary to present.
The controversy had been already, in various forms, six different times before this court.* Messrs. Jones, Key, Reverdy
Johnson, Carnpbell, Lawrence, Cushing, and Pein, representing, at different times, the complainant, and Messrs. R. S.
In Ex parte Myra Clark Whitney, 13 Peters, 404; Gaines v. Relf, 15 Id.
9; Gaines v. Chew, 2 Howard, 619; Paterson v. Gaines, 6 Id. 550; Gaires v.
Reif, 12 Id. 472; Gaines v. Hennen, 24 Id. 553.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V.

NEW O12LEANS.

Statement of the case.

Coxe, Janin, -Henderson,Barton, Brent, .May, Webster, -Duncan,
and Hennen, the adverse claimants.
Sonde mention must be made of three of these eases, in
which three the question of merits was involved. These
were thus:
In 1836, Mrs. Gaines filed a bill against one Paterson and
numerous other persons, purchasers of estates of which
Clark died in possession, and also against Relf& Chew, executors of the will of 1811,-she, Mrs. Gaines, claiming these
estates as heir and devisee of Clark. In their defences to
this bill, different respondents pursued different coursessome one, some another. Relf & Chew, for example, demurred. Paterson, however, answered, and his case came up by
itself, A.D. 1848, in Patersonv. Gaines.* The court, on the
case as then presented, unanimously considered (Taney, C.-J.,
and Catron and McLean, JJ., being absent, but Wayne,
McKinley, Daniel, Nelson, Woodbury, and Grier, JJ., sitting), that the evidence of Madame Benguerel sufficiently
established the bigamy of Des Granges, and that of Madame
Despau the marriage with Clark; and it adjudged "upon
the evidence in this cause," that this marriage was lawful
and that Mrs. Gaines was Clark's only legitimate child and
heir at law, and entitled to her le9itinateportion of four-fifths
of Clark's estate. The will of 1813 had not yet been established.
The subject next came up against other defendants at December Term, 1851, in Gaines v. Rey,et al.,t on a record with
much additional evidence; more like the present case. The
complainants there having set up the decree just mentioned
(Gaines v. Paterson) as res adjudieata, the defendants asserted
that the case was "no honest exposition of merits, but was
brought about, allowed and consented to, for the purpose of
pleading the same as res adudicataupon points in litigation
not honestly contended." The court (Catron, McKinley, Nelson, Grier, and Curtis, JJ.,agreeing; Taney, C. J., and McLean, J., being absent, and Wayne and Daniel, JJ., dissent* 6 Howard, 550.

't 12 11I. 473.

692

GAINES V. INfEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ing), deciding that there was" no earnest controversy," held,
among other things,1. That Mesdames Despau and Caillavet were not worthy
of credit, and were contradicted both by Coxe and by the
alimony record of 1805.
2. That the naked confession of Des Granges that he had
been guilty of bigamy made to Madame Benguerel and her
husband, was incompetent evidence, even admitting it was
made.
8. That the record of the suit of 1806, wanting as it did
the "petition," proved nothing, and was incompetent.
4. That the ecclesiastical record of 1802 of Des Granges'
prosecution for bigamy overthrew the feeble and discredited
evidence introduced to prove it.
Mr. Justice Catron, who gave the opinion, said, among
other things, as in the extracts from it which follow:"The complainant's principal witnesses are Madame Despau
and Madame Caillavet. It appears that, in the spring of 1801,
Des Granges went to France. lie was absent from his wife
Zulime about fifteen months.
"Coxe proves that Madame Des Granges brought him a letter
of introduction from Clark, stating that she was then far gone
in pregnancy, and requesting Coxe's attention to her wants;
that he furnished a house and money, and employed a nurse;
that Clark's letter stated the child was his; and we must assume
that the mother by delivering the letter impliedly admitted the
fact. She was delivered; Coxe had the child put out to nurse.
All this time, Madame Despau was with Madame Des Granges.
The child was Caroline, and who these witnesses swear without
hesitation was the child of Des Granges; and who, Madame
Despati swears, was born in 1801. Nor does either witness intimate that she was born in Philadelphia.
"It is true beyond question that these witnesses did know
that their sister Des Granges went North to hide her adultery;
that she did delude her absent husband; that.she did impose on
him the mendacious tale, that her sole business North was to
clear up doubts that disturbed her mind about his having another wife. These facts they carefully conceal in their depo.

Dec. 1367.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the case.

sitions; and on the contrary swear that she went North to get
evidence of her husband's bigamy and imposition on her.
"When they swore positively that Caroline was the child
of Des Granges, they did know that he had been in France,
and his wife in New Orleans, and they had not seen each other
for more than a year before the child was born; and 31adame
Despau could not be ignorant that Clark claimed it as his, and
that the mother admitted the fact to Coxe.
"Des Granges went to France with a full power to transact
business for his wife and her three sisters, in which the latter
style him their brother-in-law. This was his sole business in
France, so far as this record shows; and when there, he wrote
to Clark, in July, 1801, to assist his, Des Granges' wife; expressing his sympathies, forwarding a package for her, and regretting
that he had not heard from her. He also expressed the sincerest gratitude for Clark's proffered kindness in providing for
and aiding Zulime in his absence. From these facts it is clear,
as we think, that at the time Des Granges left for-Europe, he
and his wife were on terms of intercourse and ordinary affec.tion, and certainly not separated; and that the cause of their
separation is found in the connection formed by Clark and
Zulime in Des Granges' absence.
"It is palpable that the witnesses, Despau and Caillavet, swear
to a plausible tale of fiction, leaving out the" circumstances of
gross reality. These originated, beyond question, in profligacy
of a highly dangerous and criminal character; that of a wife
having committed adultery, and been delivered of an illegitimate
child, in the absence of her husband; not only on his lawful business, but on hers, and at her instance.
"This child, with the knowledge of both of these witnesses,
and certainly with the aid of one of them, if not both, was concealed in a foreign country, where the mother went and was
delivered. This is the reality these witnesses conceal; roundly
swearing that they knew this child to be Des Granges'.
"They also swear that Clark arranged with Zulime's family
before he went to Philadelphia, and had the assent of her family
to marry her; they having previously discovered Des Granges'
bigamy. But, according to their account, so scrupulous and
delicate was this injured woman, that she refused to marry Clark
until she went to New York and there ascertained for herself
the fact, that Des Granges had another wife; that Clark soon fol-

GAINES v. NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ck,

Statement of the case.

lowed Mada me Des Granges and Madame Despau, as previously
agreed on; and even then -adame Despau swears, when Gar.
dette had informed them that he was present, and witnessed
Des Granges' first marriage, her sister's sense of propriety and
delicacy was so great, that earnest persuasions had to be used
,by Clark to overcome her scruples. We cannot shut our eyes
bn the truth, and accord our belief to this fiction.
"1MadameDespau is further discredited by Coxe's evidence.
Their contradictory statements raise a question of integrity
between the witnesses. If they were equally entitled to credit,
still Coxe's statement has several advantages. First: Madame
Des Granges disavowed in the strongest terms that she was the
wife of Clark by marrying Gardette. Secondly: So important a
communication as Madame Despau declares her sister made to
Mr. Coxe; so ruinous to Clark's matrimonial prospects, and so
deeply disgraceful to him, must have been remembered by Coxe,
ifsuch communication had been made.
"Again. Madame Despau swears that she and her sister Des
Granges went to Philadelphia to obtain evidence of Clark's
marriage with Zalime; that they could find no record of the
marriage, and were told the priest who performed the ceremony
had gone to Ireland. What occasion could there be for further
proof? Madame Despau swears that Clark had proposed, and
family arrangements had been made with him at New Orleans,
to marry Zulime; that these proposals were made with the fall
knowledge of all Zulime's family; that Clark followed the witness and Zulime North to fulfil the engagement; that he mef
them, and the marriage took place; that she, Madame Despau,
was present; that Mr. Dosier, a wealthy planter of New Orleans, and an Irish gentleman of .New York, were also present.
Zulime's family consisted of three sisters and their husbands.
Madame Caillavet swears that Clark conversed with her as his
sister-in-law, and admitted the marriage openly to her. Than
this, no further proof of it could be required, if true.
"In 1805, she again alleged in a legal proceeding, deeply affecting her and Des Granges, that she was his lawful wife, and that
he was her husband. The court sanctioned her statement by
fbunding its judgment on it; and as a wife, she recovered the
amount claimed as alimony. With the full knowledge this
woman had'of all the circumstances connected with the charge
of bigamqy against Des Granges, our judgment is convinced that

Dec.

1867.]

GAINES v. NiEW ORLEANS.

69.5

Statement of the case.

she stated What was true, and that she was Des Granges' lawful
wife at the time it is alleged she married Clark.
"The complicated and curious circumstances that surrounded
this charge of bigamy against Des Granges in the Paterson case,
and which were then so difficult to deal with, are easily enough
understood now. The mystery is explained by the fact now presented, that in Des Granges' absence to France, his wife formed
a connection with Clark, and the child Caroline came of that
illicit connection.
On Des Granges' return home, Madame
Caillavet notified hier sisters to return in haste, as Des Granges"
first wife was at New Orleans. Mesdames Despau and Des
Granges forthwith returned, and at this time it ,was that Des
Granges was so fiercely assailed by public opinion, and very
soon after arrested on general rumor and tried for bigamy.
The reports, to which these witnesses swear, obviously origin-;
ated with, and were relied on by Madame Des Granges, her
sisters and friends, to harass and drive Des Granges from the
country, so that his wife might indulge herself in the society
of Clark, unincumbered and unannoyed by the presence of an
humble and deserted husband. And this was in fact accomplished, for Des Granges did leave the country soon after he was'
tried for bigamy, and Clark did set up Des Granges' wife in a
handsome establishment, where their intercourse was unrestrained.
"In 1805, when Des Granges again came to New Orleans,
his wife immediately sued him for alimony, as above stated;
speedily got judgment against him for fiv6 hundred dollars per
annum" on the same day, issued execution, and again drove him
away.
"As to the testimony of Madame Benguerel. We deem it
extremely improbable, that a man should openly confess to the
friends of Zulime, who reproached him with having committed
a foul and high crime, that he was guilty; and this, too, on the
eve of his apprehension and examination, on which he was compelled to give evidence against himself, when he swore that
there was no truth whatever in the charge, ,and in which he
was supported by this supposed first wife, who was then examined, and also by Zulime herself.
"On tho admissibility of Des Granges' confession, that he
committed bigamy when he married Zulime, the question arises

GAINES V.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
whether this confession (if made) could be given in evidence
against the defendants ?
"The respondents introduced the copy of a mutilated record,
now relied on, for the complainant, to prove the bigamy of Des
Granges. It purports to be a suit of Zulime Carriere against
Jerome Des Granges, commenced in 180,6, in the former County
Court of New Orleans.
"To give the record this effect, it must appear that the plain tiff did set out in her petition the fhct that said marriage was
null by reason of the bigamy of Des Granges, and that she prayed
to have its nullity adjudged by a judicial decree, and that such
.ecree was made on the issue. Nothing of the kind appears
here. We have no evidence what the cause of action was, nor
can any inference be drawn from the memoranda made by the
clerk that the suit was to establish the bigamy. All that appears
from these memoranda is, that debt or damages to the amount
of $100 was claimed by the plaintiff, and that $10D in damages
was recovered. Nor does the demurrer contradict this assumption. This mutilated record, therefore, proves nothing in this
cause."

Judgment was accordingly given against Mrs. Gaines;
but from it, as already said, Wayne and Daniel, JJ., dissented.
At December Term, 1860, the matter again came up in
Gaines v. Ilennen.* The evidence was much the same as in
the former case, except that owing to the establishment in
the meantime by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, of Clark's
will of 1813, Mrs. Gaines now came into this court, declared
by her father to be his legitimate daughter and universal
legatee. This fact the court treated as a feature in the case
greatly distinguishing it from all preceding ones; and as
being itself a potential evidence of a marriage. At the same
time they spoke with respect of the testimony of Mesdames
Despau and Benguerel, while that of Mr. Coxe they consid.
ered, exhibited so considerable a bias against the marriage,
that it was to be taken with considerable allowance. The
* 24 Howard, 553.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

697

Opinion of the court.

court thought the evidence of bigamy sufficient for a civil
case, and treated the ecclesiastical record of 1802 as one of
a court having no jurisdiction. They regarded the record
of 1806, though the petition of it was 'lost, as a record declaring void for bigamy the marriage of Des Granges and
Zulime. Independently of this, the law of Louisiana was
declared to be that in cases of bigamy where either parent
contracts the second marriage in good faith (a matter always
presumable), the issue is legitimate. And the title of Mrs.
Gaines not being held to be barred by prescription, the court
declared that after a litigation of thirty years the principles
applicable to that lady's rights in her father's estate, were
"now finally settled." From this judgment, concurred in
by McLean, Wayne, Nelson, Campbell, and Clifford, JJ., a
dissent was recorded by the Chief Justice (Taney), and
Catron and Grier, JJ.
Such was the state of things as the reporter understood
them when the present case came here.

This case was

now placed partially on the ground that in Gaines v. lienven an erroneous conception of fact was had by the court,
owing to the immense size of the record; partially on .the
ground that Gaines v. Jiennen was in reality not "an earnest controversy," any more than Paterson v. Gaines had
been; partially on the insolvency of Clark's estate and the
partnership articlesgiving two-thirds of the premises sought
to be recovered to Chew & Relf; these last two being features, as it was said, peculiar to the present cases.
3lfessrs. i7le Connell and Taylor,for the appellants,relied largcly
on Gaines v. Relf; Messrs. Cashingand . .D. Stone (with abriefof
.Ar.Stone), contra, on Gaines v. Hennen, andPaterson v. Gaines.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It was supposed, after the decision in Gaines v. Hennen,*
that the litigation, pursued in one form and another for over
thirty years, by the complainant, to vindicate her rights in
* 24 Howard, 553.

GAINES V. NEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the estate of her father, was ended. But this reasonable
expectation has not been realized; for other cases, involving
the same issues and pleadings, and supported by the same
evidence, are before us; and we are asked to review the
principles of law and questions of fact, on which the ilennen
decision was pronounced, and thus reopen the whole controversy. The legal principles, on which that case was decided,
ar6 no longer open for consideration. They were fully and
finally settled, and are controlling in all future disputes relating to the same subject. But these defendants insist they
have a right to be heard on the issues of fact presented in
this case, even, if they are the same as those decided in the
HIennen case.
It can serve no useful purpose to discuss the point how
far the decision in Gaines v. Hennen is res judicala, as to the
city of New Orleans and others in like position; for we shall
examine this case, as if the questions of fact, decided in the
former case, were still open questions to these defendants
and others, whose cases are now before the court. Nevertheless, it is proper to say, when this court, in a real contest,
has decided questions of fact on the most careful investigation, and after full argfiment by able counsel, it will be
presumed a correct conclusion was reached, and before a
decision thus rendered will be reversed, it must very clearly
appear that error was committed.
The legitimacy of Mrs. Gaines is the turning-point of this
controversy; for, since the probate of the will of 1813, if
legitimate, she cannot be deprived of the estate of her father
by any of the .defences interposed in this suit. These defendants claim, as a question of proof, from the record, that
she is an illegitimate child-adulterous bastard of Daniel
Clark-and cannot take the estate of her father, either as
heir or legatee, under the will of 1813. This court decided,
in the ilennen case, that by the law of Louisiana she was
entitled to a legal filiation as the child of jDaniel Clark and
Marie Julie (Zulime) Carriere, begotten in lawful wedlock.
Was that a mistaken judgment?
To this question we will. first direct our attention, con-

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

699

Opinion of the court.

sidering, afterwards, the objections made to a recovery by
her, even if her legal filiation is established. We shall not
attempt to give the history of the litigation, which, it is to
be hoped, will be closed by this decision; for the profession
is familiar with it by the repeated adjudications of this court.
It is enough to say it has been pursued by the complainant
through a third of a century, with a vigor and energy hardly
ever surpassed, in defiance of obstacles which would have
deterred persons of ordinary mind and character, and has
enlisted, on both sides, at difflrent periods, the ablest talent
of the American bar.
This case seems to have been defended on the idea,
that every presumption was against the legitimacy of Mrs.
Gaines, and the inclination of courts would be so to decide.
But, as she was declared legitimate by her father in his last
will and testament, common justice, not to speak of legal
rules, would require that such a declaration should only be
overborne by the strongest proof; and yet detached portions of evidence, scattered through the record here and
there, are invoked to destroy the dying declarations of an
intelligent man, that a-beloved child was capable of inheriting his property.
The influence of the probate of the will of 1813, in deciding the civil status of Mrs. Gaines, cannot be over-estimated.
Without the evidence which it furnishes, her legitimacy
might be questioned; but with it, in connection with the
other evidence in the record, it is hard to see how it can
longer be doubted. The circumstances under which this
will Wvas recognized are peculiar, and entitle the court which
pronounced it valid to the tribute of our admiration. It was
proved by the memory of witnesses, forty-three years after
it was made, in the height of the litigation instituted by Mrs.
Gaines to obtain possession of her father's estate; but, not.
withstanding the effect of the probate of it was to recall the
will of 1811, and endanger titles acquired under it, so strong
was the proof of its authenticity, and so complete the evidence of its contents, that a court, administering justice in
the midst of a people claiming rights hostile to it, did not

GAINES v. NEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

hesitate to order it to be recorded and executed as the last
will and testament of Daniel Clark.
This will, thus allowed to go to probate, contains the following clause: "I do hereby acknowledge that my beloved
Myra, who is now living in the family of Samuel B. Davis,
is my legitimate and only daughter; and that I leave and
bequeath unto her, the said Myra, all the estate, whether
real or personal, of which I may die possessed, subject only
to the payment of certain legacies hereinafter named." The
will was made only a short time before the testator died,
and is to be taken as his dying testimony that he believed
the declarations in it to be true. And no one can read
the evidence on which it was established, especially the
evidence of Harriet Harper, Boisfontaine, and Bellechasse,
without being convinced of the unbounded affection of
Daniel Clark for his child, his sensibility as to her being
declared legitimate, his pride in the position she would occupy as heir to his large estate, and his belief that he had
secured the estate to her. Nearly his last words were about
this child, and the necessity of taking care of the will on
her account.
The inquiry naturally arises, what motive had he to declare his child legitimate if he knew the fact were otherwise? He was a man of superior intelligence, and long
residence in Louisiana, and necessarily knew by the laws of
the State he could secure to his child enough of his large
property to make her. rich, if she were illegitimate. Is it
conceivable that such a man would risk a declaration of
legitimacy, which he knew to be false, and thus jeopard the
estate, which lie insisted with so much confidence lie had
secured to his child, and in the security of which he said "he
would die contented?"
It is argued that the conduct and letters of Clark, foik years
before this, are inconsistent with the idea of Myra's legitima 6 y. Conceding this is so, and yet it in nowise disproves
the good faith and sincerity of Clark when he made his will.
The conduct of Clark is susceptible of easy explanation.
Ie bad contracted an unfortunate marriage, and, in many

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES

v. NTEw

ORLEANS.

Opinion of the court.

respects, a disreputable one, having married a person with
whom he had previously lived improperly, who, without a
divorce, had married again. Possessed of commanding influence and high position, and mingling in social intercourse
with the best society of the country, it was natural, while
in strong health and the full tide of prosperity, he should be
desirous of concealing such a marriage; but when sickness
overtook him, and he necessarily reviewed his past life, it
was just as natural he should wish to repair the consequences
of his folly (to use no harsher term) by a deliberate acknowledgment that the child born of that marriage was legitimate, and could, therefore, inherit his estate. lRe was intelligent enough fo know that, if he died without giving his
child the status to which she was entitled, she would in all
probability pass through life with a stain upon her birth,
and be unable to enjoy his property, for he had taken uncommon pains to conceal his marriage.
The difficulty of acknowledging the marriage to Zulime
was greatly increased by her subsequent marriage to Gardette. Clark could not acknowledge it to the world without
injuring her, which no righininded man under the circum..
stances would wish to do. According to the testimony of
Baron Boisfontaine, Clark considered her blameless, and
would have made his marriage with her public if it had not
been for the obstacle interposed by the Gardette marriage.
It is easy to see the struggle in the mind of Clark on this
subject. lie had sustained improper relations with a woman
of uncommon personal attractions, to whom he was passion-.

ately attached. This woman he afterwards married, and
lived with in secret for several years. Estrangement took
place, and he separated from her. She had repaired to Philadelphia to psocure evidence of her marriage; but being
unable to get it, and-advised of its invalidity, had married
another man with whom she was quietly living. Two children were the result of the intercourse between them- one
born before and the other after marriage-the latter the
legitimate heir of the father, if he married the mother, believing in good faith she was capable of contracting mar-

GAINES V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot,

Opinion of the court.

riage. To acknowledge a marriage with such surroundings
was to lose social caste, and put in peril a woman whom he
,once loved and 'till professed to respect. Not to acknowledge it was to bastardize a child for whom he had great
affection, and to see a large part of his estate go to others,
who had no claims on his bounty. There were thus presented to his mind conflicting motives. Duty to himself
and society, and affection for his child, prompted him to
proclaim his marriage, while pride, the fear of social degradation, and the natural desire not to inflict additional injury
upon Zulime, impelled him to a contrary course. That he
yielded to the influence of unworthy motives, and lived for
years a life of deception, only proves that his baser nature
during that time got the control, and that lie acted as other
men in similar circumstances have acted before him. But,
before he died, the better nature of this man of lofty pride
and sensitive honor was aroused and gained the ascendency.
ie atoned in some measure for the errors of his past life;
for he not only made a public acknowledgment, in the last
solemn act of his life, that his child was legitimate, but a
short time previous to his death frequently repeated the
declaration to Mrs. Harper, who had nursed the child in
infancy, and to Boisfontaine, who managed his plantations,
and was with him when he died.
Testimony like this outweighs the evidence furnished by
the conduct of Clark, when, governed by bad influences, he
was even willing to leave a stain of dishonor on the birth
of his child, rather than make known a marriage which
would tend to degrade him in the estimation of his friends
and the public. If the evidence of Mrs. Harper and Boisfontaine is true (and who can doubt it since the action of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana?), it confirms the declarations of the will, and shows a willingness, nay, more, an
anxiety on the part of Clark to talk about a subject the
nearest his heart, and one which of necessity must have
awakened his conscience. To whom would he be so likely
to communicate the information that Myra was born in lawful wedlock as to the woman who nursed her and the man

7

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the court.

who remained with him, at his request, during his sickness,
and until he died?
But the will itself, in another clause, furnishes corroborating evidence of Mrs. Gaines's legitimacy. A legacy of five
thousand dollars is left to Caroline Des Granges, with a suitable annuity until her majority. The person thus designated was the natural child of Clark by Zulime, and yet he
avoids calling her his child, gives her the name of the ostensible husband of her mother at the time of her kitth, and
recognizes Myra as his legitimate and only daughter. Many
reasons may have influenced Clark to pursue this course.
Delicacy to the mother may have induced him to reveal no
more than was necessary to accomplish his purpose; or an
unwillingness, by his will, to affix a brand of reproach on
this child, who was lawfully entitled to bear the name of
Des Granges, may have been the motive; or a wish that
MIyra, the object of his greater affections and superior bounty,
might never know the wickedness of his life, may have
prompted his course. It is not necessary to inquire whether
these considerations, singly or together, constituted the
reasons for the peculiar wording of the legacy. It is enough
to know from the legacy that Clark had both children in his
mind when he drew his will. If so, and he knew both were
illegitimate, why discriminate so largely in favor of one and
against the other? No answer can be given to this question
on the assumption he knew the birth of both to be dishonorable; but it is easily answered, if one was legitimate and the
other not, for it is the experience of the world (and it is well
it is so) that every person owning property desires his legitimate children to have the greater share of it.
The attempt to impeach the validity of this will shows the
importance attached to it by the defence in determining the
issue we are now considering. But the will cannot be attacked here. When a will is duly probated by a State court
of competent jurisdiction, that probate is conclusive of the
validity and contents of the will in this court.
But why, if the will is invalid, has the probate of it rested
for twelve years unrecalled, when express liberty was given

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by the Supreme Court of Louisiana for any one interested
to contest it in a direct action with complainant? If, with
this clear indication of the proper course to be pursued, the
probate of the will still remains unrevoked, the reasonable
conclusion is, the will itself could not be successfully attacked.
Be this as it may, while unrevoked it is the law of this case,
and so this court held in Gaines v. .lennez.
But it is said the probate of the will in dispute cannot
stand, because there was no direct action by the Louisiana
court annulling the probate of the will of 1811. This was
not necessary. The probate of the will of 1813, by the mere
fact of its probate, necessarily annulled the will of 1811, so
far as its provisions were inconsistent, and so far as the estate
was not legally administered under it. And this precise
point was decided in the Iennen case.
We will proceed now to consider the question of actual
marriage, and whether Clark, in good faith, contracted it.
Madame Sophie Despau swears to the solemnization of a
marriage between Clark and Zulime, by a Catholic priest,
in Philadelphia, in 1802 or 1803. If this witness is to be
believed there is an end of the case, for no amount of negative testimony that Clark could not have made the marriage
will weigh down the testimony of an unimpeached witness,
who was present and witnessed the ceremony. But why
does she not tell the truth ? Is it because she was the sister
of Zulime? Who so likely to be present at a private marriage, designed to be concealed from the world, as a near
relative of one of the parties? Clark knew he was contracting a marriage which would lessen his standing in society,
and might not want any very dear friend or relative present.
Not so with Zulime. She was marrying a man of rank and
position, with whom she had lived in unlawful intimacy, and
what so natural that she should take with .her to Philadelphia, as a witness of her happiness, the same sister who had
witnessed her previous disgrace when Caroline was born.
Is she not to be believed because she speaks of Caroline as
one of the children born of the marriage of her sister with
Des Granges, when she must have known she was the child

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES

v.

NEW ORLEANS.

705

Opinion of the court.

of Clark? It is doubtless true she knew Clark to be the real
father of the child; but she certainly did not falsify in stating
Caroline was born of the Des Granges marriage. This was
true, and yet Clark had seduced the wife and was the father
of the child. But is she to be condemned and her evidence
discarded because she does not disclose the frailties of her
sister, and instead of answering plainly that Caroline was
the child of Clark, speaks of her as born of the marriage
with Des Granges? Des Granges was, in the eye of the law,
the father, though Clark was, in.fact, the father; and although Madame Despau knew the real parentage of Caroline, we cannot say she did not believe she was answering
properly the cross-interrogatories propounded to her. At
any rate, we cannot say her testimony in this regard casts
suspicion on the evidence given to establish the marriage.
We concede something to the infirmity of human nature.
This aged witness, testifying forty-six years after events
which must have indelibly fixed themselves on her memory,
and when concealment of anything, no matter how unpleasant, would do harm rather than good, still shows pride
of family, and studiously avoids the condemnation of her
unfortunate sister, for she can speak of her sufferings, but
not of her frailties. All this may prove weakness of character, but does not tend to prove she told a falsehood when
she testified to the marriage of Clark and Zulime. But she
is corroborated by Madame Rose Caillavet, an elder sister,
who was eighty-three years of age in March, 1849, when her
deposition in this cause was taken. She testifies the marriage was arranged in New Orleans; that Zulime wrote to

her from Philadelphia that it had taken place; that Clark
afterwards acknowledged it, and frequently stated that Myra
was his lawful and only child. There is nothing in this
record worthy of notice to impeach this testimony. It was
given by one whose life was nearly ended,'and who could
have no motive, as far as we can see, to tell an untruth.
Like Sophie Despau, she was the sister of Zulime, and,
equally anxious to vindicate her good name, but this fur
nishes no good reason to discredit her.
•oL. VT.

45

706

GAINES V. NET ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In support, then, of the issue that there was a marriage
between the father and mother of complainant, we have the
testamentary disposition of the father; his declarations at
the time of his death, and shortly before' it, to Mrs. Harper
and Boisfontaine, that Myra was legitimate; similar declarations at other times to Madame Caillavet, with an acknowledgment to her of the marriage; and, superadded to all this,
the evidence of Madame Despau that the marriage ceremony
took place in her presence; with the admission of Clark to
Boisfontaine that he would have made it public but for the
subsequent conduct of Zulime in marrying Gardette.
To disprove the fact of marriage, the evidence is of a
negative character and wholly inferential. Concede it is
true that Clark behaved so as to cause his most intimate
friends to disbelieve the fact of marriage; that he held himself out to the world as a single man, and by public repute,
after the time of the alleged marriage, lived with Zulime,
ostensiby not as his wife, still the case of the complainant is
not weakened. It was the fixed purpose of Clark to conceal
this marriage, as is clearly sh.own by the evidence; and a man
of his mental resources would be likely to use every means
calculated to accomplish his purpose; and these things, instead of proving the marriage did not occur, only prove how
effectually it was concealed.
But it is argued with earnestness and ability there was no
marriage, because those who knew Clark intimately swear
to their belief that one of his proud nature would never marry
a person with whom he had previously lived unlawfully.
Opinions of witnesses on such a point can have no weight in
determining the issue we are trying. Men of equal position
and equal pride with Clark have married those with whom
they were living unlawfully, and why should not Clark do
the same thing? No good reason can be given why he
should not act in a matter of this kind as other men, just as
sensitive and proud, have acted before him. If he seduced
Zulime and could lawfully marry hr, it was his duty to do
it; an7 can we say he was too proud to marry her, and
thereby repair the wrongs she suffered at his hands 9 To

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. ]TEw ORLEANS.

707

Opinion of the court.

say so wou d be to reflect upon his memory more than is
necessary.
In denial of the marriage it is said, if Clark had not been
free to do so, he would never have written a letter, Stating
if he could secure the affections of Miss Caton he would
offer himself to her. This letter was written after his
estrangement from Zulime and separation from her, but
befbre her intermarriage with Gardette. It cannot be denied
the writihht of it was a base and inexcusable act, and in itself
affords an additional proof, if any were necessary, how easy
the descent, when a man, with a fixed purpose, is leading a
life of deceit. Clark, for years, had been imposing himself
on the world in a character different from his real one, and
when his affections were weaned from Zulime he attempted
to do what, if he had succeeded in doing, would have blackened his memory forever. iBut fortunately, before he died,
his line of conduct was changed. - Affection for his child and
uncertain health, doubtless subdued him, and induced him
to disclose what, as an honorable and honest man, he should
never have wished to conceal. In resolving the issue of
marriage or no marriage, the effect of this letter is unimportant when opposed to the direct testimony that there was
a marriage, on which we have offered sufficient comments.
Without pursuing the subject further, it is our conclusion
from the whole record, as a matter of fact, that the father
and mother of complainant were married.
Did Clark contract that marriage in good faith? If this
inquiry can be answered in the affirmative, the legitimacy
of Mrs. Gaines is no longer an open question. The fact of
marriage being proved, the presumptions of law are all in
favor ofrgood Thith. To disprove the good faith in this case
there should be full proof to the contrary, and the law will
not be satisfied with semi-plena probalio."* Chief Justice
Martin, in Clendenm ing v. Clendennig,t in discussing the
question of the extent of the proof required to overturn the
presumption of good faith, says, "the proof must be irre* Gaines v. Hennen, 24 Hey.ird, 591.

f3 Martin, N. S., 442.

GAINES V. NTEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

fragable." Testing this case by these rules, the question is
of easy solution. Zulime, when quite young, was married
in New Orleans to Jerome Des Granges, from whom she was
not divorced at the time of her marriage with Clark. It is
in evidence that Clark was a single man; and the inquiry
therefore is, did he believe Zulime had the capacity of contracting marriage with him? If in good faith he believed
she was free to marry him on account of the invalidity of
her marriage with Des Granges, and with a bonafide belief
of this did marry her, then, by the laws of Louisiana, such
a marriage has its civil effects, and the child born of it is
legitimate, and can inherit her father's estate.
We do not propose to discuss the question, whether Des
Granges was or was not guilty of bigamy in marrying Zulime? That he was accused of it is very clear, and that
there is evidence-in the record tending to show it was true,
is equally clear; but where the weight of the testimonyl eaves,
the point in dispute, the purposes of this suit do not require
us to decide.
Clark had been criminally intimate with Zulime before
his marriage, and on one occasion sent her, secretly, to
Philadelphia, where she gave birth to a child, of which he
acknowledged himself to Daniel W. Coxe as the father.
Whether these improper relations wvere continued after the
return of Zulime to New Orleans we are not informed by
the record; but, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the
fair presumption would be they were. It is asked why Clark
should marry her if he could live with her without it? The
natural answer would be, he loved bet and wished to terminate the existing disreputable connection; for we have no
right, unless there is clear proof it is so, to ascribe a bad
motive for a good act. It may be Zulime was unwilling
longer to continue the connection, and Clark, rather than
part with her, married her. But whatever were the controlling motives with the parties, there was nothing to induce
Clark to enter into a marriage contract, unless be thought
he had a right t)do it. He was a man of high intelligence,

and knew what eve"y man of ordinary intelligence knows,

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. INiw ORLEANS.

709

Opinion of the court.

that he subjected himself to a criminal prosecution and
absolute disgrace, if he married a woman who was lawfully
the wife of another. Is it to be supposed for a momentconsidering the political and social position he occupied,
on which so much stress is laid by the defence-that he
would expose himself knowingly to the penalties provided
everywhere against the crime of bigamy? Clearly not.
From the very nature of the case, Clark must have believed he had a right to marry Zulime. But we are not
without testimony to prove his good faith. Madame Despau
swears it became known in New Orleans thatDes Granges had
another wife, who was living when he married Zulime, and
upon this she separated from him and returned to her family.
It was then arranged that Clark should marry her; but before
doing so, it was thought best to procure record evidence of
the first marriage of Des Granges, which was said to have
taken place in New York. For this purpose she went to
New York in company with Zulime, but found the registry
of marriages of which she was in search was destroyed.
Failing in their object they repaired to Philadelphia, where
it was appointed Clark should meet them, and while there
Gardette told them he was a witness-to the marriage of Des
Granges in New York, and the wife was then living in
France. Upon this communication Clark said to Zulime,
"You have no longer any reason to refuse to marry me ;"
to which she assented, and the marriage was solemnized.
If this testimony is true, and we have said in a previous part
of this opinion there is nothing to discredit this witness, then
the good faith of Clark in contracting marriage with Zulime
is established. And who can doubt Zulime was in equal
good faith? But the determination of that point is not es-

sential in settling the rights of the complainant in this suit.
No better evidence could be furnished Clark of the invalidity
of Zulime's prior marriage, and her right to marry againshort of a pronounced divorce by a decree of court-than
the testimony of a witness who was present at the marriage
in New York, and who knew the woman to whom Des
Grange.3 was there united was living in France. The regis-

GAINES V. I EW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

try of marriages, if in existence, would only have proved
Des Granges had been married before he married Zulime,
but would have failed to prove whether the wife of the first
marriage was living or dead.
But Madame Despau also testifies that Des Granges ad
mitted his crime, and it is fair to presume, although her
testimony is silent on the point, she communicated this admission to Clark. The fact that Des Granges was charged
with bigamy was known to Clark, and it is reasonable to
suppose, while in NTew Orleans, he had informed himself of
the evidence to sustain it; and if he had an interview with
Madame Benguerel he must have been convinced of it, for
she testifies she and her husband were intimate with Des
Granges, who, when charged with his baseness, admitted it,
but excused his conduct on the ground that he had abandoned his first wife, and never intended to see her again.
But whether Clark saw Madame Benguerel or not, lie could
not have failed, before he leftNew Orleans, to collect all the
evidence in his power on this subject, and his mind was,
tberefore, well prepared to receive the evidence of the bigamy of Des Granges, and of Zulime's right to marry him,
which Gardette furnished.
The testimony of Madame Despau is fortified, in many
important particulars, by that of Madame Caillavet. If,
however, the evidence we have been considering falls short
of proving the good faith of Clark in contractilg marriage
with Zulime, the testamentary recognition by him that the
issue of the marriage was legitimate relieves the question
of all doubt. The child could not be legitimate unless the
father married the mother in the full belief he had a lawful
right to do so, and this a man of the intelligence of Clark
could not help knowing. The disposition of property to
take effect after death is one of the most solemn acts in the
life of a man, and in itself is the highest evidence of good
faith. The influence of the will of 1813 in settling the question of good faith is so far conclusive, that to overturn it
there must be full proof to the contrary. There is no
such proof in the record. What there is relates to the in-

Dec. 1867 ]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

711

Opinion of the court.

711

consistencies in the conduct of Clark on which we have
commented, and which it is unnecessary here to repeat.
We find, therefore, as a farther fact in this case, that Daniel
Clark contracted marriage with Zulime Carriere in good
faith. As Clark was in good faith when he married the
mother of the complainant, it follows that she can take the
estate under the olographic will of 1818.
It is conceded. the property in dispute, and which the defendants admit they were in possession of, is a part of the
estate of Daniel Clark left at his decease, and devised to
complainant in his last will. She is, therefore, entitled to
the relief sought by her bill, unless prevented by some of
the special defences interposed, which we will now proceed
to notice.
It is claimed as a question of law, that the decree of this
court in Gaines v. Bef,* is resjudicataboth as to the present
claim for the property and the civil status of the complainant;'
but this precise point was met and disposed of adversely in
the Hen nen case, and will not be further considered.
Two defences have been prominent throughout this litigation, and as they are both applicable to some of the cases
now before the court, and as one opinion will in fact dispose
of all the cases, we will consider in this case all substantial
defences to the recovery by Mrs. Gaines of her fither's
estate.
In bar of the claim of the complainant, titles acquired
under Ielf and Chew, as executors of the will of 1811, are
set up. But these titles cannot avail the defendants, because
Relf and Chew, as executors of the will of 1S11, had no
authority to make the sales, and could, therefore, pass no
interest to the purchasers. There is no question in this
record of the effect- of the probate of the will of 1811, while
unrevoked, upon property legally sold by the executors;
because the very foundation of the bill in this case is, that
there was no legal sale of the property. In Louisiana by
* 12 Howard, 472.

GAINES V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the law in force when these sales were made, the power of
executors to make sales without the order of court terminated at the end of a year from their appointment. This is
not only clear from the law itself, but also from the judicial
decisions of the State. Chief Justice Martin, in Donaldson
v. ilul, says, a sale by executors, without an-order of court,
and by private contract, is void; and to the same effect is
the case of Lanfear v. .Harper.t The defendants having
failed to prove that any order of court was ever given to
make these sales, they are nullities, and confer no titles.
And this is the decision in Patersonv. Gaines,J which is reaffirmed in Gaines v. lHennen.§ It is useless to discuss the
point further, as we "see no reason to question the correctness of the conclusion at which the court arrived in those
cases.
It is insisted the defendants are protected by reason of conveyances from Relf and Chew, as attorneys of Mary Clark,
the universal legatee under the provisions of the will of 1811.
The invalidity of this defence has been also sustained by this
court in the cases just referred to. But evedi if the power of
attorney, on which these conveyances were predicated, was
not defective, and the other proceedings were regular, still,
by the law of Louisiana and the decision of her highest
court, Mary Clark, as sole instituted heir, could give no title
as against the real and paramount heir. The effect of the
probate of the will of 1813, if Myra Clark Gaines is legitimate, and that we have found to be true, is to make her sole
heir of Daniel Clark, and, as a consequence, Mary Clark
could in law have no title as heir, and could convey none.
Although French jurists have differed on this subject, the
question is set at rest by the decision of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, in Bipoll v. Mlorina.I Sebastian Ripoll died, in
1836, in New Orleans, and left by will a lafge estate to Teresa
Morina, his universal legatee, who was, also, his natural
daughter. She was put in possession of the estate by the
* Martin, N. S., 113.

6 Howard, 550.

t 13 Louisiana Annual, 548.
1112 Robinson, 560.
24 Id. 553.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

713

Opinion of the court.

judgment of the Probate Court as testamentary heir. The
will was contested by two sisters of Ripoll, who represented
they were the only heirs of their brother; but long before
the contest commenced, and while Teresa was the apparent
heir, and in the undisturbed enjoyment of the property, she
sold part of the real estate at its full value to bond fide purchasers. One of the questions in the case was, whether
those who purchased property from the apparent heir or
universal legatee, in possession of the estate as such heir or
legatee, could defend against the claim of the legal and actual
heir, and the court decided they could not. In discussing the
question they say: "Our code, art. 2427, declares that the
sale of a thing belonging to another is null," and that the

purchasers of the property in dispute can, under no circumstances, acquire any greater right or any better title to it
than their vendor bad. As to the defence of good faith, the
court decide, "that all the law has done in favor of a purchaser in good faith is to give. him the benefit of the limitation by prescription, though the property so purchased may
belong to another person," and refer in support of their position to the Civil Code, arts. 3442, 8450, 8451. That case is
decisive of this on the point we are considering, and goes
further than the necessities of this case require, because
Mary Clark was never recognized by the Probate Court as
heir, or put in possession of the property.
It is argued with earnestness that the estate of Daniel
Clark was insolvent, and the real heir cannot have it until
the debts and legacies are paid. If this defence were true in
fact, which it is not (but we do not care to discuss the evidence
in order to show it), it cannot avail these defendants. They
are concerned to show a better title than the complainant,
and if they cannot do it, are not at liberty to make a collateral issue by proving the estate in debt more or less. If the
executors rightfully sold the property in controversy they
are protected; but they cannot substitute themselves for the
creditors of the estate, and use them as a means to get pro.
tection.

GAINES v.

.TEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

A kindred defence to this is, that the Probate Court of
New Orleans, in 1841, duly approved of the sales made by
:Reif and Chew as executors, and that this homologation is
binding upon the complainant. This court in the Henne;i
case said, "We do not think the accounts of Relf and Chew
are put in issue by the bill of complainant, or the answer of
the defendants, particularly as Relf and Chew are not parties
to this proceeding."
But the objection to this defence lies deeper than this; for
if it were true the accounts were duly homologated, these
defendants are not benefited by it, because the Probate Court
could not by a subsequent order give validity to sales made
by executors, which were null and void by the law of the
State when they were made. It is, however, not true that the
executors' accounts were duly homologated, as the court, in
its order of confirmation, say, "they are confirmed in all respects in which they are not opposed." As the opposition
of Mrs. Gaines (more interested in the matter than any other
person) has never been withdrawn, but is still active, the
question is an open one in the Court of Probate.
Although the legal title to the property in dispute was in
Daniel Clark at the time of his death, yet it is said there is
an outstanding equitable title in Relf and Chew to two-thirds
of it, by virtue of a partniership agreement between them and
Clark, of the date of 19th of June, 1813, which will defeat,
pro tato, the recovery the complainant seeks to obtain by
her bill.
This defence is provocative of more comments than we
have time to make, or the necessities of this suit require us
to make. It is extraordinary, if the agreement relied on was
a valid and executed contract at the time of Clark's death,
those interested to know it should have remained in ignorance of it for a period of twenty-five years. During this
long time it is equally concealed from creditors, purchasers
of property, and the Court of Probate. Why was no title
asserted under it when the estate was inventoried? Why
were not creditors informed of it, who were interested to

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. N EW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the court.

know the extent of the estate to which they had to look for
the payment of their debts? Ante rnotam litem, nothing is
heard of it; but when Mrs. Gaines attempts to "unkennel"
the fraud by which she was deprived of her just rights, it
sees the light. If Relf and Chew were the real owners of
two-thirds of every piece of property which they sold, why
not recite the fact of joint ownership in the conveyances
which they made? Why sell all the property either as executors of the will of 1811, or as attorneys of Mary Clark?
No satisfactory answers can be given to these questions, or
reasonable explanation to the conduct of Relf and Chew, on
the theory that the agreement thus attempted to be set up to
defeat this suit was a completed contract when Clark died.
If,however, it was, and there is an outstanding equitable
title in Chew and :Relf to the property in litigation, the defendants cannot plead the fact in bar of the right of complainaut to recover. The defendants, equally with the complainant, claim title from the same common source. This
is clear from the pleadings and proof. If, therefore, both
parties claim title from the same person, neither is at liberty
to deny that such person had title. On this point the Louisiana authorities are uniform.* The rule is the same in equity
as at law, and is well stated in Garrettv. Lyle.t The court
in that case say: "We do not deny in equity as well as at
law the plaintiff must recover upon the strength of his own
title; but because this is the rule it does not follow he must
show a good title against all the world; it is enough that he
shows a right to recover against the defendants. And there
are many cases in which he has this right, although another
person must recover it from him."
The defendants, as a further defence to this action, say
they are purchasers in good faith for value without notice,
or have acquired titles from those who were, and will, there.
Crane v. Marshall, I Martin (N. S.), 678; Bedford v. Urquhart, 8 Loui6iana, 239; Cobton v. Stacker, 5 Louisiana Annual, 677; Girault v. Zuntz,
15 Id. 686.
1 27 Alabata, 689.

GAINEs v. NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. (3t.

Opinion of the court.

fore, be protected by a court of equity. We cannot see, in
view of the discussion already given to this case, how this
plea can be true; but as it cannot avail the defendants if
true, it is unnecessary to discuss the evidence further in
order to ascertain whether it is true or false. For the question at issue in this case is only on the legal title. The complainant insists she has that title, and if so, her right to
enforce it is very clear. On the contrary, the defenidants,
conceding that Daniel Clark, the fither of complainant, had
the title when he died, say it has been divested by sales
made under the will of 1811, either by the executors or
Mary Clark, the instituted heir, and that they now hold it.
In deciding the issue thus presented, the defence, that
although the sales were irregular, those who bought the
property did it in good faith and without notice, and are
protected, cannot avail the defendants unless accompanied
by the plea of prescription. As we have said in a previous
part of this opinion, all that the law of Louisiana has done
to protect one who has bought property in good faith, although it shall turn out the property belongs to another
person, is to give him the benefit of the bar of time prescribed by the code.* If the complainant was endeavoring
to establish an equitable title, this court, if it saw proper to
do so, could refuse to her the use of the peculiar powers of
a court of chancery in aiding to establish it against the purchaser of the legal estate who had acquired it fairly and
honestly. As she is not doing this, but is contesting her
right to the legal estate, we cannot see how either in a court
of law or equity she can lose that right because the defendants have purchased in good faith what they supposed was
the legal title.
This brings us to the only remaining defence which we
shall notice, and that is the bar by prescription. In this
connection the question of good faith is always important.
The law in its liberality so far protects every honest and fair
buyer of real estate, that it limits the time in which actions
* Repoli v. Morena, 12 Robinson, 560.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the court.

shall be brought against him to oust him of his possession.
But the title of complainant is not barred by prescription
according to the law of Louisiana. This defence was made
in the case of Gaines v. Hennen, so often referred to, and disposed of adversely to the defendanf, and is no longer an open
question in this court. The prescription relied upon by the
defendants, in this case, is the same that was relied upon
by the defendant in that, and as the proofs are common to
both, it follows, as the plea of prescription was not available
in the one, it is not in the other.
Courts, in the administration of justice, have rarely had
to deal with a case of greater hardship, or more interesting
character and history, than the one we are now considering.
Daniel Clark, a prominent citizen of Louisiana in its early
history, died in New Orleans in 1818, leaving by will his
large estate to the complainant, then a chi'd of tender years,
who has never enjoyed it, but is now, after the lapse of fiftyfive years from the death of her father, struggling to get it.
Clark wrote;this will with his own hand; lodged it as he
supposed in a safe place, to be confided to one of his executors, who was also the selected tutor for his child; explained its contents, and expressed his solicitude about it to
several friends, and died in the belief he had secured to his
child his estate; and yet, after his death, the will cannot be
found, and no reasonable mind, from the evidence in the
case, can doubt that it was purloined and destroyed. Another
will, written two years before, with different disposition of
property, is allowed to go to probate, unchallenged by the
friends of Daniel Clark, in place of the one thus destroyed,
and the estate is administered under it for a period of twentyfive years, without account of administration rendered to the
Court of Probate. In the meantime, the complainant remained where she was placed by her father, in t.he family
of Samuel B. Davis, until she was married. Davis, as he
swears, maintained and educated her at his expense. When
he left New Orleans for the North, with the child, about a
yoar before the death of Clark, he retained in his hands, at

GAINES V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the instance of Clark, twenty-three hundred and sixty dollars
(for which he gave his note), the interest of which was to go
towards the education of the daughter. This sum of money,
small as it was, was withdrawn from him by proceedings
instituted against him by the executors shortly after Clark's
death, hnd the child lost the use of it, although these executors, intimate friends and partners in business with Daniel
Clark, must have known that Clark was the father of the
child, and must also have known her necessities.
To the discredit of the friends of Daniel Clark, this child
grew to womanhood in utter ignorance of her rights and
parentage, and did not ascertain them until 1834 (then not
fully); since which time she has been endeavoring to obtain
her rightful inheritance. Owing to the lapse of time, it was
difficult to reach the truth, and, necessarily for many years,
she groped her way in darkness; but finally she was able to
show the great fraud perpetrated against her; for, in the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, she established the validity of that very -will, which, forty-three years
before, her father had executed in her favor. This action
of that court settled what was before doubtful-her civil
status-and removed the difficulty she had formerly encountered in pursuit of her rights. The questions of law
and fact applicable to those rights were determined in the
case of Gaines v. Jiennen. After argument by able counsel,
and on mature consideration, we have reaffirmed that decision. Can we not indulge the hope that the rights of
Myra Clark Gaines in the estate of her father, Daniel Clark,
will Vow be recognized?

The decree of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana is REVERSED, and this cause is remanded to that
court, with instructions to enter a decree for complainant
IN CONFOXMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

GRIER, SWAYNE, and MILLER, JJ., dissented.

Dec. 1867.]

GAINES V. DE LA ORIX.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case of Gaines v.
Orleans, was decided another appeal in equity, from the
same circuit with it, and depending in the main upon the
same issues; the difference between the two cases being, that
in the last case the controversy concerned the sale of slaves
belonging to the succession of Clark, while in Gaines v.
New Orleans it related to real estate. The case just named
must be read in order to understand the one now reported,
of an adjectitious character.

Nye

GAINES V.

DE

LA CROIX.

1. As the law stood in Louisiana, in October, 1813, testamentary executors
could only sell at public auction after due advertisement of the property;
and the purchaser at a forced sale did not acquire a good title, unless
the formalities prescribed by law for the alienation of property were
observed.
2. A purchaser of property from an executor of a will of one date, who has
at the time strong reasons to believe, and had recently declared solemnly
that he did believe that a later will with different executors and different dispositions of property had been made, is not protected from liability to the parties interested under such later will, if established and
received to probate, by the fact that the executor of the first will made
the sale under order of court having jurisdiction of such things. He purchases at the risk of the later will's being found, or proved and established.
3. If the later will is found, it relates back as against such a purchaser, and
affects him with notice of its existence and contents as of the time when
he purchased.
4. Facts stated which affect such a purchaser with notice.

As we have mentioned in the preceding case, Daniel Clark
died on the 16th day of August, 1813, and his last will not being
fbund, letters testamentary on the will of 1811 were granted to
Richard Relf, who remained sole executor until 21st of January,
1814, when Beverly Chew was included in the trust. Do la
Croix made two purchases of slaves of Reif while thus acting as
sole executor. The first purchase was on the 16th of October,
1813. and the last on the 11th of December, 1813

