DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1867.

MAURAN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
1. A taking of a vessel by the naval forces of a now extinct rebellious confederation, whose authority was unlawful and whose proceedings in overthrowing the former government were wholly illegal and void, and
which confederation has never been recognized as one of the family of
nations, is a "1capture" within the meaning of a warranty on a policy
of insurance having a marginal warranty Itfree from loss or expense by
capture,"-if such rebellious confederation was at the time sufficiently
in possession of the attributes of government to be regarded as in fact
the ruling or supreme power of the country over which its pretended
jurisdiction extended.
2 Accordingly, a seizure by a vessel of the late so-called Confederate States
of America, for their benefit, was a capture within the terms of such a
warranty.

to the Circuit Court for Massachusetts.
Mauran brought suit in that court against the Alliance
Insurance Company on a policy of insurance upon the ship
Marshall for one year from the 29th November, 1860, covering the sum of $8000. The insurance, as stipulated in the
body of the policy, was "against the adventures and perils
of the seas, fire, enemies, pirates, assailing thieves, restraints,
and detainments of all kings, princes, or people of what
nation or quality soever."
In the margin of the policy was the following:
ERROR

"Warranted by the assured free from lQss or expense arising
frin capture, seizuro, or detention, or the consequences of any
VOL. VI.

1

(1

)

MAURAN V.

INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insured.

attempt thereat, any stipulations in this policy to the contlrary
notwithstanding."
The vessel was seized on the afternoon of the 17th of
May, 1861, two or three miles inside of the bar at the mouth
of the Mississippi River, on her way up to New Orleans, by
the officers and crew of the steamer Music, belonging to the
so-called Confederate States. Some persons on board the
steamer at the time of the seizure, hoisted the Confederate
flag to the mast-head of the Marshall, and informed the captain and pilot that the ship was "a prize to the Confederate
States." Verdict and judgment having been given in favor
of the insurance company, the question here on error was,
whether this taking of the vessel by the naval forces of the
so-called Confederate States was a capture within the warranty of the assured in the margin of the policy? If it was,
then the loss was not one of the perils insured against, and
the judgment below was right.
Air. Cushing (who submitted with his own, a learned brief of
JNessrs. B. H. Dana, Jr., and Horace Gray, Jr., in the ease of
anothervessel before the Supreme Court of 3Maine), for the plaintif
in error:
If this loss was by "assailing thieves" or "pirates," then
the insurers are bound to pay; for undoubtedly a taking by
assailing thieves or pirates does not operate to make in law
a "capture."
Rovers, thieves and pirates have always been
treated as ordinary perils of the sea. Chancellor Kent* lays
down the distinction in explicit terms:
"The enumerated perils of the sea, pirates, rovers, thieves, in.
elude the wrongful and violent acts of individuals, whether in
the open character of felons, or in the character of a mob, or as
a mutinous crew, or as plunderers of shipwrecked goods on
shore.... But the stipulation of indemnity against takings at
sea, arrests, restraints, and detainments of all kings, princes, and
people, refers only to the acts of government for government purposes, whether right or wrong."
* 3 Commentaries, 302, note d, 6th ed.

Dec.

1867.]

MAURAN

V. INSURANCE

CCMPANY.

Argument for the insured.

Other writers make the same classification.' "Taking by
pirates," says Mr. Dane,t "has none of the effects of legal
capture."
Now, can tlis court, a court of the United States, treat the
persons who made the seizure here otherwise than as pirates
or thieves ? The political department of the government, it
will be conceded, has never acknowledged the rebel confederation as a government de facto, any more than one de
jore. On the contrary, it is matter of common knowledge
that it has most scrupulously, and in every form, avoided
doing so. As to their captures of ships, it has actually treated
them as "pirates."
The Crimes Act of 17901 makes the taking of a vessel of
the United States by rebels an act of piracy. It says:
"If any citizen shall commit any piracy or robbery aforesaid,
or any act of hostility against the United States, or any citizen
thereof, upon the high seas, under color of any commission from
any foreign prince or state, or any pretence of authority from any
person, such offender shall, notwithstand'ing the pretence of any
such authority, be deemed, adjudged, and taken to be a pirate,
felon, and robber; and on being thereof convicted, shall suffer
death."
In Uited States v. Wiltberger,§ the court, obiter, says that
the sole object of this statute was to reach a citizen of the
United States who depredates on commerce of the United
States undercolorof aforeign commission. The word "foreign"
here includes, of course, any government other than the United
Slates, and especially a pretended government; and most
especially a, pretended government in rebellion against our
OWn.

The definition of piracy by the law of nations is this:
"Depredating on the seas, without being authorized by any
Nesbitt v. Lushington, 4 Term, 783; 2 Arnould on Insura:,ce, §§ *303,
305, 300; 1 Phillips on Insurance,
1106-1108; 2 Parsons' Maritime
Law, 236, 246.
"t 7 Abridgment, 92; and see 639 et se
$ 9, 1 Stat. at Large, 114.
5 Wheaton, 76.

4

MAURAN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the insured.

sovereign state, or with commissions from different sovereigns
at war with each other."*
Of course, looking to all the conditions of the rebellion,
cruising by rebels who are as yet unacknowledged by anybody,
even as a de facto government, would be cruising without
being authorized by any sovereign, and so would be piracy by
the law of nations.t
The proclamation of the.President of the United States ot
April 19, 1861,1 is explicit, as follows:
"And I hereby proclaim and declare, that if any person, under
the pretended authority of said (Confederate) States, or under
any other pretence, shall molest a vessel of the United States,
or the persons or cargo on board of her, such person will be
amenable to the laws of the United States for the prevention
and punishment of piracy."
This proclamation is fully justified by the section of the
Crimes Act heretofore cited. It was in force at the time of
the taking of the ship Marshall. Its applicability is recognized by successive acts of Congress,§ and it was obligatory
on every citizen of the United States; construing every contract made within the United States between citizens of the
same.
How then can this court, a depository of the judicial power
of the United States, recognize as a government of any kind,
a confederation whose representatives the political department proclaims to be pirates, and who, as in the case of
Smith, tried before GRIER, J.,11 have been tried and convicted as such.
In whatever light they may be to be looked on by the
courts of foreign powers, certainly all cruisers, under the flag
of whatever combination of persons, are, in all courts of the
United States, to be regarded as pirates by the law of nations,
*Lawrence's
Wheaton's Int. Law, 246, ed. 1863.
t United States v. Klintock, 5 Wheaton, 144.
: 12 Stat. at Large, 12, 58.
S4 ct of 24 July, 1861, I. 273; Act of 6 Aug., 1862, Id. 314.

113 Wallace, Jr., MS.

Dec. 1867.] MAURAN

V. iNSURANCE

COMPANY.

Argument for the insured.

unless such persons have been recognized by the Executive
as lawful belligerents, and so a de facto gbvernment. That
this is a true principle of law, this court decided on all the
questions arising out of the Spanish-American Revolution,
holding that if the captors represented a de facto authority
recognized by the .Executie of the United States, they were not
pirates by the law of nations,* but that if not so recognized
by the Executive, they were.t Indeed, on these public questions, courts must respect the acts of their own governments,
whether herein those acts be reasonable or unreasonable, or
even right or wrong. They cannot stultify their own countries.
So also is the law of Great Britain. In a debate on a
matter quite kindred to this one, Lord Chelmsford said :j
"If the Southern Confederacy had not been recognized by us
as a belligerent power, he agreed with his noble and learned
friend (Lord Brougham), that any Englishman aiding them by
fitting out a privateer against the Federal government would
be guilty of piracy."
The Lord Chancellor (Campbell) impliedly admitted this,
in saying that an Englishman entering the Confederate service could not be deemed a pirate after the publishing of
the Queen's proclamation recognizing the Southern States
as "entitled to the exercise of belligerent rights and carrying on what might be called a justui beliUm."
In accordance with these views is the case of Swinerton v.
Coltnbian Insu'rance Goimpany, in the Superior Court of New
York City. There a policy of insurance was made on a
schooner against the usual perils, including "pirates, rovers,
thieves," but "warranted free from loss or expense arising
from capture, seizure, or detention, or the consequences of
* United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheaton, 610, 634; The Divina Pastora, 4
Id. 52; Nuestra Senora de le Caridad, Id. 497; The Josefa Segunda, 5 Id.
388; Nueva Ana, 6 Id. 193; Santissima Trinidad, 7 Id. 337.
t United States v. Klintcek, 5 Wheaton, 144; United States v. Smith,
Id. 153.
Hansard, vol. 162, p. 2082.

MAURAN V. INSURANOE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the insurers.

any attempt thereat." The vessel was lying at Norfolk, for
repair, on the 21st of April, 1861, four days after the passage, by the State of Virginia, of her "secession ordinance,"
when a band of men came alongside of her with a steamboat, and professing to act by authority of the State of Virginia, without riot or tumult, towed her out into the channel,
and there sunk her. The Superior Court, at first at nisi
prius, and then in bane, held that the secession ordinance
could not be admitted in evidence for the defence; and that
the loss did not come within the exception, but was a loss
by pirates, rovers, and thieves. So also in point is the case,
before the Commercial Court, orHandelsgericht, of Bremen,*
of the Harvest, captured by the Shenandoah, a rebel cruiser;
where a similar decision was made, and supported by a
learned opinion. It will be strange if foreign courts pay a
respect to what is done by the political department of our
government which the courts of our own country do not.
Messrs. B. R. Curtis and Storrow, contra:
The policy uses the word "pirates" in that simple and ordinary sense, in which it now is, and immemorially has been,
known to the general commercial law of the civilized world;
and not to describe offenders against some municipal criminal law, of some particular country. The interpretation and
effect of policies belong to a system of law, existing before
the statute of 1790, or any of President Lincoln's proclaniations were made, and was not intended to be affected by
them. This system of law is not merely a branch, or division of municipal law, but belongs to, and is part of, the
common law of nations which defines piracy.t
Such instruments have no reference to the legality of
governments: they refer always to de facto authority of
kings, princes, and people; and an interpretation which
* Weser Weekly Zeitung, of January 12, 1867. A printed translation
was furnished by Mr. Cushing to the court.
t Warren v. The Man. Ins. Co., 13 Pickering, 518; Deshon v. The Mer.
Ins. Co., 11 Metcalf, 199; The Malek Adhel, 2 Howard, 232; The Antelope
10 Whepton, 122.

Dec. 1867.] MAUIRAN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

7

Argument for the insurers.

should make a risk depend on the legality of an actual
government, under whose authority the property had been
captured, seized, or detained, would be unprecedented and
dangerous.* Lemonniert cites a decision of the Tribunal
of Commerce, of Marseilles, that the revolted Colombians,
having attacked only Spaniards, and not all nations like
pirates, were to be considered a government.
No authority can be produced to show that a capture under
a commission issued by a regularly organized defacto government, engaged in open and actual war, to cruise against its
enemy, and against its enemy only, is piracy under the laws
of nations.
The authorities are the other way.1
The Executive government of the United States has, by
public proclamations and messages to Congress, and in other
appropriate public documents, recognized and affirmed a
condition of open and public war, existing between the
United States and a de facto government of the so-called
"Confederate States."§ And the United States cannot at
the same time insist that they have the belligerent rights
which by the law of nations belong to a sovereign waging
public war, and yet assert that there is no such public war
as is known to the law of nations. That it is a cirl war,
does not change the rule of the law of vations respecting those
,vho carry it on.I
Any capture or seizure, whether rightful or wrongful, and
t On Insurance, vol. 1, 251.
Nesbitt v. Lushington, 4 Term, 783.
: The Savannah, Warburton's Report, 865-374; United States v. Smith,
5 Wheaton, 153, and note; Same v. Pirates, Id. 196; The Malek Adhel, 2
Howard, 211; The Sealskins, 2 Paine, 383; United States v. Hanway, 2
"Wallace, Jr., 202; and see Mr. Burke's letter to Sheriffs of Bristol, vol. 2, p.
90, Little & Brown's edition of Burke's Works; Mr. Webster's Letter to
Mr. Fox, 6 Webster's Works, 256, 257.
The President's Proclamation of April 19, 1861 ; his Reply to the Virginia Commissioners (Moore's Rebellion Record, vol. i, p. 61); his Proclamation of April 27, 1861; his Message to Oongress, July 4, 1861; his
Proclamations of August 12, 1861, and of August 16, 1861.
I Vattel (Chitty's ed.), 424; Lawrence's Wheaton, 516, 522; Halleck's
International Law, 233, 343; Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheaton, 283; United
States v. Palmer, 3 Id. 610; Neustra Senora, 4 Id. 497.

8

MAuRAN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insurers.

whether made under a commission from a dejure, or defacto
government, or made by mere pirates, is equally within the
warranty in this case. Such is the interpretation of the
words "capture, seizure, and detention," by writers of
authority on Insurance,* and by courts also. The English cases of Powell v. Hyde,t and of Icleinworth v. Shephard,.
are in point. In the former case it was held by Lord Campbell, Coleridge and Wightman, JJ., that the loss of a British
vessel in the Danube by being fired upon by the Russians
(then at war with Turkey, but not with England), was within
the exception of " warrant free from capture and seizure,"
and in the second the terms were extended to a mutiny of
Coolie passengers.§
And the words capture and seizure are so often used by
correct writers and judges, and in legislation, to describe the
acts of pirates and of persons acting under de facto governments, as to manifest ajus et norma loquendi.
Finally. The very question now raised has been fully
argued and directly adjudicated in the Supreme Courts of
Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Maine.l
We may concede that the United States have never admitted the so-called "Confederate States" to be a government. And this is a matter most proper to be asserted by
the United States in its dealings with both its own citizens
and foreigners. It may well treat every citizen of the
United States who aided in the rebellion as committing treason or piracy; and regard transfers of property, &c., made
in virtue of the Confederate laws, and against those of the
* Marshall, pt. i, ch. xii, P 3; 1 Phillips,

1110; 2 Arnould, *808, T,811;

Benecke, p. 348 (p. 230 of English ed.); Emerigon (by Meredith), 353 ; 3
Kent's Commentaries, *304; Pothier, Insurance, No. 54; Valin's Commentary, Art. 26, 46; 2 Boulay Paty Commercial Law, 16, p. 102 (Brussels,
1838.)
t 5 Ellis & Blackburne, 607.
t 1 Ellis & Ellis, 447.
And see Goss v. 'Withers, 2 Burrow, 694; McCar v. New Orleans Insurance Co., 10 Robinson's Louisiana, 202, 334, 339; Tirrell v. Gage, 4 Allen,
245.
11Fifield v.Insurance Co., 47 Pennsylvania State, 166; Dole v. Same, 6
Allen, 373 i Dole v. Same, 51 Maine, 464.

Dec. 1867.]

MAURAN

V..

INSURANCE

COMPANY.

9

Opinion of the court.

United States, as void. So in dealing with foreign powers
it may properly assert that these did a wrong to us in recognizing the Confederacy as a belligerent power. But this case
raises no such question as any of these. The fact remains
that here was a great power capable of levying war against
us, which did so levy and wage war, and which made a capture. Much of the disquisition by opposing counsel is therefore ftom the purpose. It has no practical application.
Reply: The case of Powell v. l.yde, the first of the two
English cases, relied on by the other side, was that of a
"capture" or "seizure," in the usual sense of the words,
made by a power authorized to wage war, and then actually
waging war.

.Kleiworth v. Shephard, the other English case-the only
case in which "seizure" has been said to include acts of
individuals not acting under the authority of a recognized
government, and in which it was extended by the Court of
Queen's Bench to the mutiny by Coolie passengers-was
argued before Lord Campbell, Wightman, Crom'pton, and
Hill, JJ., but four of the fifteen English common law judges,
none of which four had any peculiar experience or authority in commercial law, and the weight of whose opinion
must therefore depend upon the soundness of the reasons
assigned for it. The case, before it is finally disposed of,
may be taken to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, if not to
the House of Lords, and their decision overruled. It is
hardly in any respect such a decision as should induce this
court to go against the recent express decision, in Swinerton v. Colionbian Insurance Co., of the Superior Court of the
City of :New York, a tribunal which has long held the position of a very high authority on questions of maritime law;
or against the able decision in the Commercial Court of
Bremen, a tribunal in which public law in reference to this
class of cases is of necessity very familiar to the court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in the case is, whether this taking of the

MAURAN

V.

INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vessel by the naval forces of the so-called Confederate States
was a capture within the warranty of the assured in the
margin of the policy? If it was, then the loss is not one of
the perils insured against, as the assured, in express terms,
had assumed it upon himself
A capture, as defined by some of the most eminent writers
on insurance within the policy, is a taking by the enemy of
vessel or cargo as prize, in time of open war, or, by way of
reprisal, with intent to deprive the owner of it. This was
probably the primary or original idea attached to the term
in these instruments. Losses of ships and cargo engaged in
commerce by the public enemy were the most to be apprehended and provided against. But usage, and the course
of decisions by the courts, have very much widened this
meaning, and it now may embrace the taking of a neutral
ship and cargo by a belligerent jure belli; also, the taking
forcibly by a friendly power, in time of peace, and even by
the government itself to which the assured belongs.*
Capture is deemed lawful when made by a declared enemy,
lawfully commissioned, and according to the laws of war,
and unlawful when made otherwise; but, whether lawful or
unlawful, the underwriter is liable;. the words of the policy
being broad enough, and intended to be broad enough, to
include every species of capture to which ships or cargo, at
sea, may be exposed. Any other rule would furnish but a
very imperfect indemnity to the assured if we regard either
the character of these seizures and the irregularities attending them, or the trouble, expense, and delay consequent
upon the duty or burden of proving in a court of justice the
unlawfulness of the act. It is never, therefore, a question
between the insurer and the insured whether the capture be
lawful or not. The recent case of Powell v. Hydet is very
decisive on this point. In that case a British ship passing
* Phillips on Insurance,
1108-1109; Arnould on Same, 808, 814; 2
Marshall on Same, 495, 496, 507; Powell v. flyde, 5 Ellis & Blackburne,
607.
t Already referred to; 5 Ellis & Blackburne, 607.

Dec. 1867.]

MAURAN

V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

11

Opinion of the court.

down the Danube was fired upon from a Russian fort and
sunk. A war existed between Russia and Turkey, but none
between the former and Great Britain. The policy of insurance in that case contained the warranty of the assured
" free from capture, seizure," &c., upon which the underwriters relied, as here, for a defence. In answer to this it
was urged for the assured that these words in the warranty
related to a lawful capture or seizure, by a party having
authority to make it, and that, inasmuch as the capture was
in open violation of law and wholly illegal, it was not within
the warranty, and the underwriters were, therefore, liable.
But the court held otherwise, and determined that this term
in the warranty was not confined to lawful capture, but included any capture, in consequence of which the ship was
lost to the insured. This same principle was again deliberately asserted by the court in Kleinworth v. Sepherd.* The
same question had been decided many years before by Lord
Mansfield in Berens v. Rucker,- in which he held the insurer
liable in case of an illegal capture of a neutral vessel by an
English privateer. Chancellor Kent states the rule as follows: "Every species of capture, whether lawful or unlawful, and whether by friends or enemies, is also a loss within
the policy."I As kindred to this rule is another, that the
insurer is liable for a loss by capture, whether the property
in the thing insured be changed by the capture or not.
In every case of an illegal capture the property is not
changed, yet as between, the insurer and the insured, the
effect is the same as in case of a capture by an enemy in
open war.
In the case of a capture under a commission from an organized government, against an enemy, jure belli, to bring
the capture within the policy, it is not necessary that the
commission should issue from a perfectly lawful government
any more than that the capture itself should be lawful. The
principle is the same. An illustration will be found in the
* 1 Ellis & Ellis, 447.

: 3 Commentaries, 304-5.

t 1 Blackstone, 313.

MAURAN

V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

war between Spain and her revolted colonies in South America, which continued for many years. Our government
was the first to recognize their independence, which was in
1822; but even down till this event, from the time the revolt
had reached the dimensions of a civil war, the government
had recognized the war, and conceded equal belligerent
rights to the respective parties; and the capture of the vessels of Spain by a commander under a commission by one
of the colonies in the exercise of this right, was recognized
as legal as if it had occurred in open public war, and, as a
matter of course, would have been within the marginal warranty clause of the insured in a policy of insurance. Indeed
it has been so held. It will be observed that at this time
these colonies had not achieved their independence; they
were yet in the heat of the conflict; nor had they been recognized by any of the established governments on either
continent as" belonging to the family of nations. In this
connection it will not be inappropriate to refer to the case
of United States v. Palmer,* which was an indictment against
the defendant for piracy in the capture of a Spanish vessel
under a commission from one of these colonies, and which
he set up as a defence. One of the questions certified from
the circuit was, whether the seal annexed to the commission
purporting to be a public seal used by persons exercising

the powers of government in a foreign colony, which had
revolted from its allegiance and declared itself independent,
but had never been acknowledged as such by the United
States, was admissible in a court of the United States as
proof of its legal existence with or without proof of its
genuineness. The court held that the seal of such unacknowledged government could not be permitted to prove
itself, but that it might be proved by such testimony as
the nature of the case would admit. The defendant was
permitted, also, to prove that he was employed in the service of the colony at the time of making the capture, and
which, it was agreed, ivould constitute a defence to the in* 3 Wheaton, 610.o

Dec. 1867.]

MAURAN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

13

Opinion of the court.

dictment for piracy. The proof became necessary on account of the obscurity and unknown condition of this incipient state.
Another illustration will be found in a capture by a de
facto government, which government is defined to be one
in possession of the supreme or sovereign power, but without right-a government by usurpation, founded perhaps in
crime, and in the violation of every principle of international
or municipal law, and of right and justice; yet, while it is
thus organized, and in the exercise and control of the sovereign authority, there can be no question between the insurer and the insured as to the lawfulness of the government under whose commission the capture has been made.
If any presumption could properly be indulged as to the
perils against which the insured would most desire to protect himself, it might well be captures by these violent and
irregularly constructed nationalities. The court in the case
of INesbitt v. Lushtngton,* fitly described the character of the
government contemplated in the clause respecting the restraints, &c., of kings, princes, or people, namely : the ruling power of the country," "the supreme power," "the
power of the country, whatever it might be,"-not necessarily a lawful power or government, or one that had been
adopted into the family of nations.
Now, applying these principles to the case before us, it
will be seen that the question is not whether this so-called
Confederate government, under whose authority the capture
was made, was a lawful government, but whether or not it
was a government in fact, that is, one in the possession of
the supreme power of the district of country over which its
jurisdiction extended? We agree that all the proceedings
of these eleven states, either severally or in conjunction, by
means of which the existing governments were overthrown,
and new governments erected iu their stead, were wholly
illegal and void, and that they remained after the attempted
separation and change of government, in judgment of law,
4 Term, 763.

MAURAN V.

INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the c=.:t.

as completely under all their constitutional obligations as
before.
The Constitution of the United States, which is the fundamental law of each and all of them, not only afforded no
countenance or authority for these proceedings, but they
were, in every part of them, in express disregard and violation of it. Still, it cannot be denied but that by the use of
these unlawful and unconstitutional means, a government,
in fact, was erected greater in territory than many of -the
old governments in Europe, complete in the organization
of all its parts, containing within its limits more than eleven
millions of people, and of sufficient resources, in men and
money, to carry on a civil war of unexampled dimensions;
and during all which time the exercise of many belligerent
rights were either conceded to it, or were acquiesced in by
the supreme government, such as the tre-atment of captives,
both on land and sea, as prisoners of war; the exchange of
prisoners; their vessels captured recognized as prizes of war,
and dealt with accordingly; their property seized on land
referred to he judicial tribunals for adjudication; their ports
blockaded, and the blockade maintained by a suitable force,
and duly notified to neutral powers the same as in open and
public war.
We do not inquire- whether these were rights conceded
to the enemy by the laws of war among civilized nations,
or were dictated by humanity to mitigate the vindictive
passions growing out of a civil conflict. We refer to the
conduct of the war as a matter of fact for the purpose of
showing that the so-called Confederate States were in the
possession of many of the highest attributes of government,
sufficiently so to be regarded as the ruling or supreme power
of the country, and hence captures under its commission
were among those excepted out of the policy by the warranty of the insured.
We could greatly extend the opinion upon this branch of
the case by considerations in support of the above view, but
the question has undergone very learned and able examinations in several of the State courts, deservedly ot the highest

Dec. 1867.]

HAIGHT v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

eminence, and which have arrived at the same conclusion,
and to which we refer as rendering further examination unnecessary.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting,

the CHIEF

JUSTICE

and Mr. Justice

SWAYYE.
NOTE. At the same time with the preceding were argued and adjudged
ibur other cases by the same plaintiff against other insurance companies,
all four being adjudged in the same way as the one above reported. In
two of them the policies and warranty were in the same language as in that
case. In two others there was a difference in the marginal warranty of the
insured in this, that while he warranted free from loss or expense by capture, &c., "1ordinary piracy" was excepted, so that if the loss was on account of a capture or seizure by pirates, the insured would have been entitled to recover. But NELSON, J., giving the judgment of the court, observed that as the court had arrived at the conclusion that the capture of
the vessel was under the authority of a, quasi government, or government in
fact (the ruling power of the country at that time), it was to be held to be
within the warranty or exception in the marginal clause. Dissenting, the
CHIEF JUSTICE and SWAYNE, J.

HAIGHT V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
A provision in a defeasance clause in a mortgage given by a railroad company to secure its coupon bonds, that the mortgage shall be void if the
mortgagor well and truly pays, &c., the debt and interest, "without aay
deduection, drfalcatlon or abatemenzt to be made of anythingfor or in respect
of any taes, charges or assessments whatsoever, "-does not oblige the
company to pay the interest on its bonds clear of the duty of five per
cent., which by the 122d section of the revenue act of 1864, such companies "are authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on
account of any interest or coupons due and payable." On the contrary,
the company complies with its contract when it pays the interest less
five per cent. and retains the tax for the government.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
rennsylvania; the case, as derived from the statement of it
" Dole v. New England Mutual Ins. Co., 6 Allen, 373; Fifield v. Ins.
Co., 47 Pennsylvania State, 166; Dole v. Merchants' Marine Ins. Co., 51
Maine, 464

