UNITED STATES V. HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

NOTE.

At the same time with the two preceding cases was decided,
on appeal from the same circuit (Mr. Durant,for the appellant),
the case of St. Louis Street Foundry; not distinguishable,-as
the Chief Justice stated was the opinion of the court,-in principle from them.
It appeared in it that Cronan, in the Circuit Court, pleaded
the amnesty proclaimed by President Lincoln on the 8th of
December, 1863, and the oath taken by himself in pursuance of
the proclamation; but there was no averment in this plea that
Cronan was not within any of certain exceptions made by that
proclamation.*
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion.
The plea was properly overruled.
Upon proper pleading and proof, however, the claimant of
property seized under the act of August 6th, 1861, is entitled to
the benefit of amnesty to the same extent as, under like pleading and proof, he would be entitled to the benefit of pardon.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED as irregular,
and the cause remanded, with directions to allow a new trial,
the proceedings in which shall be conformed, in respect to trial
by jury and exceptions to evidence, to the 6ourse of the common law.

UNITED STATES V. HART.
The act of Congress of 3d March, 1863, giving to the District Court for the
Territory of New Mexico jurisdiction over all cases which should arise
in the collection district of Paso del Norte, in the administration of the
revenue laws, does not warrant proceedings against lands in El Paso,
Texas, under the "Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and
rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other
purposes," approved July 17th, 1862 (12 Stat. at Large, 589).
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico, the case being thus:
See the Gray Jacket, 5 'Wallace, 368.

.Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HART.
Statement of the case.

An act of Congress of March 3d, 1863,* entitkd "An act

to facilitate the collection of revenue in El Paso County, Texas,"
&c., revives and re-enacts by its first section, a previously repealed statute, providing"That the District Court fbr the Territory of New .3lexico
shall have.and exercise jurisdiction over all cases which shall
arise in the collection district of Paso del .Norte, in the administrationof the revenue laws, in the same manner as if the said dis.
trict was entirely within the Territory of New Mexico."
And by its second section, enacts:
"That the jurisdiction of the District Court of New Mexico
shall extend over the citizens of El Paso County, Texas, only
in cases not instituted by indictment; and the trial and proceedings for violations of the revenue laws in said District Court of
New Mexico, shall be the same as in other District Courts of the
United States invested with admiralty powers: and this act
shall take effect from and after its passage."
In this state of congressional enactment, the United States
filed a libel of inforinationin the District Court of the United
States for the third judicial district of the lerritory of .New
.Afexieo, to subject certain real estate of Hart, situated in El
Paso County, Texas, to condemnation, under the sixth section of the act of Congress passed 17th of July, 1862, whicl
subjects to seizure and confiscation the property of any person within any of the States or Territories of the United
States, being engaged in armed rebellion against the government of the United States, or aiding and abetting such rebellion, after public warning by the President of the United
States.
The district judge entertaining jurisdiction of the case
upon his constpruction of the above-quoted act of Congress
of March 3d, 1863, such proceedings were had that, a decree
was entered December 2d, 1865, condemning the property,
to be sold. An appeal was taken from this
and directing it,
12 Stat. at Large, 761.

UNITED STATES V.

FART.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

decree to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which reversed the same, and remanded the cause to the court below,
directing that court to dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction in said court over the real estate in the County of El
Paso, Texas. From this decree of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of New Mexico, the case was now before this
court on appeal.
Mr. Robert Leech, for the appellee, and in supportof the decree
below, contended that1. The legislation in question, while it extended the jurisdiction of the District Court of New Mexico, over the citizens
of El Paso County, Texas, in certain revenue cases, manifestly conferred -no jurisdiction on said court in proceedings
against real estate, under the Cofiseation Act of July 17th,
1862.
2. The District Court, under proceedings on libel, and as
a court of admiralty, had no jurisdiction of the subject;
the doctrine being settled, that in the trial of all cases of
seizure on land, the court sits as a court of common law,
and that in all cases at cominon law, the trial must be by
jury.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of tne court.
The Supreme Court in reversing the judgment below,
held, that the aet in question did not extend to, or embrace
proceedings under the act of 17th of July, V862, providing
for confiscation of the property of persons engaged in, or aiding and abetting the rebellion, of the correctness of which
decision we can entertain no doubt.
If the District Court below could have, under any circumstances, jurisdiction of the case, according to the practice as
settled in the cases of the -UnionInsuranee Company v. United
Slats, Armstrong's Foundryand the St. Louis Street Foundry,*
decided at the present term, as it has been tried on the admiralty side of the court, the proper disposition of it would
* The last preceding three cases.

)ec. 1867.]

CAVAZOS v. TREVINO.
Syllabus.

be to reverse the decree, and remand the cause to the court
below, with directions to enter a decree remitting it to the
District Court that it might be tried on the common law side
with a jury, the seizure having been made on land, and not
on waters navigable from the'sea. But, as the Supreme
Court of the Territory has reversed the decree of confiscation for the want of jurisdiction, in the correctness of which
judgment we concur, the proper disposition of it will be to
AFFIRM THE DECREE, as this reaches directly the right conclusion in the case.
NOTE. Like decrees were made in the similar cases of United States v
Crosby, and United States v. Gillet, as governed by this one.

CAVAZOS v. TREVINO.
1. Where an early Spanish petition for a grant of land described the land
by general boundaries, which were capable of an interpretation in twc
senses, one broader than the other, the terms of boundary open to question as to meaning were held to be rightly interpreted by the jury from
a survey carefully made on the ground by lines and monuments, and
specifying the quantity within the lines (the grant referring to the survey and specifying the quantity granted), and by practical interpretation, from occupancy and otherwise, by the parties interested in the
matter.
2. In settling, in such a case, what has been granted, the quantity of land
specified, as well as the boundaries named, and the survey as madeall are to be considered, and by their united light the proper conclusion
is to be reached.
8. The practical interpretation which parties interested have by their conduct given to a written instrument, in cases of an ancient grant of a
large body of land asked for and granted by general description, is
always admitted as among the very best tests of the intention of the
instrument.
4. In construing such a grant, the circumstances attendant, at the time it
was made, are competent evidence for the purpose of placing the court
in the same situation, and giving it the same advantages for construing
the papers which were possessed by the actors themselves.
S. A document duly certified, "in the absence of a notary public, according
to law,"7 in the presence of witnesses, by the alcalde of the jurisdiction,
to be a true copy, made and compared by witnesses named, of the original

