6Z;2

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

as levied for state and municipal purposes, in the basis prescribed for computing the amount, in the manner of assessment, and in the mode of collection, and they are in lieu of
all other taxation, state or municipal. Comparative valuation in assessing property taxes is the basis of computation
in ascertaining the amount to be contributed by an individual, but the amount of a franchise tax depends upon the
business transacted by the corporation and the extent to
which they have exercised the privileges granted in their
charter. Unlike as the two systems are in every particular,
it seems to be a work of supererogation to point out the
differences, which are radical and substantial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, GRIER, J., and MILLER, J.,
in this as in the last preceding case dissented, on the ground
that the tax was one on the property and not on the franchises of the Provident Institution.

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.
1. Questions not 4ecided in the State court, because not raised and presented
by the complaining party, will not be re-examined in this court on a
writ of error under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
2. It is not sufficient that such a question might have arisen and been applicable to the case, unless it appears in the record that it did arise, and
was applied by the State court in disposing of the controversy.
8. A statute of Massachusetts which requires corporations having a capital
stock divided into shares, to pay a tax of a certain percentage (one-sixth
of one per cent.) upon "the excess of the market value" of all such stock
over the value of its real estate and machinery, is, under the settled course
of decision in the State of Massachusetts on its constitution and laws, a
statute which imposes a franchise tax.
4. The tax is lawful.
5. Provident Intitutionv. Massachusetts (last preceding case) affirmed.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts.
This case-which was one agreed ea and stated in the court

Dec. 1867.]

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MA.SAC1UbETTS.

633

Statement of the case.

below-raised, under some circumstantial variety,-the defendant in it there being a manufacturing company having
capital stock,-the same substantial question raised in the
two preceding cases of saving fund societies. It was thus:
A statute of Massachusetts provides"SECT. 1. That the assessors of the several towns shall annually return to the treasurer of the commonwealth the names
of all corporations ' having a capital stock divided into shares,'
&c., and the value of the real estate and machinery for which
each is taxed in such towns.
"SECT. 2. That every such corporation shall annually return
to the same officer ' the amount of the capital stock of the corporation, and tho par value and the cash market value of the
shares, on the 1st day of May.'
"SECT. 5. That a board of commissioners shall ascertain the
excess o.f the market value of all the capital stock of each corporation over the value of its real estate and machinery, and that
the corporation shall annually pay to the commonwealth Ia tax
of one and one-sixth per cent. upon such excess.'"

With this statute in force a return from the Hamilton
Manufacturing Company, a corporation of the s6rt described,
and incorporated by Massachusetts, showed that the cash
market value of its capital stock did not exceed by more
than $263,997 the value of its real estate, machinery, and of
its other property, provided that from this last were excluded
securities of the United States held by the company, and
which, by the act of Congress authorizing their issue, were
declared to be exempt from taxation by State authority,
"whether held by individuals, corporations, or associations."
But that with those securities included, the capital stock did
exceed by a greater sum than that named the value of such
real estate and machinery.
A tax being demanded by the State of Massachusetts on
more than the $263,997 (supposing that the tax was laid at
the rate prescribed), it necessarily fell-and of course unlawfully-on the exempted Federal securities, if the tax laid
by the tItatute was one on propertly.

634

HAMILTON COMPANY

V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. CO

Opinion of the court.

If, on the other hand, the tax was one on the franchise and
privileges of the corporation, and such a tax, when operating
as in this case, was lawful, then it was rightly demanded,
even in so far as it might affect the securities of the United
States. The Hamilton Company refused to pay the tax demanded; and suit was brought accordingly. The court
below gave judgment for the whole sum demanded. The
case was now here under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Excepting therefore a matter apparently suggested in that
court, but not pressed there or here, as to whether the company could, under its charter, rightly hold Federal securities,
the questions now were,1. Whether the tax imposed by the State was to be regarded as a tax on property, or as a tax on the franchise and
privileges of the corporationS.
2. Whether, if the last, and when operating as it did here,
it was lawful so far as affecting the Federal securities?
Mr. HI. L. Dawes, for the plaintiffin error; Mr. Allen, Attorney- Generalof Massachusetts, for that State, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Corporations as well as individuals are subject to taxation
in Massachusetts, and with that view the assessors of cities
and towns are required annually to return, on or before the
first Monday of August, to the treasurer of the State, the
names of all chartered corporations having a capital stock
divided into shares, established in their respective cities or
towns, or owning real estate therein, and the value of their
real estate and machinery, for which they were taxed in
such cities or towns, on the first day of May preceding such
returns. Such corporations, if their stock is not exempted
from taxation, State and municipal, by the laws of the
United States, are also required annually, between the first
and tenth days of May, to return to the State treasurer,
under the oath of their treasurer, a complete list of their
shareholders, with their places of residence the number of

Dec. 1867.]

HlAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

635

Opinion of the c6urt.

shares belonging to each, the amount of their capital stock,
the corporation's place of business, and the par value and
the cash market value of the shares on the first day of May.*
Commissioners are also constituted by the fifth section of
the act, and they are required to ascertain from the returns,
or otherwis%, the excess of the market value of all the capital stock of every such corporation, not exempted as aforesaid, over the value of their real estate and machinery, if
any, as returned by the assessors of the cities and towns;

and having ascertained such excess, as required, it is made
their duty, on or before the first Monday of October following, to notify the corporation treasurer of the result of their
doings, and the provision is that every such corporation
shall annually, on or before the first Monday of November
succeeding, pay to the treasurer of the State a tax of one and
one-sixth per cent. upon such excess.
Proper steps were taken by the commissioners, and the
agreed statement shows that they duly ascertained the excess
of the market value of all the capital stock of the defendant
corporation over the value of their real estate and machinery,
as returned by the local assessors, and that within the time
required they notified the treasurer of the corporation of the
ascertained result.
Cash market value of the capital stock, as ascertained,
was twelve hundred and thirty thousand dollars, as appears
by the agreed statement, and the value of the real estate and
machinery, as actually returned by the local assessors, was
nine hundred and fifty-nine thousand four hundred dollars,
and the agreed statement also shows that the taxes upon that
valuation as assessed to the corporation by the local assessors,
were duly paid. Excess of the cash market value of the
capital stock over their real estate and machinery, as ascertained by the commissioners, was two hundred and seventy
thousand six hundred dollars, as agreed by the parties.
In addition to their real estate and machinery, the corporation defendants owned personal property standing on their
Sessions Laws 1864, 132.

636

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup.

(it

Opinion of the court.

books as valued at two hundred and sixty-three thousand
nine hundred and ninety-seven dollars and seventy-five cents,
and also bonds of the United States to the amount of three
hundred thousand dollars, which, it is conceded, were exempt from State taxation.
Amount for which they were taxed was two hundred and
seventy thousand six hundred dollars, but they had on their
books a balance of untaxed property, besides the bonds, of
two hundred and sixty-three thousand nine hundred and
ninety-seven dollars and seventy-five cents. They refused
to pay the tax, and the State brought suit to recover the
amount. Judgment was rendered in favor of the State for
the sum of three thousand six hundred and fifteen dollars
)nd seventy-six cents, which is the amount of the tax df one
and one-sixth per cent. upon the whole excess of the cash
market value of their capital stock, over the value of their
real estate and machinery, as returned by the assessors.
Dissatisfied withi the judgment of the State court, the corporation defendants sued out this writ of error and removed
the cause into this court.
1. Questions not decided in the State court, because not
raised and presented by the complaining party, will not be
re-examined in this court on a writ of error sued out under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. Apart from
the question of jurisdiction it is necessary that it shall appear that the question presented for decision in this court
was -raised in the State court, and that the decision of the
State court was given as required in that section. Clear
and necessary intendment that the question was raised and
must have been decided as claimed, in order to have induced
the judgment, is sufficient, but it is not sufficient to show
that such a question might have arisen and been applicable
to the case, unless it appears in the record that it did arise
and was applied by the State court in disposing of the controversy.
2. Defendant corporation resisted the claim of the State
in the State court solely upon the ground that they were not

Dec. 1867.]

HAMILTON COMPANY

V. MASSACHUSETTS.

637

Opinion of the court.

liable under that act of the legislature to pay any tax at all
to the State, because the cash market value of their capital
stock did not exceed the returned value of their real estate
and machinery, and the value of the bonds held by them
which are exempt from State taxation. On the other hand
the State contended that the defendants were bound by virtue of that act to pay a tax to the State treasurer upon the
whole excess of the cash market value, as ascertained, of
their capital stock over the value of their real estate and
machinery as returned by the assessors.
Liability to taxation in some form was conceded by the
defendants except for the amount of their government securities, and the State did not claim,any right to tax those
securities or their real estate and machinery included in the
lists furnished to the local assessors. Obvious issue between
the parties was whether the value of the bonds held by the
defendants should or should not be deducted from the excess
of the cash market value of their capital stock over the value
of their real estate and machinery. And the parties taking
the same view as to the real issue between them, agreed that
if the court was of the opinion that such a deduction should
be made from the said excess as ascertained by the commissioners, then judgment should be entered for the defendants,
otherwise for the plaintiff, for such an amount as in the
opinion of the court the State is entitled to recover, with interest.
Viewed in any light, the agreed statement of facts shows
to a demonstration, that the only question in the record, not
fully determined in the case just decided, is whether the tax
imposed by the State is properly to be regarded as a tax on
property or as a tax on the privileges and franchises of the
corporation. Such a tax so levied is clearly not proportional
as is required by the State constitution in respect to rates
and taxes, and consequently, if sustained at all, either in
whole or in part, it must be as an exercise of the power confirred in the State constitution of imposing reasonable duties
and excises upon "eommodities" within the State. Taxation. as contemplated, in the provision under consideration.

638

HAMUITON COMPANY

V.

MASSACHUSETTS,

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

on the corporations designated in the second section of the
act, is without any reference to the amount required to be
raised in the State on the actual property held by the corporation, and without any reference to the whole amount of
property in the State liable to be assessed for State and municipal purposes.*
Regarded as a tax on property, therefore, the tax is
plainly invalid, and cannot be supported for a moment, as
the law, if construed as authorizing such a tax, is in direct
contravention of the State constitution as understood friom
the time of its adoption. Manufacturing corporations are
private corporations in the strictest sense, as they are created
for the convenience of the corporation,'and are charged with
no public duties whatever. Under the laws of the State and
the provisions of their charters they enjoy great privileges
adapted to the purposes of private profit, and by the laws of
the State they are exempt from all other taxation, municipal
or State, except a property tax on their real estate and machinery, which is based on a valuation in the same manner
as taxes are imposed on the property of individuals.
Corporate franchises, as determined in the preceding case,
are legal estates, and not mere naked powers granted to the
corporation, but powers coupled with an interest which vest
in the corporation by virtue of their charter, and the rule is
equally well settled that the privileges and franchises of a
private corporation, unless exempted in terms which amount
to a contract, are as much the legitimate subjects of taxation
as any other property of the citizens within the sovereign
power of the State. Such corporations are not exempted
by the laws of the State, and never were in terms which deprived the legislature of the power to impose on them a
franchise tax.t
All trades and avocations by which the citizens acquire a
livelihood may also be taxed by the State for the support of
tManufacturing Company, 12 Allen, 800.
Commonwealth v. Hamilton
t 5 -Massachusetts Stat. 76; 6 Spec. Laws, 227, 597 ; Sess. Laws, 1830,
326 ; 7 Spec. Laws, 192, 780; Revised Stat. 880.
*

Dec. 1867.]

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

639

Opinion of the court.

the State government. Power to that effect resides in the
State independent of the Federal government, and is wholly
unaftected by the fact that the corporation or-individual has
or has not made investments in Federal securities. Unless such be the rule, the two systems of government, State
and Federal, cannot both continue to.exist, as the States
will be left without any means of support or of discharging
their public obligations.
Congress undoubtedly may levy and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises, for the purposes described in the Constitution, but the power therein conferred does not, poprio
vigore, operate as a prohibition upon the States to exercise
the same powers to raise moneys to support their own governments. They cannot lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing their inspection laws, not because Congress
may lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, but
because the Constitution expressly provides that no State
shall exercise that power without the consent of the Congress.*
'Want of authority in the States to tax the securities of the
United States issued in the exercise of the admitted power
of Congress to borrow money on the credit of the United
States, is equally certain although there is no express prohibition in the Constitution to that effect. Outside of those
provisions, however, the power of the State to tax extends
to all objects except the instruments and means of the Federal government, within the sovereign power of the State.
Guided by these principles in the construction of the fifth
section of the act under consideration, it is quite clear that
the substantial question presented for decision is the same
as that determined in the case just decided. Only difference
is that different elements of calculation are prescribed as the
basis of computation in ascertaining the amount of the required contribution.
Separated from the peculiar provision of the. State consti.
Art. 1, J 8.

640

IIAAIILTOx CoM1PATYY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tution, and the long practice under the original decision, the
present decision of the Sfate court upon the subject might
-well be criticized as founded in unsubstantial distinctions,
but when weighed as an exposition of that peculiar clause
and in view of the long practice of the State, commenoing
long before the prior decision was made, it is not possible
to withhold from the conclusion a full and unqualified concurrence.
lost of the solid reasons for the rule ar6 put
forth in the early decision. Successors to the chief justice
of that day, in treating the subject, though their opinions
are able and well considered, have not been able to add much
to the cogency and conclusive character of the reasons as-,
signed by the court at that time in support of the well-founded
distinction between franchise taxes and taxes on property.*
Fifty years have elapsed since that decision was made, and
the practice in substance and effect is still continued, having
been repeatedly sanctioned by the unanimous decisions of
the highest judicial authority of the State. Attempt is made
to support the theory of the corporation defendants by the
recent decisions of this court, but the effort is not successful,
as was satisfactofily shown in the preceding case, to which
reference is made.
Property taxation and excise taxation, as authorized in the
constitution of the State, are perfectly distinct, and the two
systems are easily distinguished from each other, if we adopt
the definition of the term "commodities" as uniformly given
by the courts of the State, and as universally understood by
the tax-payers and assessors. If regarded as meaning goods
and wares only, there would be much difficulty in the case,
but if it signifies "convenience, privilege, profit, and gains,"
as unifbrmly held by the State court, then all difficulty vanishes, and the case is clear. Such was the construction given
to the term by the Supreme Court of the State more than
fifty years before the present controversy arose, and the rule
is well settled in this court that the construction of the constitution or statute of a State by the highest judicial tribu*Portland

Bank v. Apthorp, 12 Massachusetts, 252.

Dec.

1867.]

HAMILTON COMIPANY V. MNSSACHUSETTS.

641

Opinion of the court.

nal of such State, in a case not involving any question under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, is to be regarded as a part of the provision, and that it is as binding
upon the courts of the United States as the text.*
lany of the views expressed by the State court in this
case, as well as those advanced by the counsel of the State
in the argument of the case, deserve particular notice. They
say and we agree that the market value of the capital stock
on the shares is the basis for computing the present tax.
Whatever swells the market value necessarily swells the tax,
as is well contended for the State. Even if a purely fictitious
value is given to it by the action of brokers or speculators,
it makes no difierence, the corporation must pay the one
and one-sixth per cent. upon the excess of such market value
of the capital stock over the value of their real estate and
machinery as returned by the local assessors.
Taxes rise with inflation, however cause-or to whatever
extent, whether temporary or permanent; and depression,
be it ever so great, and whether caused by imaginary difficulties or by war or famine, lessens the demand for contribution in a corresponding ratio. Suffice it to say that universal experience shows that actual value, as ascertained by
the appraisement of the assessors, may be very different from
the market value, as a great variety of elements enter into
the latter estimation which have no place in the former.
Demonstration of that proposition is afforded in the very
able opinion of the Supreme Court of the State in this case.
Our conclusion is, that the decision of the State court is
correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, GRIER, J., and MILLER, J.,
as in the preceding two cases, similar, dissented, and on the
same ground, to wit, that the tax was a tax on the property,
and not on the franchises and privileges of the plaintiff in
error.
* Leffingwell v. 'Warren, 2 Black, 603; Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley, 2
Peters, 492; Shelby v. Gray, 11 Wheaton, 351.
VOL. VI.

41

