Dec. 1867.]

THE WATCHFUL.

91

Statement of the case.

be astute to charge a constructive trust upon one who has
acted honestly and paid a full and fair consideration without
notice or knowledge. On this point we need only to refer
to Sugden on Vendors,* where he says: "In Ware v. Lord
1 qnmio the Lord Chancellor Cranworth expressed his entire
concurrence in what, on many occasions of late Vears, had
fallen from judges of great eminence on the subject of constructive notice, namely, that it was highly inexpedient for
courts of equity to extend the doctrine. When a person
has not actual notice he ought not to be treated as if he had
notice unless the circumstances are such as enable the court
to say, not only that he might have acquired, but also that he
ought to have acquired it but for his gross negligence in the
conduct of the business in question. The question then,
when it is sought to afect a purchaser with constructive notice, is not whether he had the means of obtaining and
might by prudent caution have obtained the knowledge in
question, but whether not obtaining was an act of gross or
culpable negligence."
The application of these principles of equity to the present case is too apparent to need further remark.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

THE WATcHrUL.
1. Alibel case, charging the vessel and cargo to be prize of war, dismissed
because no case of priie was made out by the testimony.
2. But because the record disclosed strong prima facie evidence of a viola..
tian of the laws of navigation, and probably of our revenue laws also,
the case was remanded, with leave to file a new libel according to these
facts.

APPEAL from

the District Court for the Eastern District

of Louisiana.
In that court the schooner Watchful and cargo had been
libelled as prize of war, and a decree rendered dismissing
the libel, and restoring the property to the claimant.
*Page

622.

Tl,,

WATCHFUL.

[Sup. (it.

Statement of the case.

The claimant, one Wallis, to whom the property plainly
belonged, was a citizen of Pennsylvania, residing at Philadelphia, and the evidence showed no reason to doubt his
loyalty to the Federal government during the recent war.
Nor was there any proof of intention to break the blockade or
tb trade with the enemy. It appeared only that the claimant
had sold, in the late civil war in Mexico, to that party which
was led by President Juarez, two hundred and fifty-two
cases of firearms, which he had agreed to deliver on the
Mexican cnast, near Matamoras, and when his vessel arrived
near that place, it was found%that the French army occupied
the post, and no delivery could be made to the Juarez party.
Under these circumstances, the officer in command started
for New Orleans, not then blockaded, but in possession of
the Union forces. On the way to that port his vessel was
captured and sent in as prize.
The record did, however, seem to disclose some facts, in
other respects, of a sinister character. It seemed to show
that the vessel had cleared for Hamburg, when her real destination was Matamoras; that after she was out at sea, her
clearance had been altered by erasing the word "Hamburg"
and substituting in its place the word "Matamoras;" that a
false manifest had been used, and that the fact of the main
cargo of two hundred and fifty-two cases of arms being on
board, had been purposely concealed from the custom-house
officers at New York, whence the vessel sailed.
Upon these latter facts, the Attorney-General now insisted that even admitting that there might be no sufficient
proof of intent to break the blockade or to trade with the
enemy, and so that the case was not one of prize, yet that
the record before the court disclosed such a gross violation
of our navigation laws, and possibly of our revenue and
neutrality laws, that the case should be remanded to the
District Court, with leave to file a new libel, or for such other
proceedings as the government may deem advisable in the
matter.
The claimant was not represented in this court by counsel

Dec. 1867.]

Tun

WA'TCHFUL.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is very clear that there is no case of prize made out by
the evidence. The property, which was undoubtedly Wallis's, was therefore not enemy property; nor is there any
evidence of intention to break the blockade or to trade with
the enemy. The case is so destitute of all the elements of
prize that the present libel was properly dismissed.
As to the other point more insisted on by the AttorneyGeneral. The record, as it stands, shows that the vessel
cleared for Hamburg, when her destination was certainly
Matamoras. That her clearance was probably altered after
she was at sea, by writing over the word "Hamburg" the
word "MMatamoras." That a false manifest was used, and
the fact of the main cargo of two hundred and fifty-two cases
of arms being on board, was carefully concealed from the
officers of the customs at New York, from which port she
sailed. It is not necessary to go any further into this evidence, or to express any other opinion on it, than to say
that it presents a priraafacie ease of violation of municipal
law, which justifies further investigation.
In the case of United States v. Weed et al.,* we had occasion, at the last term, to consider the question of the practice proper under such circumstances. We then came to
the conclusion that where sufficient evidence was found
to justify it, the case would be remanded to the court below
for an amendment of the libel, or for such other proceedings
as the government might, under all the circumstances, choose
to adopt.
The judgment of the District Court, dismissing the libel in
prize, is accordingly affirmed, but that part of the decree
awarding restitution of the vessel and cargo, is reversed,
with directions to allow libellant a reasonable time to file a
new libel. If this is not done within the time thus fixed by
the court, the property to be restored by a new decree.
5 Wallace, 62.

