THE

[Sup. Ct

EI YPODAME.
Syllabus.

the high seas confers no lien upon the ship, and this is cited
by the counsel of the appellant to show that a maritime lien
is not the foundation of a proceeding in ren. But the expression is a mere dictum, and the Privy Council in the casQ
cited allude to it, and observe that it is doubtful, from a contemporaneous report of the same case,* whether the learned
judge made use of it, and add, that if he did, the expression
is certainly inaccurate, and not being necessary for the decision of the case cannot be taken as authority.
A maritime lien can only exist upon movable things engaged in navigation, .or upon things which are the subjects
of commerce on the high seas or navigable waters. It may
arise with reference to vessels, steamers, and rafts, and upon
goods and merchandise carried by them. But it cannot
arise upon anything which is fixed and immovable, like a
wharf, a bridge, or real estate of any kind. Though bridges
and wharves may aid commerce by facilitating intercourse
on land, or the discharge of cargoes, they are not in any
sense the subjects of maritime lien.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE HYPODAME.
1. In cases of collision depending on fact, where the evidence is conflicting,
this court will not readily reverse a decree made by the District, and
affirmed by the Circuit Court. It declares that the District Court, which
can examine witnesses ore tenus, and summon, if it pleases, experienced
masters of vessels to help them, as Trinity masters do the English courts
in cases depending on nautical experience, has better opportunities than
any other courts can have for examining such cases, and for forming correct conclusions on them.
2. 'When a steam vessel proceeding in the dark hears a hail before it from
some source which it cannot or does not see, it is the duty of the steam
vessel instantly to stop and reverse her engine; not simply to "slow."
8 The captain of a steam propeller is not a competent lookout; though the
propeller be a river propeller and not a steamer of the larger size.
There should be a lookout specially placed to see what is ahead.
* 1 Notes of Cases, 508.

Dec. 1867.]

TnE

H YPODAME.

Statement of the case.
4. *Wherea collision at night between a steamer and a sailing vessel is the
consequence of a sudden and unexpected change of course on the part
of the steamer, which produces a sudden peril and leaves no time to the
sailing vessel to display a light before a collision-or do more than shoutwhere the steamer, if it had had a sufficient lookout, might easily have
avoided the collision, it has no right to demand that the damages should
be divided as where both are in fault.
5. Though damages for collision ought not to be awarded to an amount beyond the stipulation given on the release or discharge of the offending
vessel from attachment, yet within that amount they may be given,
though exceeding those claimed by the libel originally, and while it was
uncertain what the damages would be, if the libel have been properly
amended.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York.
Chapin libelled the propeller Hypodame for a collision
which had occurred on the Hudson River, on a December
night, 1862, a little below Dunderberg, between the propeller just named, then going up the river, and a schooner
of his descending it, by which the schooner was struck on
its port side near the cathead, split open for ten feet or more,
and sunk before she could be towed into shallow water.
His allegation was that the propeller, ascending the river
on its east side, at the rate of eleven or twelve miles an hour,
with no proper lookout stationed or attending to his duty,
with plenty of room to have passed safely, had not done so,
but, making a rank sheer from her previous course, though
hailed by the schooner, and though the hail was heard, had
run at full speed into the schooner, descending the river on
its west side at the rate of but a mile aLd a half an hour, and
sunk her; that by reason of the collision he had been put to
great expense to raise and recover the vessel and cargo; to
repair the one and save the other, "the amount and particulars
whereof could vot as yet be correctly stated," but would as believed "exceed in the aggregate $6000."
On the other hand, the answer denied that the propeller
was going at any such rate of speed as that pretended by the
libel, averring that the speed was much slower than even six
miles an hour; in fact, "very slow;" that she had one bright
light on the stem forward, which shone right ahead, and four

TaE I-HYPODAM E.

[Sup. U3t.

Statement of the case.

points on either bow; two bright lights on the flag-staff aft,
which shone all around; a red light on the larboard side,
and a green light on the starboard; with a cornpetent lookout
placed in a proper position on the forward part of the propeller, and attentive to his duty, as was the master, and also
the other officers; that to avoid an apprehended danger
with a steamtug and tow descending the river, she had
changed her course to the westward, giving the usual signal
of such intention by two blasts of .her steam whistle; that
shortly after this change of course had been made, a hail
was heard on board the propeller from some boat or vessel
on the river, but that no boat or vessel could be seen from
the propeller by reason of the darkness of the night and
from the omission on the part of the vessel to show any
light; that the propeller's engine was immediately slowed,
and then stopped, when, at that same moment, the headlights of the propeller, shining on the sails of a vessel,
revealed, for the first time, the schooner; that the bells of
the propeller were rung to reverse the engine, and that this
was promptly done, and the steamer's helm ported to ease
the blow of the collision; inevitable, now, however, by any
effort on the part of the propeller, from the close proximity
and course of the schooner at the time of the hail and of
the discovery on the propeller of her critical position.
The facts as assumed by both the courts below, were essentially these:
The night was dark. Those in' charge of the schooner
discovered the lights of the steamer after she had rounded
Verplanck's Point, about two miles below the place of collision. The schooner was moving very slowly down the f-iver,
west of the middle of the stream, the steamer coming up at
the rate of s'ix to eight miles on the east side, a course which,
if it had been continued, would have carried her clear of the
schooner. After the steamer had passed Verplanek's Point,
she discovered a tow descending the river, and was about to
go to the eastward, when, seeing the light of a vessel on the
east, the master decided to pass to the westward of the tow,
and starl-arded his vessel for that purpose, making in fact

Dec. 1867.]

TUE

HYPODAME.

Statement of the case.

a rank sheer. He had hardly got her head turned so as to
clear the tow when he heard a shout, and he told the man at
the wheel to slow the boat. Supposing that the sound came
from some small boat, he asked the helmsman where the boat
was. The man replied that he saw nothing; the steamer's
head-lights the next moment shining full upon the sails of a
schooner, not till this moment thought of, but now seen immediately under the bow, and some one on board of her
shouting out, "In the name of heaven, are you coming into
us? are you going to sink us?" The helmsman testified
that when he heard the first shout, he told the captain to
stop the boat, that there was something ahead ; and that the
captain did not stop her. The steamer had no lookout except the captain, who had charge of navigating her. Though
the night was dark, the court " could not conclude from the
evidence that a proper lookout on the bow of the steamer
would not have discovered her in time to have cleared her."
Witnesses from the schooner testified that by a good lookout
ihe might have been seen half a mile off.
The schooner was neither carrying a light at the time of
the accident nor exhibited one; no statute at that time compelled her to carry one. She had, however, a lookout. It
did not appear that she understood the meaning of steamsignals.
Though a hawser was thrown from the steamer at once,
and made fast to the schooner, with a view of towing her
into shoal water, the blow from the steamer had so laid her
open, that she went down almost immediately. She was,
however, ultimately raised and repaired at large cost, as hereafter mentioned.
On this case the District Court considered that the propeller was the sole cause of the collision, and should be
made liable for all the damages.
As respected these, the libel, as already 8aid, alleged that
they would exceed $6000, and stipulations for costs and
value were entered into and accepted for $7250. But upon
the reference, the proof showed, and the commissioner reported, that they amounted to a larger sum. The claimant

THE H[YPODAME.

[Sup. (it

Argument for the propeller.

filed various exceptions to the commissioner's report; the
most important one having been that he had erred in allowing any greater amount of damages than what had been
claimed in the libel, viz., $6000; whereupon the libel was
amended by increasing the sum originally claimed by it.
The District Court entered its decree for $7513.07. Upon
appeal to the Circuit Court, it appearing that that sum with
interest and costs exceeded the stipulations, the excess was
struck out, thus reducing the recovery to $7250 for the
damages and costs, that being the amount of the stipulation, and, with this reduction, the Circuit Court affirmed
the decree of the District Court.
The whole case was now here for review.
Mr. Van Santvoord,for the appellants :
I. After the propeller signalled by her steam-whistle her
intention to change her course and to pass toward the side
of the river where the schooner was, the schooner should
have exhibited a light, to show that she was on the river,
and her position there. The night was dark, and the
schooner could reasonably have inferred that the steamer
might not, as she did not, see her.
Whatever may be the rule in respect to the duty of sailing vessels to exhibit a light at night on the high seas, it
would seem to be the rule in this 'country, that vessels sailing at night in narrow waters like the Hudson, must exhibit
a light to an approaching vessel.
In The Osprey,* in the third circuit, a case of collision on
a river, the court say:
"The rule of passing to the right, or porting the helm, in the
case of vessels meeting on the same line, is founded upon the
supposition that each party can see the other. But when one
is blind and the other knows it, he should not put himself within
reach,of injury by-any mistake of the blind."
And though the court there said that it could not "estab* 2 Wallace, Jr., 268; and see Peck v Sanderson, 17 Howard, 178; also,
Jacobsen, Sea Laws, 340 i The Scioto, Davies, 359, per Ware, J.

Dec. 1867.]

Tim

IEFYPODAME.

Argument for the propeller.

lish any rule to bind vessels navigating the high seas after
night to carry signal lights," they yet declared that "where
one party does this, and the other does not, we can and will
treat the dark boat as the wrongdoer."
We desire not even so much as the application of this
principle. If the schooner had only shown a light for the
moment it would have been sufficient. By not having done
so, the persons navigating her were, themselves, the authors
of her misfortune.
II. As respects the propeller. Was there fault on her
part? 'We think not.
1. As to the lookout. The ilypodame was a river propeller, as the case shows; not one therefore that carried
passengers, nor a large or first-class propeller, such as navigate the ocean; but one of a class on our rivers navigated
by the master, who is also a pilot, and a steersman, alternating with a pilot and a steersman, and on which the master
or steersman, on the master's watch, acts as lookout, and
the pilot or steersman, on the pilot's watch, acts as lookout
while the other steers. There can be no reasonable intendment that without the exhibition of a light the schooner
would or could have been earlier seen by any number of
lookouts on the propeller assigned to that special duty; and
to impute negligence to the propeller, which had a right to
act upon the supposition that if there was a vessel sailing
off to westward in the darkness, on the propeller's change
of course she would exhibit a light, on the ground that she
had no other lookout than is usual on vessels of her class,
would seem to be straining a point to charge the propeller.
2. The propeller slowing, stopping her engine and shifting her helm to port on hearing the hail, after she had -been
on the course toward the place of the schooner for four or five
minutes and within five or six seconds of the collision, instead
of slowing, stopping, and backing, is not to be regarded as a
fiult. A propeller, even if not of the higher class, is yet, with
her water-tanks, fuel, and engines, very heavy, weighing
doubtless from two to three hundred tons. Such a vessel
cannot be brought to a dead stop in the water in less than

-THuE

IIYPODAME.[Sp

t
[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the schooner.

one and a half to two minutes while she sheers quick. If
the pilot erred in this matter, it should be attributed to the
suddenness of the emergency caused by the omission of the
schooner to exhibit a light.
But if the propeller should be adjudged to have been in
fault, the schooner was clearly in fault also in not exhibiting a light on the propeller's change of direction toward
her, and the damages should be divided.
III. As to the damages, it is submitted that no greater
should be allowed than were claimed in the libel.
Mr. Owen,'contra:
I. The propeller was clearly and alone in fault, and is responsible for all damages.
1. She was in fault in not having a competent lookout
properly stationed and faithfully attending to that duty. No
person pretends to have acted as lookout except the captain,
and he was incompetent, as lie had other duties to perform
in piloting his vessel, signalling and passing the descending
tow.*
2. She was also in fault in proceeding forward after hearing the shout from the schooner. She should have stopped
immediately.t
II. The schooner was not in fault. The collision was not
caused by any act or omission on her part.
The only fault alleged against her is, that she did not display a light on the approach of the propeller. But the law
did not at that time require her to carry, nor, unless the
night was so dark that she could not have been seen by a

vigilant lookout on the propeller far enough to have avoided
her, even to exhibit a light. In addition, the sheer was abrupt, rank, and totally unexpected, so that there was no sufficient time afterwards and before the collision to display a
light.
But if there had been sufficient time to display a light,.
* The Ottawa, 3 Wallace, 268; Chamberlain v.Ward, 21 Howard, 548;
Henry v. Balt. Packet, 28 Id. 287.
J Nelson v. Leland, 22 Howard, 48.

De(. ISM7]

THE HYPODAME.
Opinion of the court.

still that would have been no better than the shout. And
even though a light might have been better than the hail,
still the schooner should not be held responsible, if, under
the impending danger in which she was suddenly placed,
without. any previous fault on her part, she faired to adopt
the best mode of disclosing her presence.
III. As to the damages. When the libel was filed the
amount and particulars of damages, it was stated, could not
be specified, though it .was asserted that they would exceed
$6000. Certainly when it was discovered on the raising of
the vessel that they' would so exceed the sum, the libel was
rightly amended. Being within the stipulation, the appellant has no cause of complaint, as they have been reduced
by the Circuit Court below the amtunt really lost.
Reply: All the cases cited in regard to lookouts, and
that there should be on vessels a lookout specially designated ad hoc, will be found, on examination, to be cases of
vessels quite different from our ordinary river propellers;
steamers of a larger class, having their pilot-houses on hurricane decks high up, and where, unless a person stands on
the bow all the time, he cannot see; steamers employing
moreover and requiring in their navigation a fuller complement of men; making it practicable to assign a greater
number of men to different duties, but without in general
securing a better result, so far as exemption from casualties
is concerned, than is accomplished by a smaller force on
steamers of the class of the lypodame.
2%r. Justice GIIER delivered the opinion of the court.
In cases of collision the testimony is often conflicting and
irreconcilable. Each party can make out a plausible case
supported by some evidence. In such cases we have frequently decided that where the district and circuits concur
in opinion on the facts, and there is testimony supporting
their decision, we will not reverse it on doubts raised by ingenuity of counsel.*
" See Norton v. Newell and Ship, 3 Wallace, 267.

TjiE,

YPODAMIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The District Courts have better opportunities for examin.

ing such cases and forming a correct conclusion than any
other. They may examine witnesses ore tenus, and although
they may not have Trinity masters to assist them, yet in
difficult eases depending on nautical experience the judge
may call to his aid experienced masters of vessels (as is
done in one district at least),* whose report will greatly assist
the court in coming to a.correct conclusion.
In the case before us we see no reason to doubt that the
conclusions of both courts below on the facts in the case are
correct.
We concur also with the court below, that the propeller
had no competent lookout, as required by the frequent decisions of this court.t The evidence shows that the schooner
might have been seen a half-mile off if there had been a
c9mpetent lookout.
When the propeller made the sudden sheer towards the
western shore, the man at the wheel told the captain "to
stop the boat, there was something ahead; he did not stop
her; her wheel was then put to port. I then pulled the
bell," &e.
The sheer was abrupt and totally unexpected. Previous
to that there was no danger calling for any peculiar precautions. The schooner was in her proper place, and could not
possibly anticipate such a sudden change of course. All
they could do under the circumstances was to shout-they
were heard-but no attention was paid to the warning.
Producing a light at that time would have been equally
unavailing.
The defence relied on here was, that the schooner was in
fault in not exhibiting a light on the propeller's change of
direction towards her. The collision took place before the
passage of the act of the 20th of April, 1864. This act
(article 5th) requires sailing ships, "under way or being
towed, to carry the same lights as steamships under way,
with the exception of the white mast-head lights, which they
* The Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
t See The Ottawa, 3 Wallace, 268

Dec. 1867.]

THE VANDERBILT.
Syllabus.

shall never carry," an exception justified by experience, which
showed that it caused many collisions, arising from mistaking it for a light on shore; the case of "_Propeller Monticello
v. Mollisson,"* being an example. There the steamer was
running on a course a mile wide of the schooner, but mistaking her mast-head light fbr a light-house, she steered with
such accuracy of aim as to strike the schooner exactly and
with such force as to sink her.
By the customs and rules of navigation every vessel at
anchor in a harbor or roadstead is bound to keep a light suspended on board. But previous to the passage of this act
sailing vessels on the rivers and on the ocean were not bound
by any law or custom to carry lights. The case of The Osprey, cited by the appellant's counsel, applies to vessels meeting in the same line, where one party can plainly see the
other and yet keeps dark. But where the danger of collision
is the consequence of a sudden and unexpected change of
course, which produces a sudden peril and leaves no time to
the sailing vessel to display a light before a collision-or do
more than shout-where the steamboat, if it had had a sufficient lookout, might easily have avoided the collision, it has
no right to complain or demand that the damages should be
divided as where both are in fault.
The exceptions to the master's report are without just
foundation after the Circuit Court had reduced the damages
to the amount of $51M.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED.

THE VANDERBILT.

1. Where the usage in navigating a river is, that both ascending and descending vessels shall keep to the right of the centre of the channel,which is the usage in the River Hudson,-the omission to comply, seasonably, with that regulation, if the omission contributes to the collision,
is a fault for which the offending vessel and her owners must be responsible.
* 17 Howard, 152.
VOL. vr.

15

