Dec. 1867.]

WEST V. AURORA CITY.

139

Statement of the case.

then, on the transfer of the suit to the Federal court, and
trial had there, they would have been equally receivable in
evidence. The law of Ohio directs that all suits be brought
in the name of the real party in interest. This constitutes
a title to sue, when the suit is brought in the State court, in
conformity with it; and in all cases transferred from the
State to the Federal court, under the 12th section of the
Judiciary Act, this title will be recognized and preserved;
and when a declaration is required by the rules of the Circuit Court, it may be filed in the name of the party who
was the plaintiff in the State court.
DECREE REVERSED and the cause remanded, with directions
to dismiss the bill without prejudice, and to proceed in conformity with this opinion.

Mr. Justice SWAYKE did not sit in this case, being a
stockholder in one of the corporations.

WEST V. AURORA CITY.
A suit removable from a State court under the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act must be a suit regularly commenced by a citizen of the
State in which the suit is brought by process served upon a defendant
who is a citizen of another State.
Hence no removal can be made of a defence or answer, though of such a
character as that, under statute of the State, it becomes, by a discontinuance of the original suit itself, a proceeding that may go on to trial and
judgment, as if, in some sense, an original suit.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Indiana.

The twelfth section of the Judiciary Act provides:
"That if a suit be commenced in any State court against an
alien, or by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought,

against a citizen of another State, ....and the defendant shall,
at tlhe tine of entering his appearance, file his petition for the re-

moval of the cause for trial in the next Circuit Court, ....and

WEST v. AUitoRA CITY.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

offer good and sufficient surety for his entering appearance in
such State court, on the first day of its session, and file copies
of said process against him, . ..it shall be the duty of the
State court to accept the surety and proceed no further in the
cause,. . . and such copies being entered as aforesaid in such
court of the United States, the cause shall proceed there in the
same manner as if it had been brought by original process."
The code of Indiana also provides that in suits brought in
that State"The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds
of defence, counter-claim, and set-off, whether legal or equitable,
as he shall have. Each shall be distinctly stated in a separate
paragraph, and numbered, and clearly refer to the cause of action
intended to be answered." *
With these statutory provisions in existence,West and Torrance, citizens of Ohio, brought suit in one of the State courts
of Indiana against the City of Aurora, Indiana. The nature
of their action did not cleArly appear from the record, but
it seemed to have been a suit, by petition, under the State
code, against the city just named, for the recovery of the
amount of the matured interest coupons of certain bonds.
To this suit the defendants seemed to have made defences
by answer under the code, and subsequently to have filed,
by leave of the court, as an additional answer, three paragraphs setting up new defensive matter, in each of which
the defendant prayed an injunction to restrain the plaintiffs
from further proceeding in any suit on the coupons or bonds,
and from transferring them to any third parties, and for a
decree that the bonds be delivered up to be cancelled.
Upon the filing of these additional paragraphs the plaintiffs entered a discontinuance of their suit, and, assuming
chat under the code the new paragraphs of the answer would
remain, in substance, a new suit against them for the cause
and object set forth in them, filed their petition for the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the United
States. 'The petition was allowed by the State court, and
the new paragraphs, without any other portion of the record

Dec. 1867.]

WEST v.

AURORA CITY.

Opinion of the court.

of the suit in that court, except enough to show its title and
the entry of discontinuance, were sent into the Circuit Court.
By that court they were remanded to the State court as not
constituting a suit that could be removed under the twelfth
section of the Judicial Act.
To this action of the Circuit Court, West and Torrance
took exceptions, and the case was now here on error; the
question being whether the action of the Circuit Court was
right.
Mr. T.G. Mitchell, for the plaintff in error, argued that the
"additional paragraphs" constituted under the Indiana code
a counter-claim; and that notwithstanding the discontinu-

ance of West and Torrance of their action, and the consequent
withdrawal of the issues tendered by them, they could not
discontinue the "counter-claim" presented in the additional
paragraphs by the other side. These made across-action by
the defendants against the plaintiffs; one but incidental to

the original action, so long as that original action was in
course of existence and progress, but independent of it, as
soon as it was withdrawn, and so destroyed. Hence the
removal to the Federal court was proper and the remand
error.

Mr. T. D. Lincoln, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the Circuit Court was clearly right in its
action. The filing of the additional paragraphs did not make
a new suit within the meaning of the Judicial Act. They
were in the nature of defensive pleas, coupled with a prayer
for injunction and general relief. This, if allowed by the
code of Indiana, might give them, in some sense, the character of an original suit, but not such as could be removed from
the jurisdiction of the State court. The right of removal is
given only to a defendant who has not submitted himself to
that jurisdiction; not to an original plaintiff in a State court
who, by resorting to that jurisdiction, has become liable
under the State laws to a cross-action.

RECTOR V. ASHLEY.

[Sup. CL

Syllabus.

And it is given only to a defendant who promptly avails
himself of the right at the time of appearance, by declining
to plead and filing his petition for removal.
In the case before us, West and Torrance, citizens of Ohio,
voluntarily resorted, as plaintiffs, to the State court of Indiana. They were bound to know of what rights the defendants to their suit might avail themselves under the code.
Submitting themselves to the jurisdiction they submitted
themselves to it in its whole extent. The filing of the new
paragraphs, therefore, could not make them defendants to a
suit, removable on their application to the Circuit Court of
the United States.
It is equally fatal to the supposed right of removal that
the record presents only a fragment of a cause, unintelligible
except by reference to other matters not sent up from the
State court and through explanations of counsel.
A suit removable from a State court must be a suit regularly commenced by a citizen of the State in which the suit
is brought, by process served upon a defendant who is a
citizen of another State, and who, if he does not elect to remove, is bound to submit to the jurisdiction of the State
court.

This is not such a suit, and the order of the Circuit Court
remanding the cause to the State court must therefore be
AFFIRMED.

RECTOR v. AsHLEY.

1. Where a case is brought here by a writ of error to a State court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, this court can only review the decision of the State court on the question or questions mentioned in that
section.
2 Therefore, if in addition to the decision of the State court on such question or questions, that court has rested its judgment on some point in
the case not within the purview of that section, and that point is broad
enough to sustain the judgment, then, although the ruling of the State
court might be reversed on the point which is of Federal cognizance,
this ;ourt will not entertain jurisdiction of the case.

