Dec. 1867.]

PRENTICE V. PICKERSGILL.

.511

Statement of the case.

acts the judges ought to take notice. But if it be misrecited
the party ought to demur in law upon it. And in that case
the law is grounded upon great reason, for God forbid, if
the record of such acts should be lost, or consumed by fire
or other means, that it should be to the general prejudice of
the commonwealth, but rather, although it be lost or consumed, the judges either by the printed copy, or by the record in which it was pleaded, or by other means, may inform themselves of it."
In this case the Lord Chancellor was assisted by a judge
from each of the common law courts, of whom Coke was
one, and the decision as reported by him, and the reason on
which it was founded, are entitled to the highest consideration.
We are of opinion, therefore, on principle as well as authority, that whenever a question arises in a court of law of
the existence of a statute, or of the time when a statute took
effect, or of the precise terms of a statute, the judges who
are called upon to decide it, have a right to resort to any
source of information which in its nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear and satisfactory answer
to such question; always seeking first for that which in its
nature is most appropriate, unless the positive law has enacted a different rule.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PRENTICE V. PICKERSGILL.
A judgment affirmed under Rule 23 of the court, with ten per cent. damages,
it appearing from the character of the pleadings, that the writ of error
must have been taken only for delay.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
The twenty .third rule of this court declares that "in all
cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings on

PRENTICE V. PIOKERSGILL.

ESpup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the judgment of the inferior court, and shall appear to have
been sued out merely for delay, damages shall be awarded at
the rate of ten per centum per annum on the amount of the
judgment; and the said damages shall be calculated from
the date of the judgment in the court below until the money
is paid." With this rule in force Prentice sold to Pickersgill
a lot of ground having a mortgage of $5000 on it; Pickersgill
paying $1500 in cash, and Prentice covenanting to pay off
the mortgage. The covenant not being kept, and the property having been sold on a foreclosure of the mortgage,
Pickersgill sued Prentice on the covenant. Prentice pleaded
that as "he claimed, supposed, and understood," the covenant was satisfied and discharged, he having paid Pickersgill
$1500 back; but that a dispute arising between the parties
as to whether anything more ought to be paid, the matter
was agreed to be left to one Henry, who said and decided
that $1500 more ought to be paid.
Replication that there was no such reference; that Henry
did not make any award or decision; and that the said defendant did not pay to the plaintiff the sum of $1500, or any
sum of money, for or on account of any award or determina-

tion ; concluding to the country.
To this replication, after issue joined, and when the cause
was on the trial list, and ready for trial, Prentice demurred,
assigning for cause that the replication did not properly
traverse the plea; that it introduced new matter in the allegation that the defendant did not pay to the plaintiff $1500,
or any sum of money, for or on account of the award, which
allegation ought to have concludd with a verification, and

not to the country, and that it was colorable, uncertain, &c.
The demurrer being overruled, the case went to trial, before Grier, J., when the defendant wholly failing to prove
any reference, or submission, or award by Henry, the jury
found for the plaintiff $2618; the plaintiff having been
credited by them with the $1500 paid back. Judgment
having gone accordingly, a writ of error was taken by the
defendant to this court; no counsel appearing for him in
this court, nor any brief being filed.

Dee. 1867.]

P RENTICE V;. P ICKERSGILL.

*

513

Opinion of the court.

AMessrs. Veech and Henry, for the other party, defendant in
error:
The averment in the replication, that the defendant did
not pay the sum of $1500, or any sum on account of any
award or determination made by Henry, was immaterial,
and at most matter of surplusage. Independently of that
averment, the replication was a complete answer to the plea.
Moreover, the demurrer was too late. It was filed after
issue joined, and when the cause was on the trial-list, and
ready for trial. The case was tried before the jury on its
merits, and the defendant below utterly failed to make out
any defence to the plaintiff's claim. The.plaintiff had credited him with the $1500, and the verdict was for the residue.
In point of fact, the defendant below had no defence, and
his demurrer, like his writ of error, was intended for delay.
The CHIEF JUSTICE: The writ of error in this case
was sued out merely for delay. The judgment will therefore be affirmed under the twenty-third rule, with ten per
centum damages on the amount of the judgment below.
AFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

1NOT,.

At the close of the term another case, The Chicago City Rail.
way Co. v. Bour, a suit brought by a passenger against a railroad
company to recover damages for an injury done to him, by reason of the negligence of their servants in running one of their

cars, was affirmed with like damages, there having been no exception to the rulings or instructions of the court, and the court
observing that the case seemed "to have been brought simply
for delay." See also The Douro, 3 Wallace, 566.

VOL

V .

