KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 339
Syllabus.

like circumstances, to resort to them for redress." The right
to classify railroad property, as a separate class, for purposes
of taxation, grows out of the inherent nature of the property,
and the discretion vested by the Constitution of the State in
its legislature, and necessarily involves the right, on its part, to
devise and carry into effect a distinct scheme, with different
tribunals, in the proceeding to value it. If such a scheme is
due process of law, the details in which it differs from the
mode of valuing other descriptions and classes of property cannot be considered as a denial of the equal protection of the

laws.
We see no error in the several judgments of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky in these cases, and they are accordingly
.Affrmed.
RfR.
JusTic,

BLATcHFoEm did not sit in these cases, or take.

any part in their decision.

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE ITNSURANCE COMPANY v.
PENDLETON & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued October 22, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.
After final judgment in this case at the last term reversing the judgment
below (see 112 U. S. 696), the court discovered that the writ of error was
sued out and citation directed and served against P. H. Pendleton, only
one of the plaintiffs below ; that the preliminary appeal bond was made to
him alone; but that the supersedeas bond was executed to all the plaintiffs
below, and that all subsequent proceedings were entitled in the name of P.
H. Pendleton & als. After notice to plaintiff in error to show cause, the
court allowed the writ of error to be amended, set aside the judgment,
ordered a new citation to be issued to all the plaintiffs below, and directed
a reargument.
On the rehearing the court adhere to the views expressed in the former
opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
On an issue whether demand of payment of a draft had been waived by the
payees in order that they might communicate with the drawer, evidence of
the custom and usage of the bank holding it, if offered in support of evidence (not objected to) of the cashier of the bank of his conviction and
belief (founded on such custom and usage) that the draft had been so presented, comes within the rule which allows usage and the course of business
to be shown for the purpose of raising a primafacie presumption of fact,
in aid of collateral testimony: and, taken together, they are sufficient to be
presented to the jury.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Y'r. James A. Dennison [3l&. Leslie IF. Russell also filed
a brief] for plaintiff in error.
Ifl. -. IF. Humes and -Yr. 1). I Poston [2fir. I-. H Poston was with them on the brief] for defendants in error.

Mp. JusTIcE BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment rendered in this case on the 5th of January
last (see opinion, 112 U. S. 696) was set aside on the last day
of the last term, and the cause was restored to the docket for
reargument at the present term. The original action was
brought by several joint plaintiffs, minors and children of
Samuel HI. Pendleton, deceased, against the Knickerbocker
Life Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance on the life
of said Samuel, taken out by him for the benefit of his said
children; and judgment was rendered'for the plaintiffs, some
of whom had, in the mean time, come of age. The writ of
error in this case was brought to reverse this judgment, and a
judgment of reversal was pronounced on the 5th of January
last. It was subsequently discovered by the court (a fact not
noticed by any of the counsel) that the writ of error was sued
out, and the citation was directed and served, against only one
of the plaintiffs below, to wit, P. H. Pendleton. The preliminary appeal bond for costs was also made to P. H. Pendleton alone; but the bond for supersedeas, subsequently executed, was made to all the plaintiffs by name, and the
subsequent proceedings were generally entitled in the name of
P. H. Pendleton & als. This court, in view of the defect in the

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 341
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error, entered a rule on the plaintiff in error to show
cause why the judgment previously rendered should not be
vacated and the writ of error dismissed. On consideration of
the special circumstances of the case, we allowed the writ to
be amended, and a new citation to be issued to all the plaintiffs below, set aside our previous judgment, and directed the
cause to be restored to the docket for reargument.
The case has now been reargued, all the parties being represented. We do not find occasion, however, to render a different decision from our former one. The only question which
we have deemed it necessary to consider more fully, being
more fully discussed by counsel than before, is, whether the
evidence adduced to show a presentment of the draft in question for payment was sufficient to be submitted to the jury.
The defendants in error now strenuously contend that it was
not. It will be remembered that the draft was dated July 14,
1871, and was payable three months after date without grace,
and contained a conditibn that if not paid at maturity the
policy should become void. We held that if the insurance
company wished to avail itself of this condition, it must present the draft for payment at its maturity, but that protest for
non-payment was not necessary.
On the trial, which took place nearly ten years after the
transactions referred to, it was shown that about three weeks*
before the maturity of the draft, it was sent from Memphis by
the Union and Planters' Bank to the Louisiana National Bank
at New Orleans, to be presented for acceptance, with directions not to have it protested; that the latter bank did so present it to the drawees, Moses Greenwood & Son, and -that it
was not accepted by them; that it was then returned to the
Memphis bank, which, about the 5th of October, again sent it
to the New Orleans bank for demand of payment. Luria., the
cashier of the latter bank, was examined on interrogatories.
After stating the facts relating to the presentment of the draft
for acceptance, and the usage and custom of his bank with regard to the presentment of bills and notes for acceptance and
payment, he was asked this question: "From your examination
of the indorsements upon the draft" (which was exhibited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

him), "in connection with your knowledge of the course of
business of the Louisiana National Bank, as stated by you,
would you say whether or no said paper has been presented
for acceptance and payment as other commercial paper sent to
you for collection through your corresponding banks?" To
which he answered: "Yes, it was presented for acceptance
and for payment, as in all similar cases [of] paper sent to us
for collection, which is the custom on the part of the Louisiana
National Bank in giving prompt attention to all business intrusted to its care."
It was not pretended that the draft was paid.
The witness being asked, on cross-examination, if he knew,
of his own knowledge, that said draft was presented for
either acceptance or payment, he answered: "Yes, for both,
from the fact that the rules of the bank make it necessary, in
the ordinary course of business, to present both for acceptance
and payment." Being asked if he presented the bill in person,
or was present, he said: "No, for the reason that, as cashier of
the bank, it is not my duty to present drafts either for acceptance
or payment." He also stated that it was the custom of the bank
to give notice to drawees of time drafts of the maturity of the
same; and that the drawees, in this case, Moses Greenwood &
Son, had a regular business office in the city of New Orleans.
Luria further testified that the bill was entered on the books
of the bank as maturing on -the l4th-17th October, 1871, the
three days of grace being added according to the laws of
Louisiana. It further appeared that on both occasions, when
the bill was sent to the Louisiana bank for presentment, and
when it was sent for payment, it was with instructions not to
have it protested; which accounts for the fact of there having
been no regular protest of the draft. Two letters of Moses
Greenwood & Son to S. H. Pendleton were, produced in
evidence, one dated September 29, 181, and the other November 4, 1871. In the first they say: "Your draft for life policy
(some $330), due 14th of next month, was presented this day
for acceptance. Not finding any advice of it, we requested
them to hold till we got an answer from you. Please write at
once if you want it paid." By the letter of November 4, they

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 343
Opinion of the Court.

say: "Yours of 27th ult. received. Will pay that insurance
note when presented, as you request. This is the first advice
we have had about it." This does not show that the draft had
not been already presented for payment. The letters, taken
together, show that Moses Greenwood & Son were not prepared to accept or pay the draft until they received Pendleton's letter of October 27, long after the draft became due. It
seems very probable from the evidence that, as well when the
draft was presented for payment (if it was so presented), as
when it was presented for acceptance, the drawees requested
the bank to hold it until they could get instructions from the
drawer. At all events, the Louisiana bank kept the draft until
November 17, 1871, and then returned it to the Union and
Planters' Bank of 'Memphis. Luria, being asked, "Why did
your bank hold this paper, which matured on the 17th of October, 1871, until the 17th of November, 1871, before returning
it to the Union and Planters' Bank, Memphis?" answered, "I
cannot say positively for what reason, not having the correspondence before me; my impression, however, is that protest
being waived, and the demand for its payment having been
made, it is quite likely that M. Greenwood & Co. may have requested it held until they could receive advice from the parties;
however, it was retained, with the expectation of collecting,
until the 17th of November, 1871, when it was returned by instructions of the Union and Planters' Bank of Memphis, in
their letter dated November 14, 1871."
Santana, the runner of the Louisiana bank, whose duty it was
to present notes and drafts, was also examined on interrogatories. Being asked to state all that he knew about the draft
in question [which was exhibited to him], he answered that he
had it for the purpose of presenting it for acceptance, which
was refused, as per pencil memorandum on the back of it in
his handwriting, namely, "No advice-refused acc't." He was
not asked by either party whether he presented the draft for
payment.
Greene, one of the defendants' agents at Memphis, testified
that, on or about 3d day of October, 1871, they (the said
agents) wrote to Pendleton, by mail, of the non-acceptance of

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the draft, and on or about the 20th of November they again
wrote to him of the non-payment of it; and that, in the latter
part of November or early in December, he, Pendleton, called
upon said agents, in Memphis, and stated that the reason he
did not answer their letters was, that he expected soon to come
to Memphis, and that he was much surprised that Greenwood
& Co. did not pay the draft, but that they were now prepared
to pay it, and exhibited their letter to him before referred to.
. None of this evidence was objected to except, when the deposition of Luria was offered, the plaintiffs objected to his answers
relating to the custom of the Louisiana National Bank in regard to presentment of paper for acceptance and payment,
which objection was overruled.
We think that the evidence, taken together, was sufficient
to go to the jury on the question whether the draft was, or
was not, presented for payment, or, which is the same thing,
whether demand of payment was waived by the payees in
order that they might communicate with the drawer. The
evidence of the custom and usage of the bank was not objected
to when taken, nor when the interrogatories were proposed,
and we think it was competent even if it had been objected to.
It was competent for the purpose of sustaining and corroborating the conviction and belief of Luria, the cashier, that the
draft had been presented for payment. His conviction and
belief were undoubtedly based on this custom and usage, and
were of value only so far as such custom and usage were invariably maintained and pursued.
A bank is a quasi-public institution. Its officers have regular and set duties to perform, directly affecting the financial
transactions of the entire public. It is essential to the public
interest that these duties should be performed with invariable
certainty and exactness. The business community relies upon
such performance, and, at least after the lapse of a considerable
time, it should be presumed that these duties have been performed and business done in accordance with the custom and
course of business of the bank. The degree of exactness with
which they have been performed by a particular' bank is matter of proof, depending upon the custom and course of business

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 345
Opinion of the Court.

of that bank, and is matter of consideration for the jury. Of
course, proof of such custom and course of business cannot dispense with documentary evidence when such evidence is requisite in law to verify the act done, or to make it complete, such
as protest and notice of dishonor, when these are necessary;
and, in all cases, it is the province of the jury to determine,
under all the circumstances of the case, the weight to be given
to the evidence. See Rosenthal v. Talker, 111 U. S. 185, 193,
and Jutntley v. TFkittier, 105 Mass. 391, there cited.
This kind of presumption of fact, referable to the consideration of a jury, is well known and frequently recognized in the
law. Such presumptions are founded upon the experience of
human conduct in the course of trade and business, under the
promptings of interest or public responsibility. "Under this
head," says Mr. Greenleaf, "may be ranked the presumptions
frequently made from the regular course of business in a public office. . . . If a letter is sent by the post, it is presumed,
from the known course in that department of the public service, that it reached its destination at the regular time, and was
received by the person to whom it was addressed, if living at
the place, and usually receiving letters there." He adds: "The
like presumption is also drawn from the usual course of men's
private offices and business, where the primary evidence of the
fact is wanting."
1 Greenleaf on Evid. § 40. Insupport of
these propositions, the author refers to many authorities, which
seem to be fully in point. The same general propositions are
laid down by Mr. Taylor, in his Treatise on Evidence, copying,
as he usually does, the language of Prof. Greenleaf. He adds
the following illustrations derived from adjudged cases in England: "If letters or notices properly directed to a gentleman
be left with his servant, it is only reasonable to presume,prima
facie, that they r'eached his hands.
_3facgregor v. -Yeily, 3
Exch. 794. The fact, too, of sending a letter to a post office
will, in general, be regarded by a jury as presumptively proved,
if it be shown to have been handed to, or left with, the clerk
whose duty it was, in the ordinary course of business, to carry
letters to the post, and, if he can declare that, although he has
no recollection of the particular letter, he invariably took to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
post office all letters that either were delivered to him, or were
deposited in a certain place for that purpose;" referring to
Skilbeck v. Garbett, 7 Q. B. 846; Hfet/erington v. emzp, 4
Camp. 193; Ward v. Lord Londesborough, 12 C. B. 252;
Spencer v. Tion2pson, 6 Irish Law R. N. S. 537, 565. See 1
Taylor on Evid. § 148. We may also refer to the case of .Dana

v. Kemble, 19 Pick. 112, in which it was held,

CHIEF JUsTICE

SnAw delivering the opinion, that where it was the usage of a
hotel to deposit all letters left at the bar, in an urn kept for
that purpose, whence they were sent frequently throughout the
day to the rooms of the different guests to whom they were
directed, it will be presumed that a letter addressed to one of
the guests and left at the bar was received by him. And in
Barker v. ff. . Central Railroad Co., 2- N. Y. 599, it was
held admissible to show the regulations of the corporation and
the customs of its agents, in respect to giving notice to passengers of the necessity of their changing cars in order to reach a
given station, to corroborate the testimony of the conductor in

that regard; the Court of Appeals, by

SUTHERLAND,

J., re-

marking: "This evidence would tend to corroborate Budd
upon the principle that the business of the defendant is a sort
of public business, and their employees a kind of public officers;
and that the presumption is, that they would perform their
duties according to the regulations of the business."
See further, as to presumptions of this kind, 2 Daniel on: Negotiable Instruments, §§ 1054, 1055, and the authorities there
cited.
The cases of -Musson v. Lake, 4 How. 262, and United States
V. Ross, 92 U. S.281, are relied on by the defendants in error
to show that the kind of presumption to which we have referred cannot be resorted to for the purpose of proving a distinct fact necessary to the case which it is adduced to support.
We do not think that those cases impugn the doctrine we
have laid down. In -3fzsson v. Lake the official certificate of
a notary, that he had demanded payment of a foreign bill,
was held insufficient to prove that he had presented the bill
itself to the drawees for payment, and the presumption that,

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 347
Opiuion of the Court.

as a public officer, he had done his duty, could not supply this
omission. But, by the law merchant, the certificate of protest
is the proper evidence in such cases, and although a presentment may have been proved by oral testimony, there was no
attempt to prove it in this way. As the court deemed the certificate of protest defective and insufficient, it was a legitimate
conclusion that the defect could not be supplied by mere presumption.
In United States v. Ross it was sought to deduce, by a presumption of law, the essential facts, that the claimant's cotton
was delivered to a Treasury agent, was sold, and the proceeds
paid into the Treasury, when the only proof was, and the only
facts found by the Court of Claims were, that the cotton was
captured and sent forward by a military officer from a station
in Georgia to certain connecting stations and railroad lines
leading north, and that there were certain funds in the Treasury which might have been the proceeds of the cotton. Of
course, this court held that such a finding was insufficient to
establish the facts referred to.
It is unnecessary to go as far as some of the cases referred
to have gone, to sustain the competency of the evidence offered
in the present case. The public character of the- business of a
bank, the strict regulations under which its business is usually
transacted, the care required of its officers and agents in performing their duties, bring the case fully within the operation
of the rule which allows usage and the course of business to be
shown for the purpose of raising aprimafaoiepresumption of
fact in aid of collateral testimony. We have no hesitation in
holding that the evidence offered was competent to corroborate
the testimony of the cashier.
We do not deem it necessary, at this time, to go minutely
into the question as to the exact day when the draft matured.
If it was the general custom of the New Orleans banks to
allow grace upon bills of exchange even when it was waived,
as the testimony of Luria would seem to imply, it is possible
that such a custom made it the duty of the bank to allow it in
this case. We express no opinion on the subject. We are not
examining the case upon its whole merits, as upon an appeal;

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

but, being satisfied that the direction of the court was wrong
as to the necessity of a regular protest for non-payment, we
only examine the further question raised by the defendant in
error, as to the insufficiency of the evidence adduced to show
a demand of payment, for the purpose of determining as to its
admissibility and competency; its weight will be for the consideration of the jury under proper instructions from the court
on a future trial.
Tiejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the caud
remanded,with directions to award a new trial.

SARGENT & Others v. HELTON & Others.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABA. IA.
Argued October 23, 185.-Decided November 16, 1885.

Where a sale of the lands of a bankrupt estate has been made and confirmed
by order of the bankruptcy court, and the lands have been conveyed by the
assignee, the Circuit Court of the United States is without jurisdiction at
the suit of the purchaser to enjoin a sale of the same lauds about to be
made upon the order of a State court.

Dana Sargent, one of the appellants, was the sole plaintiff
at the commencement of the suit in the Circuit Court. His
bill was filed July 10, 1879. It alleged in substance as follows:
The Pensacola Lumber Company, a corporation of the State
of New York, was, on February 27, 1875, adjudicated bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and on the 18th day of Mfay following
a deed of assignment of all the property of the bankrupt was
executed to the assignee in bankruptcy.. The property so conveyed consisted in part of a large body of land in Escambia
County, in the State of Alabama. Under a decree of the
bankruptcy court, made on December 22, 1875, these lands
were sold at public sale on January 5, 1876, in the city of New

