KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Syllabus.

Fuller's ratification of the proceedings by joining in the deed
does not remove, in my judgment, this objection, as it is evident
that it was executed in ignorance of all the circumstances under
which the sale took place. I agree with the court below that,
"if a trustee can ratify the acts of his co-trustee, it can only be
upon consultation with him, and upon full information as to
all the facts; " and it is clear that this information was want-

ing in the present case.

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
CICINNATI, NEW ORLEANS & TEXAS PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SAME.
CHESAPEAKE, OHIO & SOUTHWESTERN RAIL-

ROAD COMPATY v. SAM.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
Argued October 16, 19, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.
A State statute for raising public revenue by the assessment and collection of
taxes, which gives notice of the proposed assessment to an owner of property to be affected, by requiring him at a time named to present a statement of his property, with his estimate of its value, to a designated official
charged with the duty of receiving the statement; which fixes time and
place for public sessions of other officials, at which this statement and estimate are to be considered, where the official valuation is to be made, and
when and where the party interested has the right to be present and to be
heard; and which affords him opportunity, in a suit at law for the collection of the tax, to judicially contest the validity of the proceeding, does not
necessarily deprive him of his property without "due process of law,"
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States.
vOL. cxv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
A State law for the valuation of property and the assessment of taxes thereon,
which provides for the classification, of property subject to its provisions
into different classes ; which makes for one class one set of provisions as
to modes and methods of ascertaining the value, and as to right of appeal,
and different provisions for another class as to those subjects ; but which
provides for -the impartial application of the same means and methods to
all constituents of each class, so that the law shall operate equally and uniformly on all persons in similar circumstances, denies to no person affected
by it "equal protection of the laws," within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

The Commonwealth of Kentucky brought its several actions
against the railroad companies above named as plaintiffs in
error respectively, to recover the amounts of certain taxes levied
against each of them, under the provisions of "An act to prescribe the mode of ascertaining the value of the property of
railroad companies for taxation, and for taxing the same," approved April 3, 1878. Bullitt & Feland's General Statutes of
Kentucky, 1881, 1019..
As the validity of this statute is drawn in question in these
actions, it is here set out in full, as follows:
"§ 1. Be it enacted by the GeneralAssembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, That the president or chief officer of each
railroad company, or other corporation owning a railroad
lying in this State, shall, in the month of July in each year,
return to the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State, under
oath, the total length of such railroad, including the length
thereof beyond the limits of the State, and designating its
length within this State, and in each county, city, and incorporate town therein, together with the average value per mile
thereof, for the purpose of being operated as a carrier of freight
and passengers, including engines and cars and a list of the
depot grounds and improvements, and other real estate of the
said company, and the value thereof, and the respective counties, cities, and incorporated towns, in which the same are located. That if any of said railroad companies owns or operates a railroad or railroads out of this State, but in connection
with its road in this State, the president or chief officer of such
company shall only be required to return such proportion of
the entire value of all its rolling-stock as the number of miles

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Statement of Facts.

of its railroad in this State bears to the whole number of miles
operated by said company in and out of this State.
"§ 2. That should any railroad, or part of a line of railroad,
in this State, be in the hands or under the control of a receiver
or other person, by order or decree of any court in this or any
other State, it shall be the duty of such receiver or other person to make, under his oath, the returns and valuations required by the first section of this act; and should such president or chief officer of any railroad company, or such receiver,
fail to make said returns and valuations on or before the first
day of August in each and every year, the said Auditor shall
proceed and ascertain the facts and values required by this act
to be returned, and in such manner and by such means as he
may deem best, and at the cost of the company failing to make
the returns and values.
"§ 3. That the governor of the State, on or before the first
day of August, 1878, shall appoint three disinterested freeholders, citizens of this State, who shall constitute a board of
equalization, who shall meet annually at the office of the Auditor in Frankfort, on the first day of September in each year,
a majority present constituting a quorum for the transaction of
business; and at the said meetings the Auditor shall lay before
them the returns made to him under this act, and any schedules and valuations he may have made under the second section hereof; and should the valuations, or any of them, in the
judgment of said board, be either too high or too low, they
shall correct and equalize the same by a proper increase or decrease thereof. Said board shall keep a record of their proceedings, to be signed by each member present at any meeting; and the said board is hereby authorized to examine the
books and property of any railroad company to ascertain the
value of its property, or to have them examined by any suitable disinterested person, to be appointed by them for that
purpose. The members of said board shall hold their office
for the term of four years, and shall receive for their services
ten dollars per day, and, all travelling and other necessary expenses whilst in actual service: Provided,That said service shall
not be for a longer period of time than twenty days in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

one year; and before proceeding to act under their appointment, they shall take an oath before the Governor of the State,
that they will faithfully and impartially perform their duties
as members of said board of equalization; and in the case of
the death, resignation of either, or failure to act, the Governor
shall fill the vacancy by another appointment.
"§ 4. The same rate of taxation for State purposes, which
is or may be in any year levied on other real estate in this
Commonwealth, shall be, and is hereby, levied upon the value
so found by the said board, of the railroad, rolling-stock,, and
real estate of each company; and the same rate of taxation
for the purposes of each county, city, town, or precinct, in which
any portion of any railroad is located, which is or may be in
any year levied on other real estate therein, shall be, and is
hereby, levied on the value of the real estate of said company
therein, and of the number of miles of such road therein, reckoned as of the value of the average value of each mile of such
railroad with its rolling-stock, as ascertained as aforesaid. And
immediately after the said board shall have completed its valuations each year, the Auditor of Public Accounts shall notify
the clerk of each county court of the amount so assessed for
taxation in his county, and each railroad company of the
amount of its assessment for taxation for State purposes, and
for the purposes of such county, city, town, or precinct. And
all existing laws in this State, authorizing the assessment and
taxation of the property of railroad companies by counties,
cities, or incorporated towns, are hereby repealed; and
no county, city, or incorporated town in this State, shall"
hereafter assess, levy, or collect any taxes on the property
of railroad companies of this State, except as provided by this
act.
"§ 5. All taxes levied under the provisions of this act shall be
paid on or before the 10th day of October in each year; and
for a failure to pay the same, the officers of the said companies
shall be subject to the same penalties to which they are now
subject for a failure to pay the taxes now levied by law. And
the taxes, in behalf of the Commonwealth, may be recovered
by action in the Franklin circuit court, and those in behalf of

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Statement of Facts.

the counties by actions in the courts of civil common law jurisdiction in such counties, respectively.
"§ 6. That all laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
"§ 7. This act shall take effect from its passage."
The powers and duties conferred by this act upon the board
of equalization were, by a subsequent act, approved April 19,
1882, devolved upon the board of railroad commissioners, appointed under an act approved April 6, 1882.
These actions were brought in the Franklin Circuit Court in
pursuance of the 5th section of the act.
The cause of action against the Cincinnati, New Orleans and
Texas Pacific Railroad Company was set out in the petition,
according to the practice in Kentucky, as follows:
"The plaintiff states that the defendant is a railroad company and corporation, and is, and was during the year 1882, the
owner of, by lease, and operating, a line of railway lying in the
State of Kehtucky known as the Cincinnati Southern Railway,
and the same constructed under, and chartered and incorporated by, an act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky, entitled ' An act to authorize the trustees of the
Cincinnati Southern Railway to acquire the right of way and
to extend a line of railway through certain counties in this
Commonwealth,' approved February 13th, 1872.
"Plaintiff states that the defendant, for the purpose of assessment and taxation for the year 1882, as required by law, reported to the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State' of
Kentucky the total length of said road owned and operated
by it as aforesaid and the value thereof per mile, and also reported its engines, cars, depot grounds, improvements, and
other real estate, and the value thereof. The total valuation
of said roads, including sidings and other taxable property as
reported, was ---- dollars.
"Plaintiff states that after said report and valuation was
made to the Auditor of Public Accounts by the defendant, the
Board of Railroad Commissioners, who by law constitute a
Board of Equalization to value and assess the railroad property
of the State, gfter being sworn, as required by law, met on the
first day of September, 1882, at the office of the auditor, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Frankfort, and with a majority of said board present constituting a quorum, the auditor placed before them the valuations, returns, and report made to him by defendant.
":Plaintiff states that said Board of Equalization continued
its sittings from day to day, as provided by law, of which the
defendant had due notice; and plaintiff avers that defendant
did appear before said board by its officers, agents, and attorneys, and presented such facts, figures, and information and
argument in relation to the valuation and assessment for taxation of its said property as it saw proper to.
"Plaintiff states that said board, after a full hearing of defendant, by her officers, agents, and attorneys, and a full consideration of said returns, reports, information, and arguments
before them, valued and assessed for taxation for the year 1882
the defendant's line of railroad lying in this State, the same reported by defendant to the auditor, together with the rollingstock, engines, cars, depot grounds, improvements, and other
real estate, at the sum of $6,027,942.00, and on the day of September, 1882, returned and filed with the Auditor
of Public Accounts the record of said assessment and
valuation, signed and attested, as provided by law, a certified copy of which, marked 'A,' is filed herewith as a part
hereof.
"Plaintiff states that the Auditor of Public Accounts, before the 10th day of MNarch, 1882 [1883], duly notified defendant of the amount of its assessment for taxation, and, as required by law, opened an account with defendant, charging it
with the sum of $28,632.42, the amount of tax due the State
of Kentucky upon said assessment and valuation of the defendant's property for the year 1882 at 47. cents on the one
hundred dollars, which is the rate of taxation prescribed by
law on such property, and all other real estate of the Commonwealth. A certified copy of said account is ified herewith
as a part hereof, marked 'B.'
"Plaintiff states that the defendant is indebted to him in the
sum of $28,632.42, taxes due as aforesaid for the year 1882, no
part of which has been paid.
"Wherefore plaintiff prays judgment against the defendant

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

for said debt, and interest from October 10th, 1882, and for her
costs and all proper relief."
In the case against the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, the petition is substantially the same, except the
averment of the valuation of its lines of railroad, which, it is
alleged, were valued and assessed at the sum of $15,521,406,
on which the amount of tax, at 47 cents to the $100, is $72,726.69, on which there is admitted a credit of $25,000, paid
January 22, 1883.
The taxable property of the other plaintiff in error, the
Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern iRailroad Company, it is
averred in the petition, otherwise substantially the same as in
the other cases, was valued and assessed at $2,791,994, on
which the tax levied was $13,261.98, which is credited with
$6,798.32, paid January 5, 1883.
An answer was filed in each case, but, so far as they raised
an issue of fact, they were withdrawn, and the causes were
heard on demurrers, the questions of law being such as arose
upon the face of the petitions.
Judgments were rendered in favor of the Commonwealth in
all the cases, and were affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and
thereupon the present writs of error were allowed and have
been prosecuted.
.211.. C. B. Simrall, .Mr. Villiam indmsay, and .Afr. Holmes
Cummins, for plaintiffs in error.
It has been held in Kentucky, that for the purposes of taxation a railroad is a unit; that its rolling-stock and its road are
not subject to local taxation for municipal purposes, but that
they are fixtures and to be treated as real estate. Cinwinnati,
dc'e., Railway Co. v. Commonwealth, 81 Ky. 492, 503. In proceedings for assessment for taxation in that State the owner of
private property has the right (1) to value his own property
under oath for purposes of taxation. (2) If this value is raised,
to appeal successively to different boards created by law for
the purpose, and to have evidence under oath taken regarding
it, reduced to writing, and preserved. (3) On failure to list
his property to have it valued on his own application, and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

upon the testimony of witnesses. (4) To be notified by the
board of supervisors of a purpose to increase his return, and to
have opportunity to be heard as to it before the increase can
be made. On the other hand, as to railroads, the law denies
the companies the right to value their own property for taxation, but imposes this duty on State officials, without regard
to fitness or qualification. The ample protection which the
law gives to private citizens against irresponsible assessors is
denied to railroad corporations.
I. Corporations are persons within the purview of
§ 1,
Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees to every person the
equal protection of the law. It is true that this point has
never been directly decided, although the point has twice been
before the court :-In RailroadCo. v. Richmond, 96 U. S. 521,
and Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. NAeedles, 113 U. S. 574. But in
every case Which required the enforcement of the obligations
of a contract, or the protection of the rights of property, this
court has looked beyond the shell of the corporate name, to
the persons and individuals represented by that name, and has
accorded to them the full protection of the law as natural persons. Bank of the United States v. Devaux, 5 Cranch, 61;
Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 562; United States
v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 392; Beaston,v. Farmers'Bank, 12 Pet.
102; Soo'y for .Prpagation of the Gospel v. _ew Haven, 8
Wheat. 464, 489 ; .Arational Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699 ;
UnitedStates v. Ins. Co., 22 Wall. 99 ; .ouisville, &c.,Railroad
Co. v. .Letson, 2 How. 497; ifarhsall v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co., 16 How. 314. Railroad Tax Cases, 13 Fed.
Rep. 722, is directly in point. See as to the principle of interpretation, Hartin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 326; TFoodson, v.
Zsfurdock, 22 Wall. 351; enshaw v. Foster, 9 Pick. 312, 316;
Prigg v. Pennsylvania,16 Pet. 539, 612; -Louisville& .fasltville Railroad Co. v. Commonwealth, 1 Bush, 250, 253; People
v. Fire Ins. Ass'n, 92 N. Y. 311. The cases of Bank of
Augusta v. Eazrle, 15 Pet. 517, and Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall.
168, are not antagonistic to this contention. They only
decide that citizens of one State do not carry with them into
another State special privileges or immunities conferred by a

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

law of their own State, corporate or otherwise. See Mr. Justice
Field's opinion in the Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 57, 100.
II. The term "equal protection of the laws," as used in the
Fourteenth Amendment, embraces and covers all rights of the
citizen, whether pertaining to property, liberty or life. Mr.
Justice Miller in Davidson v. -New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104;
Jisouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Mr. Justice Field in San
.Xfateo v. Sbuthern Paoiic Railroad Co., and the Slaughter
House Cases, already cited; and Barbler v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27, 31. If the law of Kentucky makes one class of taxpayers (the private citizens) favorites, surrounds and protects
them by every safeguard which ingenuity can devise, and
leaves another class (the railroad corporations) helpless and unprotected and without those safeguards, as it certainly does,
it denies to the latter class the "equal protection" it should
afford.
III. By the act of April 3,1878, owners of railroad property
are deprived of their property without due process of law.
"Due process of law," as used in the Federal Constitution, and
"law of the land," as used in State constitutions, are synonymous terms: Cooley on Const. Limitations, 4th Ed. 437; and
guarantee "the right of hearing and condemnation; a proceeding upon inquiry, and only after trial." Ib. 438. See also
pages 265, 266. These views exTress concisely the judgments
of Federal and of State courts. O7eghorn v. Postlethwaite,43
Ill. 428; -Darlingv. Gunn, 50 l]. 424; Patten v. Green, 13
Cal. 325; Sioux City & .PacieRailroad v. rashington
County, 3 Neb. 30; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183; Leavenwvorth County v. _Lang, 8 Kansas, 284; Davidson v..New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97, 107; Philadelphiav. -Miller, 49 Penn. St. 440;
Commonwealth v. Runk, 26 Penn. St. 235; Butler v. Saginaw
County, 26 Mich. 22. The court cannot, we think, but conclude both from the weight of reason and adjudication, that a
law which gives to any tribunal the power to affect the property of the citizen, without a right in the citizen to be heard
on the question of affecting his property, is a violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The
same rule has long obtained in England as a fundamental prin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ciple of justice. Painter v. Iiver2ool Gas Co., 3-Ad. & El.
433 ; Cooperv. Board of TForksfor Wfandsworth, 14 0. B. N. S.
180 ; King v. University of Cambridge, 8 Mod. 148, 163. The
notice and hearing that the taxpayer is entitled to is not a matter of favor; it is a right, to be secured by law. The act of
April 3, 1878, required no notice; none could be given under
it. Aftei fillan v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, is distinguishable from
these cases. There was a right to enjoin the collection of the
tax and have its validity tried in the injunction proceedings.
The Kentucky law afforded no way to test the correctness of
the assessments. So, too, this case is clearly distinguishable
from the State RailroadTax Cases, 92 U. S. 575.
We do not question the power of the legislature to apportion property to taxation by fixing specific taxes, i. e., license
taxes, and taxes on business or occupations, taxes on franchises
and privileges, or an ad valorem tax on property, or taxes apportioned by special benefits; all this is undoubtedly a matter
of legislation, but under each and every class, the constitutional
rights of the taxpayer guarantee to him uniformity and equality
with all others of his class. But it is not, therefore, a sound
argument which maintains, that because the legislature has
power to lay a specific tax, or to classify and apportion property for taxation, that there is, therefore, reposed in the legislature, that supreme and sovereign power which can impose
upon a class more than its just burdens, or require a member
of a class to submit to impositions that are not laid upon others.
"The power to tax inyolves the power to destroy," says
*an eminent jurist. The only safeguard against destruction,
in the name of taxation, is constitutional protection, and no
protection is guaranteed if any class of citizens is the subject of
discrimination, or if supreme power to value for taxation is
arbitrarily reposed in any body, be it the legislature of the
State, or a board of tax supervisors.
.A'r. P. IF. I ardin, Attorney-General of Kentucky, for defendant in error.

M . Jus=Fc

MATTrEws delivered the opinion of the court.

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

After stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
Two Federal questions arise on the record, in these cases,
contained in the following propositions affirmed by the plaintiffs in error:
First. That the act of April 3, 1878, and the taxes levied in
pursuance of it, if enforced, as it is sought to be, in these judgments, in effect take the property of the defendants below
without due process of law; andSecond. That they constitute a denial of the equal protection
of the laws: in both particulars violating the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
In support of the first of these propositions, it is contended
on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, that, by the enforcement of
these judgments, they will be deprived of their property without due process of law, because the valuation of their property
under the act is made by the board of railroad commissioners
without the right on their part to notice of the proceeding, or
the right to be heard in opposition to any proposed action of
the board in its progress.
It has, however, been repeatedly decided by this court that
the proceedings to raise the public revenue by levying and
collecting taxes are not necessarily judicial, and that "due
process of law," as applied to that subject, does not imply or
require the right to such notice and hearing as are considered
to be essential to the validity of the proceedings and judgments
of judicial tribunals. Notice by statute is generally the only
notice given, and that has been held sufficient. "In judging
what is 'due process of law,'" said IMr. Justice Bradley, in
David.o v. MVew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 107, "respect must be
had to the cause and object of the taking, whether under the
taxing power, the power of eminent domain, or the power of
assessment for local improvements, or none of these; and, if
found to be suitable or admissible in the special case, it will be
adjudged to be 'due process of law;' but if found to be arbitrary, oppressive, and unjust, it may be declared to be not
'due process of law.'"
In its application to proceedings for the levy and collection

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of taxes, it was said in .fc.k~llen v. Anderson, 95 'U.S.37, 42,
that it "is not, and never has been, considered necessary to
the validity of a tax" "that the party charged should have
been present, or had an opportunity to be present, in some
tribunal when he was assessed." This language, it is true,
was used in the decision of a case in reference to a license tax,
where all the circumstances of its assessment were declared by
statute, and nothing was intrusted to the discretion of public
officers; but, in the State Railroad Tax Ca ee, 92 U. S. 575,
610, where the ascertainment of the taxable value of railroads
was the duty of a board, as in the present cases, whose assessment was challenged for the reason that the proceeding was
not "due process of law," for want of notice and a hearing, it
was said by Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the
court: "This board has its time of sitting fixed by law. Its
sessions are not secret. No obstruction exists to the appearance of any one before it to assert a right or redress a wrong;
and in the business of assessing taxes, this is all that can be
reasonably asked."
In the proceedings questioned in these cases, there was, in
fact and in law, notice and a hearing. The railroad company,
by its president or chief officer, is required by law, at a specified time, to return to the auditor of public accounts, under
oath, a statement showing "the total length of such railroad,
including the length thereof beyond the limits of the State, and
designating its length within this State, and in each county,
city, and incorporate town therein, together with the average
value per mile thereof, for the purpose of being operated as a
carrier of freight and passengers, including engines and cars
and a list of the depot grounds and improvements and other
real estate of the said company, and the value thereof, and the
respective counties, cities, and incorporated towns, in which
the same are located. That, if any of said railroad companies
owns or operates a railroad or railroads'out of this State, but
in connection with its road in this State, the president or chief
officer of such company shall only be required to return such,
proportion of the entire value of all its rolling-stock as the
number of miles of its railroad in this State bears to the whole

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Opinion of the Court.
number of miles operated by said company in and out of this
State."
This return, made by the corporation through its officers, is
the statement of its own case, in all the particulars that enter
into the question of the value of its taxable property, and may
be verified and fortified by such explanations and proofs as it
may see fit to insert. It is laid by the auditor of public accounts before the board of railroad commissioners, and constitutes the matter on which they are to act. They are required
to meet for that purpose on the first day of September in each
year, at the office of the auditor, at the seat of government,
when these returns are to be submitted to them. The statute
declares that, "should the valuations . . . be either too
high or too low, they shall correct and equalize the same by a
proper increase or decrease thereof. Said board shall keep a
record of their proceedings, to be signed by each member present at any meeting; and the said board is hereby authorized to
examine the books and property of any railroad company to ascertain the value of its property, or to have them examined by
any suitable disinterested person, to be appointed by them for
that purpose." And in the performance of these duties, their
sessions are limited to a period of not longer than twenty days
in any one year.
These meetings are public, and not secret. The time and
place for holding them are fixed by law. The proceedings of
the board are required to be made matter of record, and authenticated by the signature of the quorum present. Any one
interested has the right to be present. In reference to this
point, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in its decision in these
cases, says (81 Ky. 492, 512): "As we construe this act, although in the nature of an original assessment, the parties had
the right to be heard, and were iifact heard before the board
passing on the question of valuation." It is averred, in the petitions filed in these actions, that" defendant did appear before
said board by its officers, agents, and attorneys, and presented
such facts, figures, and information, and argument in relation
to the valuation and assessmept for taxation of its said property, as it saw proper to;" and "that said board, after a full

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

hearing of defendant by her officers, agents, and attorneys, and
a full consideration of said returns, reports, information, and

arguments before them, valued and assessed for taxation" the
defendant's line of railroad, &c. These averments are not denied, but stand confessed in the record of each case.
It is said, however, in answer to this, by counsel for plaintiffs
in drror, in argument, that whatever was in fact this alleged
hearing, it could only have been accorded as a matter of grace
and favor, because it was not demandable, as of right, under
the law, and consequently has no such legal value as attaches
to a hearing to which the law gives a right, and to which it
compels the attention of the officer, under an imperative obligation, with the sense of official responsibility for impartial and
right decision, which is imputed to the discharge of official
duty.
But such is not the construction put upon the statute, as
we have seen, by the Court of Appeals of the State, nor the
practical construction, as we infer from the averments of the
pleadings, put upon it by the officers called to act under it.
And if the plaintiffs in error have the constitutional right to
such hearing, for which they contend, the statute is properly to
be construed so as to recognize and respect it, and not to deny
it. The Constitution and the statute will be construed together
as one law. This was the principle of construction applied by
this court, following the decisions of the State court, in 2VeaZ
v. Delaware. 103 U. S. 370, where words, denying the right,
were regarded as stricken out of the State Constitution and
statutes, by the controlling language of the Constitution of the
United States; and in the case of Cooper v. The TFandswort
Board of TForks, 14 C. B. N. S.180, in a case where a hearing
was deemed essential, it was said by Byles, J., "that, although
there are no positive words in a statute requiring that the
party shall be heard, yet the justice of the common law
will supply the omission of the legislature." p. 194.
It is still urged, however, that there is, notwithstanding
what has been said, no security that the final action of the
board of railroad commissioners, in valuing and assessing railroad property under this statute, may not be unequal, unjust

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

and oppressive, and that either by error of judgment, through
caprice, prejudice, or even from an intention to oppless, valuations may be made which are excessive, bearing no reasonable
relation to what is fair and just, and fixed arbitrarily, based
neither upon actual evidence nor an honest estimate. But the
same suppositions may be indulged in, in opposition to all contrary presumptions, with reference to the final action of any
tribunal appointed to determine the matter, however carefully
constituted, and however carefully guarded in its procedure,
and whether judicial or administrative. Such possibilities are
but the necessary imperfections of all human institutions, and
do not admit of remedy; at least no revisory power to prevent
or redress them enters into the judicial system, for, by the supposition, its administration is itself subject to the same imperfections.
But whatever relief courts of justice may afford against the
injuries apprehended, when in fact they have resulted, is
secured to the plaintiffs in error by the very statute of which
they complain. For the valuation of railroad property, under
that act, and the assessment of the taxes thereon, are not final,
in the sense that they constitute a charge upon the property
subject to the tax, or a liability fixed upon the corporation
owning it. That result can be attained, and the tax actually
collected, only by suit, as provided in the fifth section of the
statute, either against the officers of the companies for penalties incurred by a failure to pay the taxes levied, or for the recovery of the taxes themselves, by action in the Franklin
Circuit Court, or in the courts having jurisdiction in the counties, for the taxes payable to them respectively. The case is
thus brought directly and distinctly within the decision in
.Davldwor v. N7ew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104, where it was held,
"that, whenever by the laws of a State, or by State authority,
a tax, assessment, servitude, or other burden is imposed upon
property for the public use, whether it be of the whole State,
or of some more limited portion of the community, and those
laws provide for a mode of confirming or contesting the charge
thus imposed, in the ordinary comts of justice, with such notice
to the person, or such proceeding in regard to the property as

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

is appropriate to the nature of the case, the judgment in such
proceedings cannot be said to deprive the owner of his property
without due process of law, however obnoxious it may be to
other objections." And this is the principle that was followed
in the subsequent case of HFagar v. Reclamation DistrLet, 111
U. S. 701. In that case, the statute of California, which conferred the jurisdiction, authorized any defence, going either to
the validity or to the amount of the tax assessed, to be pleaded.
What inquiries may be permitted in such cases, of course, is a
matter that depends upon the particular provisions of the law
of the jurisdiction. In the absence of such provisions, and as
a principle of general jurisprudence, it is safe to say, that any
defence is admissible which establishes the illegality of the
proceeding resulting in the alleged assessment, whether because it is in violation of the local law which is relied on as
conferring the authority upon which it is based, or because it
constitutes a denial of a right secured to the party complaining
by the Constitution of the United States. The judgments now
under review were rendered in just such actions, so that we
cannot escape the conclusion that there is no ground for the
plaintiffs in error to contend that they have been rendered
without due process of law.
The plaintiffs in error, however, did interpose a defence
below, legitimate in itself, and arising under the Constitution
of the United States, namely, that in the proceedings of the
board of railroad commissioners, resulting in the valuation
and assessment, under the act of April 3, 1878, they were
severally denied the equal protection of the laws, contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. As this defence was overruled by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky,
another Federal question is presented which we are bound now
to examine and decide.
The discrimination against railroad companies and their
property, which is the subject of complaint, as being unjust
and unconstitutional, arises from the fact that, in the legislation of Kentucky on the subject, railroad property, though
called real estate, is classed by itself as distinct from other real
estate, such as farms and city lots, and subjected to different

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

means and methods for ascertaining its value for purposes
of taxation, and differing as well from those applied to the
property of corporations chartered for other purposes, such as
bridge, mining, street railway, manufacturing, gas and water
companies. These latter report to the auditor the total cash
value of their property, and pay into the treasury as a tax,
upon each $100 of its value, a sum equal to the tax collected
upon the same value of real estate; and their reports and valuations are treated as complete and perfect assessments, not
subject to revision by any board or court, and conclusive upon
the taxing officers.
But there is nothing in the Constitution of Kentucky that
requires taxes to be levied by a uniform method upon all descriptions of property. The whole matter is left to the discretion of the legislative power, and there is nothing to forbid
the classification of property for purposes of taxation and the
valuation of different classes by different methods. The rule
of equality, in respect to the subject, only requires the same
means and methods to be applied impartially to all the constituents of each class, so that the law shall operate equally
and uniformly upon all persons in similar circumstances. There
is no objection, therefore, to the discrimination made as between railroad companies and other corporations in the
methods and instrumentalities by which the value of their
property is ascertained. The different nature and uses of their
property justify the discrimination in this respect which the
discretion of the legislature has seen fit to impose.
So, the fact that the legislature has chosen to call arailroad,
for purposes of taxation, real estate, does not identify it with
farming ]ands and town lots, in such a sense as imperatively to
require the employment of the same machinery and methods
for all, in the process of valuation for purposes of taxation.
Calling them by the same name does not obliterate the essential differences between them, and accordingly, it is not insisted
on in argument, as an objection to the system, that a railroad
running through several counties is valued and taxed as a unit
and by a special board organized for that purpose, while other
real estate is valued in each county by assessors. The final
voL. oXV-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

point of objection seems to be reduced to this. In the case of
ordinary real estate, it is said, when the assessor has made his
valuation, it is submitted to a board of supervisors, who may
change the valuation, but not so as to increase it, without
notice to the tax-payer, and an opportunity for a formal hearing, upon testimony to be adduced under oath, and with a right
of appeal on his part, first, to a county judge, and, again, if
the amount of the tax is equal to fifty dollars, to the Circuit
Court. This is contrasted with the proceeding in the case of
railroad property before the board of railroad commissioners,
in which it is alleged there is no notice of an intended change
in the valuation returned by the company, and no appeal allowed if it is increased.
The discrimination, however, is apparent rather than real.
An examination of the statutes shows, that the original valuation of the assessor, in case of ordinary real estate, is conclusive upon the tax-payer, no matter how unsatisfactory; and
the appeal allowed is only from the .action of the board of
supervisors, in case they undertake to increase the valuation
made by the assessor. But in the case of railroad property,
no board has authority to increase the original assessment
made by the railroad commissioners, and there is, therefore,
no case for an appeal similar to that of the owner of ordinary
real estate.
But were it otherwise, the objection would not be tenable.
We have already decided that the mode of valuing railroad
property for taxation under this statute is due process of law.
'_Tbalbeing so, the provision securing the equal protection of
the Jaws does not require, in any case, an appeal, although it
;-nay ;,allowed in respect to other persons, differently situated.
'This -,was expressly decided by this court in the case of .fi.sowri
v. L , 101 U. S. 22, 30. It was there sid by Mnt. JusTICE
Bikjgg, delivering the opinion of the court and speaking to
this!point, that, "the last restriction, as to the equal protection
of the laws, is not violated by any diversity in the jurisdiction
of the several courts as to subject-matter, amount, or finality of
decision, if all persons within the territorial limits of their respective jurisdictions have an equal right, in like cases and under

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INS. CO. v. PENDLETON. 339
Syllabus.

like circumstances, to resort to them for redress." The right
to classify railroad property, as a separate class, for purposes
of taxation, grows out of the inherent nature of the property,
and the discretion vested by the Constitution of the State in
its legislature, and necessarily involves the right, on its part, to
devise and carry into effect a distinct scheme, with different
tribunals, in the proceeding to value it. If such a scheme is
due process of law, the details in which it differs from the
mode of valuing other descriptions and classes of property cannot be considered as a denial of the equal protection of the

laws.
We see no error in the several judgments of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky in these cases, and they are accordingly
.Affrmed.
RfR.
JusTic,

BLATcHFoEm did not sit in these cases, or take.

any part in their decision.

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE ITNSURANCE COMPANY v.
PENDLETON & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued October 22, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.
After final judgment in this case at the last term reversing the judgment
below (see 112 U. S. 696), the court discovered that the writ of error was
sued out and citation directed and served against P. H. Pendleton, only
one of the plaintiffs below ; that the preliminary appeal bond was made to
him alone; but that the supersedeas bond was executed to all the plaintiffs
below, and that all subsequent proceedings were entitled in the name of P.
H. Pendleton & als. After notice to plaintiff in error to show cause, the
court allowed the writ of error to be amended, set aside the judgment,
ordered a new citation to be issued to all the plaintiffs below, and directed
a reargument.
On the rehearing the court adhere to the views expressed in the former
opinion.

