LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO. 683
Syllabus.

case, or repeating the general considerations there stated and
which are equally applicable here, we are of opinion that the
court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the bill. Under its averments the plaintiff was entitled to a decree perpetually restraining the defendant from laying pipes, conduits, or
mains in the public ways of New Orleans for the purpose of
conveying water from the Mississippi River to his hotel. In
common with all corporations, and all other citizens of New
Orleans, he must abide by the contract which the State made
with the plaintiff; for, such is the mandate of the Constitution of the United States.
Te decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with tMs aopinion.

LOUISVILLE GAS COMPANY v. CITIZENS' GAS
COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF AP1PEA LS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted November 2, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.
The legislative grant of an exclusive right to supply gas to a municipality and
its inhabitants, by means of pipes and mains laid through the public
streets, and upon condition of the performance of the service by the grantee,
is a grant of a franchise vested in the State, in consideration" of the performance of a public service, and, after performance by the grantee, is a
contract protected by the Constitution of the United States against State
legislation to impair it.
In granting the exclusive franchise to supply gas to a municipality, and its
inhabitants, a State legislature does not part with the police power and
duty of protecting the public health, the public morals, and the public

safety, as one or the other may be involved in the exercise of that franchise
by the grantee.

A legislative grant of an exclusive right to supply gas to a municipality and
its inhabitants by means of pipes and mains laid through the public streets,
and upon condition of the performance of the service by the grantee, is no
infringement of that clause in the Bill of Rights of Kentucky, which declares 1"That all freemen, when they form a social compact, are equal and
that no man, or set of men, are entitled to exclusive, separate public
emoluments or privileges from the community, but in consideration of
public services."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
On February 14, 1856, the legislature of Kentucky enacted "That all charters
and grants of and to corporations or amendments thereof, shall be subject
to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein expressed." By an act passed January 22, 1869, amending
the charter of a gas company which was subject to that provision in the act
of 1856, it was enacted "That said gas company shall have the exclusive
privilege of erecting and establishing gas works in the City of Louisville
during the continuance of this charter, and of vending coal gas lights, and
supplying the city and citizens with gas by means of public works," &c.
Held, That the latter act contained a clear expression of the legislative intent, that the company should continue to enjoy the franchises then possessed by it for the term named in that act without being subject to have
its charter in thatrespect amended or repealed at the will of the legislature.

This was a writ of error to the highest court of Kentucky.
The general question to be determined was whether certain legislation of that Commonwealth was in conflict with the clause of
the National Constitution which forbids a State to pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts. The appellant, the
Louisville Gas Company, contended that its charter, granting
certain exclusive rights and privileges, constituted, within the
meaning of that Constitution, a contract, the obligation of
which had been impaired by the charter subsequently granted
to the appellee, the Citizens' Gas-Light Company. The Court
of Appeals of Kentucky sustained as constitutional the legislation under the authority of which the latter company was exercising the rights, privileges, and franchises conferred by its
charter.
By an act of the General Assembly of Kentucky, approved
February 15, 1838, Sess. Acts. 1837-8, p. 206, the Louisville
Gas and Water Company was created a corporation to continue for the term of thirty years from January 1, 1839. It
was made its duty, within three years after its organization, to
establish in Louisville a gas manufactory of sufficient extent
and capacity to supply that city and its people with such public and private lights as might, from time to time, be required;
and, within five years after the establishment of its gas works,
to erect and establish water works sufficient to supply the city
with water for the extinguishment of fires, for the cleansing
and sprinkling of streets and alleys, and for all manufacturing

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

685

Statement of Facts.

and domestic purposes; to which end it might lay down and
extend pipes through any of the streets and alleys of the city,
the company being responsible to the city for any damages
resulting therefrom. The act imposed a limit upon the price
to be charged for gas lights used by the city; and gave the
latter the right to subscribe for four thousand shams in the
company, payment for one-half of which could be made in city
coupon bonds for $200,000, redeemable at any time within
three years after the expiration of the company's charter. It
was made a fundamental condition that, upon the termination
of the company's charter, the city at its election could take the
gas and water works at a fair estimate of what they would
cost and be worth at that time, to be ascertained by the judgment of competent engineers, selected by the parties, or, in
case they disagreed, by the Louisville Chancery Court.
Under this charter the company proceeded at once to erect
gas works, including suitable buildings and machinery. It
supplied itself with all necessary apparatus, laid down mains
and pipes, and erected lamp posts, for the purpose of lighting
the streets. It supplied gas for the public buildings, and for
street lights, as well as for domestic purposes. And it continued so to do during the term of its original charter.
By an act passed in 1842, the authority to erect water works
was withdrawn by the legislature.
By an act, entitled "An Act to extend the charter of the
Louisville Gas Company," approved January 30, 1867, a new
charter was granted, to take effect January 1, 1869, and to continue in force for twenty years from that date, unless the city of
Louisville should exercise its privilege of purchasing the works
established under the authority of the original charter. That
act created a corporation by the name of the Louisville Gas
Company, with a capital stock of $1,500,000. It provided,
among other things, that such stock should consist, "first, of
the stock of the present Louisville Gas Company, on the 31st
of December, 1868, at par value; secondly, of the contingent
fund and undivided profits that the company may own at the
expiration of the present charter, said fund to be capitalized
pro rata for the benefit of the present stockholders, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

fractional shares which shall be paid in cash; and, thirdly, new
stock may be issued and sold by the new company, when required, to the extent of the capital st6ck, the sales to be made
at public auction, after ten days' notice in the city -papers;
should said stock be sold above its par value, such excess shall
not be capitalized or divided among the stockholders, but be
employed in the first extensions made by the company after
the sale of said stock;" that the business of the company
should be to make and furnish gas to the city of Louisville
and its residents; that within two years after its charter took
effect, it should extend gas distribution to Portland, lay down
mains, and erect street lights in certain named streets in that
part of the city; should extend mains wherever the private
and public lights would pay eight per cent. on the cost of extension, until its entire capital was absorbed in the gas works
and extensions-continuing the use of the pipes and conductors
already laid down, and, with the consent of the city council,
extending the pipes and conductors through other streets and
alleys of the city. It was, also, provided that the company
should put up gas lamps at certain distances apart on the
streets where there were mains, supply the same with gas, and
light and extinguish the same, and charge the city only the
actual cost thereof-such charges not to exceed the average
charges for similar work or service in the cities of Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati, Chicago, and St. Louis, and the
charges against other consumers not to be greater than the
average price in said cities; that the stockholders, exclusive of
the city of Louisville, should elect five directors, while the general council of the city should elect four; that the city'might,
upon the termination of the charter, purchase the gas works
at a fair estimate of what they would be then worth; and that
the charter should be valid and in force when accepted by
those who held the majority of stock in the old company, all
of whose property should belong to the new company.
When the act of 1867 was passed, the city owned 4985
shares of the stock of the old company. All the gas with
which its streets were then lighted, or which was furnished to
its people, was supplied by that company.

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

687

Statement of Facts.

On the 22d of January, 1869, an act was passed amending
that of January 30, 1867. Its preamble recited that the city
of Louisville and the stockholders of the old company had accepted the extended charter, and desired that the amendments
embodied in that act should become part of that charter. The
amended charter repealed so much of the act of 1867 as allowed
a profit of eight per cent. on the cost of extensions, and, among
other things, provided that the company should extend its main
pipes whenever the public and private lights, immediately arising from said extension, would pay seven per cent. profit on the
cost thereof; that the company should put lamp posts, fixtures,
&c., along the street mains, as they might be extended, at a distance apart of about two hundred feet; should keep the lamps
in order, furnish gas, and light and extinguish the same, each
light to have an illuminating power of about twelve sperm candles; should furnish public lights to the city at actual cost, which
should in no event exceed annually $35 per lamp; that the
charges to private consumers should be so graded that the company's profits should not exceed twelve per cent. per annum on
the par value of the stock, ten per cent. of which might be
drawn by stockholders in semi-annual dividends, and the remaining two per cent. to be laid out for extensions, not to be
capitalized except at the end of five years. The fifth and sixth
sections of the last act were as follows :
"5. That said gas company shall have the exclusive privilege
of erecting and establishing gas-works in the city of Louisville
during the continuation of this charter, and of vending coal gaslights, and supplying the city and citizens with gas by means
of public works: Pirovided, however, this shall not interfere
with the right of any one to erect, or cause to be erected, gasworks on their own premises, for supplying themselves with

light.
" 6. That no alteration or amendment to the charter of the
gas company shall be made without the concurrence of the city
council and the directors of the gas company."
By an act approved March 21, 1872, the Citizens' Gas-Light
Company of Louisville was incorporated, for the term of fifty
years, with authority to make, sell, and distribute gas for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

purpose of lighting public and private buildings, streets, lanes,
alleys, parks, and other public places in that city and its vicinity. It was authorized, the general council consenting, to use
the streets and other public ways of the city for the purpose of
laying gas-pipes, subject to such regulations as the city council
might make for the protection of the lives, property, and health
of citizens. That body did so consent by ordinance passed
December 13, 1877.
The Louisville Gas Company having claimed that the foregoing section of the act of January 22, 1869, granting the exclusive privileges therein defined, constituted a contract, the
obligation of which was impaired by the charter of the plaintiff,
and that the latter's charter was therefore void, the present
suit was brought by the Citizens' Gas Light Company in the
Louisville Chancery Court for the purpose of obtaining a perpetual injunction against the assertion of any such exclusive
privileges, and against any interference with the plaintiff's
rights as defined in its charter. Among the rights asserted by
the latter under its charter was "to make, sell, and supply coal
gas for lighting the public buildings and other places, public
and private," in Louisville and the adjoining localities, by
means of pipes laid in the public ways and streets. The court
of original jurisdiction dismissed the suit. Upon appeal to the
Court of Appeals, the decree was reversed, with directions to
issue a perpetual injunction restraining the Louisville Gas
Company from claiming and exercising the exclusive right of
manufacturing and supplying gas to the city of Louisville and
its inhabitants. This writ of error was sued out to review that
judgment.
G. Carlisle, X1'. Thomas F. Hargis, .Xr. John
.Xr. Ji
rey for plaintiff in
-. Goodloe, and .21r. Alexander"P. Hu
error.
HJlr. Jon Nason Brown, 11r. George Z Davie and XMr.
William lind8ay for defendant in error.
I. The grant to the old company was an exclusive privilege
to make and sell gas. No exclusive privilege of laying pipes

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

689

Argument for Defendant in Error.

in the streets was granted. This was unconstitutional, unless
it can be sustained as an exercise of the police power. It is not
denied that there are franchises which are the prerogative of
the State, such as transportation by railroads, ferries, &c.
These exclusive privileges a State may delegate to individuals.
Oleott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 693; Commonwealth v.
Bacon, 13 Bush, 210; State v. Boston, Concord and .Afontreal
Railroad Co., 25 Vt. 433; Railroad v. £amp)bell, 44 Cal. 89;
Lexington &ff Ohio Railroad Co. v. Applegate, 8 Dana, 289;
but such exclusive privileges do not extend to the transaction
of ordinary business, of which class is the making and selling
of gas. Municipal corporations are not obliged to light streets,
and are not liable for failing to light them. Randall v. Eastern,
Railroad Co., 106 Mass. 276 ; 21acomber v. Taun ton, 100 Mass.
255 ; Sparhawk v. Salera, 1 Allen, 30 ; Norwich Gas-Light Co.
v. orwich City Gas-Light Co., 25 Conn. 19 ; Western, Savings
Fund v. Philadelphia,31 Penn. St. 175; _ew Jersey Gas Co.
v. Dwight, 2 Stewart (29 N. J. Eq.) 242; And it is well settled
in England that no legislative grant is necessary for making
and selling gas. Attorney General v. Qambridge Gas Co., L.
R. 4 Ch. 71, 86; Hloddeson, Gas Co. v. Hazelwood, 6 0. B. N. S.
239, 249; Attorney General v. Gas Light & Ooke Co., 7 Ch.
Div. 217. See also Commonwealth v. Lowell Gas-Light Co.,
12 Allen, 75. It follows that a legislative grant of this kind
has no meaning except to prohibit others from entering into a
lawful business. This is, practically, a denial of equal privileges, and a depriving of property and liberty, within the meaning of the Constitution. For no legislature can allow one person and prohibit another from engaging in a lawful pursuit,
unless it be one which falls within its police power and supervision. In the matter of Jacobs, 33 Hun (40 N. Y. Supreme
Ct.), 374, 378; S. C, on appeal, 98 N. Y. 98; State v. Addington, 77 Missouri, 110; Commonwealth v. Bacon, and Norwich
Gas-ight Co. v. Xor?,aich, City Gas-Light Co., above cited;
Live Stock Co. v. Crescent City Co., 1 Abb. U. S. 388, 398;
Arrowamith. v. Burlingem, 4 McLean 489, 497; Bertholf v.
O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 509, 515. The only case to the contrary is
State v. .Afilwaukee Gas Co., 29 Wisc. 454.
voL. cxv--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argumenut for Defendant in Error.

II. If the grant was made under the police power, it was
subject to repeal in whole or in part as subsequent legislatures
might think the public good required. (1). The grant was an
exclusive privilege of making and selling gas. There being no
words of exclusiveness as to the right to use the streets, no exclusive right for that purpose was granted. People v. Bowen,
30 Barb. 24, 38. See also Carles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; Lehigh, Mater Co's appeal, 102 Penn. St.
515, 52?; Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, 512; Fertilizer
Co. v. Hyde Park, 659, 666; Wright v. lNagle, 101 U. S. 791,
796; State v. Cincinnati Gas-Light c Coke Co., 18 Ohio St.
292; Norwich Gas Co. case, cited above. What the police
power of the State is may be gathered from the language of
this court in Ieense Cases,5 How. 504, at page 583; SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, at page 62; Butchers' Union Co. v.
Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746, at page 750 and page 752;
Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, at page 31; Soon Hing v.
Crowley, 113 U. S. '103. A grant of a privilege to manufacture coal-gas fairly comes within its exercise for the purpose of
protecting health and morals. This gas is a deadly poison and
a dangerous explosive. Its use requires the disturbance of the
streets, with accompanying malarious exhalations. It furnishes
a superior light, which is a powerful moral agent, and an aid in
the prevention of crime and detection of criminals. See lrarlem Gas Co. v. New York, 33 N. Y. 309, 327; Wheeler v.
Philaddphia,77 Penn. St. 338, 354;
ew Orleans v. Clark,
95 U. S. 644, 652; State v. Columbus Gas Co., 34 Ohio St. 572,
581; State v. Cincinnati Gas-Light Co., cited above; Williams
v. Afutual Gas Co., 52 Mich. 499, 502; Broadbent v. Imnperial
Gas 66., 1 De G. McNq. & G. 436, 467; Cleveland v. Citizens'
Gas-Zight Co., 5 0. E. Green (20 N. J. Eq.), 201. If we look
to analogies, we find that exclusive grants in other lines of business, that may be injurious, if improperly conducted, are based
upon the police power. Powder magazines: New Orleans v.
foyle, 23 La. Ann. '140; growing rice: Green v. Savannah, 6
Geo. I ; selling liquors: In re Ruth, 32 Iowa, 250; Columbus
v. Cutcomb, 61 Iowa, 672; coal-oil: Pattersonv. Ientucky, 97
U. S. 501; oleomargarine: Hawthorne v. People, 109 ]Il. 302;

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

691

Opinion of the Court.

the use of steam power on streets: Railroad Co. v. Richmond,
96 U. S. 521; water: Water Morks Co. v. Sugar Fork Co.,
35 La. Ann. 1114; Hrew Orleans Mater Torks Co. v. St. Tammany Water IFors Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 194; Spring V'alley
Water To-,s v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347; slaughter-houses:
Slaughter-louseCases, above cited; school books: Bancroft v.
Thayer, 5 Sawyer, 502. (2). The grant, being an exercise of
the police power, could be repealed at the will of the legislature. Stone v. lffississi4pi, 101 U. S. 814; Beer Co. v. -MfassaehusettM, 97 U. S. 25 ; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park,Butchers'
Un;on Co. v. Crescent City Co., .New Orleans v. Hoyle, _New
Orleans Water Co. v. St. Tammany Water Co., and Columbus
v. Cutcomb, all cited above; Gale v. KEalamazoo, 23 Mich. 344;
Clder v. lEurby, "5 Gray, 597; Commonwealth v. Intoxicating
Liquors, 115 Mass. 153; Johnson v. Crow, 87 Penn. St. 184,
187.
III. In any event the exclusive privilege, even if valid, could
be repealed under the general power reserved to the legislature
to amend, alter, or repeal all legislative grants of franchises.
Cumberland & Ohio Railroad v. Barren Co., 10 Bush, 604,
608-9 ; Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, 20; Thornhill
v. Hall, 2 Cl. & Fin. 22, 36; Swift v. -Newport,7 Bush, 37.
Counsel also argued other points not referred to in the opinion of the court in this case or the case of the :New Orleans
Gas Co. referred to by the court.
M . JusTicE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
Two of the judges of the State court held that the clause of
the Bill of Rights of Kentucky, which declares that "all freemen, when they form a social compact, are equal, and that no
man or set of men are entitled to exclusive, separate public
emoluments or privileges from the community, but in consideration of public services," Const. Kentucky, 1799, Art. 10, § 1;
1850, Art. 13, § 1, forbade the General Assembly of that Commonwealth to grant to a private corporafion the exclusive privilege of manufacturing and distributing gas, for public and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

private use, in the city of Louisville, by means of pipes and
mains laid under the streets and other public ways of that
municipality. The other judges were of opinion that that
clause did not prohibit a grant by the State to a private corporation, whereby certain privileges were conferred upon the
latter in consideration of its discharging a public duty, or
of rendering a public service; that the municipality of Louisville, being a part of the State governnent, there was a
public necessity for gas-lights upon its streets and in its public buildings, almost as urgent as the establishment of the
streets themselves; that the services thus to be performed by
the corporation were, in the judgment of the legislative department, an adequate consideration for the grant to it of exclusive
privileges; and, consequently, that the grant was a contract,
the rights of the parties under it to be determined by the rules
applicable to contracts between individuals.
While the judgment below, in view of the equal division in
opinion of the judges of the State court, does not rest upon
any final determination of this question by that tribunal, it
cannot be ignored by as; for, at the threshold of all cases of
this kind, this court must ascertain whether there is any such
agreement on the part of the State as constitutes a contract,
within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
If the services which the gas company undertook to perform,
in consideration of the exclusive privileges granted to it, were
public services, within the meaning of the Bill of Rights of
Kentucky, then the grant of such privileges was not forbidden
by the State Constitution. In New Orleans Gas-Light Co. v.
LouisianaLight Co., just decided, ante 650, it was held that the
supplying of gas to a city and its inhabitants, by means of pipes
and mains laid under its public ways, was a franchise belonging
to the State, and that the services performed, as the consideration for the grant of such a franchise, are of a public nature.
Such a business is not like that of an ordinary corporation
engaged in the manufacture of articles that may be quite as
indispensable to some persons as are gas-lights. The former
articles may be supplied by individual effort, and with their
supply the government has no such concern that it can grant

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

693

Opinion of the Court.

an exclusive right to engage in their manufacture and sale.
But as the distribution of gas in thickly populated districts is,
for the reasons stated in the other case, a matter of which the
public may assume control, services rendered in supplying it
for public and private use constitute, in our opinion, such public
services.as, under the Constitution of Kentucky, authorized the
legislature to grant to the defendant the exclusive privileges
in question. This conclusion is justified, we think, by the decisions of the Court of Appeals of that State. In 0'Harav.
Lexdngton & Ohio Railroad Co., 1 Dana, 232, 233, the point
was made, that an inquisition for the assessment of damages for
the taking of land by a railroad corporation was void upon
certain grounds, one of which was that the company's charter
granted exclusive privileges, without any consideration of
public services. Chief Justice Robertson, speaking for the
court, said, that, in the true sense of the Constitution, no exclusive privileges were granted to the corporation, observing
that "if the charter be on that ground unconstitutional, it
would be difficult to maintain the validity of any statute for
incorporating any bridge company, or any bank, or even for
granting any ferry franchise."
But the principles announced in Gordon v. Wine hester,
12 Bush, 110, 114, seem more directly applicable to the
present case. Judge Cofer, speaking for the whole court,
after observing that there were unquestionably cases in
which the State may, without violating the Constitution,
grant privileges to specified individuals, which from the nature of the case could not be enjoyed by all, and in respect
of which the State could designate the grantee, said: "But
in all such cases the person, whether natural or artificial,
to whom the privilege is granted, is bound, upon accepting
it, to render to the public that service, the performance
of which was the inducement to the grant; and it is because of such obligation to render service to the public
that the legislature has power to make the grant." In illustration of this principle he proceeds to say: "Permission to keep a tavern or a ferry, to erect a toll-bridge over a
stream where it is crossed by a public highway, to build a mill-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

dam across a navigable stream, and the like, are special privileges, and, being matters in which the public have an interest,
may be granted by the legislature to individuals or corporations; but the grantee, upon accepting the grant, at once becomes bound to render that service, to secure which the grant
was made; and such obligation, on the part of the grantee, is
just as necessary to the validity of a legislative grant of an
exclusive privilege, as a consideration, either good or valuable,
is to the validity of an ordinary contract. Whenever, by accepting such privilege, the grantee becomes bound, by an express or implied undertaking, to render service to the public,
such undertaking will uphold the grant, no matter how inadequate it may be; for, the legislature being vested with power
to make grants of that character, when the public convenience
demands it, the legislative judgment is conclusive, both as to
the necessity for making the grant and the amount of service
to be rendered in consideration therefor, and the courts have no
power to interfere, however inadequate the consideration or unreasonable the grant may appear to them to be. But when they
can see that the grantee of an exclusive privilege has come under
no obligation whatever to serve the public in any matter in any
way connected with the enjoyment of the grant, it is their duty
to pronounce the grant void, as contravening that provision of
the Bill of Rights which prohibits the granting of exclusive
privileges, except in consideration of public services." These
observations were made in a case where it was held that a
statute giving a building association the right to receive a
greater rate of interest than was allowed by the general law
was unconstitutional, in that it conferred exclusive privileges
not in consideration of any public services to be performed.
In Commonwealth v. Bacon, 13 Bush, 210, 212, the question
was as to the constitutionality of an act giving a strictly private
corporation, which owed no duty to the public, a monopoly of
an ordinary business in which every citizen was entitled to
engage upon terms of equality. Its validity was attempted to
be sustained on the same principle upon which the grant of
ferry privileges was upheld. But the act was held to be
unconstitutional, the court, among other things, saying: "Fer-

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

695

Opinion of the Court.

ries are parts of highways, and the government may perform
its duty in establishing and maintaining them through the
agency of private individuals or corporations, and such agencies are representatives of government, and perform for it a
part of its functions. And in consideration of the service
thus performed for the public, the government may prohibit
altogether persons from keeping ferries and competing with
those it has licensed. The establishment of public highways
being a function of government, no person has a right to
establish such a highway without the consent of government;
and hence, in prohibiting unlicensed persons from keeping a
ferry, the government does not invade the right of even those
who own the soil on both sides of the stream."
In the later case of Conimonwealtk v. Fdpps, 80 Ky. 269,
272, where the validity of a statute of Kentucky authorizing a
particular person to dispose of his property by lottery was assailed as a violation of the before mentioned clause in the Bill
of Rights, Pryor, J. (Chief Justice Lewis concurring), said:
"This constitutional inhibition was intended to prevent the
exercise of some public function, or an exclusive privilege affecting the interests and rights of the public generally, when
not in consideration of public service, and, if made to apply to
the exercise of mere private rights or special privileges, it nullifies almost innumerable legislative enactments that are to be
found in our private statutes, sanctioned, in many instances, by
every department of the State government."
The precise question here presented seems not to have been
directly adjudicated by the highest court of the State. But,
as the exclusive privileges granted to the Louisville Gas Company affected the rights and interests of the public generally,
and related to matters of which the public might assume control, we are not prepared to say that the grant was not in
consideration of public services, within the meaning of the
Constitution of Kentucky. We perceive nothing in the language of that instrument, or in the decisions of the highest
court of that Commonwealth, that would justify us in holding
that her legislature in granting the exclusive privileges in
question exceeded its authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

2. On behalf of the Citizens' Gas-Light Company it is contended that the charter of the Louisville Gas Company, granted
January 30, 1867, and amended by the act of January 22, 1869,
was at all times subject to alteration or repeal at the pleasure
of the legislature. Assuming that the act of 1867 was not a
prolongation of the corporate existence of the original Louisville Gas Company, but created a new corporation by the same
name, it is clear that such charter was granted subject to the
provisions of a general statute of Kentucky, enacted on the
14th of February, 1856, entitled "An act reserving power to
amend or repeal charters, and other laws." That statute is as
follows:
"§ 1. That all charters and grants of or to corporations
or amendments thereof, and all other statutes, shall be subject
to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a
contrary intent be therein plainly expressed: Provided, That
whilst privileges and franchises so granted may be changed or
repealed, no amendment or repeal shall impair other rights
previously vested.
"§ 2. That when any corporation shall expire or be dissolved, or its corporate rights and privileges shall cease by reason of a repeal of its charter or otherwise, and no different
provision is made by law, all its works and property, and all
debts payable to it, shall be subject to the payment of debts
owing by it, and then to distribution among the members according to their respective interests; and such corporation
may sue and be sued as before, for the purpose of settlement
and distribution as aforesaid.
"§ 3. That the provisions of this act shall only apply to
charters and acts of incorporation to be granted hereafter; and
that this act shall take effect from its passage."
The language of this statute is too plain to need interpretation. It formed a part of the charter of the new Louisville
Gas Company when incorporated in 1867, and the right of the
legislature, by a subsequent act, passed in 1872, to incorporate
another gas company to manufacture and distribute gas in
Louisville, by means of pipes laid, at its own cost, in the public
ways of that city, so far from impairipg the obligation of de-

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

697

Opinion of the Court.

fendant's contract with the State, was authorized by its reserved power of amendment or repeal, unless it be that the act
of January 22, 1869, "plainly expressed" the intent that the
charter of the new Louisville Gas Company should not be
subject to amendment or repeal at the mere will of the legislature. The judges of the State court all concurred in the
opinion that no such intent was plainly expressed. As this
question is at the very foundation of the inquiry whether the
defendant bad a valid contract with the State, the obligation
of which has been impaired by subsequent legislation, we cannot avoid its determination. Whether an alleged contract
arises from State legislation, or by agreement with the agents
of a State, by its authority, or by stipulations between individuals exclusively, we are obliged, upon our own judgment
and independently of the adjudication of the State court, to
decide whether there exists a contract within the protection of
the Constitution of the United States. Jefersonr Branck Bank
v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; IrVight v. lTagle, 101 U. S. 791, 794;
Zoulsvillo ct N11a&liville Railroadv. Palmes, 109 U. S. 254, 257.
After carefully considering the grounds upon which the State
court rests its conclusion, we have felt constrained to reach a
different result. We are-of opinion that the act of 1869 plainly
expresses the intention that the company should enjoy the
rights, privileges, and franchises conferred by the act of 1867,
as modified and extended by that of 1869, without its charter
being subject to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature. In ascertaining the legislative intent, we attach no
consequence to the negotiations between the Louisville Gas
Company and the city council of Louisville as to the provisions to be embodied in an amended charter giving the company exclusive privileges after January 1, 1869 ; for, the words
of the act of 1869 being, in our opinion, clear and unambiguous, effect must be given to them according to their ordinary
signification. The clause in that act declaring that "no .alteration or amendment to the charter of the gas company
shall be made without the concurrence of the city council and
the directors of the gas company," plainly expresses as we
think, the intention that the company's charter should not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

amended or repbaled "at the will of the legislature." When
the legislature declared that there shall be no alteration or
amendment without the concurrence of the city council "and
the directors of the company, it must have intended to waive,
with respect to that company, her absolute power reserved by
the act of 1856, of amending or repealing charters of incorporations thereafter granted. The language used is wholly inconsistent with any other purpose than to withdraw its charter
from the operation of that act, so far as to make the right
of amendment or repeal subject, not to the mere will of the
legislature, but, in the first instance, to the concurrence of the
city council and the directors of the gas company. If there
can be no amendment or repeal without the concurrence of
the city council and the directors of the company, then it
cannot be said that such amendment or repeal depends entirely upon the will of the legislature, as declared in the act of
1856. It was as if the legislature had said: "As the municipal
government of Louisville and the company are agreed, the
latter may enjoy the rights, privileges, and franchises granted
by its charter for the whole term of twenty years, unless
before the expiration of that period the city council and its
directors concur in asking alterations or amendments, which
will be made if, in the judgment of the general assembly, the
public interests will be thereby promoted."
3. But it is argued that, as the defendant's charter of 1867
conferred upon it no exclusive privileges, the granting of such
privileges in the act of 1869 was without consideration, and is
to be deemed a mere gratuity. To this it is sufficient to answer that, apart from the public services to be performed, the
obligations of the company were enlarged by the act of 1869,
and its rights under that of 1867 materially lessened and burdened in the following particulars: The amended charter limited the profits of the company to twelve per cent. per annum
on the par value of its stock, two per cent. of which were required to be used for extensions and not to be capitalized, except at the end of each five years, while, under the original
charter, the only limitation upon the prices to be charged private consumers was that they should not exceed the average

LOUISVILLE GAS CO. v. CITIZENS' GAS CO.

699

Opinion of the Court.

charges in Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati, Chicago, and
St. Louis; the amended charter limited the amount to be annually charged the city per lamp to $35, no matter what its
actual cost was, while, under the original charter, the company
was entitled to charge the city for the actual cost of supplying,
lighting and extinguishing, lamps, not, however, exceeding the
average charges in the before-mentioned cities; and by the
amended charter, the company was required to extend its
mains when its income from lights would amount to seven per
cent. on such extensions, while under the original charter such
extensions were not required unless its income therefrom would
pay eight per cent. These concessions upon the part of the
company seem to be of a substantial character, and constituted
a sufficient consideration to uphold the grant of exclusive
privileges. If the consideration appears now to be inadequate, upon a money basis, that was a matter for legislative
determination, behind which the courts should not attempt to
go.
4. These preliminary matters being disposed of, and without
referring to some matters discussed by counsel but not fairly
arising on the pleadings, or in any evidence in the cause, it is
clear that, upon the main issue, this case is determined by the
principles announced in 11rew Orleans Gas-Light Co. v. Th4
Louisianc Light Co., just decided. For the reasons there
stated, and which need not be repeated here, we are of opinion
that the grant to the Louisville Gas Company, by the act of
January 22, 1869, amendatory of the act of January 30, 1867,
of the exclusive privilege of erecting and establishing gasworks in the city of Louisville during the continuance of its
charter, and of vending coal gas-lights, and supplying that
municipality and its people with gas by means of public works,
that is, by means of pipes, mains, and conduits placed in and
under its streets and public ways, constitutes a contract between the State and that company, the obligation of which
was impaired by the charter of the Citizens' Gas-Light Company. The charter of the latter company is, therefore, inoperative, in respect of these matters, until, at least, the exclusive privileges granted the Louisville Gas Company cease,

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour

according to the provisions of its charter. As the object of the
plaintiff's suit was to obtain a decree enjoining the defendant
from claiming and exercising the exclusive privileges so granted
to it, the judgment of the Louisville Chancery Court dismissing
the bill should have been affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
Th e judgment of the latter court, reversing that of the court
of originaljuridiction,is itself reversed, and the cause remandedforfurther proceedings not inconsistentwith this
opinion.

