OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

CAMPBELL & Another v. HOLT.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
Submitted April 17, 1885.-Decided December 7, 1885.

The repeal of a statute of limitation of actions on personal debts does not, as
applied to a debtor, the right of action against whom is already barred,
deprive him of his property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.A r. F. F Boyce for plaintiffs in error.
i&. F. Chzles Hume and Xr. Seth Shepard for defendant
in error.
JusTIF MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
_rm.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Texas.
The action was brought in the District Court of Washington County, Texas, May 16, 1874, by Holt, the defendant in
error, against the present plaintiffs in error. Holt sued as devisee and legatee of his wife, Malvina, who was the daughter
of John Stamps, deceased, of whose estate Moina and J. B.
Campbell are administrators.
The action was founded in the allegation that Malvina
Stamps, afterwards Holt, inherited from her mother, Henrietta Stamps, the wife of John Stamps, an interest in lands
and negroes which her mother owned at the time of her death;
that the land was sold by her father, John Stamps, who received the money and converted it to his own use; and that
he also received the hire and profits of the negroes so long as
they remained slaves under the laws of Texas.
The defendants set up several defences, among others the
statute of limitations of the State of Texas, but, on a trial by

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

From this
jury, Holt recovered a judgment for $8692.93.
of the
Court
Supreme
judgment an appeal was taken to the
Commissioners
to
the
State, and referred, by consent of parties,
of Appeal, by whom it was confirmed, and this affirmance was
made the judgment of the Supreme Court.
There were several assignments of error in the hearing before the Commissioners of Appeal, but the only one which we
can consider is that growing out of the plea of the statute of
limitations.
The cause of action in this case accrued befqre the outbreak
of the war, the mother having died in 1857, and Malvina
Stamps was a minor during all the time preceding the insurrection. It seems that the legislature of Texas had passed several acts suspending the operation of the statutes of limitations
during the war. But in 1866 a law was passed which enacted
that these statutes, which had been suspended during this time,
should again commence running on the 2d day of September
of that year. At this time Malvina Stamps was of age and
unmarried, and the statute then began to run against her in
this case, and would become a bar in two years. This time
elapsed without any suit brought on the claim. It was, therefore, as the Commissioners of Appeal admit, then barred by
the statute. But in 1869 the State of Texas, which had not
yet been reinstated and accepted by the two houses of Congress as in her old relations, made a new Constitution which, it
was declared in the ordinance submitting it to the vote of the
people, should take effect when it was accepted by Congress,
which was afterwards done.
Article 12, section 43, of this Constitution is in these words:
"The statutes of limitations of civil suits were suspended by
the so-called act of secession of the 28th of January, 1861,
and shall be considered as suspended within this State, until
the acceptance of this Constitution by the United States Congress."
The District Court of Washington County, and the Commissioners of Appeal, following many previous decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State, held that this provision removed
the bar of the statute of limitations, though before its taking

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

effect the time had elapsed necessary to make the bar complete
in this case.
The defendants, both by plea and by prayers for instruction
to the jury, and in argument before the Commissioners of Appeal, insisted that the bar of the statute, being complete and
perfect, could not, as a defence, be taken away by this constitutional provision, and that, to do so, would violate that part
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States which declares that no State shall "deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law."
This writ of error to the State court is founded on that
proposition, and we must inquire into its soundness.
The action is based on contract. It is for hire of the negroes
used by the father, and for the money received for the land of
his daughter, sold by him. The allegation is of indebtedness
on this account, and the plea is that the action is barred by the
statute of limitations. It is not a suit to recover possession of
real or personal property, but to recover for the violation of an
implied contract to pay money. The distinction is clear, and,
in the view we take of the case, important.
By the long and undisturbed possession of tangible property,
real or personal, one may acquire a title to it, or ownership,
superior in law to that of another, who may be able to prove
an antecedent and, at one time, paramount title. This superior
or antecedent title has been lost by the laches of the person
holding it, in failing within a reasonable time to assert it effectively; as, by resuming the possession to which he was entitled,
or asserting his right by suit in the proper court. What the
primary owner has lost by his laches, the other party has
gained by continued possession, without question of his right.
This is the foundation of the doctrine of prescription,a doctrine
which, in the English law, is mainly applied to incorporeal
hereditaments, but which, in the Roman law, and the codes
founded on it, is applied to property of all kinds.
Mr. Angell, in his work on Limitations of Actions, says that
the word limitation is used in reference to "the time which is
prescribed by the authority of the law (ctuctoritate,legis, 1 Co.
Litt. 113) during which a title may be acquired to property by

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

virtue of a simple adverse possession and enjoyment, or the
time at the end of which no action at law or suit in equity can
be maintained;" and in the Roman law it is called Prcescriptio.
"Prescription, therefore (he says), is of two kinds-that is,
it is either an instrument for the acquisition of property, or an
instrument of an exemption only from the servitude of judicial
process." Angell on Limitations, §§ 1, 2.
Possession has always been a means of acquiring title to
property. It was the earliest mode recognized by mankind of
the apfprcp2riatiom of anything tangible by one person to his
own use, to the exclusion of others, and legislators and publicists have always acknowledged its efficacy in confirming or
creating title.
The English and American statutes of limitation have in
many cases the same effect, and, if there is any conflict of decisions on the subject, the weight of authority is in favor of the
proposition that, where one has had the peaceable, undisturbed,
open possession of real or personal property, with an assertion
of his ownership, for the period which, under the law, would
bar an action for its recovery by the real owner, the former
has acquired a good title-a title superior -to that of the latter,
whose neglect to avail himself of his legal rights has lost him
his title. This doctrine has been repeatedly asserted in this
court. L fingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; C,'oxall v. Skererd,
5 Wall. 268, 289; Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578, 583;
Bipl,'il v. Cwonstock, 113 U. S. 149, 152. It is the doctrine of
the English courts, and has been often asserted in the highest
courts of the States of the Union.
It may, therefore, very well be held that, in an action to recover real or personal property, where the question is as to the
removal of the bar of the statute of limitations by a legislative act passed after the bar has become perfect, such act deprives the party of his property without due process of law.
The reason is, that, by the law in existence before the repealing
act, the property had become the defendant's. Both the legal
title and the real ownership had become vested in him, and to
give the act the effect of transferring this title to plaintiff, would
be to deprive him of his property without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

But we are of opinion that to remove the bar which the
statute of limitations enables a debtor to interpose to prevent
the payment of his debt stands on very different ground.
A case aptly illustrating this difference in the effect of the
statute of limitations is found in Smart v. Baugh, 3 J. J.
Marsh. 364, in which the opinion was delivered by Chief Justice
Robertson, whose reputation as a jurist entitles his views to
the highest consideration. The action was detinue for a slave,
and the defendant having proved his undisturbed possession of
the slave for a period of time which would bar the action, but
having failed to plead the statute of limitations, the question
was whether he could avail himself of the lapse of time. "The
plea (said the court)'is non detinet in the present tense, and
under this plea anything which will show a better right in the
defendant than in the plaintiff may be admitted as competent
evidence. The plea puts in issue the plaintiff's right. Five
years uninterrupted adverse possession of a slave not only bars
the remedy of the claimant out of possession, but vests the absolute legal right in the possessor. Therefore, proof of such
possession may show that the claimant has no right to the
slave and cannot recover. Consequently it would seem to result, from the reason of the case, that the adverse possession
may be proved under the general issue." Answering the objection that in assumpsit and other actions the statute to be
available must be pleaded, and by analogy should be pleaded
in that case, he says: "The same reason does not apply to assumpsit, because the statute of limitations does not destroy the
right in foro conscientice to the benefit of assumpsit, but only
bars the remedy if the defendant chooses to rely on the bar.
Time does notpay the debt, but time may vest the right ofproperty." Again he says: "This is perfectly true in detinue for a
slave, because, in such a case, the lapse of time has divested
the plaintiff of his right of property, and vested it in the defendant.

.

.

.

But it is not so in debt, because the statute

of limitations does not destroy nor pay the debt." "This (he
says) has been abundantly established by authority. .
A debt barred by time is a sufficient consideration for a new
assumpsit. The statute of limitations only disqualifies the

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff to recover a debt by suit if the defendant rely on time
in his plea. It is a personal privilege, accorded by law for reasons of public expediency; and the privilege can only be asserted by plea."
The distinction between the effect of statutes of limitation
in vesting rights to real and personal property, and its operation as a defence to contracts, is well stated in Jones v. Jones,
18 Ala. 248. See also Langdell's Equity Pleading, §§ 118 et
8e9.

We are aware that there are to be found, in the opinions of
courts of the States of the Union, expressions of the idea that
the lapse of time required to bar the action extinguishes the
right, and that this is the principle on which the statutes of
limitation of actions rest.
But it will be found that many of these are in cases where
the suits are for the recovery of specific real or personal property, and where the proposition was true, because the right of
the plaintiff in the property was extinguished and had become
vested in the defendant. In others, the Constitution of the
State forbade retrospective legislation. That the proposition
is sound, that, in regard to debt or assumpsit on contract, the
remedy alone is gone and not the obligation, is obvious from a
class of cases which have never been disputed.
1. It is uniformly conceded, that the debt is a sufficient consideration for a new promise to pay, made after the bar has
become perfect.
2. It has been held, in all the English courts, that,. though
the right of action may be barred in the country where the
defendant residel or has resided, and where the contract was
made, so that the bar in that jurisdiction is complete, it is no
defence, if he can be found, to a suit in another country.
In the case of Williams v. Jones, 13 East, 439, the contract
sued on was made in India, and by the law of limitations of
that jurisdiction the right of action was barred. But the recovery on it was allowed in England on the ground that the
bar did not exist in England, and the right itself had not been
lost. Lord Ellenborough said: "Here there is only an extinction of the remedy in the foreign court, according to the
VOL. cxv-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1-885.
Opinion of the Court.

law stated to be received there, but no extinction of the right."
Bayley, Justice, said: "The statute of limitations only bars
the plaintiff's remedy and not the debt, and the extent of the
defendant's argument is only to show, that the remedy is
barred in India, but that does not show it to be barred
here."
The decisions are numerous to the same effect in the American courts. In the case of .Le Boy v. Crowninshield,2 Mason,
151, Judge Story had conceded that the authorities were that
way, but intimated that, if the question were res nova, sound
principle might require a different decision. But in the case
of Towmend v. Jenmison, 9 How. 407, Mr. Justice Wayne
says that, in the previous case of ilfoElmoyle v. Cohuen, 13 Pet.
312), in which Judge Story participated, he concurred in the
doctrine that, on principle as well as authority, the bar of the
statute in one State cannot be pleaded as a defence in the
courts of another State, though the contract be made in the
former.
In this case of Townsend v. Xemison the opinion of the court
contains an elaborate examination of the whole question. It
explains the difference between statutes whose effect is to vest
title to property by adverse possession, and those which merely
affect the remedy, as in case of contract. The result of it is
summed up in a single sentence: "The rule in the courts of
the United States, in respect to pleas of the statutes of limitation, has always been that they strictly affect the remedy and
not the merits." p. 412. Again: "The rule is that the
statute of limitations of the country in which the suit is
brought, may be pleaded to bar a recovery upon a contract
made out of its political jurisdiction, and that the limitation of
the lex loci contractus cannot be." p. 414. And it is said that
in the cases decided in England on this subject there has been
no fluctuation.
The case before the court was an action brought in Alabama
against a citizen of Mississippi, on a contract made in the latter
State, and which, by the laws of that State, was barred by
the lapse of time. In the case of .A'cElmoyle v. Cohen, the
question was "whether the statute of limitations of the State

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

of Georgia can be pleaded to an action in that State upon a
judgment rendered in the State of South Carolina."
The court, in its opinion, says this "will be determined by
settling what is the nature of a plea of the statute of limitations. Is it a plea that settles the right of a party on a contract or judgment, or one that bars the remedy? Whatever
diversity of opinion there may be among jurists on this point,
we think it well settled to be a plea to the remedy; and,
consequently, that the lexfori must prevail." p. 327. So well
is this doctrine established, that many States of the Union
have made it a part of their statute of limitations, that, when
the action is barred by the law of a State in which defendants
had resided, it shall also be a bar to an action in those States.
There are numerous cases where a contract incapable of enforcement for want of a remedy, or because there is some
obstruction to the remedy, can be so aided by legislation as to
become the proper ground of a valid action; as in the case
of a physician practising without license, who was forbidden
to compel payment for his service by suit. The statute being
repealed which made this prohibition, he recovered in the
court a judgment for the value of his services on the ground
that the first statute only affected the remedy. H7ewitt v.
Wilcox, 1 Met. (Mass.) 154. Of like character is the effect of
a repeal of the laws against usury, in enabling parties to recover on contracts in which the law forbade such recovery
before the repeal. Wood v. Kennedy, 19 Ind. 68; Telch v.
Wadsworth, 30 Conn. 149; Butler v. Palmer, 1 Hill, 324;
fanton v. Commonwealth, 19 Penn. St. 329; Baugher v. Nel8oZ, 9 Gill, 304.
In all this class of cases the ground taken is, that there exists
a contract, but, by reason of no remedy having been provided
for its enforcement, or the remedy ordinarily applicable to
that class having, for reasons of public policy been forbidden
or withheld, the legislature, by providing a remedy where none
exists, or removing the statutory obstruction to the use of the
remedy, enables the party to enforce the contract, otherwise
unobjectionable.
Such is the precise case before us. The implied obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of defendant's intestate to pay his child for the use of her
property remains. It was a valid contract, implied by the law
before the statute began to run in 1866. Its nature and
character were not changed by the lapse of two years, though
the statute made that a valid defence to a suit on it. But this
defence, a purely arbitrary creation of the law, fell with the
repeal of the law on which it depended.
It is much. insisted that this right to defence is a vested
right, and a right of property which is protected by the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is to be observed that the word vested right is nowhere
used in the Constitution, neither in the original instrument nor
in any of the amendments to it.
We understand very well what is meant by a vested right to
real estate, to personal property, or to incorporeal hereditaments. But when We get beyond this, although vested rights
may exist, they are better described by some more exact term,
as the phrase itself is not one found in the language of the Constitution.
We certainly do not understand that a right to defeat a just
debt by the statute of limitations is a vested right, so as to be
beyond legislative power in a proper case. The statutes of
limitation, as often asserted and especially by this court, are
founded in public needs and public poliy-are arbitrary enactments by the law-making power. Tioga Railroadv. Blo8burg
and CorningRailroad,20 Wall. 131, 150. And other statutes,
shortening the period or making it longer, which is necessary
to its operation, have always been held to be within the legislative power until the bar is complete. The right does not enter into or become a part of the contract. No man promises
to pay money with any view to being released from that obligation by lapse of time. It violates no right of his, therefore,
when the legislature says, time shall be no bar, though such
was the law when the contract was made. The authorities
we have cited, especially in this court, show that no right is
destroyed when the law restores a remedy which had been
lost.
An instructive case on this subject is that of F0o8ter et al. v.

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

The F8ex Bank-, 16 Mass. 245. The charter of the bank being
about to expire in 1819, the legislature of -Massachusetts passed
a law continuing the existence of all corporations for the space
of three years after the expiration of their charters, for the
purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, and enabling them
to settle and close their concerns and divide their capital stock.
To a suit brought against the bank after its charter had expired, but within the three years allowed by this statute, it
was insisted that the statute of 1819 was void, as being retrospective in its operation, and interfering with vested rights.
The court said: "We cannot discover any principle by which
it can be decided that this statute is void. It does not infringe
or interfere with any of the privileges secured by the charter,
unless it be considered a privilege to be secured from payment
of debts or the performance of contracts, and this is a kind of
privilege which, we imagine, the Constitution was not intended
and a legislature which, in its acts not
to protect;
expressly authorized by the Constitution, limits itself to correcting mistakes, and providing remedies for the furtherance
of justice, cannot be charged with violating its duty or exceeding its authority."
We are unable to see how a man can be said to have property in the bar of the statute as a defence to his promise to pay.
In thetmost liberal extension of the use of the word property,
to choses in action, to incorporeal rights, it is new to call the
defence of lapse of time to the obligation to pay money, property. It is no natural right. It is the creation of conventional
law.
We can understand a right to enforce the payment of a lawful debt. The Constitution says that no State shall pass any
law impairing this obligation. But we do not understand the
right to satisfy that obligation by a protracted failure to pay.
We can see no right which the promisor has in the law which
permits him to plead lapse of time instead of payment, which
shall prevent the legislature from repealing that law, because
its effect is to make him fulfil his honest obligations.
In the Supreme Court of the State of Texas this question
came up, within two years after the adoption of the new Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

stitution, in the case of Bender v. Crawford,33 Texas, 745,
and the constitutional provision repealing all statutes of limitation formerly in existence was held valid. The case was well
considered, and has been adhered to ever since.
Among the cases on the subject referred to in the opinion
of the Commissioners of Appeal in the present case, are Rivers
v. Washington, 34 Texas, 267; .Dwight v. Overton, 35 Texas,
390; .Moseley v. Lee, 37 Texas, 479; Bentink v. Franklin,38
Texas, 458; Wood v. Welder, 42 Texas, 396; and -Lewi v.
Davidson, 51 Texas, 251.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICn

BRADLEY, with whom concurred MR. JusTioE

HARLn , dissenting.
I feel obliged to dissent from the opinion of the court in this
case. I think that when the statute of limitations gives a man
a defence to an action, and that defence has absolutely accrued, he has a right which is protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution from legislative aggression.
That clause of the amendment which declares that "no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law," was intended to protect every valuable
right which a man has. The words life, liberty, and pfoperty
are constitutional terms, and are to be taken in their broadest
sense. They indicate the three great subdivisions of all civil
right. The term "property," in this clause, embraces all valuable interests which a man may possess outside of himself, that
is to say, outside of his life and liberty. It is not confined to
mere tangible property, but extends to every species of vested
right. In my judgment, it would be a very narrow and technical construction to hold otherwise. In'an advanced civilization like ours, a very large proportion of the property of individuals is not visible and tangible, but consists in right4 and
claims against others, or against the government itself.
Now, an exemption from a demand, or an immunity from
prosecution in a suit, is as valuable to the one party as the
right to the demand or to prosecute the suit is to the other.

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

The two things are correlative, and to say that the one is protected by constitutional guaranties and that the other is not,
seems to me almost an absurdity. One right is as valuable as
the other. My property is as much imperiled by an action
against me for money, as it is by an action against me for my
land or my goods. It may involve and sweep away all that I
have in the world. Is not a right of defence to such an action
of the greatest value to me? If it is not property in the sense
of the Constitution, then we need another amendment to that
instrument. But it seems to me that there can hardly be a
doubt that it is property.
The immunity from suit which arises by operation of the
statute of limitations is as valuable a right as the right to bring
the suit itself. It is a right founded upon a wise and just
policy. Statutes of limitation are not only calculated for the
repose and peace of society, but to provide against the evils
that arise from loss of evidence and the faling memory of witnesses. It is true that a man may plead the statute when he
justly owes the debt for which he is sued; and this has led the
courts to adopt strict rules of pleading and proof to be observed
when the defence of the statute is interposed. But it is, nevertheless, a right given by a just and politic law, and, when
vested, is as much to be protected as any other right that a
man has.
The fact that this defence pertains to the remedy does not
alter the case. :Remedies are the life of rights, and are equally
protected by the Constitution. Deprivation of a remedy is
equivalent to a deprivation of the right which it is intended to
vindicate, unless another remedy exists or is substituted for
that which is taken away. This court has frequently held that
to deprive a man of a remedy for enforcing a contract is itself
a mode of impairing the validity of the contract. And, as before said, the right of defence is just as valuable as the right
of action. It is the defendant's remedy. There is really no
difference between the one right and the other in this respect.
It is said that the statutory defence acquired and perfected
in one State or country is not, or may not be, a good defence
in another. This, if it were true, proves nothing to the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

pose. It is a vested right in the place where it has accrued,
and is an absolute bar to the action there. This is a valuable
right, although it may be ineffective elsewhere.
Again, it is said that a debt barred by the statute is a good
consideration for a promise to pay it; which shows that the
statute does not extinguish the debt. This is no answer to
the position that the statutory defence is a valuable and an
absolute right. A new promise is an implied admission that
the debt has not been paid, and amounts to a voluntary waiver
of the statute.
I am unable to yield assent to any of the specious arguments
advanced to show that the defence of the statute, when it has
once vested, is an imperfect right which the legislature may, at
its mere will, abrogate and take away. I think it is then a
vested right, and that vested rights are a species of property
which the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution was intended to protect from adverse State legislation. The suggestion that the words "vested rights" are not to be found in the
Constitution does not prove that there are no such rights. The
name of the Supreme Being does not occur in the Constitution;
yet our national being is founded on a tacit recognition of His
justice and goodness, and the eternal obligation of His laws.
A few of the authorities sustaining the views which I
entertain on this subject will be referred to.
On the purpose and object of statutes of limitation, Chief
Justice Marshall, in Olement8on v. WlMhiams, 8 Cranch, 72,
74, says: "The statute of limitations was not enacted to protect persons from claims fictitious in their origin, but from
ancient claims, whether well or ill founded, which may have
been discharged, but the evidence of which may be lost."
In the following cases the general principle is laid down,
that, if the time limited by statute for commencing a suit expires whilst the statute is in force, and before the suit is
brought, the right to bring the suit is barred, and no subsequent statute can renew the right: flcinney v. xSringer, 8
Blackford, 506; Piate v. Fattier, 1 McLean, 146; Stip v.
Brown, 2 Ind. 647; Davis v. inor,1 How. (Mississippi) 183;
Bradford v. Brooks, 2 Aiken (Vt.) 284; Baldro v. Tolmie, 1

CAMPBELL v. HOLT.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

Oregon, 176; Gi'dner v. Stephens, 1 =eiskell, 280; Bigelow v.
]3emis, 2 Allen, 496; Ryder v. Wilson, 12 Vroom (41 N. J.
L.) 9, 11. See also Prenticev. Dehom, 10 Allen, 353, and Bali
v. TFyeth, 99 Mass. 338.
In Bigelow v. Bemi8, which was an action on contract, the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, speaking by Ch. X.
Bigelow, says: "It is well settled that it is competent for the
legislature to change statutes prescribing a limitation to actions, and that the one in force at the time of suit brought is
applicable to the cause of action. The only restriction on the
exercise of this power is, that the legislature cannot remove a
bar or limitation which has already become complete, and that
no new limitation shall be made to affect existing claims
without allowing a reasonable time for parties to bring actions
before their claims are absolutely barred by a new enactment."
In Ryder v. Wilson'8 Executors, which was a suit on promissory notes, the Supreme Court of New Jersey, speaking by
Ch. J. Beasley, says: "The decisions of the courts, so far as
my research has extended, are wholly in accord on this subject, and, with one voice, they declare that, when a right of
action has become barred under existing laws, the right to rely
upon the statutory defence is a vested right that cannot be
rescinded or disturbed by subsequent legislation." In Davis
v. Mfinhor, which was an action on contract, Chief Justice
Sharkey says: "A bar created by the statute of limitations is
as effectual as payment; and a defendant cannot be deprived
of the benefit of such payment, nor of the evidence to support
it; and, having provided himself with evidence sufficient and
legal at the time of payment, no law can change the nature,
or destroy the sufficiency, of the evidence." Judge Cooley,
discussing this subject, says: "Regarding the circumstances
under which a man may be said to have a vested right to a
defence against a demand made by another, it is somewhat
difficult to lay down a comprehensive rule which the authorities will justify. It is certain that he who has satisfied a
demand cannot have it revived against him, and he who has
become released from a demand by the operation of the statute
of limitations is equally protected. In both cases the demand

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

is gone, and to restore it would be create a new contract for
the parties-a thing quite beyond the power of the legislature."
Cooley's Const. Lim., 3d Ed. [429]* 369. In my opinion the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HA.RLAw concurs in
this opinion.

BALTZER & Another v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA..
Argued November 18, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

To entitle a plaintiff to relief in equity on the ground of mistake or fraud, the
mistake or fraud must be clearly established.
On the voluminous facts in this case the court is of opinion that the plaintiffs
have not established any mistake or fraud which entitles them to the relief
for which they pray.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
X1r. Attorney-General and X1/. JoAn N
lants.

ta&plme for appel-

Xrt. -Ecinund-Rando~p Roimon~[-Y. Tlioma8 C. Fuller
was with him on the brief] for appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was filed October 18, 1878, by Herman R. Baltzer
and William G. Taaks, the appellants, against the Raleigh and
Augusta Air Line Railroad Company, a corporation of the
MR. JUSTICE WOODS

State of North Carolina, and others, for a decree against the
railroad company for $93,615.62, with interest thereon from
November 2, 1868, that sum being the balance due them, as
the plaintiffs alleged, for iron furnished the Chatham Railroad

