HADDEN v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

that charter a law of the United States," every suit by or
against, and every defence to such a suit by, a federal corporation must arise under the laws of the United States, why require it to set forth in its petition for removal that its defence
does arise under such a law? If such a corporation cannot
"have a case which does not arise literally, as well as substantially, under the law," what the necessity for saying more than
that it is such a corporation?
The act of 1868, Rev. Stat. ยง 640, related specifically to this
class of corporations -and this class of suits, and it shows distinctly that the words "arising under the laws of the United
States" were there used in a restricted sense. I see no evidence
of any intention by Congress to use them in any other sense in
the act of 1875, when applied to the same kind of suits and to
the same kind of corporations.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUsTIcE MILERr unites with
me in this dissent.

HADDEN & Others v. MERRITT, Collector.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 23, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

The value of foreign coins, as ascertained by the estimate of the Director of the
Mint, and proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury, is conclusive upon
Custom House officers and importers.

This was a suit to recover back duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted. The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mrih,. 3faon W. Tyler for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Solicitor-Generalsubmitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MArHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought by plaintiffs in error against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Collector of the Port of New York, to recover an excess of
duties, alleged to have been illegally exacted and paid under
protest. A verdict was returned for the defendant under instructions to that effect by the court, and judgment rendered
accordingly. To this ruling of the court exceptions were duly
taken, and it is now assigned for error.
The plaintiffs' case was this: In the year 1879 they imported
from China several invoices of merchandise, subject to an ad
valorem duty, the value of which was stated in the invoices in
Mexican silver dollars, the currency of the country whence the
goods were exported. In converting the value of the invoices,
as expressed therein, from Mexican silver dollars into the value
by which the actual ad valorem duty upon them was to be ascertained, the dutiable value was arrived at in each case by estimating the value of the Mexican dollar in accordance with the
value of such coin as estimated by the director of the mint, and
proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury on the 1st day of
January of the year during which the importations were made;
and the value of the Mexican dollar so ascertained, estimated
and proclaimed, was $1.01-p, and duties were assessed upon the
importations accordingly.
The plaintiff offered to prove that this valuation of the Mexican dollar, as estimated and proclaimed, was erroneous in this,
to wit, that it was based on the value of the Mexican dollar as
compared with the silver dollar of the United States, whereas.
it ought by law to have been estimated and proclaimed by relation to the value of the gold dollar of the United States, and
that this would have diminished the dutiable value of the goods
imported, by the difference between from 84- cents to 86T
cents, and 101& cents, as the value of the Mexican dollar, varying, according to the dates of the several importations, with
the commercial difference in value between gold and silver.
The evidence offered on this point was rejected, and the ruling
of the court, in its instruction to the jury to return a verdict
for the defendant, was based on the proposition that, in assessing the duties collected on the value of the invoices, reduced
from Mexican silver dollars to the money of account of the
United States, the collector and importer were concluded by

HADDEN v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

the estimate of the director of the mint, proclaimed by the
Secretary of the Treasury, and then in force.
In opposition to that, it is contended that such estimate is
not conclusive, in a case where it can be shown that it is based
on the value of the foreign silver coin computed in terms of
the silver dollar, instead of the gold dollar, of the coinage of
the United States, in violation, it is argued, of the statutory
rule prescribed for making such estimate, which requires that
the value of the foreign coin, so estimated, shall be expressed
in the money of account of the United States, the standard
unit of value of which is assumed to be the gold dollar and not
the silver dollar.
Section 2838 Rev. Stat. requires all invoices of merchandise,
subject to a duty ad valorem, to be made out in the currency
of the place or country from whence the importation shall be
made, and that they shall contain a true statement of the
actual cost of such merchandise in such foreign currency or
currencies, without any respect to the value of the coins of the
United States, or of foreign coins, by law made current within
the United States in such foreign place or country.
Section 3564: Rev. Stat. is as follows: "The value of foreign
coin, as expressed in the money of account of the Unifed
States, shall be that of the pure metal of such coin of standard
value; and the values of the standard coins in circulation of
the various nations of the world shall be estimated annually by
the director of the mint and be proclaimed on the first day of
January by the Secretary of the Treasury."
The value of foreign coins, as ascertained by the estimate of
the director of the mint and proclaimed by the Secretary of
the Treasury, is conclusive upon custom-house officers and importers. No errors alleged to exist in the estimate, resulting
from any cause, can be shown in a judicial proceeding, to affect
the rights of. the government or individuals. There is no value,
and can be none, in such coins, except as thus ascertained ; and
the duty of ascertaining and declaring their value, cast upon
the Treasury Department, is the performance of an executive
function, requiring skill and the exercise of judgment and discretion, which precludes judicial inquiry into the correctness of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the decision. If any error, in adopting a wrong standard, rule,
or mode of computation, or in any other way, is alleged to
have been committed, there is but one method of correction.
That is to appeal to the department itself. To permit judicial
inquiry in any case is to open a matter for repeated decision,
which the statute evidently intended should be annually settled by public authority; and there is not, as is assumed in the
argument of the plaintiff in error, any such positive and
peremptory rule of valuation prescribed in the statute, as
serves to limit the discretion of the Treasury Department in
making its published estimate, or would enable a court to correct an alleged mistake or miscalculation. The whole subject
is confided by the law exclusively to the jurisdiction of the executive officers charged with the duty; and their action cannot
be otherwise questioned.
Such was the principle announced in the case of Cramer v.
Arthur, 102 U. S. 612. It was there said, "That valuation, so
long as it remained unchanged, was binding on the collector
and on importers-just as binding as if it had been in a permanent statute, like the statute of 1846, for example. Parties
cannot be permitted to go behind the proclamation, any more
than they would have been permitted to go behind the statute,
for the purpose of proving, by parol or by financial quotations
in gazettes, that its valuations are inaccurate. The government
gets at the truth as near as it can, and proclaims it. Importers
and collectors must abide by the rule as proclaimed. It would
be a constant source of confusion and uncertainty if every importer could on every invoice, raise the question of the value
of foreign moneys and coins," pages 616, 617. . . . "If
existing regulations are found to be insufficient, if they lead to
inaccurate results, the only remedy is to apply to the President, through the Treasury Department, to change the regulations." Page 619.
There was no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and
the judgment is
Affirmed.

