MOSES v. WOOSTER.
Argument against the Motion.

MOSES & Another v. WOOSTER.
ORIGINAL MOTION,

ENTITLED IN A CAUSE PENDING ON APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted October 19, 1885.-Decided November 2, 1885.

The plaintiff below obtained a decree in equity for damages and an injunction
against three defendants who appealed. After docketing the appeal, one
appellant died. The survivors suggested his death, and an order was issued
under Rule 15, § 1, for notice to his representatives. This was duly published. The representatives not appearing, the surviving appellants moved
that the action abate as to the deceased, and proceed at the suit of the
survivors : Held, That the suit proceed at the suit of the survivors.

The suit below was in equity and brought by George H.
Wooster, the appellee, against Solomon Moses, Gotcho Blum,
and Solomon Weil, partners under the name of Moses, Blum
& Weil, for an infringement of letters patent. A final decree
for an injunction and damages was rendered against the defendants, May 23, 1883. From this decree all the defendants
appealed, and the appeal was docketed here October 12, 1883.
Blum died January 2, 1884. On the 11th of April, 1885,
Wooster appeared in this court and suggested his death, whereupon the usual order under Rule 15, § 1, 108 IT. S. 581, was
entered, that, unless his representatives should become parties
within the first ten days of this term, the appeal would be
dismissed. Proof of the due publication of a copy of this
order has been made, but the representatives of the deceased
appellant have not appeared. The surviving appellants now
move that the action abate as to the decedent, but that it proceed at their suit as survivors.
r'. Horat o P. Allen for the motion.
.. _Freder c H. JBet and Xrb. J. . Wrndon Hyde opposing. I. Section 956 of the Revised Statutes does not apply to
the present case. It is to be read in connection with § 955,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument against the Motion.

which relates only to the death of a party before final judgment. Neither section has anything to do with appeals from
a final judgment. Green v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260. But
even if § 956 did apply, the court is asked to grant an order
declaring the very thing which the section itself declares shall
not happen, viz.: that the suit shall abate. II. A suit cannot abate, after final judgment for plaintiff, except through
the fault of the plaintiff himself or his representatives. The
first subdivision of Rule 15 was first promulgated after and
in consequence of the decision in Green v. fatkins. Mr. Justice Story said in that case: "There is a material distinction between the death of parties before jutgment and after judgment,
and while a writ of error is depending. In the former, all personal actions by the common law abate; and it required the aid
of some statute, like that of the thirty-first section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20" (§§ 955, 956 iR. S.), "to enable the
action to be prosecuted by or against the personal representative of the deceased, when the cause of action survived.
But, in cases of writs of error upon judgments already
rendered, a different rule prevails. In personal actions, if the
plaintiff in error dies before assignment of error, it is said that
by the course of proceedings at common law the writ abates;
but if after assignment of errors it is otherwise." From this
language it is evident that the. death of a party before judgment abates the suit; after judgment and pending appeal, it,
at most, abates the writ of error or appeal. III. This subdivision was drawn in aid of a deceased party: not to deprive
a successful plaintiff of his property. The death of a party
to a suit after a judgment obtained against him cannot release his estate, whether he takes an appeal from the judgment or not. The rule gives his representatives the option of
pursuing the appeal, but the successful party cannot lose his
claim because the judgment debtor has died, and his representatives do not care to appeal. IV. Infringement of letters
patent is a tort, and each defendant is jointly and severally
liable. The fact that there are co-defendants and appellants,
who are also liable for the amount of the judgment, does not
affect a case where the defendants are joint tort-feasors. Judg-

MOSES v. WOOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

ment against all is a judgment against each, and the estate of
each is bound for the whole amount.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WMATE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
The Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 90, ch. 20, § 31, provided
that "if there be two or more plaintiffs or defendants, and one
or more of them shall die, if the cause of action shall survive
to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall not be thereby
abated; but such death being suggested upon the record, the
action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintiff or'
plaintiffs against the surviving defendant or defendants."
This was re-enacted in the Revised Statutes as § 956, and is
substantially a copy of the act of 8 and 9 W. III., c. 11, § 7,
which it was held, in Clark'e v. Rirpon, 1 B. & Ald. 586, was
applicable to writs of error. Lord Ellenborough, in giving
that judgment, said: "The proceeding is an action which is
commenced by a'writ, and the cause of the action is the damage sustained by the parties from the error in the previous
judgment, and this damage equally attaches on the survivor in
this as in any other action." 1b. 587. This court gave the
same effect to our statute in X3cKinney v. Carroll,12 Pet. 66.
Appeals to this court from the Circuit and District Courts
are "subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as
are or may be prescribed by law in cases of writs of error." Rev.
Stat. § 1012. The cause of action in this appeal, that is to say,
"the damage sustained by the parties in the previous decree,"
attaches to the surviving appellants. All the defendants were
enjoined from infringing the patented machine, and all were
made liable for the payment of the damages which the patentee
had sustained by their joint acts as partners. Clearly, therefore, the case is within the statute and may be proceeded with
accordingly. The cause of action is one that survives to the
surviving appellants.
Undoubtedly cases may arise in which the presence of the
representatives of a deceased appellant will be required for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

due prosecution of an appeal, notwithstanding the survivorship
of others. If that should be so, the court can, with propriety,
direct that the appeal be dismissed, unless it be properly revived within a limited time. The House of Lords made such
an order in Blake v. Bogle, a note of which is found in Macqueen's Practice H. of L. 2-4. Here, however, there is no
need of a revivor that substantial justice may be done. The
decree below was against all the defendants jointly, upon a
joint cause of action. It affected all alike, and the interest of
the decedent is in no way separate or distinct from the others.
If the representatives of a deceased appellant voluntarily come
in and ask to be made parties, they may be admitted. Such a
course was adopted by the House of Lords in Thorpe v. 3attingleg, 1 Phillips, Oh. 200. In the present case, the representatives
of the decedent, although notified, do not appear.
It is proper, therefore, that the appeal shouldproceed under
the statute at the suit of the survivors, and an entry to that
effect may be made.

JACKS .

ELEINA.

SAME v. SAME.
IN E ROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted November 2, 1935.-Decdded November 9, 15.

When it distinctly appears on the face of an opinion of a State court, which

by a law of the State forms part of the record, that the decision below was
properly put upon a ground that did not involve a Federal question,
although such question was raised there, this court has no jurisdiction in
error over the judgment.
Detroit City Railway Co. v. Guathard, 114 U. S. 183, cited and followed.

These were suits commenced in a State court of Arkansas,
praying in each case for a mandamus upon the defendants, a
municipal corporation, to compel the issue and delivery of
bonds of the municipality, on a subscription in aid of a rail-

