OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Counsel for Parties.

possible for this court to lay down any general rule which will
apply to cases differing in their facts from this case.
Tiejudgment of he Circuit Court is qffrmed, the plainti
in error in each case to pay the clerk's costs taxed therein,
and the plaintifin error in NYo. 875 [Ferry & Another v.
Livingston] to recover one-haf of the expense of printing

the record,paid by it.

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF

-ENTUCKY.

Argued November 12, 13, 1M8.-Deeided November 23, 1885.
The proposition that the levy and collection of taxes, though they are to be
raised for the satisfaction of judgments against counties or towns, is not
within the jurisdiction of a court of equity, reviewed and re-affirmed.
The fact that the remedy at law by mandamus for levying and collecting
taxes has proved ineffectual, and that no officers can be found to perform
the duty of levying and collecting them, is no sufficient ground of equity
jurisdiction.
The principle is the same where the proper officers of the county or town have
levied the tax and no one can be found to accept the office of collector of
taxes. This gives no jurisdiction to a court of equity to fill that office or to
appoint a receiver to perform its functions.
The inadequacy of the remedy at law, which sometimes justifies the interference of a court of equity, does not consist merely in its failure to produce
the money, a misfortune often attendant upon all remedies, but that in its
nature or character it is not fitted or. adapted to the end in view ; for, in
this sense, the remedy at law is adequate, as much so, at least, as any remedy which chancery can give.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.

-Ytr. Charles Eginton [-Y. W. 0. Dodd was with him on the
0
brief] for appellant.
-Hr. John -V'ason Brown [-Yr. Alexander P. Humphrey
and XAr. George Y Davie were with him on the brief] for ap
pellees.

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kentucky, dismissing the bill
of the appellant, who was plaintiff in that court.
The case was tried on bill, answer, exceptions to the answer,
and a stipulation as to the facts.
The substance of the bill was, that plaintiff had obtained
against Allen County, in that court, two judgments at law,
amounting to over $27,000, on coupons for interest on bonds
issued by the county to pay for subscription to the stock of the
Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company. That, after executions on these judgments had been duly returned "no property
found," the court, at the instance of the plaintiff, issued writs
of mandamus to the justices of the Allen County Court, under
which they levied a tax of $2.08 on every hundred dollars'
worth of taxable property in the county to pay said judgments.
That, at the same time, they elected one J. T. Stork collector
of said tax levy, and made an order that he give bond with
good security as such collector, and proceed to collect the levy
and pay it over in satisfaction of the judgments. That Stork
refused to give bond as required, and refused to accept and
qualify as such collector; and that, by reason of the hostility
of the citizens and tax-payers of Allen County, no one could
be found in the county who would perform the duty of collector.
The bill then gave the names of about thirty of the principal
tax-payers of the county, with the value of the assessed property of each, and the amount of tax due from him under said
levy, alleging that the tax-payers were too numerous to be sued,
and praying that these might be sued as defendants representing all others in like circumstances, and be required, with the
county, to answer the bill.
The prayer of the bill for relief was, that, inasmuch as the
complainant was without remedy at law, the court sitting in
chancery would appoint a receiver, who should collect these
taxes, and that the money arising therefrom be from time to
time paid over in satisfaction of plaintiff's judgments, and that
the several tax-payers of said county, made defendants, be reMR. JUSTICE MILLER

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

quired to pay into court, with like effect the sums due by them
as alleged in the bill.
A joint answer was filed by Allen County and the other defendants who were served with process. They admitted the recovery of tile judgments, the return of the executions "nulla
bona," the issue of the writs of mandamus, and the levy of the
tax by the County Court. They also admitted the election of
Stork as collector and his refusal to serve, and they denied
everything else. They said that the bonds were procured by
fraud and without consideration, the road was never built, the
tax was unjust and oppressive, and they denied the jurisdiction
of the court, sitting as a court of equity, to collect these taxes,
which could only be done by a collector of taxes for said
county, appointed according to law, and not otherwise. Exceptions were filed to this answer, which were not passed upon,
but the case was heard on bill, answer, exceptions, and the following stipulation :
" By leave of the court the parties now stipulate of record in
this cause:
"1. That the county court of Allen County has in good
faith and diligently endeaiiored to find a fit and proper person
to act as collector of the railroad taxes in said county, and of
the special levies of taxes in the bill of complaint set forth.
"2. That no such fit and proper person can be found who
will undertake and perform the office and duty of such collector.
"3. That the complainant is without remedy for the collection of its debt herein, except through the aid of this court in
the appointment of a receiver, as prayed for in the bill, or
other appropriate order of the court."
The hearing was had before the circuit justice and the circuit
judge, who certified that they. were opposed in opinion on
the following questions occurring in the progress of the case:
"1. Whether taxes levied under judicial direction can be
collected through a receiver appointed by the court of chancery,
if there is no public officer with authority from the legislature
to perform the duty.
"2. Whether taxes levied by State officers under judicial

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

direction can be collected through a receiver appointed by the
United States court, where the legislature has provided an
officer to collect, but there is a vacancy in office and no one
can be found who is willing to accept the office.
"3. Whether a court of chancery can grant any relief to
complainant upon the facts recited in the bill, answer, and
stipulation, as presented in this record."
A decree was rendered in accordance with the view of
Presiding Justice Matthews, whose opinion is found in the
record, by which the bill was dismissed. 13 Fed. Rep. 97. An
appeal was taken to this court.
The questions on which the judges of the Circuit Court
divided are not new in this court, for, while the subject, in the
precise form presented in the first and second questions, may
not have been decided, the whole subject has been often before us, and the principles which govern it have been well considered.
The cases in which it has been held that a court of equity
cannot enforce the levy and collection of taxes to pay the
debts of municipal corporations began with TFallcey v. City of
Jfnweatlne, 6 Wall. 481.
In that case, the complainant Walkley had procured judgments against the city of Muscatine for interest on bonds of
the city, executions bad been returned "nulhl bona," the
mayor and aldermen had refused to levy a tax for the payment of the judgments, and had used the annual tax for other
purposes and paid nothing to plaintiff.
Walkley then filed his bill in equity praying a decree that
the mayor and aldermen be compelled to levy a tax and appropriate so much of its proceeds as might be necessary to pay his
judgments.
This court said, by Mr. Justice Nelson, that the remedy
was by mandamus at law, and "we have been furnished with
no authority for the substitution of a bill in equity and injunction for the writ of mandamus," p. 483; and he adds, that "a
court of equity is invoked as auxiliary to a court of law in the
enforcement of its judgments only when the latter is inadequate to afford the proper remedy," pp. 483-4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
By inadequacy of the remedy at law is here meant, not that
it fails to produce the money-that is a very usual result in the
use of all remedies-but that in its nature or character it is not
fitted or adapted to the end in view. This is clearly stated in
the next case in this court on the same subject, namely, Rees v.
Watertown, 19 Wall. 107.
In that case, as in this, execution on a judgment against the
city of Watertown had been returned "no property found."
Writs of mandamus had been issued requiring the levy of a
tax to pay the judgment. These writs had failed by reason of
resignations of the officers of the city to whom they were
directed, and this had occurred more than once. The court
was pressed with the doctrine that, the writ of mandamus having proved inadequate, a court of equity should provide some
other remedy. To this it replied: "We apprehend also that
there is some confusion in the plaintiff's proposition, upon which
the present jurisdiction is claimed. It is conceded, and the
authorities are too abundant to admit of question, that there is
no chancery jurisdiction where there is an adequate remedy at
law. The writ of mandamus is, no doubt, the regular remedy
in a case like the present, and ordinarily it is adequate and its
results are satisfactory. The plaintiff alleges, however, in the
present case, that he has issued such a writ on three different
occasions; that by means of the aid afforded by the legislature,
and by the devices and contrivances set forth in the bill, the
writs have been fruitless; that in fact, they afford him no
remedy. The remedy is in law and in theory adequate and
perfect. The difficulty is in its execution only. The want of a
remedy, and the inability to obtain the fruits of a remedy, are
quite distinct, and yet they are confounded in the present proceeding. To illustrate: the writ of habere facias possewstonem
is the established remedy to obtain the fruits of a judgment for
the plaintiff in ejectment. It is a full, adequate, and complete
remedy. Not many years since there existed in central New
York combinations of settlers and tenants disguised as Indians,
and calling themselves such, who resisted the execution of this
process in their counties, and so effectually that for some years
no landlord could gain possession of his land. There was a

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Opinion of the C~urt.

perfect remedy at law, but through fraud, violence or crime, its
execution was prevented. It will hardly be argued that this
state of things gave authority to invoke the extraordinary aid
of a court of chancery. The enforcement of the legal remedies
was temporarily suspended by means of illegal violence, but
the remedies remained as before. It was the case of a miniature
revolution. The courts of law lost no power, the court of
chancery gained none. The present case stands upon the same
principle. The legal remedy is adequate and complete, and
time and the law must perfect its execution," pp. 124-5.
The language here used is not only applicable to the case
under consideration, but in regard to the facts they are the
same.
In that case the court said: "The plaintiff invokes the aid
of the principle that, all legal remedies having failed, the court
of chancery must give him a remedy; that there is a wrong
which cannot be righted elsewhere, and hence the right must
be sustained in chancery. The difficulty arises from too broad
an application of a general principle. . . . Generally its
jurisdiction [chancery] is as well defined and limited as is that
of a court of law. . . . Lord Talbot says, ' There are cases,
indeed, in which a court of equity gives remedy where the law
gives none; but where a particular remedy is given by law, and
that remedy bounded and circumscribed by particular rules,
it would be very improper for this court [chancery] to take it
up where the law leaves it, and extend it further than the law
allows.' Generally its jurisdiction depends upon legal obligations, and its decrees can only enforce remedies to the extent
and in the mode by law established. . . . A court of
equity cannot, by avowing there is a right but no remedy
known to the law, create a remedy in violation of law, or even
without the authority of law.
It acts upon established
principles not only, but through established channels."
pp.
121-122.
The court also said the power to direct a tax to be levied is
the highest attribute of sovereignity, and is exercised by legislative authority only. It is a power that has not been extended
to the judiciary. "Especially," says the opinion, "is it beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the power of the Federal judiciary to assume the place of a
State in the exercise of this authority at once so delicate and
so important." pp. 116-117.
TItese propositions are reasserted in a later case of the same
term of the court. Heine v. The Levee Commi8sioners, 19
Wall. 655.
It was, like the present, a bill in chancery to enforce collection of taxes where no officers could be found whose duty
could be enforced by mandamus. "There does not," said the
court, "appear to be any authority, founded on the recognized
principles of a court of equity, on which this bill can be sustained. If sustained at all, it must be on the very broad
ground that, because the plaintiff finds himself unable to collect
his debt by proceedings at law, it is the duty of a court of
equity to devise some mode by which it can be done. It is,
however, the experience of every day and of all men, that
debts are created which are never paid, though the creditor
has exhausted all the resources of the law. It is a misfortune
which, in the imperfection of human nature, often admits of
no redress. The holder of a corporation bond must, in common
with other men, submit to this calamity when the law affords
no relief." p. 660.
The court added that the exercise of the power of taxation
belonged to the legislature and not to the judiciary, and, in
that case, it had delegated the power to the Levee Commissioners. "If that body has ceased to exist, the remedy is
in the legislature, either to assess the tax by special statute, or
to vest the power in some other tribunal. It certainly is not
invested as in the exercise of an original jurisdiction in any
Federal court." p. 661. "It is not only not one of the inherent powers of the court to levy and collect taxes, but it is
an invasion by the judiciary of the Federal government of the
legislative functions of the State government." lb. And it
cites Talkley v. .3fcatine,,and .Bees"v. Watertown, as in
point.
Mr. Justice Bradley, who decided this case on the circuit,
had there elaborately discussed the whole subject. See feine
v. Levee Co6nmissioners, 1 Woods, 246. This language is re-

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

peated and approved in State Railroad Tam Caw, 92 U. S.
575, 615.
The same principles are laid down in Barkkey v. Levee Commi8,sione,'% 93 U. S. 258, in which the whole subject is reviewed.
It is said there that the power to compel, by
mandamus, municipal officers to perform the ministerial duty
of levying proper taxes is a distinct power from the levy and
collection of taxes by a court of chancery, and "the truth is,
that a party situated like petitioner" (where there were no such
officers) "is forced to rely on the public faith of the legislature
to supply him a proper remedy. The ordinary remedy having
failed by the lapse of time and the operation of unavoidable
contingencies, it is to be presumed that the legislature will do
what is equitable and just, and, in this case, legislative action
seems to be absolutely requisite." pp. 265-6.
In the case of XJleriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 4'72, the
legislature of Tennessee had repealed the charter of the city of
Memphis and abolished the city organization, at a time when
there were taxes assessed and uhicollected amounting to several
millions of dollars, and debts of the city to a much larger
amount. Some of these taxes had been levied under compulsion of writs of mandamus from the Circuit Court of the
United States. A bill in chancery was filed in that court by
some of these creditors praying the appointment of a receiver,
who should take charge of all the assets of the city of Memphis,
collect these taxes, and pay them over to the creditors, and
generally administer the finances of the extinct city as a
court of equity might administer the insolvent estate of a dead
man.
The decree of the Circuit Court, granting relief according
to the prayer of the bill, was reversed in this court, and the
bill dismissed.
Owing to a division in the court no elaborate opinion representing the whole court was given, but the chief justice announced eight propositions, on which the majority were agreed.
Of these propositions the following are pertinent here:
"3. The power of taxation is ]tgislative and cannot be exercised otherwise than under the authority of the legislature.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"4. Taxes levied according to law before the repeal of the
charter, other than such as were levied in obedience to the
special requirement of contracts entered into under the authority of law, and such as were levied under judicial direction
for the payment of judgments recovered against the city, cannot be collected through the instrumentality of a court of
chancery at the instance of the creditors of the city. Such
taxes can only be collected under authority from the legislature.
If no such authority exists, the remedy is by appeal to the
legislature, which alone can grant relief. Whether taxes
levied in obedience to contract obligations, or under judicial
direction, can be collected through a receiver appointed by a
court of chancery, if there be no public officer charged with
authority from the legislature to perform that duty, is not decided, as the case does not require it." p. 501.
But though the question was not then decided, and it is
urged upon us now, we see no more reason to hold that the
collection of taxes already assessed is a function of a court of
equity than the levy or assessment of such taxes. A court of
law possesses no power to levy taxes. Its power to compel
officers who are lawfully appointed for that purpose, in a case
where the duty to do so -is clear, and is strictly ministerial,
rests upon a ground very different from and much narrower
than that under which a court of chancery would act in
appointing its own officer either to assess or collect such a
tax.
In the one case the officers exist, the duty is plain, the plaintiff has a legal right to have these officers perform that duty
for his benefit, and the remedy to compel this performance,
namely, the writ of mandamus, has been a well known process
in the hands of the courts of common law for ages. In the
other there exists no officer authorized to levy the tax or to
collect it when levied. The power to enforce collection when
the tax is levied, or to cause it to be levied by existing officers,
is a common-law power, strictly guarded and limited to cases
of mere ministerial duty, and is not one of the powers of a
court of chancery. It would require in this court, not the
compulsory process against some existing officer to make him

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

perform a recognized duty, but the appointment by the court
of such an officer and a decree directing him what to do.
In the one case, his power proceeds from the law, and he is
compelled to exercise it; in the other, it proceeds from the
court which first makes its own decree, and makes an officer
to enforce it. No such power has evar yet been exercised by
a court of chancery. The appointment of its own officer to
collect taxes levied by order of a common-law court is as much
without authority, as to appoint the same officer to levy and
collect the tax. They are parts of the same proceeding, and
relate to the same matter. If the common law court can
compel the aeesssment of a tax, it is quite as competent to enforce its collection as a court of chancery. Having jurisdiction
to compel the assessment, there is no reason why it should stop
short, if any further judicial power exists under the law, and
turn the case over to a court of equity. Its sheriff or marshal
is as well qualified to collect the tax as a receiver appointed by
the court of chancery.
The difficulty is that no power exists in either court to fill
the vacancy in the office of tax collector; and the case of Lee
County Supervisors v. Rogers, 7 Wall. 175, where the laws of
the State of Iowa expressly authorized the court to enforce its
writ of mandamus by making such appointment, the only case
in which it has ever been done, shows that without such legislative authority it cannot be done.
It is the duty of the marshals of the Federal courts and the
sheriffs of State courts to levy executions issuing from these
courts on the property of defendants, and sell it, to raise money
to pay their judgments. Let us suppose that, for some reason
or other, the office of marshal or sheriff became vacant for a
while. Would that authorize the court of equity of the Federal or State government to appoint a sheriff or marshal? or
to appoint a receiver to levy the execution? or, if it had been
levied, to sell the property, collect the purchase-money, and
pay it to plaintiff ? If this cannot be done, if it never has been
done, why can it do a much more unjudicial act, by appointing
a collector to collect the taxes, or, what is still less appropriate,
appointing a receiver, and endow him with that power?

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

To appoint a marshal or a sheriff to execute the process of a
court to enforce the judgment of that court, is not such a wide
departure from the judicial function as to appoint a receiver
to collect taxes; but no case has been cited of the exercise of
even the former power by the court, much less the appointment, by a court of chancery, of an officer to execute the processes of a court of law. The appointment of special masters
or commissioners to make sales under decrees in chancery, is
the ordinary mode of that court to enforce its decrees in cases
where the court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of the
suit.
Not only are the decisions here reviewed of our own court
clearly opposed to the exercise of this power by the court of
equity, but the decisions of the highest court of the State of
Kentucky are equally emphatic. It is the powers derived from
the statute law of that State under which alone this tax can
be collected. The issue of the bonds on which the judgment
was obtained was by virtue of a special statute, and that statute pregcribed the mode of levying and -collecting this tax.
It enacted that its collection should not be by the sheriff who
collected the ordinary taxes for the State and county, but that
a special tax collector should be appointed for that purpose by
the justices of the County Court who levied the tax. The
Court of Appeals, construing this statute, which was in existence when the bonds were issued, holds that no other officers
but these can collect the taxes, and has decided, both in reference to this law and the Constitution of the State, that a court
of chancery cannot appoint such an officer or exercise this
function of tax collector. .. lLe n County Preoinctv. Deposit
Bank, 81 Ky. 254.
This decision, if not conclusive, is entitled to great weight as
construing the statute under which alone this tax can be levied
and collected.
These considerations require that the answers to each of the
three questions certified to us by the judges of the Circuit
Court be in the negative, and that the decree of that court dismissing the bill be
Aff rmed.

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.
MR. JUSTIcE HI
ALA.N dissenting.

The present case presents a question not heretofore decided
by this court.
The appellant has judgments against the county of Allen,
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, which were rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Kentucky District, for the amount of unpaid interest on bonds issued by that
county in payment of its subscription to the capital stock of a
railroad company, the subscription having been made and the
bonds issued under express legislative authority. The County
Court refused to levy a tax to satisfy such judgments, although
it was authorized and required by the act, in virtue of which the
bonds were issued, to levy "as listed and taxed under the revenue laws of the State, a sum sufficient to pay the interest on
such bonds as it accrues, together with the costs of collecting
the same." It was further provided, by the same act, that
the County Court "may appoint collectors for said tax," or
may require the sheriff to collect the tax.
In 1876 the General Assembly of Kentucky passed a special
act releasing the sheriff of Allen County from the duty of giving bond for the collection of any railroad tax, and providing
that the "County Court shall, at the instance or motion of any
person, or by request, appoint a special collector to collect all
taxes or levies on said county for railroad purposes; and shall
require bonds, with security, to be approved by the court, for
the faithful discharge of all duties incumbent on him."
Execution upon Thompson's judgments having been returned
"no property," and the County Court having refused to levy a
tax to pay them, the Circuit Court, upon Thompson's application, issued a mandamus against the judge and justices constituting the County Court, commanding them to perform the
duty, enjoined by statute, of levying and causing to be collected,
from the taxable property of the county, a sum sufficient to
satisfy the before-mentioned judgments, and the costs of collecting the same. Subsequently, on May 28, 1881, the County
Court, in conformity with the foregoing order, made a levy
upon the taxable property of the tax-payers of the county "to
pay the judgments in favor of T. W. Thompson against said
VOL. CXV-

g6

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, J.

county." It was further ordered by the County Court "1that
J. T. Stark be, and is hereby, appointed collector of said levy,
upon his executing bond, with approved security, before the
County Court, and he will proceed at once to collect said lev-y,
and pay the same over in satisfaction of the judgments hereto.
fore named in favor of T. W. Thompson or his attorney."
Stark declined to accept the office of collector. It is alleged
in the bill, and admitted in the answer, "that the sentiments
and feelings of a large majority of the citizens and tax-payers
of the said Allen County are very hostile and outspoken against
the collection or payment of the said tax." The County Court
having announced that it was unable to find any person who
was willing to accept the appointment of collector and undertake the collection of the levy, and Thompson being unable, as
he alleges, to find any person within the county who is willing
to qualify as collector, the present suit in equity was commenced against the county, and a large number of its tax-payers,
whose names are given in the bill, together with the amount
of their taxable property, as assessed by the proper county
authorities, with the taxes due from each, as shown by the
public records of the county. The bill sets out the foregoing
facts, and asks that the several tax-payers, who are made defendants, be required to pay into court the several sums due
from them, as shown by the levy made by the County Court,
and that other tax-payers, not specifically named as defendants,
be required to pay into court, or to some person appointed by
it as receiver, the amount due from them respectively-such
sums to be applied in satisfaction of Thompson's judgments.
There is, also, a prayer for general relief.
The parties, by their counsel, stipulated at the hearing of the
cause, and it is to be taken as true, that the County Court
"has in good faith and diligently endeavored to find a fit and
proper person to act as collector of the railroad taxes in said
county, and the special levies of taxes in the bill of complaint
set forth;" that "no such fit and proper person can be found
who will undertake and perform the office and duty of such
collector; " and that "the complainant is witAout remedy for
the collection of the debt herein, except through the aid of this

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, J.

court in the appointment of a receiver, as prayed for in the
bill, or other appropriate orders of the court."
Under this state of facts my brethren, affirming the decree
below, hold that the Circuit Court, sitting in equity, was entirely without authority, in any way, to cause the tax-payers
of Allen County to bring into court the sums due from them,
respectively, that the same may be applied in satisfaction of
Thompson's judgments.
In my judgment, there is nothing in our former decisions
which prevents a court of equity from giving substantial relief
to the complainant. In IMalkley v. City of Jfuseatine, 6 Wall.
482, the application was to a court of equity to compel the
levy of a tax. The only point decided was, that where a
municipal corporation refused to levy a tax to satisfy a judgment against it, the remedy of the creditor was a mandamus
to compel such levy; and that "a court of equity is invoked
as auxiliary to a court of law in the enforcement of its judgments in cases only where the latter is inadequate to afford the
proper remedy." In Biees v. City of TWater'town, 19 Wall. 107,
a Federal court, sitting in equity, was asked, in the absence of
a levy, to subject the property of the tax-payers of a city to the
payment of complainant's judgments against it, and that the
marshal of the district be empowered to seize and sell so much
of their property as might be necessary for the satisfaction
of such judgments. In other words, the court was asked
to make a levy of taxes. And in Heine v. The Levee Comnissioners, 19 Wall. 655, it appears that holders of bonds
issued by the Levee Commissioners-no judgment at law hav'ing been r'ecovered on tie bonds, nor any attempt made to
collect the amount due by suit in a comnon-law court--brought
a suit in equity, and prayed that the commissioners be required to assess and collect the tax necessary to pay the
bonds and interest, and if, after reasonable time, they failed
to do so, that the district judge of the parish, who was by
statute authorized to levy the tax when the commissioners
failed to do so, be ordered to make the levy. It was decided
that the power of taxation belonged to the legislative, not to
the judicial branch of the government; that, in that case, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

power must be derived from the legislature of the State; if the
body known as Levee Commissioners had, by resignation of
their members, ceased to exist, the remedy was in the legislature either to assess the tax by special statute, or to vest the
power in some other tribunal; that, in any event, a Federal
court was without power to levy and collect a tax authorised
by a State law. That such was the extent of the decision in
that case is shown in State .RailroadTax Cases, 92 U. S. 575,
where, referring to Heine v. The levee Commissioner8, it was
said: "The levy of taxes is not a judicial function. Its exercise, by the Constitutions of all the States and by the theory of
our English origin, is exclusively legislative." p. 615.
In Barkley v. Levee Cormissioners,93 U. S. 258, the court
was asked to compel, by the process of mandamus, a board of
levee commissioners, the members of which had resigned, to
assess and collect a tax for the payment of a certain judgment
against the parish; or, if that could not be done, that the
police jury of the parish be required to make such assessment
and collection; or, if that could not be done, that the United
States marshal should be required to assess at once or by instalments, from year to year, and collect sufficient taxes upon
the property subject to taxation for levee purposes to pay the
judgment. It was held that a mandamus could not issue, because the Board of Levee Commissioners had become extinct
as a body, and that the court had no general power to commission the marshal to levy taxes for the purpose of satisfying
a judgment.
These cases only establish the doctrine that the levying of
taxes is not a judicial function.
It seems to me that the granting of relief to Thompson will
not, in any degree, disturb the principles announced in the
foregoing cases. The bill does not ask the court to usurp the
function of levying taxes. That duty has been performed
by the only tribunal authorized .to do it, viz., the County
Court of Allen Countv. Nothing remains to be done, except
to collect from individuals specific sums of money which they
are under legal obligation to pay. The collections of these
sums will not interfere with any discretion with which

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the Allen County Court is invested by law; for, by its own
order, made in conformity with the law of the State, and
by the judgment in the mandamus proceedings, the sums due
from the individual defendants, and from other tax-payers, has
been set apart for the payment of Thompson's judgments.
Those sums, when collected, cannot be otherwise used. As
the County Court cannot find any one who will accept the
office of special collector, and as the parties agree that there is
no mode of collecting the sums set apart in the hands of the
individual defendants and other tax-payers, for the payment of
Thompson, I am unable to perceive why the Circuit Court,
sitting in equity, may not cause these sums to be applied in
satisfaction of its judgments at law. The plaintiff has no
remedy at law; for, the common-law court in rendering judgment has done all that it can do, and the local tribunal, by"
levying the required t~x and seeking the aid of a special collector to collect it, has done all that it can do. There is no
suggestion, or even pretence, that the tax-payers who are sued
dispute the regularity of the assessment made against them by
the County Court. Admitting their legal liability for the specific amounts assessed against them, and conceding that what
they owe must, when paid, go in satisfaction of Thompson's
judgments, they dispute the authority of any judicial tribunal
to compel them to pay it over. With money in their hands,
equitably belonging to the judgment creditor, they walk out
of the court whose judgments remain unsatisfied, announcing,
in effect, that they will hold negotiations only with a "special
collector," who has no existence.
That the court below, sitting in equity-after it has given a
judgment at law for money, and after a return of nulla bona
against the debtor-may not lay hold of moneys set apart, by
the act ) the debtor, in the hands of individuals exclusively for
thepayment of that judgment, and which money, the parties
agree, cannot be otherwise reached than by being brought into
that court, under its orders, is a confession of helplessness on
the part of the courts of the United States that I am unwilling
to make. I, therefore, dissent from the opinion and judgment
in this case.

