OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

but, being satisfied that the direction of the court was wrong
as to the necessity of a regular protest for non-payment, we
only examine the further question raised by the defendant in
error, as to the insufficiency of the evidence adduced to show
a demand of payment, for the purpose of determining as to its
admissibility and competency; its weight will be for the consideration of the jury under proper instructions from the court
on a future trial.
Tiejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the caud
remanded,with directions to award a new trial.

SARGENT & Others v. HELTON & Others.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABA. IA.
Argued October 23, 185.-Decided November 16, 1885.

Where a sale of the lands of a bankrupt estate has been made and confirmed
by order of the bankruptcy court, and the lands have been conveyed by the
assignee, the Circuit Court of the United States is without jurisdiction at
the suit of the purchaser to enjoin a sale of the same lauds about to be
made upon the order of a State court.

Dana Sargent, one of the appellants, was the sole plaintiff
at the commencement of the suit in the Circuit Court. His
bill was filed July 10, 1879. It alleged in substance as follows:
The Pensacola Lumber Company, a corporation of the State
of New York, was, on February 27, 1875, adjudicated bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and on the 18th day of Mfay following
a deed of assignment of all the property of the bankrupt was
executed to the assignee in bankruptcy.. The property so conveyed consisted in part of a large body of land in Escambia
County, in the State of Alabama. Under a decree of the
bankruptcy court, made on December 22, 1875, these lands
were sold at public sale on January 5, 1876, in the city of New

SARGENT v. HELTON.
Statement of Facts.

York, and were purchased by Dana Sargent, one of the plaintiffs. The sale was confirmed by the court on January 18,
1876, and, Sargent having complied with the terms of sale, on
the 25th of the same month, the assignee conveyed the lands to
him, and he at once took, and still retained, possession of them.
A few days before the Pensacola Lumber Company was adjudicated bankrupt, to wit, on the 18th, 19th, and 22d of February, 1875, all of the defendants respectively, except the
sheriff of Escambia County, commenced actions against it by
attachment in the Circuit Court of Escambia County, Alabama,
and the writs of attachment were levied on the lands above
mentioned of the Pensacola Lumber Company lying in the
county of Escambia. More than two years afterwards, to wit,
at the fall term in the year 1878 of the Circuit Court of Escambia County, that court rendered final judgments against
the Pensacola Lumber Company in all the attachment suits,
and ordered the lands attached to be sold to satisfy the same,
in disregard of the fact that the attachments had been dissolved
by the adjudication of the defendant as a bankrupt. On June
24, 1879, the clerk of the Circuit Court of Escambia County
issued to the sheriff an order, directing him to advertise and
sell the lands attached in obedience to the judgments condemning them to be sold, and the sheriff was about to execute
the order.
The bill alleged that the said order of sale had thrown a
cloud upon the title of Sargent to the lands, and had impaired
their value; that the execution of the order of sale would still
further increase the cloud upon the title, and further depreciate
the value of the lands, impair plaintiff's business and credit,
and inflict an injury, for which he could obtain no satisfaction,
owing to the insolvency of the defendants and the insufficiency
of the sheriff's bond and estate; and that the lands, consisting
of ninety odd sections and parts of sections, would probably,
if sold, be bought by many persons, and thus plaintiff would
be involved in a multiplicity of suits to vindicate his title.
The bill further alleged that the defendants, other than the
sheriff, were general creditors of the bankrupt and parties to
the bankrupt proceedings under which the lands were sold and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

bought by Sargent. The prayer of the bill was that the
sheriff, his agents, and deputies might be enjoined from selling
the lands attached.
Before final hearing, by consent of the parties, an amendment was made to the bill, by which Daniel F. Sullivan, who
was represented to be the assignee of Dana Sargent, the purchaser of the lands, was made a party plaintiff.
The defendants demurred to the bill on several grounds,
among which were that the bill was without equity, and the
court without jurisdiction. The Circuit Court made a decree
by which the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed.
From that decree the plaintiffs appealed.
-Yr. Charles . Xlayer [Xb'. Richard L. Campbell and .21r.
Lewis Abraham were with him on the brief] for appellants.
-Mr. H. A. rierbertfor appellees.
Mh. JusTicE

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

tie

stated the facts in the language above reported, and continued:
Section 720 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides "that the writ of injunction shall not be granted by
any court "of the United States to stay proceedings in any
court of a State, except in cases where such injunction may be
authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy."
The sole purpose of the bill in this case was to restrain the
execution of an order of the Circuit Court for the county of
Escambia, a court of the State of Alabama, and no relief
which, upon the averments of the bill, this court could grant
would be effectual without the writ of injunction prayed for.
The Circuit Court of the United States was, therefore, deprived
of power, by the section just quoted, to protect the rights of
the plaintiff, unless the writ of injunction was authorized by
the law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy. TMhines v.
Carjenter, 91 U. S. 254; Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340. In
a timely suit brought by the assignee in bankruptcy, there is
no doubt that, upon a proper showing, the Circuit Court might
have enjoined proceedings in the attachment suits in the State

SARGENT v. HELTON.
Opinion of the Court.

court. This is the express ruling in C7a~pranv. Brewer, 114
U. S. 158. But the plaintiff in this case is not the assignee in
bankruptcy. Sullivan, the transferee of Sargent, the vendee
at the bankruptcy sale, was the real plaintiff and the only party
who, at the final hearing, asked for the injunction. The
question, therefore, is, does any law relating to proceedings in
bankruptcy authorize an injunction at the instance of a purchaser of property at a bankruptcy sale, or his vendee, to stay
proceedings in a State court?
There is no act of Congress expressly authorizing a Circuit
Court of the United States to restrain by injunction, even at
the suit of an assignee in bankruptcy, proceedings in a State
court. The case of Chapman v. Brewer, vbi supra, was a bill
in equity filed by an assignee in bankruptcy to enjoin the defendant from selling the property of the bankrupt upon execution issued out of the State court. The jurisdiction to issue
the writ in that case was placed by the court upon ยง 5024
Rev. Stat., which authorized the District Court, sitting in
bankruptcy, when a petition in involuntary bankruptcy had
been filed, to restrain by injunction all persons from interfering
with the debtor's property; and upon ยง 4979, which gives
the Circuit Court concurrent jurisdiction with the District
Courts of all suits at law or in equity brought by an assignee
in bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest
in any property transferable to or vested in him. The court, in
the case cited, said: "It must beheld that Congress, in authorizing a suit in equity in a case like the present, has, in order to
make the other relief granted completely effective, authorized
an injunction as necessarily incidental and consequent to prevent further proceedings under the levies already made and new
levies under the judgment." The case makes it clear that the
injunction to stay proceedings in a State court is only allowed
by the statute for the purpose of aiding the assignee in
bankruptcy to discharge his duty and of protecting the
property of the bankrupt estate for the equitable distribution
among the creditors. But there is no act of Congress from
which can be inferred authority to a court of the United States
to issue an injunction to restrain proceedings of a State court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

at the instance of a purchaser at bankruptcy sale, or of his
vendee.
The right of the assignee in bankruptcy, by ยง 5057 ZRev.
Stat., to maintain any suit touching any property or rights of
property transferable to or vested in him against any person
claiming an adverse interest, is cut off by ยง 5057 Rev. Stat. by the
lapse of two years from the time the cause of action accrued.
But the contention of the plaintiff in this case is that the
bankruptcy act, without limitation of time, allows a purchaser
at a bankruptcy sale, or his vendee, to sue out a writ of injunction from a Federal court to restrain proceedings in a State
court, while it denies that right to all other persons, except the
assignee in bankruptcy, and allows it to him only for two years
after his cause of action has accrued.
The argument against the jurisdiction in this case. is clear.
The suit was not brought until long after the lands in controversy had been sold and conveyed by the assignee, and the
purchaser had been put in possession. Neither the assignee
nor the creditors of the bankrupt estate had any further
interest in or concern with them. They had been fully administered, the purchase money had been paid to the assignee, and
the lands no longer formed any part of the assets of the bankrupt estate, and no proceedings in the bankruptcy court could
have any reference to them. There is, therefore, no law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy which authorizes the injunction prayed for.
The case of .Dietzsch.v. Hztidek-oper, 103 U. S. 494, cited by
counsel for plaintiff, merely decided that a court of the United
States could enforce its own judgment in a replevin suit removed
from a State court, by enjoining the defeated parties from proceeding on the replevin bond in the court from which the
cause had been removed, the condition of the bond having been
satisfied by the judgment of the Federal court in favor of the
obligor. The court further held that the bill filed for the purpose of restraining the defendant was merely ancillary to the
replevin suit, its object being to secure t6 the defendant
therein the fruits of his judgment. The authority cited does
not tend to sustain the jurisdiction of the court in this case.
.Decree aflI-med.

