OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

concealment should have been set forth by distinct averments,
as well as the time when discovered, so that the court may see
whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence, the discovery
might not have been before made." Beaubiem v. Beaublen, 23
How. 190; Stearne v. Page, 7 How. 819; .Moorev. Greene,
19 How. 69; Marsh v. T hitmore, 21 Wail. 178, 185; Gdddem
v. .immell, 99 U. S. 201; Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95;
F'ood v. Carpenter,101 U. S. 135; Landdale v. Smith, 106
U. S. 391.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want
of equity was correct and is
Afirmed.

GEORGE W. FRASHER & Others v. O'CONNOR.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued April 10, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.
In adjusting Congressional grants of lands to a State, the only questions
for consideration by the officers of the United States are, whether the State
possessed the right to claim the land under the grant, and whether the land
was subject to selection by its agents. Those officers have no jurisdiction
to review transactions between the State and its purchasers, nor between
the State and its locating agents, and determine whether such purchasers or
locating agents complied with the provisions of its laws relating to the sale
of the lands.
Surveys under the eighth section of the act of July 23, 1866, "to quiet land
titles in California," become operative by approval of the United States
Surveyor General for the State, and his filing in the local land office of
the township plats. Upon such approval of a survey and filing of the
township plats, lands thereby excluded from a confirmed private land claim
become subject to State selections and other modes of disposal of public
lands. Previous approval of the survey by the Commissioner of the General Land Office is not necessary.
Lists of Lands certified to the State by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and the Secretary of the Interior, convey as complete a
title as patents ; and lands embraced therein are not thereafter open to
settlement and pre-emption.

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

This was an action in the nature of ejeetment to recover
possession of a tract of land in California. The facts which
make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.&. George F Edmunds (.r.William J Johnston was
with him) for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr.
Edward B. Taylor for defendant in error.
MR.Jusvcn FrELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for the possession of a parcel of land in
Los Angeles County, California. The plaintiff, the defendant
in error here, traces title to the premises by a patent of the
State, issued to Robert Thompson on the 21st day of April,
1874, and certain mesne conveyances from the patentee. The
title of the State was derived from selections of land in lieu of
sections sixteen and thirty-six granted for school purposes by
the act of Congress of March 3, 1853.
The defendants below, the plaintiffs in error here, contend
that the selections by the State were void, because made within the asserted limits of a claim under a Mexican grant before
the survey of such grant, which excluded the disputed premises,
had become final; and set up a right to the land as preemptors under the laws of the United States by settlement
and improvement subsequent to the State patents, with a tender to the officers of the Land Department of the required
sums in such cases to entitle them to patents of the United
States.
The position of the defendants below is, that, being entitled
as such pre-emptors to patents from the United States of the
lands in controversy, they are in a position to call in question
the validity of the proceedings by which the land was selected
by the State agents and listed to the State. To determine the
questions thus presented, it will be necessary to give a brief
history of the legislation of Congress, and of California with
respects to the lands granted to the State for school purposes.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1853, "to provide for the
survey of the public lands in California, the granting of pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

emption rights therein, and for other purposes," 10 Stat. 246,
§ 6, placed the public lands in that State, with certain specified
exceptions, subject to the general pre-emption law of September 4, 1841. Among the excepted lands were sections sixteen
and thirty-six of each township, which were declared to be
thereby granted to the State for the purposes of public schools,
and lands claimed under any foreign grant or title. The act
also declared, in its seventh section, that where a settlement
by the erection of a dwelling-house, or the cultivation of any
portion of the land, should be made on the sixteenth and thirty.
sixth sections before they should be surveyed, or where such
sections should be reserved for public uses, or "taken by private
claims," other lands should be selected in lieu thereof by the
proper authorities of the State.
The lands in controversy were within the boundaries of a
tract claimed under a confirmed Mexican grant, known as the
Rancho Sausal Redondo. As sections sixteen and thirty-six of
townships were covered by the grant, a case was presented
within the seventh section of the act of Congress, in which the
State was authorized to select other lands in lieu of them.
The Legislature of California, by an act passed April 27,
1863, provided for the sale of certain lands granted to the
State by Congress, and, among others, of the sixteenth and
thirty-sixth sections in the several townships, or of lands which
might be selected in lieu thereof. It prescribed the proceedings
to be taken for the purchase of the lands, and required each
State locating agent to keep a record of applications to purchase made to him, and when they amounted to three hundred
and twenty or more acres, to apply on behalf of the State to
the register of the United States land office of the district for
such lands, in part satisfaction of the grant under which they
were claimed, and to obtain his acceptance of the selections
thus made. Various other proceedings were required by the
act to secure a proper presentation to the Land Department of
the United States of the lands thus purchased of the State;
that is, of lands thus selected in satisfaction of the grant to her.
Surveys of the public lands in California were greatly delayed
after the passage of the act of 1853, and as late as 1866 many

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

townships had not been surveyed. For want of these surveys,
it was impossible to ascertain the precise locality, in each township, of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections, and of course,
except in a few instances such as where the whole township
was embraced in a private claim under a Mexican or Spanish
grant, it could not be known whether there had been any such
settlement on those sections as would authorize the State to
select other lands in lieu thereof.
The State was embarrassed by this delay in the public surveys, not only in the use of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth
sections, and, when they were occupied by settlers, in the
selections of lands in lieu of them, but also in the selection of
lands granted by other acts of Congress than that of March 3,
1853. By the eighth section of the general pre-emption law
of September 4, 1841, five hundred thousand acres of land
were granted to each new State subsequently admitted into
the Union, and of course to California, for purposes of internal
improvement, the selection of the lands to be made from any
public land within her limits, except such as was or might be
reserved from sale by a law of Congress or the proclamation of
the President, and in such manner as her Legislature should
direct, and located in parcels conformably to sectional divisions
and subdivisions of not less than three hundred and twenty
acres in any one location.
In May, 1852, in advance of any surveys by the United
States, the State passed an act for the sale of these five hundred
thousand acres. It authorized the governor to issue land warrants for not less than one hundred and sixty acres, and not
more than three hundred and twenty acres in one warrant, to
the full amount of the grant, the treasurer to sell them at two
dollars an acre, and the purchasers and their assigns to locate
them on behalf of the State on any vacant and unappropriated
land belonging to the United States subject to such location.
Under these laws selections were made by agents of the
State, or purchasers of warrants who were authorized to locate
the same. Similar legislation was had and similar proceedings
were authorized with respect to other lands granted by acts of
Congress to the State. When, however, selections thus made

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

were brought to the attention of the Land Department at
Washington, they were not recognized as conferring any right
to the parties claiming under them. Selections made in advance of the public surveys were held to be wholly invalid.
This ruling of the department caused great confusion and embarrassment in the State. Titles thought to be unquestionable
were found to be worthless, and interests of great magnitude
which had grown up upon their supposed validity were endangered. To relieve against the embarrassments arising
from this cause the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, "to quiet
land titles in California," 14 Stat. 218, was passed. The first
section of this act declares, that, in all cases where the State of
California had previously made selections of any portion of the
public domain in part satisfaction of a grant made to the State
by act of Congress, and had disposed of the same to purchasers
in good faith under her laws, the lands so selected should be
and were thereby confirmed to the State.
From this confirmation were excepted selections of lands to
which an adverse pre-emption or homestead or other right
had at the date of the passage of the act been acquired by a
settler under the laws of the United States, and of lands reserved for naval, military or Indian purposes, and of mineral
land or of land claimed under a valid Mexican or Spanish grant.
The second section provided that where the selections had
been made of land which had been surveyed by authority of
the United States, it should be the duty of the authorities of
the State, where it had not already been done, to notify the
register of the United States land office for the district, in
which the land was located, of such selections, and that the
notice should be regarded as the date of the State's selections.
The third section provided that where the selections had
been made of land which had not been surveyed by authority
of the United States, but the selections had been surveyed
by authority of and under laws of the State, and the land sold
to purchasers in good faith, such selections should, from the
date of the passage of the act, when marked off and designated
in the field, have the same force and effect as the pre-emption
rights of a settler on unsurveyed public land.

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

As thus seen, selections made pursuant to this act, embracing
lands held or claimed under a valid Mexican or Spanish grant,
wdre excepted from confirmation. :By the act of 1853, 10
Stat. ch. 145, § 6, lands claimed under "any foreign grant or
title" were excepted from pre-emption. The effect of these
exceptions was to exclude from settlement large tracts of land
in the State, which, upon a definite ascertainment of the boundaries of the grants, would have been open to settlement. A
very great portion of the lands in the State were covered by
Mexican or Spanish grants. Some of the grants were by specific
boundaries, and the extent of the land covered by them could
be readily ascertained without an official survey. But, by far
the greater number were of a specific quantity of land lying
within outboundaries embracing a much larger quantity. Thus,
grants of one or two leagues would often describe the quantity
as being within boundaries embracing double or treble that
amount, the grant declaring that the quantity was to be surveyed off by officers of the vicinage, and the surplus reserved
for the use of the nation. The grantee in such case was of
course entitled only to the specific quantity named, but what
portion of the general tract should be set apart to him could
only be determined by a survey under the authority of the government. Until then the grantee and the government were
tenants in common of the whole tract. No one could intrude
upon any portion of it, the whole being exempted from the
pre-emption laws. The practical effect of this condition in
many cases was to leave the grantee, until the official survey,
in the possession, use and enjoyment of a tract of land containing a much larger quantity than that granted. And before
such survey could be made the validity of the grant was to be
determined by the commission appointed to investigate private
land claims in California, and the action of the commission was
subject to review by the District Court of the United States,
with a right of appeal from its decision to the Supreme Court.
When the validity of the grant was confirmed the confirmee
could not measure off the quantity for himself and thus legally
segregate it from the balance of the tract. As we said in
Van Reynegan v. Bolton, 95 U. S.33, 36: "The right to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the segregation rested exclusively with the government and
could only be exercised by its officers. Until they acted and
effected the segregation, the confirmees were interested in preserving the entire tract from waste and injury, and in improving it; for until then they could not know what part might be
assigned to them. Until then no third person could interfere
with their right to the possession of the whole. No third person could be permitted to determine, in advance of such segregation, that any particular locality would fall within the surplus, and thereby justify his intrusion upon it and its detention
from them. If one person could, in this way, appropriate a
particular parcel to himself, all persons could do so; and thus
the confirmees would soon be stripped of the land which was
intended by the government as a donation to its grantees,
whose interests they have acquired, for the benefit of parties
who were never in its contemplation. If the law were
otherwise than as stated, the confirmees would find their possessions limited, first in one direction and then in another,
each intruder asserting that the parcel occupied by him fell
within the surplus, until, in the end, they would be excluded
from the entire tract. Cornwall v. Culver, 16 Cal. 423, 429;
Riley v. ffeisch, 18 Cal. 198 ; .- ahoney v. 'Fan Winkle, 21 Cal.
552."

The delays before the official surveys were made, even after
the confirmation of a grant, sometimes lasted for years. In
some instances they were attributable to the want of sufficient
appropriations by Congress to meet the expenses of the surveys. To obviate them from this cause Congress provided in
§ 6 of the act of Tuly 1, 1864, "to expedite the settlement of
titles to lands in the State of California," 13 Stat. ch. 194,
that it should be the duty of the Surveyor General of California to cause all private land claims finally confirmed to be
accurately surveyed and plats thereof to be made whenever
requested by the claimants: provided, that each claimant
requesting a survey and plat should first deposit in the District
Court of the district within which the land was situated a sufficient sum of money to pay the expenses of such survey and
plat, and of the publication required by the first section of the

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

act. And in § 7 it prescribed the manner in which the surveys should be made.
But, inasmuch as a confirmee had the possession and use of
the whole tract, from which his quantity was to be taken, until
it was segregated, he was not in haste to have the survey made
of his claim. It was for his interest to postpone it; and therefore few confirmees of grants of quantity within exterior
boundaries, embracing a larger amount, applied for surveys
under that act. Accordingly when the act of July 23, 1866,
"to quiet land titles in California" 14 Stat. 218, ch. 219, was
passed, confirming selections previously made by the State, except those from lands held or claimed under a valid Mexican
or Spanish grant, it provided in § 8 as follows: "That in all
cases where a claim to land by virtue of a right or title derived
from the Spanish or Mexican authorities has been finally confirmed, and a survey and plat thereof shall not have been
requested within ten months from the passage of this act, as
provided by sections six and seven of the act of July first,
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, 'to expedite the settlement
of titles to lands in the State of California,' and in all cases
where a like claim shall hereafter be finally confirmed, and a
survey and plat thereof shall not be requested, as provided by
said sections within ten months after the passage of this act,
or any final confirmation hereafter made, it shall be the duty
of the Surveyor General of the United States for California,
as soon as practicable after the expiration of ten months from
the passage of this act, or such final confirmation hereafter
made, to cause the lines of the public surveys to be extended
over such land, and he shall set off, in full satisfaction of such
grant, and according to the lines of the public surveys, the
quantity of land confirmed in such final decree, and as nearly
as can be done in accordance with such decree; and all the
land not included in such grant as so set off shall be subject to
the general land laws of the United States: Provided, that
nothing in this act shall be construed so as in any manner to
interfere with the right of bona,fide pre-emption claimants."
14 Stat. 220, 221.
After the passage of this act neither the State, nor persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

desiring to settle upon the public lands, were obliged to wait
beyond ten months for the grantee of a confirmed Mexican
land claim to take action for the segregation of the specific
quantity granted to him. If he delayed for that time after
the passage of the act, if his claim had been previously confirmed, or for that time after the confirmation of his claim, if
it should be subsequently confirmed, to obtain a final survey,
it became the duty of the Surveyor General of the United
States to proceed and extend the lines of the public surveys
over the land and to set off in satisfaction of the grant, and
according to the lines of such surveys, the quantity of land
confirmed, and all the land not included in such grant as so set
off was made "subject to the general land laws of the United
States."
The grant known as the Rancho Sausal Redondo was made
to Antonio Ygnacio Abila, May 20, 1837, by Alvarado, then
governor ad interim of the department of California. The
claim of the grantee to the land was confirmed on the 10th of
June, 1855, by the Board of Land Commissioners for the ascertainment and settlement of private land claims in California,
and at its December term, 1855, by the District Court of the
United States. It embraced land within the limits of Los Angeles County. The decree of the District Court became final,
the appeal from it to the Supreme Court having been dismissed
by stipulation of the Attorney General. In 1858 a deputy surveyor made a survey of the claim, but it was not approved by
the Surveyor General, and was, in consequence, of no validity.
For more than ten years afterwards no other survey was
made, nor does it appear from the record that the grantee,
or those owning the claim, made application for any under
the act of July 1, 1864. Accordingly, in 1868, more than
ten months having elapsed after the passage of the act of
July 23, 1866, at the instance of General Rosecrans, the
rancho was surveyed by i deputy United States surveyor,
George Hansen, and land was set off to the grantee in satisfaction of the grant. Over the land within the boundaries of the
grant confirmed the United States surveyor extended the
section and township lines; and, on April 22, 1868, the town-

FRASMER v. O'CONTOR.

111

Opinion of the Court.

ship plats were filed in the district land office of San Francisco.
Subsequently General Rosecrans, as hereafter stated, applied
to the State to purchase the lands outside of the tract allotted
to the grantee, part of which are the subject of the present controversy. The owners of the grant protested that notice of the
survey had not been given to them, and that it did not conform
to the decree of confirmation, and demanded a new survey.
The Surveyor General thereupon recalled the township plats
and ordered a new survey, which was made in July, 1868, by
deputy surveyor Thompson. This new survey included the
lands in controversy as part of the grant. Afterwards, however, in October, 1871, the Secretary of the Interior set aside
this new survey, ordered the township plats to be returned to
the land office, and affirmed the survey made by Hansen.
Before, however, the recall of the township plats, and the order
for a new survey, General fRosecrans had procured a number
of men to make applications for his benefit for the purchase of
the lands in controversy, and to transfer their interests thus
acquired to him. The applications were approved by the locating agents of the State, and the lands as selections by the
State were afterwards listed to her, and patents were issued
to the purchasers or their assignees. According to the findings
of the local District Court, the applications and subsequent proceedings were very loosely conducted, and great irregularities
are charged against the principal purchaser. But if the locating agents of the State were satisfied with the applications to
purchase, and the selections thus made were approved by the
Land Department of the United States, and the lands were
listed to the State as part of the grant to her, it is not perceived
what ground of complaint the loose character of the proceedings
furnish to the defendants. Their title is not advanced by showing how irregularly the proceedings were conducted by parties
who obtained the title of the State; and to the general government it is enough that she does not complain, but accepts
the selections in satisfaction of the grant to her. The same
view was taken by the Interior Department with reference to
one of the State selections referred to. It was objected that
the selection was invalid because not made in accordance with

OCTOBER TERII, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of the act of the legislature of the State, of April
27, 1863. But the Secretary answered that it was not necessary to enter into a consideration of the alleged defects in the
application of the purchaser; that was a question between him
and the State; that by the seventh section of the act of March
3, 1853, the. State was granted indemnity if sections sixteen
and thirty-six lay within private grants; that the manner of
selecting such indemnity was not specified; that the act of the
legislature had provided for the sale of certain lands belonging
to the State, and if purchasers failed to comply with the requirements of the statute, their claims may fail ; that the questions to be considered by the general government were, the
right of the State to claim the land under her grant, and was
the land subject to selection, observing that these were the only
questions to determine, as the general government only recognized the State in the proceedings; that "it was no part of its
duty to inquire into the transactions between the State and her
purchasers, neither would it go back of the record to ascertain
whether as between the State and her agent he complied with
the provisions of the statute relating to the sale of granted
land." The Secretary added that there was no complaint on
the part of the State of any irregularity in the selection in
question, but, on the contrary, she had recognized and approved
of it and issued a patent to the purchaser. And, further, that
the legislature of the State had passed an act for the relief
of purchasers of State lands, approved March 27, 1872, declaring that when application had been made to purchase such
lands, and full payment had been made to the treasurer of the
proper county for the same, and a certificate of purchase or
patent had been issued to the applicant, the title of the State
was vested in him or his assignees, if no other application had
been made for the purchase of the land prior to the issue of
the certificate. Thus, said the Secretary, has the State in the
most emphatic manner asserted her claim to the land notwithstanding the alleged irregularities on the part of her agent in
selecting the same.
To this action of the State it may be added, that the general
government has, by the act of Congress of March 1, 1877,

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

relinquished every possible objection on its part to a recognition of the claim of the State. by confirming her title to lands
certified to her as indemnity school selections in lieu of the
sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections lying within Mexican grant ,
the final survey of which had not been made; and also confirming indemnity school selections certified to the State,
which were defective or invalid from any other cause.
The sole question, therefore, remaining for our determination
is, whether the premises in controversy were open to selection
at the time the selection was made. And of this we think
there can be no reasonable doubt. The Mexican grant, under
which the land was claimed, had been confirmed in December,
1856, and although, as stated above, a survey had been made
by a deputy surveyor in 1858, it had not been approved by the
Surveyor General, and was, therefore, of no effect. No other
attempt was made to obtain a survey of the land until February, 1868, over eleven years after the confirmation of the
grant, and over three years after the passage of the act of July
1, 1864, and over eighteen months after the passage of the act
of July 23, 1866. Had a survey been called for by the grantee,
or made under the act of 1864, it would have required the approval of the Commissioner of the General Land Office before
it could have been the basis of action by the State or by individuals. But the grantee, having neglected to take any action,
and ten months having elapsed after the passage of the act of
1866,-it was competent for the Surveyor General of California,
and indeed it was made his duty, to extend the lines of the
public surveys over the land confirmed; and the act declares
that "he shall set off, in full satisfaction of such grant, and according to the lines of the public surveys, the quantity of land
confirmed in such final decree, and, as nearly as can be done,
in accordance with such decree, and all the land not included
in suck rant a8 8o 8et of shall be sztbject to the general land
laws qo the United States."
Nothing can be plainer than this language. It leaves no
doubt as to its meaning. All the land not included in the
grant as thus set off "shall be subject to the general land laws
of the United States." The survey of the land confirmed is
VOL. cxv--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

withdrawn, therefore, from that special supervision and control
which are vested in the Commissioner of the General Land
Office over surveys of private land claims made under the act
of 1864. The laws and practice of the Land Department, with
respect to surveys of the public lands generally, only apply,
and must govern the case. Had it been the intention of Congress to retain the special supervision of the commissioner, it is
reasonable to suppose that the intention would, in some way,
have been expressed. But there is nothing of the kind, and
the survey is therefore to be treated as an ordinary official survey of the public lands, and, as such, is operative until changed
or set aside by the Land Department. It is not necessary, as
in the case of surveys of private land claims under other laws,
to obtain the previous approval of such department before it
becomes operative; and proceedings to acquire the title to
lands outside of it may at once be taken either by the State or
pre-emptors upon its assumed validity. Such was the view of
the Interior Department with reference to the survey of the
land confirmed here, after a most elaborate consideration. In
illustration of the manner in which public lands, when once
surveyed, can be disposed of, the Secretary refers to the act of
Congress approved May 1, 1796, providing for the sale of lands
of the United States in the territory northwest of the river
Ohio and above the mouth of the Kentucky River. The Surveyor-General was authorized to prepare plats of township
surveys, to keep one copy in his office for public information,
and to send other copies to the places of sale and to the
Secretary of the Interior. The present local land offices, said
the Secretary, are equivalent to the places of sale mentioned
in the act of 1796, and, as a matter of practice, from that day
to the present time, the township plats prepared by the Surveyor-General have been filed by him with the local land officers, who thereupon have proceeded to dispose of the public
lands according to the laws of the United States. There was
nothing in the act of 1796, or any subsequent acts, which required the approval of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office before the survey became final and the plats authoritative. Such a theory, said the Secretary, is not only contrary

FRASHER v. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

to the letter and spirit of the various acts providing for the
survey of the public lands, but it is contrary to the uniform
practice of the department. Applying this uniform practice to
the case at bar, all doubt that the lands in controversy were
open to selection by the State disappears. The grant was surveyed in February, 1868, and sufficient land set apart to satisfy
it. In March following, a survey of the townships in which
the land lay was made and approved by the United States
Surveyor-General of the district, and in April the survey and
township plats were filed in the land office of the district. The
State selections of lands lying outside of the survey of the
grant were made before any action of the Surveyor-General
was had recalling the plats and ordering a new survey. Had
his action been sustained by the Land Department, and the
new survey made upon his order, which included the land in
controversy as part of the grant, been approved, a question
would have arisen as to the validity of the selections in the
face of such subsequent proceedings. It is not necessary to
hold that they would have been unaffected. It may, perhaps, be
that they would have had to abide the judgment of the departmhnt as to the status of the land. All that is necessary to decide here is, that, after the grant had been surveyed and the
township plats filed, the State was at liberty to make selections
from land lying outside of the survey, and pre-emptors were at
liberty to settle upon it, and if the survey were not ultimately
set aside, their rights thus initiated would be protected.
As already said, the Interior Department held the original
survey valid, directed the township plats to be returned
to the land office, and accepted the selections of the State
outside of the survey and listed the land to her. The inchoate rights acquired to the lands selected were not lost by
the subsequent action of the Surveyor-General in setting aside
the first survey of the grant, and, after that action was vacated,
could be perfected. The original survey, outside of which the
selections were made, was approved by the Secretary of the
Interior on the 31st of October, 1871, and the lands selected
were listed to the State by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office on the 29th of May, 1872, and by the Secretary of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the Interior on the 31st of the same month. The title of
the State to the lands thus became as complete as though transferred by a patent of- the United States. The statute declares
that lists of lands granted to the State by a law of Congress,
which does not convey the fee simple title or require patents to
be issued, "shall be regarded as conveying the fee simple of
all the lands embraced in such lists that are of the character
contemplated by such act of Congress and intended to be
granted thereby." It does not appear why the lands should
have been listed by the Secretary of the Interior as well as by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but it may haVe
been because by the act of July 23, 1866, selections of indem-

nity school lands for the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections,
when lost in private grants, were to be approved by that officer. Having the title, there was nothing to prevent the issue
by the State of her patent to the purchaser under whom the
plaintiff claims. The land was not thereafter open to settlement and pre-emption, and the judgment must, therefore, be
A#"fired.
Good & Others v. O'Connor. In error to the Supreme Court
of the State of California. Hazard & Others v. O'Connor. In
error to the Supreme Court of the State of California. Each of
these eases presents similar questions to those considered and determined in Frasher, et al. v. O'Connor, just decided, and on the

authority of that case the judgment in each is

Affirmed.

GRAY, Administratrix, v. NATIONAL STEAMSB]IEP CO1PANY.
APPEAL FROM THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERW DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted March 31,1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

A, a foreign steamship corporation, went into liquidation August 15,1867, and
sold and transferred all its ships and other property August 16, 1867, to B,
another foreign corporation, formed for the purpose of buying that property

