OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Counsel for Parties.

right, in this suit, to question the administration of the trustee,
the section referred to would be a sufficient answer to the
exception taken to the sale by Tappan to Clews of the property which is the subjeot of thi controversy. We think, therefore, that no ground is shown on which the title of Clews can
be successfully assailed.
Other points have been raised and argued by counsel, but
as these do not present any Federal question, it is not our
province or duty to pass upon them. furdock v. City of Aemphi8, 20 Wall. 590. All the Federal questions presented by
the record were, in our judgment, rightly decided by the
Supreme Court of Iowa.
Judgment affirmed.

FERRY & Another v. LIVINGSTO[.
LIVINGSTON v. FERRY & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF

MnCHIGAN.

Argued November 19, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

In this case, on the facts found, under Schedule N of section 2502 of Title
XXXIII. of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by section 6 of the act of
March 3,1883, ch. 121, 22 Stat. 489, imposing a duty of 20 per cent. ad
valorem on "garden seeds, except seed of the sugar beet" and under "The
Free List" in section 2503 of the same Title, as enacted by said act of 1883,
embracing "seeds of all kinds, except medicinal seeds not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," certain beet and cabbage seeds were
held to be "garden seeds" and subject to 20 per cent. duty, and certain
mangel-wurzel and turnip seeds were held not to be "garden seeds," and
to be exempt from duty.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Otto Eirchner for Ferry & Another.

Xr. iSolivitor-Generalfor Livingston.

FERRY v. LIVINGSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
The question involved in this suit is as to whether under the
present tariff of duties on imported merchandise, certain mangel-wurzel, turnip, beet, and cabbage seeds are subject to a duty
of 20 per cent. ad valorem, or are free.
In the :Revised Statutes, as enacted in 1874, Title XXXIII.,
section 2504, Schedule M, p. 480, 2d ed., there was the following provision as to duty: "Plants. Fruit, shade, lawn, and
ornamental trees, shrubs, plants, and flower seeds, not otherwise
provided for; garden seeds, and all other seeds for agricultural
and horticultural purposes, not otherwise provided for: twenty
per centum ad valorem." In "The Free List," section 2505,
p. 488, 2d ed., exempt from duty, were the following: "Seeds:
cardamon, caraway, coriander, fenugreek, fennel, cummin, and
other seeds, not otherwise provided for. Seeds: anise, anise
star, canary, chia, sesamum, sugar-cane, and seeds of forest
trees."
By section 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, ch. 121, 22 Stat.
489, new sections, numbered from 2491 to 2513, both inclusive,
were substituted, on and after July 1, 1883, for Title XXXIII.
of the Revised Statutes, thus repealing sections 2491 to 2516,
both inclusive, of the Revised Statutes. In section 2502, Schedule N, as enacted in 1883, is the following provision for duty,
p. 513: "Garden seeds, except seed of the sugar-beet, twenty
per centum ad valorem." In "The Free List," section 2503,
exempt from duty, are the following: "Plants, trees, shrubs,
and vines of all dnds, not otherwise provided for, and seeds of
all kinds, except medicinal seeds not specially enumerated or
provided for in this Act." p. 520. "Seed of the sugar-beet."
p. 521. In section 2502, Schedule A, p. 494, a duty of 10 per
centum ad valorem is imposed on "seeds (aromatic, not garden
Mi. JUSTICE BLAToeORD

seeds), and seeds of morbid growth,

.

.

.

which are not

edible, but which have been advanced in value or condition by
refining or grinding, or by other process of manufacture, and
not specially enumerated or provided for in this Act." In
"The Free List," section 2503, exempt from duty, are the following, p. 517: "Seeds aromatic, and seeds of morbid growth,
which are not edible and are in a crude state, and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

advanced in value or condition by refining or grinding, or by
any other process of manufacture, and not specially enumerated
or provided for in this Act."
The question involved depends upon the mean'ng of the
words "garden seeds;" and, with a view to determine whether
that designation in the statute includes the seeds covered by
this suit, it will be useful to see what was the course of decisions by the Treasury Department, under the act of 1883, prior
to the importation in this case, which was in December, 1884.
On November 2, 1883, 29 Int. Rev. Reec. 410, the Department decided that flower seeds were not to be regarded as
"garden seeds," but were free, on the view that the term
"garden seeds" was to be "generally confined to those seeds
which are produced from edible plants, and does not extend to
flower seeds."
Subsequently, a collector exacted a duty of 20 per cent. on
pease imported as seeds, and not for consumption as vegetables, and, the question being presented whether they were
"garden seeds," the Department, on November 27, 1883, 29
Int. Rev. Rec. 419, made this ruling: "The general and not
the exceptional use must determine the classification of the
article. As a rule, pease, beans, and many other vegetable
products are more largely sown in the field or farm than in the
garden, although some varieties may be specially adapted for
garden planting. It is held by the Department, that all pease
and beans imported for seeds are entitled to free admission
under the provision in the free list . . . for seeds of all
kinds not specially enumerated or provided for in that act.
I may add, for your further information, that the Department regards seeds such as barley, beans, beets, carrots, cabbage, clover, corn, cane, grass, mange7-wurzel, oats, onions, potatoes, pumpkins, rye, tobacco, turnip, wheat, and other like
products, as belonging to the category of agricultural seeds
which are not garden seeds; and that seeds of the artichoke,
asparagus, borecole, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, celery, cucumber, egg-plant, lettuce, leek, okra, parsley, pepper, rhubarb,
radish, salsify, and tomato belong to the category of garden
seeds. It is impossible to enumerate all the seeds which belong

FERRY v. LIVINGSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

to either of these divisions in detail, and the above is given for
information as to the principle upon which collectors of customs must act."
It is thus seen that these instructions classified beet, cabbage,
mangel-wurzel, and turnip seeds, as free, because not garden
seeds; and as not garden seeds, because they were agricultural
seeds, and were more largely sown in the field or farm than in
the garden, and because the general use and not the exceptional
use must determine the classification.
On December 28, 1883, a collector having exacted a duty on
cablage seeds and beet seeds as garden seeds, the Department,
30 Int. Rev. Rec. 24, referring to its decision of November
27, 1883, held that the seeds were free, and directed the duty
to be refunded.
On March 8, 1884, the Department, 30 Int. Rev. Rec. 77,
held that lettuce seeds and spinach seeds were dutiable as
"garden seeds; " and, on March 18, 1884, Id. 95, it held that
nasturtium seeds, being generally planted in gardens, and producing not only flowers, but seeds or berries which, when
green, are largely used for cooldng purposes, and in the manufacture of sauces, were dutiable as "garden seeds."
Afterwards, a collector exacted a duty of 20 per cent. on
certain beans, as "garden seeds." On the view that they were
the seeds of the bean plant, and were intended for food or for
planting or sowing, the Department, on March 28, 1884, 30
Int. Rev. Rec. 109, reconsidered to some extent its rulings of
November 27, 1883. It held that the beans, being edible, were
not within the specific provisions as to beans, which made
beans not edible free of duty; and that they were not vegetables, but were the seeds of a vegetable. On the question of
whether they were "garden seeds," it is said: "In common
speech, 'garden seeds' are seeds used either for planting or
sowing in the gardens adjacent to dwelling-houses, small
spaces of land, and in the large spaces of land called
market gardens, lying about cities or other large places
of numerous and condensed population.
The common
notion of garden seeds is this, that they are those from which
are raised, in the growing season of the year, the vegetable
VOL. cxv-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion -of the Court.

products which, before complete maturity, are used upon the
table as part of the customary food of mankind, and in distinction from those seeds which, sowed or planted on a broader
scale in the fields, produce the vegetables which are stored for
winter use as food. Yet it is to be taken note of, that, by extended field culture, there is produced much of the seed which
finds its way to market and to sale as 'garden seeds,' in the
common notion thereof above stated. It is not easy, therefore, to say of any importation, on general principles, that it
is of garden seeds or of field seeds, nor to frame a rule, on general principles and general knowledge, which will always exactly apply. We are constrained, therefore, to see if we can,
by interpretation, get at the purpose of Congress, and if it did
not intend to charge the phrase 'garden seeds,' in paragraph
465, with an arbitrary meaning. It has made an exception of
the seed of one vegetable from the general expression ' garden
seeds.' It must have been thought by Congress that there was
need of that exception, or that else the seed excepted would
properly and necessarily be treated by the administrative officers of the government as ' garden seeds.' It follows, then,
that Congress thought that seeds like the seed of the sugarbeet were 'garden seeds.' We have, then, an idea of what
kind of seeds Congress meant when it spoke the phrase ' garden seeds.' Now, the sugar-beet is not a plant or a vegetable
exclusively, nor mostly, of the growth of gardens. It is, on
the contrary, mostly the growth of the field or of the market
garden. If the sugar-beet is, in the view of Congress, a garden plant or vegetable, as well as, or in contrast with, a field
plant, and its seed garden seed as well as, or in contrast with,
field seed, surely the bean is, in legislative contemplation, a
garden plant or vegetable, and the bean of the market, which
is the seed of the bean plant, is a garden seed, as well as, or
rather than, a field seed. We know that, in fact, the bean, as
a seed of the bean plant or vegetable, is planted in the garden,
and is largely planted in the field also; in the former case,
generally, to be eaten green in the pod, as a green esculent,
though sometimes, as with lima beans, in the form of the seed

FERRY v. LIVINGSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plant ; in the latter case, for the production of seed for
subsequent planting, and for food in the form of the matured
seed. It is to be noticed, too, that elsewhere in the act, when
' garden seeds ' are mentioned, they are so in contrast or opposition to seeds which are not of the character of beans or other
seeds used for sowing or planting both in field and garden.
As, in paragraph 94, where the phrase is ' seeds (aromatic, not
garden seeds),' and' seeds of morbid growth;' and so, in paragraph 636, the seeds put in the free list are 'seeds aromatic,
and seeds of morbid growth.' As the beans are garden seeds
in some of the uses of them, and as it is to be got, by interpretation, that Congress meant to include such seeds as that of
the bean in the phrase 'garden seeds,' in paragraph 465, the
conclusion must be that the article under consideration is properly classified under paragraph 465. This ruling applies
equally to pease, and the duty of 20 per cent. ad valorem will,
therefore, be exacted on both, on entries of such merchandise."
On November 8, 1884, the Department, 30 Int. Rev. Rec.
357, ruled that beet, carrot, cabbage, onion, and tu'nip seeds
were dutiable at 20 per cent. ad valorem, as "garden seeds."
This reversed the prior rulings of November 27, 1883, and,
under the new ruling a duty of 20 per cent. was imposed by
William Livingston, Jr., collector of customs at Detroit, Michigan, on importations, by D. M. Ferry & Co., a corporation, of
mangel-wurzel, turnip, beet, and cabbage seeds, entered at the
custom-house at Detroit, in December, 1884. The importer
claiming that all the seeds were exempt from duty, brought a
suit, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Michigan, against Livingston, to recover $560.40,
which had been paid as the duty. The case was tried before
the court without a jury, and, on special findings of fact,
the court held that the mangel-wurzel and turnip seeds, the
duty exacted on which amounted to $332.60, were exempt
from duty; and that the cabbage and beet seeds, the duty
exacted on which amounted to $227.80, were subject to that
duty. A judgment having been entered against Livingston

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

for $332, he and Ferry & Co. have each brought a writ of
error.
The facts found by the court, so far as they need be recited,
were these: "That beets, except sugar-beets, are almost altogether raised from seeds of the kind in the declaration mentioned, in gardens, for the table, although they are also raised
in fields, for cattle, to a limited extent. That mangel-wurzels
are cultivated wholly in fields, from seeds of the kind in the
declaration mentioned, and not in gardens, and they are not
used as food for man, but for cattle. That turnips are largely
raised from seed of the kind in the declaration mentioned, in
fields, for cattle, and comparatively small quantities are also
raised in gardens, for the table, the proportion being at least
twenty to one. Most of those consumed on the table are raised
in fields. That cabbages are cultivated from seeds of the kind
in the declaration mentioned, in fields as well as in gardens.
They are used to a small extent as food for cattle, but to a
much larger extent as food for man. That turnip seeds, beet
seeds, and cabbage seeds generally are, and have been, catalogued, by prominent seedsmen in America, England, and Germany, both as garden and agricultural seeds." On these facts,
the Circuit Court found, as conclusions of law, (1) that the turnip and mangel-wurzel seeds were not garden seeds, and were
not subject to any duty; (2) that the cabbage and beet seeds
were garden seeds, and subject to the duty exacted.
The contention, on the part of Ferry & Co., is, that, if the
seeds which are cultivated in the garden are also cultivated in
the field, they are not "garden seeds," within the statute, but,
being field seeds, are free, as being seeds not otherwise provided for, that is, not provided for as "garden seeds ;" and that,
otherwise, seeds which are cultivated in both garden and field
would at the same time be subject to duty and be free. In
this view, it is claimed by Ferry & Co. that, as the Circuit
Court has found that beet and cabbage seeds are .cultivated in
fields as well as gardens, they are exempt from duty. But we
are unable to concur in this view. In the superseded Title
XXXIII. of the Revised Statutes, a duty of 20 per cent. was
imposed on flower seeds, "garden seeds, and all other seeds for

FERRY v. LIVINGSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

agricultural and horticultural purposes, not otherwise provided
for," while the free list included only seeds "not otherwise
provided for." In the act of 1883, the duty of 20 per cent. on
"garden seeds, except seed of the sugar-beet," was left, while
the exemption from duty was enacted to cover "seeds of all
kinds, except medicinal seeds not specially enumerated or provided for in this act." From this change in the statute, it
cannot be inferred that seeds which are used for agricultural
purposes are to be exempt from duty because of such use, if
they are also used for garden purposes. The inference would
rather be that, if they are used at all for garden purposes, they
are subject to 20 per cent. duty, although they are also used
for agricultural purposes.
But we are of opinion that the conclusion arrived at by the
Circuit Court, based on the facts it found, was correct. Beets,
other than sugar-beets, being almost altogether raised in gardens, although raised to a limited extent in fields, their seeds
are "garden seeds." Mangel-wurzels being cultivated wholly
in fields, and not in gardens, their seeds are not "garden
seeds." Turnips being largely raised in fields, and comparatively small quantities being also raised in gardens, their seeds
are not "garden seeds." As to the cabbage seeds, it is found
that cabbages from the seeds in question are cultivated in
both gardens and fields, and, while it is not found which is
the larger in proportion, it is found that cabbages are used
to a small extent as food for cattle, but to a much larger extent as food for man; and, in the absence of any finding that
the seed in question belongg to a variety which is not intended to raise cabbages to be consumed by man, it must be
regarded as a "garden seed."
We are unable to concur in the view that the free list in the
act of 1883 is to be read as including seeds of all kinds, with
the exception of medicinal seeds which are not specially
enumerated or provided for in th@ act. The proper reading is,
that it includes seeds of all kinds (other than medicinal seeds)
which are not specially enumerated or provided for in the act.
Garden seeds are specially provided for.
As this case rests for decision on the facts found, it is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Counsel for Parties.

possible for this court to lay down any general rule which will
apply to cases differing in their facts from this case.
Tiejudgment of he Circuit Court is qffrmed, the plainti
in error in each case to pay the clerk's costs taxed therein,
and the plaintifin error in NYo. 875 [Ferry & Another v.
Livingston] to recover one-haf of the expense of printing

the record,paid by it.

THOMPSON v. ALLEN COUNTY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF

-ENTUCKY.

Argued November 12, 13, 1M8.-Deeided November 23, 1885.
The proposition that the levy and collection of taxes, though they are to be
raised for the satisfaction of judgments against counties or towns, is not
within the jurisdiction of a court of equity, reviewed and re-affirmed.
The fact that the remedy at law by mandamus for levying and collecting
taxes has proved ineffectual, and that no officers can be found to perform
the duty of levying and collecting them, is no sufficient ground of equity
jurisdiction.
The principle is the same where the proper officers of the county or town have
levied the tax and no one can be found to accept the office of collector of
taxes. This gives no jurisdiction to a court of equity to fill that office or to
appoint a receiver to perform its functions.
The inadequacy of the remedy at law, which sometimes justifies the interference of a court of equity, does not consist merely in its failure to produce
the money, a misfortune often attendant upon all remedies, but that in its
nature or character it is not fitted or. adapted to the end in view ; for, in
this sense, the remedy at law is adequate, as much so, at least, as any remedy which chancery can give.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.

-Ytr. Charles Eginton [-Y. W. 0. Dodd was with him on the
0
brief] for appellant.
-Hr. John -V'ason Brown [-Yr. Alexander P. Humphrey
and XAr. George Y Davie were with him on the brief] for ap
pellees.

