OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

SPARKS & Another v. PIERCE & Others.
.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Submitted October 14, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.

Mere occupancy of the public lands and making improvements thereon give
no vested right therein as against the Umted States or any purchaser from
them.
To entitle a party to relief in equity against a patent of the government he
must show a better right to the land than the patentee, such as, in law
should have been respected by the officers of the Land Department, and
being respected would have given him the patent. It is not sufficient to
show that the patentee ought not to have received the patent..
A person who makes improvements upon public land, knowing that he has no
title, and that the land is open to exploration and sale for its minerals, and
makes no effort to secure the title to it as such, under the laws of Congress,
or a right of possession under the local customs and rules of miners, has
no claim to compensation for his improvements as an adverse holder in
good faith, when such sale is made to another and the title is passed to him
by a patent of the United States.

This was an action to recover a parcel of mining ground,
situated in Lawrence County, in the Territory of Dakota, and
claimed by the plaintiffs under a patent of the United States,
bearing date March 22, 1880, and issued to them upon an entry
made lNovember 30, 1871. The complaint alleged that, on the
11th of December, 1878, the plaintiffs were the owners in fee
and possessed of the demanded premises, deriving their title
under the said patent of the United States, founded upon the
entry mentioned; that afterwards, on the 12th of said December, while they were thus seized and possessed of the premises,
the defendants, without right or title, entered upon them,
ousted the plaintiffs therefrom, and had ever since unlawfully
withheld them to the damage of the plaintiffs of five hundred
dollars. It also alleged that the value of the rents and profits
of the premises from the entry of the defendants had been
ten dollars a month; and it prayed judgment for the possession of the premises, for the damages sustained, and for the
rents and profits lost.
The answer of the defendants denied generally the several

SPARKS v. PIERCE.
Statement of Facts.

allegations of the complaint, except as stated therein, and then
set up specially, by way of counterclaim, various matters
which they contended constitute in equity a good defence to
the action and entitles them to a portion, at least, of the demanded premises, or to compensation for their improvements
thereon.
The matters set forth as grounds for equitable relief were
alleged upon information and belief, and were substantially
these:
That on the 28th of February, 1877, the land in controversy,
with other land adjacent thereto, was appropriated and occupied as a town site and for town-site purposes, and as such
was laid out into lots, blocks, streets and alleys, and designated
as Central City, having at that time about one hundred inhabitants; that this number increased until, on March 22, 1880,
the date of the plaintiffs' patent, the place became an important one, containing about two thousand inhabitants;
That on the said 28th of February, 1877, the grantor of the
defendants was in the peaceful occupation and possession of
the land in controversy as a lot in said Central City, and that
on the 12th of December, 1878, he sold them the lot with the
improvements thereon for a valuable consideration;
That after the said 28th of February, 1877, the plaintiffs,
without legal right, caused certain ground within the town site,
including that in controversy, to be surveyed for a placer mining claim, and an application for a patent based upon that
survey to be filed in the United States land office at Deadwood, in the county of Lawrence;
That, within the time required by law, the inhabitants of the
town, including the grantor of the defendants, filed a protest
in the land office against the issuing of the patent, basing the
protest upon the ground, among other things, that the land
was subject to the prior rights of the town-site occupants, and
was not mineral; but that, notwithstanding the protest, the
local land officers, on tla 30th of November, 1877, received
from the plaintiffs the price of the land as a placer claim, and
the fees prescribed by law, and allowed their entry of the same ;
that, subsequently, on the 22d of April, 1877, the Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

sioner of the General Land Office reviewed the proceeding,
and directed that a patent issue to the plaintiffs for the mining
claim, but with a reservation from the grant of all town property, rights upon the surface, and all lots, blocks, streets and
alleys, and all houses, buildings, and improvements thereon not
belonging to the plaintiffs, and all rights necessary to the occupation and enjoyment of the same; that, subsequently, on
the 7th of November, 1878, the Commissioner suspended the
entry, and ordered that a hearing be had before the officers of
the local land office, to determine the date when the land was
first occupied as a town site, the nature and extent of such occupancy, and the improvements thereon, and whether the land
was mineral or non-mineral in its character; that such hearing
was commenced on the 26th of November, 1878; that both
parties submitted their testimony to the local officers, who, on
the 20th of January, 1879, decided, in substance, that the land
was valuable for mineral, but had been appropriated for townsite purposes prior to any, appropriation by the plaintiffs, and
that the land should be awarded to the occupants of the town
site, including the defendants, subject to the right of the plaintiffs to mine and extract the gold therefrom, if, in so doing,
they did not materially interefere with the possession, buildings, and improvements of the town occupants, including the
defendants; that the occupant§ and plaintiffs were satisfied
with this decision, and no appeal was taken therefrom, but, on
the contrary, an appeal was waived; that, notwithstanding
this, on the 6th of October, 1879, the Commissioner reviewed
the decision of the local land officers, and held that the townsite claimants and occupants, including the defendants, had no
right whatever to the land, upon the sole ground that it was
mineral, and, therefore, not subject to appropriation except
under the mineral law of 1872; that he accordingly dismissed
the protest, and directed that the patent be issued to the plaintiffs, without any exception oi reservation therein to protect
the possession and improvements of the defendants, and that
the patent was accordingly issued to the plaintiffs; whereas the
defendants insist that it should have contained a reserxation
excepting therefrom all town property rights, and all houses,

SPARKS v. PIERCE.
Opinion of the Court.

buildings, structures, lots, blocks, streets, and alleys, and other
improvements on said land, not belonging to the plaintiffs, and
all rights necessary or proper to the occupation, and possession,
and enjoyment of the same; that its issue, without such reservation, was contrary to law; that the plaintiffs, therefore, hold
the land covered by it in trust for the defendants; and that it
should be conveyed to them, they offering to pay their just proportion of the expenses of procuring the patent.
The matters set forth by the defendants as grounds for compqnsation for improvements on the premises were these: that
they were made by them or by their grantor, he at the time
occupying the premises in good faith against all persons except
the United States, and they having purchased the premises of
him for a valuable consideration and having since then occupied them, claiming title thereto in like good faith adversely
to the plaintiffs. The answer alleged that the improvements
consisted of two buildings, each worth $750, and that the value
of the land did not exceed $100.
To each of the special answers the plaintiffs demurred on the
ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence to the action nor a counterclaim in defendants' favor
against them. The demurrers were sustained by the court,
and the defendants declining to plead further, and electing to
stand upon their special answers, the plaintiffs had judgment
for the possession of the premises. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory the judgment was affirmeq. To review
that judgment the case was brought here on appeal.
5'2,. G. C. .foody for appellants.
.If'. J. WF Smith for appellees.
M . JUSTIcE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the language above reported, and continued:
This case, as seen by the pleadings stated, is in its main features similar to that of Defjebac" v. flawke, just decided, ante,
392. The plaintiffs here, as in that case, rely upon a patent
of the United States for the land in controversy, issued under

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws for the sale of mineral lands. It is admitted that the
land was mineral in its character, and the patent itself is evidence that all the requirements of the law for its sale were
complied with. The defendants, as in that case, set up as
ground for equitable relief against the enforcement of the
rights of the plaintiffs under the patent, that their grantor occupied the land as a lot in a town site-here the town site
being that of Central City, there that of Deadwood Cityand made improvements thereon before the plaintiffs claimed
it as mining ground, or took proceedings to procure its title,
and that he sold the lot to them, with its improvements, for a
valuable consideration. They, therefore, as the defendant did
in the other case, deny the right of the plaintiffs to acquire the
premises as a mining claim on the town site; but they also
contend that if the plaintiffs had that right, the patent issued
to them should, have contained reservations excluding from its
operation the buildings and improvements of the defendants,
and whatever was necessary for their use and enjoyment.
They also contend, that if this defence be not sustained, they
should be allowed compensation for their improvements on the
premises.
The case differs, however, in one important particular from
that of .Defeback v. Hawke. There an entry had been made
of the town site in the land office of the United States by the
probate judge of the county for the benefit of the occupants of
the town. The entry, it is true, was afterwards cancelled by
the Secretary of the Interior, so far as the premises in controversy in that case were concerned. The proceedings showed,
however, a desire on the part of the occupants to secure the
title of the United States, and not to rest upon their naked
possession. Here it does not appear that any effort had been
made, either by the authorities of the town, or by the probate
judge of the-county, or by any one else on behalf of the occupants of the town ; or by the defendants or their grantor, to
acquire the legal title. The case presented, therefore, is that
of occupants of the public lands without title, and without any
attempt having been made by them, or by any one representing them, to secure that title, resisting the enforcement of the

ALABAMA v. BURR.
Syllabus.

patent of the United States, on the ground of such occupation.
Mere occupancy of the public lands and improvements thereon
give no vested right therein as against the United States, and
consequently not against any purchaser from them. To entitle
a party to relief against a patent of the government, he must
show a better right to the land. than the patentee, such as in
law should have been respected by the officers of the Land
Department, and being respected, would have given him the
patent. It is not sufficient to show that the patentee ought
not to have received the patent. It must affirmatively appear
that the claimant was entitled to it, and that, in consequence
of erroneous rulings of those officers on the facts existing, it
was denied to him. Bohall v. .Dlla,114 U. S. 47, 51.
The question as to the allowance for improvements is disposed of by the decision in .Defebackv. Hawke. A person who
makes improvements upon public land, knowing that he has
no title, and that the land is open to exploration and sale for
its minerals, and makes no effort to secure the title to it as such
land under the laws of Congress, or a right of possession under
the local customs and rules of miners, has no claim to compensation for his improvements as an adverse holder in good faith
when such sale is made to another and the title is passed to
him by a patent of the United States.
Judgment affl~rnd.

ALABMA'v. BURR & Others.
ORIGINAL.
Argued October 30, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.

The State of Alabama loaned its credit to a railroad company by indorsing its
bonds. The act authorizing this to be done provided that if fradulent indorsements of bonds should be obtained, or if the bonds should be sold for
less than ninety cents on the dollar, then the railroad should be sold, and
those stockholders who could not prove either ignorance of the fraud or opposition to it, should be individually liable for the payment of the bonds
fraudulently indorsed, and for all other losses that might fall upon the State

