OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

regard to its status as not being captured or abandoned
property, or in regard to the status of Mr. Lamar as having
taken an amnesty oath on January 6, 1865, under the proclamation of December 8, 1863, 13 Stat. 737. Nor do we think
these conclusions are affected by the contents of the written
opinion given by Mr. Eames, in December, 1866.
As to the general instructions issued to officers of the
Treasury Department, by the Secretary of the Treasury, on
the 27th of June, 1865, we are of opinion that, notwithstanding
those instructions, the Secretary of the Treasury bad the right
to give to Mr. Cabell the special authprity which he gave to
him.
Under these views, the instruction to the jury to find a
verdict for the defendant, on the ground stated in the instruction, was correct.
Judgment afflrmed.

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January 20, 21, 18s.-Decided October 26, 1885.
In a mercantile contract, a statement descriptive of the subject-matter, or of
some material incident, such as the time or place of shipment, is ordinarily
to be regarded as a warranty, or condition precedent, upon the failure or
non-performance of which the party aggrieved may repudiate the whole
contract.
Under a contract made in Philadelphia, for the sale of "5,000 tons iron rails,
for shipment from a European port or ports, at the rate of about 1,000 tons
per month, beginning February, 1880, but whole contract to be shipped
before August 1, 1880, at $45 per ton of 2,240 lbs. custom-house weight,
ex ship Philadelphia ; settlement cash on presentation of bills accompanied
by custom-house certificate of weight; sellers not to be compelled to replace any parcel lost after shipment ;" the sellers are bound to ship 1,000
tons in each month from February to June inclusive, except that slight and
unimportant deficiencies may be made up in July; and if only 400 tons
are shipped in February, and 885 tons in March, and the buyer accepts and
pays for the February shipment on its arrival in March, at the stipulated

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Statement of Facts.
price and above its market value, and in ignorance that no more has been
shipped in February, and is first informed of that fact after the arrival of
the MAarch shipments and before accepting or paying for either of them, he
may rescind the contract by reason of the failure to ship about 1,000 tons
in each of the months of February and March.

This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Arthur Norrington, a citizen of Great Britain, trading under the name of
A. Norrington & Co., against James A. Wright and others,
citizens of Pennsylvania, trading under the name of Peter
Wright & Sons, upon the following contract:
"Philadelphia, January 19, 1880. Sold to Messrs. Peter
Wright & Sons, for account of A. 1orrington & Co., London:
Five thousand (5,000) tons old T iron rails, for shipment from
a European port or ports, at the rate of about one thousand
(1,000) tons per month, beginning February, 1880, but whole
contract to be shipped before August 1st, 1880, at forty-five
dollars ($45.00) per ton of 2,240 lbs. custom-house weight, ex
ship Philadelphia. Settlement cash on presentation of bills
accompanied by custom-house certificate of weight. Sellers to
notify buyers of shipments with vessels' names as soon as
known by them. Sellers not to be compelled to replace any
parcel lost after shipment. Sellers, when possible, to secure to
buyers right to name discharging berth of vessels at Philadelphia.
"EDwAiD J. ETrTG,
Metal Broker."
The declaration contained three counts. The first count alleged the contract to have been for the sale of about 5,000 tons
of T iron rails, to be shipped at the rate of about 1,000 tons a
month, beginning in February, and ending in July, 1880.
The second count set forth the contract verbatim. Each of
these two counts alleged that the plaintiffs in February, March,
April, May, June and July shipped the goods at the rate of
about 1,000 tons a month, and notified the shipments to the defendants; and further alleged the due arrival of the goods at
Philadelphia, the plaintiff's readiness to deliver the goods and
bills thereof, with custom-house certificates of weight, according to the contract, and the defendants' refusal to accept them.

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

The third count differed from the second only in averring that
400 tons were shipped by the plaintiff in February and accepted by the defendants, and that the rest was shipped by the
plaintiffs at the rate of about 1,000 tons a month in March,
April, May, June and July. The defendants pleaded non assumpsit. The material facts proved at the trial were as follows:
The plaintiff shipped from various European ports 400 tons
by one vessel in the last part of February, 885 tons by two
vessels in March, 1,571 tons by five vessels in April, 850 tons
by three vessels in May, 1,000 tons by two vessels in June, and
300 tons by one vessel in July, and notified to the defendants
each shipment.
The defendants received and paid for the February shipment
upon its arrival in March, and in April gave directions at what
wharves the March shipments should be discharged on their
arrival; but on May 14, about the time of the arrival of the
March shipments, and having been then for the first time informed of the amounts shipped in February, March and April,
gave Etting written notice that they should decline to accept
the shipments made in March and April, because none of them
were in accordance with the contract; and, in answer to a letter from him of. May 16, wrote him on May 17 as follows:
"We are advised that what has occurred does not amount to
an acceptance of the iron under the circumstances and the
terms of the contract. You had a right to deliver in parcels,
and we had a right to expect the stipulated quantity would be
delivered until the time was up in which that was possible.
Both delivering and receiving were thus far conditional on
there being thereafter a complete delivery in due time and of
the stipulated article. On the assumption that this time had
arrived, and that you had ascertained that you did not intend
to, or could not, make any further deliveries for the February
and March shipments, we gave you the notice that we declined
accepting those deliveries. As to April, it is too plain, we
suppose, to require any remark. If we are mistaken as to our
obligation for the February and March shipments, of course
we must abide the consequences ; but if we are right, you have

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Statement of Facts.

not performed your contract, as you certainly have not for the
April shipments. There is then the very serious and much debated question, as we are advised, whether the failure to make
the stipulated shipments in February or March has absolved us
from the contract. If it does, we of course will avail ourselves
of this advantaoe."
On May 18, Etting wrote to the defendants, insisting on
their liability for both past and future shipments, and saying,
among other things : "In respect to the objection that there
had not been a complete delivery in due time of the stipulated
article, I beg to call your attention to the fact that while the
contract is for five thousand tons, it expressly stipulates that
deliveries may be made during six months, and that they are
only to be at the rate of about one thousand tons per month."
"As to April, while it seems to me 'too plain to require any
remark,' I do not see how it can seem so to you, unless you intend to accept the rails. If you object to taking all threeshipments made in that month, I shall feel authorized to deliver
only two of the cargoes, or, for that matter, to make the delivery of precisely one thousand t6ns. But I think I am entitled to know definitely from you whether you intend to reject the April shipments, and, if so, upon what ground, and
also whether you are decided to reject the remaining shipments
under the contract. You say in your last paragraph that you
shall avail yourselves of the advantage, if you are absolved
from the contract; but as you seem to be in doubt whether
you can set up that claim or not, I should like to know definitely what is your intention."
On May 19, the defendants replied: "We do not read the
contract as you do. We read it as stipulating for monthly
shipments of about one thousand tons, beginning in February,
and that the six months clause is to secure the completion of
whatever had fallen short in the five months. As to the meaning of ' about,' it is settled as well as such a thing can be; and
certainly neither the February, March, nor April shipments are
within the limits." "As to the proposal to vary the notices
for April shipments, we do not think you can do this. The
notice of the shipments, as soon as known, you were bound to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

give, and cannot afterwards vary it if they do not conform to
the contract.. Our right to be notified immediately that the
shipments were known is as material a provision as any other,
nor can it be changed now in order to make that a performance which was no performance within the time required."
"You ask us to determine whether we will or will not object
to receive further shipments because of past defaults. We tell
you we will if we are entitled to do so, and will not if we are
not entitled to do so. We do not think you have the right to
compel us to decide a disputed question of law to relieve you
from the risk of deciding it yourself. You know quite as well
as we do what is the rule and its uncertainty of application."
On June 10, Etting offered to the defendants the alternative
of delivering to them 1,000 tons strict measure on account of
the shipments in April. -This offer they immediately declined.
On June 15, Etting wrote to the defendants that two cargoes,
amounting to 221 tons, of the April shipments, and two
cargoes, amounting to 650 tons, of the May shipments (designated by the names of the vessels), had been erroneously
notified to them, and that about 900 tons had been shipped by
a certain other vessel on account of the May shipments. On
the same day, the defendants replied that the notification as to
April shipments could not be corrected at this late date, and
after the terms of the contract had long since been broken.
From the date of the contract to the time of its rescission by
the defendants, the market price of such iron was lower than
that stipulated in the contract, and was constantly falling.
After the arrival of the cargoes, and their tender and refusal,
they were sold by Etting, with the consent of the defendants,
for the benefit of whom it might concern.
At the trial, the plaintiff contended, 1st. That under the
contract he had six months in which to ship the 5,000 tons, and
any deficiency in the earlier months could be made up subsequently, provided that the defendants could not be required to
take more than 1,000 tons in any one month. 2d. That, if this
was not so, the contract was a divisible contract, and the
remedy of the defendants for a default in any month was
not by rescission of the whole contact, l~ut only by deduction of

NORRINGTOI

v. WRIGHT.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the damages caused by the delays in the shipments on the
part of the plaintiff.
But the court instructed the jury that if the defendants, at
the time of accepting the delivery of the cargo paid for, had no
notice of the failure of the plaintiff to ship about 1,000 tons in
the month of February, and immediately upon learning that
fact gave notice of their intention to rescind, the verdict should
be for them.
The plaintiff excepted to this instruction, and, after verdict
and judgment for the defendants, sued- out this writ of error.
.M'. Samuel .Dieksom and -Y'.J. C. Bullitt for plaintiff in
error.-Under this contract the plaintiff was at liberty to
tender rails shipped by sailing vessels from any European port.
It is apparent, therefore, that regularity of delivery was not
deemed of importance, as the cargoes might have been sent
from any port from the Baltic to the Black Sea, and the time
of crossing might have varied from three weeks to four or five
months. The rate of shipment was to be "about 1,000 tons
per month," but the whole contract was to be shipped within
six months ; and the entirety of the delivery was of so little
consequence, that the sellers were not to be compelled to replace any parcel lost after shipment. The reasonable explanation of this latitude in performance is found in the condition of
things in January, 1880, when the whole world was scoured for
old iron to supply the extraordinary demand which had sprung
up in this country, and in the fact, perfectly well known to the
defendants, that the rails to be shipped under this contract
would have to be picked up in odd lots, wherever they could
be found, from one end of Europe to the other, and shipped
from ports where promptness and dispatch could not be counted
on. The natural meaning of the contract, therefore, is that
the plaintiffs were to ship the iron as early as possible, "at the
rate of about 1,000 tons per month;" but if the peculiar circurstances of the times rendered it impossible to comply exactly
with this stipulation, an extra month should be allowed in
which to complete the shipments. The subsequent conduct of
the defendants confirms this view. The only question convOL. cxv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sidered by the court below was whether, under such a contract,
a purchaser who had accepted and paid for part of a monthly
shipment, could rescind as to the balance upon discovery that
the full amount of that shipment had not been sent. In fact,
they did not at that time elect to rescind, but simply to reject
the MNarch and April shipments. Preliminary to any question
as to the legal results of the contract, however, comes its construction. As the plaintiff views it, it permitted a shipment of
400 tons in the first month, and of 600 tons in the last month,
or of 833 tons in each iouth. If this -view be taken, the questions argued below become unimportant.
I. The plaintiffs were not in default by reason of having
shipped only 400 tons in the month of February. The court
below adopted the construction of the contract suggested by
the defendants, viz., that the shipments were to be at'the rate
of about 1,000 tons per month, beginning with the month of
February, and that it was only the deficiencies covered by the
word "about" that could be shipped at the option of the
vendors in the sixth month. It is submitted, however, that the
natural meaning to be given to the clause extending the time
of performance for another month, is to give another month
for performance, subject to the condition that defendants should
not be obliged to take more than about 1,000 tons in any one
month. The circumstances of the case strengthen this view,
as it is to be supposed that the mode of performance actually
adopted was then present in the minds of the parties; and the
difficulties in making shipments in remote and widely-scattered
ports, having imperfect facilities for loading, by small sailing
vessels, are such that naturally provision was made for accidents
and unavoidable difficulties. As already. suggested, the exemption from any obligation to replace lost shipments, and the
inevitable uncertainty in respect to the time of arrival, tend
to show that regularity and completeness of delivery were of
secondary importance. As to the excess or deficiency covered
by the word "about," see Brown v. Weir, 5 S. & R. 401;
Baird v. Johnson, 2 J.. S. Green (N. J.) 120, 123; De Witt v.
forris, 13 Wend. 496, 498 ; Pembroke Iron Co. v. Parsons,5
Gray, 589; Tamvaco v. Lucas, 1 El. & El. 581. That the

NORRINGTONT v. WRIGHT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tender of 1,000 tons for April out of the 1,311 actually shipped
was proper, is settled by Borrowman v. Free, 4 Q. B. D. 500.
See also on this point Dixon v. Fletcher,3 M. & W. 146, 149.
II. The defendants did not elect to rescind the entire contract, The question which is now regarded as the decisive
inquiry in the case of a default under a divisible contract is,
whether the conduct of the party in default justifies the other
side in considering that he has entirely renounced the contract
or refused to go on with it; and here, even as late as June 15,
the defendants wrote in such a way as to leave it uncertain
whether they regarded the contract as at an end or not.
By so playing fast and loose, they compelled the plaintiff to
go on with his deliveries, as, if he had abandoned, they would
then have been in a position to object that he had not completed his contract; and whether such was the motive in this
case is immaterial, as it might well be in future cases; and
it is important that in mercantile transactions men should be
compelled to speak out promptly, and if they intend to get the
benefit of rescission for themselves, that they should be obliged
to give it to the other side. It is true that under the doctrine
of Hoclster' v. De la Tour, 2 El. & Bl. 678, which has now
been adopted by this court, Zovell v. Insurance Co., 111 U. S.
264, the plaintiffs would have been quite clearly justified in
suspending shipments; but their right to do so rested on a
question of fact which must have gone to a jury, and the defendants cannot now allege that they did rescind, when they
expressly and repeatedly refused to do so when asked to make
their election. It is not worth while to encumber this argument
with a citation of the authorities as to the necessity for prompt
and decisive action, where a party proposes to rescind.
III. The defendants could not rescind after having accepted
and paid for the first shipment. Even Lord Bramwell admits
that after a severable contract has been partly performed, rescission is impossible. See also Scott v. Kittanning Coal Co., 89
Penn. St. 231; Lyon v. Bertram, 20 How. 149; Aforse .v.
Bl'ackett, 98 Mass. 205; and the authorities collected in 19
Am. Law Reg. 423.
IV. Defendants were not entitled to rescind, even if there

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

had been default in respect of the February shipment. The
question here raised is of the first importance, and, singularly
enough, it has only been finally set at rest in England within
the last few months, while no authoritative decision has yet
been made in the United States. It involves the whole law of
dependent and independent covenants, and of entire and severable or divisible contracts; and it cannot well be discussed
without some reference to the great cases of Boone v. Eyre, 1
H. Bi. 273 n; Pordage v. cole, I Wims. Saund. 6 Ed. 319 1;
and Cutter v. Powell, 6 T. R. 320; 9 Smith's Lead. Cas. 1; but
it is not proposed, here, to do more than to. refer briefly
to the earlier authorities, which have nly a general application
to the subject, and then to present the later English decisions,
in which the precise question has been considered and argued
with unexampled earnestness by nearly every contemporary
judge of eminence, until finally, in August last, the House of
Lords settled the controversy upon that side of the Atlantic.
At the outset it is only necessary to point out that the contract
in question is clearly severable or divisible. The shipments
were to be made monthly. They were to come from any
European port. They were in fact shipped in sailing vessels,
in lots as small as eighty tons, and were from two to three
months on the voyage. They were to be paid for on presentation of bills, accompanied by custom-house certificates of
weight. The sellers were not bound to replace any parcel lost
after shipment. The purchasers were importing merchants,
who showed no special reason why regularity or punctuality
or completeness of delivery was essential. The article sold
was easily replaced, having no value except for remanufacture,
and steadily declined in price from the date of the contract till
the last tender and refusal. All the indicit of a divisible contract are found here, and just such contracts, in legal effect, have
been over and over again declared severable. The text-book
statement of the distinction between entire and severable contracts which has oftenest met with the approval of the courts
is that contained in 2 Parsons on Contracts, 29-31 : "If the
part to be performed by one party consists of several and distinct items, and the price to be paid by the other is apportioned

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to each item to be performed, or is left to be implied by law,
such a contract will generally be held to be severable.
But if the consideration to be paid is single and entire, the
contract must be held to be entire, although the subject of the
contract may consist of several distinct and wholly independent
items." See Lueesco Oil Co. v. Br'emer, 66 Penn. St. 351;
rqo'gan v. .leKe, 77 Penn. St. 229; Perkins v. _art, 11
Wheat. 226. Also the opinion of BRADLEY, J., in Hambly v.
.Delawa,'e, ff. & V. l,,ailroad Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 541, 544.
But if this contract is severable, the question remains, whether
the failure of the seller to supply the first monthly instalment
according.to contract would of itself entitle the purchaser to
rescind the entire contract. The clear answer of the authorities is, that it does not, unless the failure to deliver the first lot
was accompanied by such other circumstances as would warrant
a jury in finding that the plaintiff had manifested an intention
of abandoning the contract, or it is the fair import of the contract that a failure in part would go to the entire consideration. Upon the general proposition, Benjamin on Sales, § 426,
is as follows: "Where the failure of consideration is only
partial, the buyer's right to rescind will depend on the question whether the contract is entire or not. Where the contract
is entire, and the buyer is not willing to accept a partial
performance, he may reject the contract in toto, and recover
back the price." The converse is equally true. If the contract is not entire, a failure in one delivery will not, without
more, justify a rescission. This is now clearly settled in
England, and it is submitted that the result there reached is
fully sustained by the weight of authority; see the authorities
collected in 21 Am. Law Reg. 395, 398, * in an article by Mr.
*

rote by Rfeporter.-The following are such of the authorities cited in that

article as are not otherwise referred to by the counsel in argument:
Allen v. 3IcKibben,5 Mich. 449, 454; Bradford v. WTlliams, 7 L. R. Ex.259;
Bradley v. King, 44 Ill. 339: Catlin v. Tobias, 26 N. Y. 217; Cole v. Cheorenda, 4 Colorado, 17; Coleman v. .udson, 2 Sneed, 463; Dibol v. Minott, 9
Iowa, 403; Drake v. Gorce, 22 Ala. 409 ; fleming v. Kemp, 4 Sandf. S. 0. 147;
Dugan v. Anderson, 36 Maryland, 567; Dwinel v. Howard, 30 Maine, 258;
Dunlap v. Petrie,35 Mississippi, 590 ; Pletcher v. Cole, 23 Vermont, 114;

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Landreth, by his permission made part of our brief on behalf
of plaintiff in error.
Milldm Founde7y v. Hovey, 21 Pick. 417, is the leading
case in the United States. It establishes, that to constitute an
undertaking a condition precedent, it must appear (1) That
it is in terms such; or, (2) That the act stipulated for must
necessarily precede the act claimed to be dependent upon it;
or, (3) That the non-performance on one side goes to the entire substance of the contract, and to the whole consideration.
Shaw, 0. J., says: "It seems to be well settled, that when
there is a stipulation amounting to a condition precedent, the
failure of one party to perform such condition will excuse the
other party from all further performance of .stipulations depending upon such prior performance; but a failure to perform
an independent stipulation, not amounting to a condition precedent, though it subject the party failing to damages, does
not excuse the party on the other side from the performance
of all stipulations on his part." Havelock v. Geddes, 10 East,
555; Boone v. Eyre, cited above. In dealing with real estate, it
is conceded that if the contract is divisible the vendor can compel acceptance of one parcel, though unable to make title to the
other, and this at law or in equity. A leading authority is John_Fothergillv. Walton. 8 Taunton, 576; Gallup v. Barnell, Brayt. 191; Glazebrook v. Woodrow, 8 T. R. 366; Goodwin v. Aerrill, 13 Wisc. 658; Baines
v. Tucker, 50 N. H. 807 ; Hewitt v. Berryman, 5 Dana, 162; .Hirne v. Kiasey,
9 Brad. App. Ill. 166; Holmesley v. Elias, 75 N. C. 564; King Philip
Mills v. Slater, 12 R. I. 82; Kennedy v. Schwartz, 13 Nevada, 229; Kirkland
v. Oates, 25 Ala. 465; Lee v. Bebee, 13 Hun, 89; Ligget v. Smith, 3 Watts,
831; Loomis v. Eagle Bank of Rochester, 10 Ohio St. 327; JAcDaniels v. Wh itney, 88 Iowa, 60 ; XHaryland Fertilizing Co. v. rlorentz, 44 Xarylarid, 218 ;
Miner v. Bradley, 22 Pick. 457; -More v. Bonnet, 40 California, 251 ; Newton
v. Winchester, 16 Gray, 208 ; Norris v. Harris,15 California, 226 ; Obernyer
v. Nichols, 6 Binn. 159; Pattridge v. Gildermeister,1 Keyes. 93; Purdy v.
Bullard,41 California, 444; Bobson v. Bohn, 27 ilinnesota, 833; Sawyer v.
Chicago & N. W. Railway Co., 22 Wise. 403; Seymour v. Davis, 2 Sandf. S.C.
289; Shinn v. Bodine, 60 Penn. St. 182; Smith v. Lewis, 40 Ind. 98; Snook
v. Fries, 19 Barb. 313 ; Storer v. Gordon, 3 3M.& S. 808 ; Swift v. Opdke, 42
Barb. 274 ; Talmadge v. White, 85 N. Y. Superior Ct. 218 ; Taylor v. Gallup,
8 Vermont, 340; Thompson v. Conover, 8 Vroom, 466; Tipon
to v. einer,
N. Y. 423; T'imble v. Green, 8 Dana, 853; Tyson v. Doe, 15 Vermont, 571;
Winchester v. Newton, 2 Allen, 492.

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

8on v. Johnnson, 3 Bos. & Pul. 162. In such cases the question
always is whether the parts are so related that the acquisition
of each was the consideration for the purchase of the others.
If not, the vendor can recover, though unable to perform as
stipulated. See also Stoddardt v. Smith, 5 Binn. 355; ®raver
v. Scott, 80 Penn. St. 88. It is contended, however, that a
different rule prevails in respect to land from that governing
sales of chattels. No good reason can be assigned for the distinction. Time may be of the essence of a mercantile contract,
but it is not necessarily so. In dealing with articles of a fluctuating value, courts of equity recognize the duty of promptness, but such cases are avowedly exceptional; and Chancellor
Kent., in his Commentaries, blends the two classes, and treats
of them as identical in principle. 2 Kent Com. 470, 475; 2
Chitty Contracts, 11th Am. Ed. 1092; Franklin v. 31iller,
4 Ad. & El. 599, 605; Johnawsohn v. Young, 4 B. & S. 296;
Weaver v. Sessions, 6 Taunton 155; Yeenan v. Brown, 21 Vermont 86. The case of Franklin v. .ifiller is referred to by
both Kent and Chitty, and is of special importance. See also
-London, Gas Light Co. v. Chelsea, 8 Scott N. R. 215.
Hoare v. .Rennie, 5 I. & N. 19, is an authority for defendants in error, but it has been overruled. It was not followed
in ,7ohnasohn v. Young, already cited, and was overruled in
Sirpson, v. Crippin, L. R. 8 Q. B. 14 (1872). In that case,
defendants agreed to supply plaintiffs with from six thousand
to eight thousand tons of coal, to be delivered into plaintiffs'
wagons, at defendants' collieries, in equal monthly quantities,
during the period of twelve months, at five shillings and six
pence per ton. During the first month, plaintiffs sent wagons
to receive only one hundred and fifty-eight tons. Immediately
after the first month had expired, the defendants informed
plaintiffs that, as plaintiffs had taken only one hundred and
fifty-eight tons, defendants would annul the contract. Plaintiffs refused to allow the contract to be annulled, but defendsaid:
ants declined to deliver any more coal :-Blackburn, J'.,
that
the
sending
of
a
sufficient
num"The defendants contend,
ber of wagons by the plaintiffs, to receive the coal, was a condition precedent to the continuance of the contract, and they

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

rely upon the terms of the letter of the 1st of August.

No

sufficient reason has been urged why damages would not be a
compensation for the breach by the plaintiffs, and why the
defendants should be at liberty to annul the contract; but it
is said that Hoare v. Rennie is in point, and that we ought
not to go counter to the decision of a court of co-ordinate jurisdiction. It is, however, difficult to understand upon what
principle ffoare v. Riennie was decided. If the principle on
which that case was decided is that wherever a plaintiff has
broken his contract first, he cannot sue for any subsequent
breach committed by the defendant, the decision would be opposed to the authority of many other cases. I prefer to follow
Pordage v. Cole. No reason has been pointed out why the
defendants should not have to deliver the stipulated quantity
of coal during each of the months after July, although the
plaintiffs in that month failed to accept the number of tons
contracted for. HZoare v. iennie was questioned in Johna8Sohn v. Young."
Roper v. 7oinson, L. R. 8 C. P. 167, followed in 1873, and in
1874 -Freethv. Burr, 90. P. 208, In the latter case Lord Coleridge made the following statement of the rule governing
these cases, which has been frequently cited with approval:
"In cases of this sort, where the question is whether the one
party is set free by the action of the other, the real matter for
consideration is whether the acts or conduct of the one do or
do not amount to an intimation of an intention to abandon and
altogether to refuse performance of the contract. I say this in
order to explain the ground upon which I think the decision
in these cases must rest. There has been some conflict among
them. But I think it may be taken that the fair result of them
is as I have stated, viz., that the true question is whether the
acts and conducts of the party evince an intention no longer to
be bound by the contract. Now, nonpayment on the one hand,
or nondelivery on the other, may amount to such an act, or
may be evidence for a jury of an intention wholly to abandon
the contract and set the other party free."
To the same effect are Ex jpate Clialmers,L. R. 9 C. P. 289;
Mforgan v. Bain, L. R. 10 C. P. 15; and Brandt v. Lawrence

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(in 1876), 1 Q. B. D. 344. In Peuter v. Sala (1879), 4 C. P. D.
239, the decision of the majority of the court favors the view
of defendant; but the dissenting opinion of Lord Justice Brett
is instructive. From Simp.?son v. CriVppiz and Jolnassoin v.
Yozmg he makes this deduction: "It seems to me that the general principle to be deduced from these cases is, that where in a
mercantile contract of purchase and sale of goods to be delivered and accepted the terms of the contract allow the delivery
to be by successive deliveries, the failure of the seller or buyer
to fulfil his part in any one or more of those deliveries does not
absolve the other party from the duty of tendering or accepting
in the case of other subsequent deliveries, although the contract
was for the purchase and sale of a specified quantity of goods,
and although the failure of the party suing as to one or more
deliveries was incurable, in the sense that he never could fulfil
his undertaking to accept or deliver the whole of the specified
quantity. The reasons given are, that such a breach by the
party suing is a breach of only a part of the consideration
moving from him; that such a breach can be compensated in
damages without any necessity for annulling the whole contract; that the true construction of such contracts is that it
is not a condition precedent to the obligation to tender or accept a part; that the other party should have been or should
be always ready, and willing, and able to accept or tender the
whole." pp. 256, 257.
In ffonek v. flfuller, 7 Q. B. D. 92 (1881), Lord Justice
Brett again maintained this view of the law. Finally, in 1884,
the question was by the decision of the House of Lords in
-3fesey,Steel and Ioron Co. v. Naylor, 9 Q. B. D. 648 ; S. C.on
appeal in the House of Lords, 9 App. Cas. 434, set at rest in
England in accordapce with the views which we contend for.
Among other things Lord Selborne said in that case: "I am
content to take the rule as stated by Lord Coleridge in Freeth
v. Bu.,', which is in substance, as I understand it, that you
must look at the actual circumstances of the case in order to see
whether the one party to the contract is relieved from its future
performance by the conduct of the other; you must examine
what that conduct is, so as to see whether it amounts to a re-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1885.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

nunciation, to an absolute refusal to perform the contract, such
as would amount to a rescission if he had the power to rescind,
and whether the other party may accept it as a reason for not
performing his part; and I think that nothing more is necessary in the present case than to look at the conduct of the parties, and see whether anything of that kind has taken place
here. .
.
The contract is for the purchase of 5,000 tons
of steel blooms of the company's manufacture; therefore it is
one contract for the purchase of that quantity of steel blooms.
No doubt there are subsidiary terms in the contract, as to the
time of delivery, 'delivery 1,000 tons monthly commencing
January next;' and as to the time of payment, 'payment net
cash within three days after receipt of shipping documents;'
but that does not split up the contract into as many contracts
as there shall be deliveries for the purpose of so many distinct
quantities of iron. It is quite consistent with the natural meaning of the contract, that it is to be one contract for the purchase
of that quantity of iron to be delivered at those times and in
that manner, and for which payment is so to be made. It is
perfectly clear that no particular payment can be a condition
precedent of the entire contract, because the delivery under
the contract was most certainly to precede payment; and, that
being so, I do not see how, without express words, it can possibly be made a condition precedent to the subsequent fulfilment
of the unfulfilled part of the contract, by the delivery of the
undelivered steel."
3t['. Richard C. JYfcl-urtrie for defendants in error, cited
Benjamin on Sales, §§ 588, '759, '759a; Ib. Am. Ed. 1883,
§ 909n; -Reuter v. Sala, 4 0. P. D. 239; Bowe8 v. Shand., 2
App. Cas. 455 (by Lord Blackburn, 480; by Lord Cairns, 463;
by Lord Hatherly, 473); 17ochster v. De la Tour, 2 El. & Bl.
678; Walter v. Ginrich, 2 Watts, 204; Bushell v. Beavan, 1
Bing. N. 0. 103, 120; -Hallett v. Dowdal, 18 Q. B. 281;
Eearney v. Zing, 1 Chitty, 28; Brandt v. 1awrence, 1 Q. B.
D. 344; -Mersey v. NYaylor, 9 App. Cas. 434; ZHonek v. Muller,
'7 Q. B. D. 92; Oxcendale v. Wetherill, 9 B. & 0. 386; Simpson
v. Crifpen, L. R. 8 Q. B. 14; Hoare v. Rennie, 5 H. & I. 19;

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

]Pordage v. Cole, 1 Wms. Saund., 6 Ed. 3191; Behn v. Burness, 3 B. & S. 755; Graves v. Legg, 9 Exch. 707, 709, 716;
Boone v. Ayre, 1 HI. B1. as cited in 1 Saund., 320d (6th
Ed.); C6ampell v. Jones, 6 T. R. 576; .Jfartindale v. Smith, 1
Q. B. 389; Withers v. Reynolds, 2 B. & Ad. 882; _Xtayfield
v. Wadsley, 3 B. & 0. 357, 365; Canal Co. v. Gordon, 6
Wall. 561; Z'ng Philip .JXills v. Slater, 12 R. I. 82; Etting
Woollen, & ills Co. v. lartin, 5 Daly, 417; Catlin v. Tobias,
26 N. Y. 217; Grant v. Johnson, 1 Seld. 247, 252; Dox v.
Dey, 3 Wend. 356, 361; Hill v. R7ewee, 11 Met. (Mass.) 268;
.Minnie v. -Bradley, 22 Pick. 457; .Raybold v. Voorhees, 30
Penn. St. 116; .Jiller v. Blessing, Legal Intelligencer, Phila.
(1884) 253; Daniel v. Howard, 30 MIaine, 258; Tyson v.
Doe, 15 Vermont, 571; Fletcher v. Cole, 23 Vermont, 114;
Preble v. Bottom, 27 Vermont, 249; Haines v. Tu'tcer, 50
N. II. 309; Bradley v. -King, 44 Ill. 339; 2 Chitty Contracts,
Am. Ed. 913n, Wharton on Contracts, § 580; Borrowman v.
Free, 4 Q. B. D. 500; ffilldan. -Founderyv. Hovey, 21 Pick.
417; TFeaver v. Sessions, 6 Taunton, 155.
MR. JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After

stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
In the contracts of merchants, time is of the essence. The
time of shipment is the usual and convenient means of fixing
the probable time of arrival, with a view of providing funds to
pay for the goods, or of fulfilling contracts with third persons.
A statement descriptive of the subject-matter, or of some material incident, such as the time or place of shipment, is ordinarily to be regarded as a warranty, in the sense in which that
term is used in insurance and maritime law, that is to say, a
condition precedent, upon the failure or nonperformance of
which the party aggrieved may repudiate the whole contract.
Behn v. Burness, 3 B. & S. 751; Bowes v. Shand, 2 App. Cas.
455 ; L-owber v. Bangs, 2 Wall. 728 ; Davison v. VFon Lingen,
113 U. S. 40.
The contract sued on is a single contract for the sale and
purchase of 5,000 tons of iron rails, shipped from a European
port or ports for Philadelphia. The subsidiary provisions as to 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

7

Opinion of the Court.

shipping in different months, and as to paying for each shipment upon its delivery, do not split up the contract into as
many contracts as there shall be shipments or deliveries of so
many distinct quantities of iron. .3ewsey Co. v. iYaylor, 9 App.
Cas. 434, 439. The further provision, that the sellers shall not
be compelled to replace any parcel lost after shipment, simply.
reduces, in the event of such a loss, the quantity to be delivered
and paid for.
The times of shipment, as designated in the contract, are
"at the rate of about 1,000 tons per month, beginning February, 1880, but whole contract to be shipped before August 1,
1880." These words are not satisfied by shipping one sixth
part of the 5,000 tons, or about 833 tons, in each of the six
months which begin with February and end with July. But
they require about 1,000 tons to be shipped in each of the five
months from February to June inclusive, and allow no more
than slight and unimportant deficiencies in the shipments during those months to be made up in the month of July. The
contract is not one for the sale of a specific lot of goods, identified by independent circumstances, such as all those deposited
in a certain warehouse, or to be shipped in a particular vessel,
or that may be manufactured by the seller, or may be required
for use by the buyer, in a certain mill-in which case the mention of the quantity, accompanied by the qualification of
"about," or "more or less," is regarded as a mere estimate of
the probable amount, as to which good faith is all that is required of the party making it. But the contract before us
comes within the general rule: "1When no such independent
circumstances are referred to, and the engagement is to furnish
goods of a certain quality or character to a certain amount, the
quantity specified is material, and governs the contract. The
addition of the qualifying words ' about,' ' more or less,' and the
like, in such cases, is only for the purpose of providing against
accidental variations, arising from slight and unimportant excesses or deficiencies in number, measure or weight." Brawze
v. United States, 96 U. S. 168, 1M1, 172.
The seller is bound to deliver the quantity stipulated, and
has no right either to compel the buyer to accept a less quan-

2NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

tity, or to require him to select part out of a greater quantity;
and when the goods are to be shipped in certain proportions
monthly, the seller's failure to ship the required quantity in
the first month gives the buyer the same right to rescind the
whole contract, that he would have had if it had been agreed
that all the goods should be delivered at once.
The plaintiff, instead of shipping about 1,000 tons in February and about 1000 tons in March, as stipulated in the contract, shipped only 400 tons in February, and 885 tons in
March. His failure to fulfil the contract on his part in respect
to these first two instalments justified the defendants in rescinding the whole contract, provided they distinctly and seasonably
asserted the right of rescission.
The defendants, immediately after the arrival of the March
shipments, and as soon as they knew that the quantities which
had been shipped in February and in March were less than the
contract called for, clearly and positively asserted the right to
rescind, if the law entitled them to do so. Their previous acceptance of the single cargo of 400 tons shipped in February
was no waiver of this right, because it took place without
notice, or means of knowledge, that the stipulated quantity had
not been shipped in February. The price paid by them for
that cargo being above the market value, the plaintiff suffered
no injury by the omission of the defendants to return the iron;
and no reliance was placed on that omission in the correspondence between the parties.
The case wholly differs from that of Lyon v. Bertram, 20
How. 149, in which the buyer of a specific lot of goods accepted and used part of them with full means of previously
ascertaining whether they conformed to the contract.
The plaintiff, denying the defendants' right to rescind, and
asserting that the contract was still in force, was bound to
show such performance on his part as entitled him to demand
performance on their part, and, having failed to do so, cannot
maintain this action.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the judgment below should be affirmed. But as much of the argument at the
bar was devoted to a discussion of the recent English cases,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and as a diversity in the law, as administered on the two sides
of the Atlantic, concerning the interpretation and effect of
commercial contracts of this kind, is greatly to be deprecated,
it is proper to add that upon a careful examination of the cases
referred to they do not appear to us to establish any rule inconsistent with our conclusion.
In the leading case of .oare v. Rennie, 5 It. & . 19, which
was an action upon a contract of sale of 667 tons of bar iron, to
be shipped from Sweden in June, July, August and September,
and in about equal, portions each month, at a certain price
payable on delivery, the declaration alleged that the plaintiffs
performed all things necessary to entitle them to have the contract performed by the defendants, and were ready and willing
to perform the contract on their part, and in June shipped
a certain portion of the iron, and within a reasonable time
afterwards offered to deliver to the defendants the portion so
shipped, but the defendants refused to receive it, and gave
notice to the plaintiffs that they would not accept the rest.
The defendants pleaded that the shipment in June was of
about 20 tons only, and that the plaintiffs failed to complete
the shipment for that month according to the contract. Upon
demurrer to the pleas, it was argued for the plaintiffs that the
shipment of about one fourth of the iron in each month was not
a condition precedent, and that the defendants' only remedy
for a failure to ship that quantity was by a cross action. But
judgment was given for the defendants, Chief Baron Pollock
saying: "The defendants refused to accept the first shipment,
because, as they say, it was not a performance, but a breach of
the contract. Where parties have made an agreement for
themselves, the courts ought not to make another for them.
Here they say that in the events that have happened one
fourth shall be shipped in each month, and we cannot say that
they meant to accept any other quantity. At the outset, the
plaintiffs failed to tender the quantity according to the contract; they tendered a much less quantity. The defendants
had a right to say that this was no performance of the contract, and they were no more bound to accept the short quantity than if a single delivery had been contracted for. There-

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

fore the pleas are an answer to the action." 5 HI. & N. 28.
So in Coddlngton v. Paleologo, L. R. 2 Ex. 193, while there
was a division of opinion upon the question whether a contract
to supply goods "delivering on April 17, complete 8th May,"
bound the seller to begin delivering on April 17, all the
judges agreed that if it did, and the seller made no delivery on
that day, the buyer might rescind the contract.
On the other hand, in Simpson v. Crippin, L. R. 8 Q. B. 14,
under a contract to supply from 6,000 to 8,000 tons of coal, to
be taken by the buyer's wagons from the seller's colliery in
equal monthly quantities for twelve months, the buyer sent
wagons for only 150 tons during the first month; and it was
held that this did not entitle the seller to annul the contract
and decline to deliver any more coal, but that his only remedy
was by an action for damages. And in Brandt v. 1awrence,
I Q. B. D. 344, in which the contract was for the purchase of
4,500 quarters, ten per cent. more or less, of Russian oats,
"shipment by steamer or steamers during February," or, in
case of ice preventing shipment, then immediately upon the
opening of navigation, and 1,139 quarters were shipped by one
steamer in time, and 3,361 quarters were shipped too late, it was
held that ths buyer was bound to accept the 1,139 quarters,
and was liable to an action by the seller for refusing to accept
them.
Such being the condition of the law of England as declared
in the lower courts, the case of Bowes v. Shzand, after conflicting decisions in the Queen's Bench Division and the Court of
Appeal, was finally determined by the House of Lords. 1 Q.
B. D. 470; 2 Q. B. D. 112; 2 App. Cas. 455.
In that case, two contracts were made in London, each for
the sale of 300 tons of "Madras rice, to be shipped at Madras
or coast, for this port, during the months of March an.d April,
1874, per Rajah of Cochin." The 600 tons filled 8,200 bags,
of which 7,120 bags were put on board and bills of lading
signed in February ; and for the rest, consisting of 1,030 bags
put on board in February, and 50 in March, the bill of lading
was signed in March. At the trial of an action by the seller
against the buyer for refusing to accept the cargo, evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

was given that rice shipped in February would be the spring
crop, and quite as good as rice shipped in March or April.
Yet the House of Lords held that the action could not be
maintained, because the meaning of the contract, as apparent
upon its face, was that all the rice must be put on board in
March and April, or in one 6f those months.
In the opinions there delivered the general principles underlying this class of cases are most clearly and satisfactorily
stated. It will be sufficient to quote a few passages from two
of those opinions.
Lord Chancellor Cairns said: "It does not appear to me to
be a question for your Lordships, or for any court, to consider
whether that is a contract which bears upon the face of it some
reason, some explanation, why it was made in that form, and
why the stipulation is made that the shipment should be during
these particular months. It is a mercantile contract, and merchants are not in the habit of placing upon their contracts stipulations to which they do not attach some value and importance." 2 App. Cas. 463. "If it be admitted that the literal
meaning would imply that the whole quantity must be put on
board during a specified time, it is no answer to that literal
meaning, it is no observation which can dispose of, or get rid
of, or displace, that literal meaning, to say that it puts an
additional burden on the seller, without a corresponding benefit to the purchaser; that is a matter of which the seller and
the purchaser are the best judges. Nor is it any reason for
saying that it would be a means by which purchasers, without
any real cause, would frequently obtain an excuse for rejecting
contracts when prices had dropped. The nonfulfilment of any
term in any contract is a means by which a purchaser is able
to get rid of the contract when prices have dropped; but that
is no reason why a term which is found in a contract should
not be fulfilled." pp. 465, 466. "It was suggested that even if
the construction of the contract be as I have stated, still if the
rice was not put on board in the particular months, that would
not be a reason which would justify the appellants in having
rejected the rice altogether, but that it might afford a ground
for a cross action by them if they could show that any particu-

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

lar damage resulted to them from the rice not having been put
on board in the months in question. My Lords, I cannot think
that there is any foundation whatever for that argument. If
the construction of the contract be as I have said, that it bears
that the rice is to be put on board in the months in question,
that is part of the description of the subject-matter of what is
sold. What is sold is not 300 tons of rice in gross or in general. It is 300 tons of Madras rice to be put on board at
Madras during the particular months." "The plaintiff, who
sues upon that contract, has not launched his case until he has
shown that he has tendered that thing which has been contracted for, and if he is unable to show that, he cannot claim
any damages for the nonfulfilment of the contract." pp. 467,
468.
Lord Blackburn said: "If the description of the article
tendered is different in any respect, it is not the article bargained for, and the other party is not bound to take it. I think
in this case what the parties bargained for was rice, shipped at
Madras or .the coast of Madras. :Equally good rice might
have been shipped a little to the north or a little to the south
of the coast of Madras. I do not quite know what the boundary is, and probably equally good rice might have been shipped
in February as was shipped in March, or equally good rice
might have been shipped in May as was shipped in April, and
I dare say equally good rice might have been put on board
another ship as that which was put on board the Rajah of
Cochin. But the parties have chosen, for reasons best known
to themselves, to say: We bargain to take rice, shipped in this
particular region, at that particular time, on board that particular ship; and before the defendants can be compelled to take
anything in fulfilment of that contract it must be shown not
merely that it is equally good, but that it is the same article
as they have bargained for-otherwise they are not bound to
take it." 2 App. Cas. 480, 481.
Soon after that decision of the House of Lords, two cases
were determined in the Court of Appeal. In .Reuterv. Saha,
4 C. P. D. 239, under a contract for the sale of "about twenty-five tons (more or less) black pepper, October or November
VOL cxv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

shipment, from Penang to London, the name of the vessel or
vessels, marks and full particulars to be declared to the buyer
in writing within sixty days from date of bill of lading," the
seller, within the sixty days, declared twenty-five tons by a
particular vessel, of which only twenty tons were shipped in
November, and five tons in December; and it was held that
the buyer had the right to refuse to receive any part of the
pepper. In -lonckv. ffuler, 7 Q. B. D. 92, under a contract
for the sale of 2,000 tons of pig iron, to be delivered to the
buyer free on board at the maker's wharf "in November, or
equally over November, December and January next," the
buyer failed to take any iron in November, but demanded delivery of one third in December and one third in January;
and it was held that the seller was justified in refusing to
deliver, and in giving notice to the buyer that he considered
the contract as cancelled by the buyer's not taking any iron
in November.
The plaintiff in the case at bar greatly relied on the very
recent decision of the House of Lords in Ofersey Co. v. Naylor,
9 App. Cas. 434, affirming the judgment of the Court of Appeal in 9 Q B. D. 618, and following the decision of the Court
of Common Pleas in F_'eeth v. Burr, L. R. 9 C. P. 208.
lBut the point there decided was that the failure of the buyer
to pay for the first instalment of the goods upon delivery does
not, unless the circumstances evince an intention on his part to
be no longer bound by the contract, entitle the seller to rescind
the contract and to decline to make further deliveries under it.
And the grounds of the decision, as stated by Lord Chancellor
Selborne in moving judgment in the House of Lords, are applicable only to the case of a failure of the buyer to pay for, and
not to that of a failure of the seller to deliver, the first instalment.
The Lord Chancellor said: "The contract is for the purchase of 5,000 tons of steel blooms of the company's manufacture; therefore it is one contract for the purchase of that quantity of steel blooms. No doubt there are subsidiary terms in
the contract, as to the time of delivery, ' Delivery 1,000 tons
monthly commencing January next;' and as to the time of

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

payment, 'Payment nett cash within three days after receipt of shipping documents;' but that does not split up the
contract into as many contracts as there shall be deliveries for
the purpose, of so many distinct quantities of iron. It is quite
consistent with the natural meaning of the contract, that it is
to be one contract for the purchase of that quantity of iron to
be delivered at those times and in that manner, and for which
payment is so to Le made. It is perfectly clear that no particular payment can be a condition precedent of the entire contract, because the delivery under the contract was most certainly
to precede payment; and that being so, I do not see how,
without express words, it can possibly be made a condition
precedent to the subsequent fulfilment of the unfulfilled part
of the contrct, by the delivery of the undelivered steel." 9
App. Cas. 439.

Moreover, although in the Court of Appeal dicta,were uttered tending to approve the decision in Sinzson v. Crippin ,
and to disparage the decisions in Hoare v. Rennie and iRonek
v. Atuller, above cited, yet in the House of Lords Simpson v.
C'ippin,was not even referred to, and Lord Blackburn, who
had given the leading opinion in that case, as well as Lord
Bramwell, who had delivered the leading opinion in Honclk v.
X3uller, distinguished Hoare v. Rennie and Honek v. 2fuller
from the case in judgment. 9 App. Cas. 444, 446.
Upon a review of the English decisions, the rule laid down
in the earlier cases of Hoare v. Rennie and Coddington v.
Paleologo,as well as in the later cases of Reuter"v. Sala and
ronek v. ZfXller, appears to us to be supported by a greater
weight of authority than the rule stated in the intermediate
cases of Simpson v. Cr'ippin and Brandt v. Lawrence, and to
accord better with the general principles affirmed by the House
of Lords in Bowes v. Shand, while it in nowise contravenes
the decision of that tribunal in -fersey Co. v. 3Taylor.
In this country, there is less judicial authority upon the question. The two cases most nearly in point, that have come to
our notice, are HM/v. Blake, 97 K. Y. 216, which accords with
Bowes v. Shand, and O'ng Philip 3il v. Slater, 12 R. I. 82,
which approves and follows Hoare v. Rennie. The recent

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Couxt.

cases in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, cited at the bar,
support no other conclusion. In Shinn v. Bodine, 60 Penn.
St. 182, the point decided was that a contract for ihe purchase
of 800 tons of coal at a certain price per ton, "coal to be delivered on board vessels as sent for during months of August and
September," was an entire contract, under which nothing was
payable until delivery of the whole, and therefore the seller had
no right to rescind the contract upon a refusal to pay for one
cargo before that time. In .forgan v. .JfoKee, 77 Penn. St.
228, and in Soott v. Xittanning Coal Co., 89 Penn. St. 231, the
buyer's right to rescind the whole contract upon the failure of
the seller to deliver one instalment was denied, only because
that right had been waived, in the one case by unreasonable
delay in asserting it, and in the other by having accepted, paid
for and used a previous instalment of the goods. The decision
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in Winche8ter
v. iYewtom, 2 Allen, 492, resembles that of the House of Lords
in fersey Co. v. laylor.
Being of opinion that the plaintiff's failure to make such
shipments in February and March as the contract required prevents his maintaining this action, it is needless to dwell upon
the further objection that the shipments in April did not comply with the contract, because the defendants could not be
compelled to take about 1,000 tons out of the larger quantity
shipped in that month, and the plaintiff, after once designating
the names of vessels, as the contract bound him to do, could
not substitute other vessels. See Busk v. Spence, 4 Camp. 329;
Graves v. Legg, 9 Exch. 709; Reuter v. Sala, above cited.
Judgment ajflrmed.
The CHIEF

JusTwc,

was not present at the argument, and took

no partin the decision of this case.

