OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

GAGE v. PU MPELLY & Others.
APPEAL FR0M THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE,
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 2, 1885.-Decided November 23, 1885.

In Illinois a judgment by default in a proceeding in a county court under the
statutes of that State for the collection of taxes on real estate, by sale of
the property, is not conclusive upon the tax-payer, and may be impeached
collaterally.
Under the laws of that State, as construed by its courts, if any portion of a
tax assessed upon real estate, and levied and collected by sale of the property,
is illegal, the sale and the tax deed are void, and may be set aside by bill
in equity.
In a proceeding in equity in a court of the United States to set aside a tax sale
in Illinois as illegal, the complainant should offer to reimburse to the
purchaser all taxes paid by him, both those for which the property might
have been legally sold, and those paid after the sale.

Appellees' testator, plaintiff below, was in the possession,
and claiming to be the owner, of a certain lot of ground in
Chicago, for which the appellant, who was defendant below,
held deeds executed by the county clerk of Cook County, Illinois, on the 6th of September, 1877, and 4th of February,
1880 ; which deeds were based on sales made October 27, 1874,
and October 3, 1877, for the non-payment of taxes. These
sales were in pursuance of judgments of the County Court,
rendered at the instance of the treasurer of Cook County, who
was, ex oficio, the collector of its revenue.
To the proceedings in the County Court the plaintiff did not
appear, nor was he a party thereto otherwise than by publication in a newspaper, giving notice of the application for judgments, and, subsequently, of the order for the sale of the
property for non-payment of the taxes assessed against it.
The present suit was brought for the purpose of removing
the cloud on the plaintiff's title, arising from the before-mentioned sales and tax deeds, and to obtain a decree requiring
the defendant to convey to the plaintiff such rights and
interests as he had thus acquired.
The plaintiff in the bill avows his readiness and willingness

GAGE v. PUMPELLY.
Argument for Appellant.

to pay not only the defendant's disbursements for the legal
taxes included in the judgments of the county court, but such
additional sum as to the court seemed proper.
It was adjudged by the Circuit Court that the plaintiff
should pay the redemption moneys allowed by statute, had the
judgments and sales been only for legal taxes, with six per
cent. interest, in each case, from the expiration of two years
after the tax sale; also, such other taxes as defendant subsequently paid upon the lot in question, with interest at the like
rate on the amount of each payment. The aggregate of such
payments was ascertained to be $1118, as of Mlay 1, 1882.
The defendant, having declined to accept that sum with
interest, and the same having been paid into court for his use,
it was finally adjudged that the title acquired by defendant, in
virtue of the sales and deeds, be set aside and held for naught
as against plaintiff, and that the deeds be delivered up and
cancelled.

'. Augu8tus -. Gage and Xfr. Albert G. 1iddle for appellant.
I. The service of notice upon which the tax deed issued to
appellant September 6, 1877, and the affidavits filed with the
county clerk to show such service of notice, were sufficient to
authorize the county clerk to issue the deed to appellant. Garrick v. C'amberlai, 97 Ill. 620; Gage v. Bailey, 102 Ill. 11;
.Frew v. Taylor, 106 Ill. 159.
II. It does not appear that any of the $3700 for excessive
compensation to the county commissioners was extended as a
tax.
III. It does not appear that any of the items of the city
taxes of 1875, charged by the bill to be in excess of the constitutional limits, were extended with the taxes against this property, and for which the property was sold and the deed issued
to appellant February 4, 1880. Tho county clerk makes a voluntary statement that the records of his office show the valuation of the property of Chicago to have been $174,556,474, in
1875; by a similar statement of what he considers a fair deduction from his records, the county clerk states in other cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

tificates that the items of the city tax complained of were extended on the collector's warrant for 1875. These voluntary
certificates of the county clerk are not evidence. 1 Greenleaf, Ev. ยง 498. By statute, certificates of various officers may
be used as evidence, but only in such manner and to the extent
prescribed by the statute. These certificates do not come
within the statutory provisions. It is insisted that they are
not competent evidence, as the records should have been produced in order that the court might pass upon the facts disclosed thereby.
IV. The judgments of the County. Court of Cook County,
under which appellant purchased, are res judicata, and cannot be collaterally attacked. Under the statutes of Illinois
this court is a court of record, with general original jurisdiction
in the matter of the sale of lands for delinquent taxes. Graceland Cemetery Co. v. People, 92 Ill. 619. Being a court of record,'with jurisdiction over the subject-matter, its judgment is
conclusive while in force. .fayo v. AA Long, 32 Cal. 477;
Porter v. Purdy, 29 N. Y. 106; Graceland Cemetery Co. v.
People, above cited; Chicago Theological Seminary v. Gage,
12 Fed. Rep. 398. The action of the court in such matters is
in rem. Rev. Stat. Ill. 1874, ch. 120, ยง 191 ; People v. 7icholg,
49 Ill. 517; Pidgeon v. People, 36 Ill. 24-9. That being the
case, the judgment is binding on all the world. Wells, Res
Judicata, 504. For the binding force of judgments in rem see
.roudson v. Leonard,4 Cranch, 434. And the proceedings are
binding against all, whether parties to the suit or not. See
Gelston v. Hoyt, 13 Johns. 561 ; S. C., 3 Wheat. 246. Graceland Cemetery Co. v. People,above cited; Jfc Cahillv. Ins. Co.,
11 C. E. Green (26 N. J. Eq.) 531. In Illinois it is held that a
record of a court imports verity and must be tried by itself.
Young v. Tkompson, 14: Ill. 380. In -Hobsonv. Ewan, 62 Ill.
-146, it was held that the finding of the court cannot be questioned in a collateral proceeding, when it has jurisdiction. See
also Goudy v. Hall, 36 Ill. 313; Young v. Lorain, 11 Ill. 624;
Conover v. MA[usgrave, 68 Ill. 58; Osgood v. JBlackmtre, 59 Ill.
261; Prescott v. Chicago, 60 Ill. 121; Feasterv. Fleming, 56
Ill. 457. In Rogers v. Higgins, 57 Ill. 244, the court say:

GAGE v. PUMPELLY.
Argument for Appellant.

"The principle of re judicataembraces not only what actually
was determined in the former case, but also extends to any
other matter, properly involved, and which might have been
raised and determined in it. The valuation of property by the
assessor for taxation is conclusive, and the courts have not jurisdiction to review or alter the same. A tax based upon the assessment is like a judicial sentence, and can be assailed only for
fraud or want of jurisdiction. Spencer v. People, 68 I1. 510,
and cases cited; RTepublic Iife .zs. Co. v. Pollak, 75 Ill. 292;
People v. Big Ihuddy Zron Co., 89 Ill. 116. When the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Illinois in the Graceland Cemetery
case was delivered, there was no question as to the effect to be
given to a judgment of the County Court for taxes. Such
judgment then stood upon the same footing as any other judgment in. 'rer, or any judgment in personam. There is now a
disposition to draw a distinction between a judgment rendered
in a case where the owner of the land objected to the entry of
the judgment, and a case where the judgment for the taxes
was entered by default, and the authority for this distinction
is traced to the opinion in the Graceland Cemetery Case. The
cases of the Belleville Nail Co. v. People, 98 Ill. 399, and Gage
v. Bailey, 102 Ill. 11, are relied upon for this distinction. But
the cases of Gage v. Bueee, 102 Ill. 592, and Gage v. Parker,
103 U. S. 528, seem to dispose of the whole question. Although
the court was misled in two cases by an erroneous construction
of a third, as soon as the matter was presented in its true light
in the cases of Gage v. Bu se and Gage v. Parker,supra, the
court took steps immediately to correct the error of decision
above referred to. Very shortly after the determination of
the case at bar in the Circuit Court, the learned judge before
whom it was tried had occasion to again pass upon the same
questions here presented under this head, and after a more careful and elaborate argument by counsel, he reviewed to some
extent the questions here presented, and arrived at the conclusion now pressed. The opinion of the judge was subsequently
published, and by reference to that additional light will be
thrown upon the questions under discussion. Chicago JTeological Seinary v. Gage, 12 Fed. Rep. 398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

V. It does not appear by this record whether objection was
made to the rendition of the judgments for the sale of the land
for taxes.
The records here show, in each.case, certain objections were
filed to the rendition of judgment for the delinquent taxes;
this appears hrom the recitals in the judgment itself, without
specifying for whom, or by whom, such objections were filed.
It not appearing that the judgments in this case were entered
by default, or that they were not entered upon a contest upon
the merits, there cannot be (under any construction that may
be given the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois) any
right to grant relief in this case upon a collateral attack of the
judgment of the County Court.
Mr.Edward G. --ason for appellees.
NYn. JusTIcE HIALAN delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continned :
The Constitution of Illinois declares that the right of redemption from sales of real estate for the non-payment of taxes
or special assessments of any character whatever, shall exist in
favor of owners and persons interested for a period of not less
than two years from such sales. And it imposes upon the general assembly the duty of providing by law "for reasonable
notice to be given to the owners or parties interested, by publication or otherwise, of the fact of the sale of the property for
such taxes or assessments, and when the time of redemption
shall expire: Provided, That occupants shall in all cases be
served with personal notice before the time of redemption expires." Art. IX, ยง 5.
By the statutes in force when these sales were had, no purchaser, or the assignee of any purchaser, of land, town or city
lot, at any sale for taxes or levies authorized by the laws of the
State, was entitled to a deed for the lands or lots so purchased,
untir he served, or caused to be served, a written or printed, or
partly written and partly printed, notice of his purchase "on
every person in actual possession or occupancy of such land or

"PUMPELLY.
GAGE v. G
Opinion of the Court.

lot, and also the person in whose name the same was taxed or
specially assessed, if, upon diligently inquiring, he can be found
in the county, at least three months before the expiration of
the time of redemption on such sale, in which notice he shall
state when he purchased the land or lot, in whose name taxed,
the description of the land or lot he purchased, for what year
taxed or specially assessed, and when the time of redemption
will expire. If no person is in actual possession or occupancy
of such land or lot, and the person in whose name the same
was taxed or specially assessed, upon diligent search and inquiry, cannot be found in the county, then such person or his
assignee shall publish such notice in some newspaper printed
in such county,

.

.

which notice shall be inserted three

times, the first time not more than five months, and the last
time not less than three months, before the time of redemption
shall expire." lev. Stat. Ill. 1874, ch. 120, p. 893.
The bill impeaches the defendant's title, in respect of the
first deed he received, upon the ground that it was acquired in
violation of these constitutional and statutory provisions; and,
in respect of his title under both deeds, upon the ground that
the assessment of taxes upon the lot in question, for the nonpayment of which the County Court ordered the sales, included, in each instance, illegal taxes, for which the premises
were not liable, and which the owner was not bound to pay.
The appellant insists that these objections to his title are so far
concluded by the judgments of the County Court that they
cannot be urged in any collateral proceeding or suit, the only
remedy of the owner of the property being, it is contended, by
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. His argument is,
that by the Constitution and laws of the State, the County
Court is a court of record, with general original jurisdiction in
the matter of the sale of lands for delinquent taxes; that proceedings in such cases are in rem against the property assessed;
and that judgment therein rendered is conclusive upon the taxpayer, so long as it remains unmodified by the court which rendered it, or until it is set aside in some direct mode for fraud
or collusion, or is reversed upon appeal for error. In support
of the general rule that forbids collateral attack upon the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ments or decrees of a court having jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the parties, and where the want of jurisdiction
does not appear upon the record, numerous authorities are cited
by appellant's counsel. But they have no application to cases
like the present one, as the settled course of decision in the
highest courts of the State abundantly shows. It will be well
to examine a few of the cases determined in that court.
In XIc aughlin v. Thompson, 55 Ill. 249, which was an action of ejectment, in which the plaintiff asserted a tax title, the
validity of which the defendant disputed, upon the ground that
the sale was, in part, for taxes levied by a county commissioner's court, at a time other than that prescribed by the statute,
the court said: "The evidence shows that this county tax
entered into and formed part of the judgment, and the sum
for which the land was sold. That tax being illegal, appellant, or those under whom he claims, were not required to pay
it, nor did the law impose the duty of redeeming from the sale.
And it has been repeatedly held that, if any portion of the tax
is illegal, or the judgment is too large, only to the extent of a
few cents, the sale and tax deed will be void. This being so,
the tax deed conveyed no title, and hence there could be no
recovery under it, as the plaintiff in ejectment must, as in other
cases, establish his right to recover."
A case much relied upon by counsel for appellant is Graceland Cemetery Co. v. People, 92 Ill. 619. That was an appeal
from a judgment rendered by a County Court against certain
lands belonging to the cemetery company for the taxes of
1871 to 1874 inclusive. It appeared that, in 1873, application
was made to the County Court for judgment against the lands
for the taxes of 1871. The company resisted judgment upon
the ground that the lands were exempted by law from taxation.
After trial the defence was sustained. A similar application
was made for judgment for the taxes of 1872, 1873 and 1874.
It was again resisted) and the exemption again sustained. No
appeal or writ of error was prosecuted from either of those
judgments. Nevertheless, in 1879, another application was
made for judgment against 'the same lands for the taxes for
1871 to 1874 inclusive, and judgment was then rendered by

GAGE v. PUMPELLY.
Opinion of the Court.

the County Court against the company. The Supreme Court
of Illinois reversed the latter judgment, upon the ground that
the former judgments in favor of the company, in respect of
its claim of exemption from taxation, having been rendered
after a trial on the merits-the court having jurisdiction of the
parties and the subject-matter-were, even if erroneous, conclusive so long as they were not reversed or modified in some legal
proceeding instituted for that purpose. The court observed in
that case, that it was "clear, upon principle and authority,
there is no difference between a judgment rendered in a proceeding to collect taxes and any other judgment, so far as
being binding on the parties is concerned."
That case is cited by counsel in support of the proposition
that the judgment of the County Court, in respect of the premises here in question, is conclusive against the owner, although
he did not appear and resist the application for judgment.
But that the court did not intend so to decide is clear from its
language in Belleville .Vail Co. v. People, 98 Ill. 399, 483,
where it was said: "In Graceland Cemetery Co. v. The People,
92 Ill. 619, we held, where the owner of the land appeared in
such a proceeding, filed objections and contested the liability
of his land for the tax claimed, that the judgment against the
land for the tax was conclusive against him of the liability of
the land for the tax, in a collateral proceeding. But it is only
in the case of such appearance and defence that we regard the
judgment as conclusive." It was further observed in the same
case, that the declaration of the statute that the tax deed made
upon a sale under a judgment for taxes shall beffriimafaeie
evidence of certain enumerated things requisite to a correct
judgment, "shows the intention of the statute that the judgment was not to have the same effect of conclusiveness which
is given, collaterally, to ordinary judgments rendered by default, where personal service has been had. There is in these
cases no personal service, but only publication of notice in
a newspaper that application will be made for judgment."
These principles were reaffirmed in Gage v. Bailey, 102 Ill. 11,
which was a suit in equity to set aside the sale and conveyance
of lands for taxes upon several grounds, which, as the owner

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

did not appear in the County Court and contest the application
for judgment for the tax assessed against his property, were
fully considered and passed upon.
But the latest adjudication by the State court of the question
under consideration was Riverside Co. v. Howell, 113 Ill. 259.
That was ejectment for the recovery of land, the defendant
claiming title under a tax deed based upon a judgment of the
County Court. The validity of the sale was questioned upon
the ground, among others, that a part of the taxes, for the
non-payment of which the sale was ordered, were illegal and
void. The argument was made 'there, as in this case, that the
judgment of the County Court was conclusive as to all matters
that could, or ought to have been, passed upon in rendering it;
and if it included too much taxes, or illegal taxes, it was only
error to be remedied by appeal. But the court, finding that
certain taxes included in the judgment were invalid, held that
no title passed by the sale, observing that "the authorities are
to the effect, that when a part of the tax for which a sale of
real estate is made is illegal, the sale is void," citing AteLaughlin v. Thompson, 55 Ill. 249 ; -Iemper v. .fcClelland's Lessee,
19 Ohio, 308; Gamble v. Witty, 55 Miss. 26; Cooley on Taxation, 295, 296; Hardenburg v. Kidd, 10 Cal. 402. In the
same case the court reaffirmed the doctrine laid down in Belleville Nail Co. v. People, 98 Ill. 399, Gage v. Bailey, 102 Ill.
11, and other cases, to the effect, that a judgment by default,
in a tax sale proceeding, was not conclusive upon the taxpayer, but could be impeached collaterally-distinguishing that
class of cases from those where sales are made to satisfy special
assessments, in respect of which it was said, that "if the property-owner fails to make his objections in the proper place, and
the assessment is confirmed, then he may well not be permitted
to go behind the confirmation," when steps are taken to enforce
payment.
These decisions establish a rule of property which determines
the present case; for, without reference to other objections
urged to the validity of the sales and deeds under which appellant claims title, it satisfactorily appears from the proof: 1.
That the taxes, for the non-payment of which the first sale

GAGE v. PURPELLY.
Opinion of the Court.

was had, included taxes to meet allowances for the per diem
and mileage of county commissioners, in excess of what the
statute authorized. 2. That a large part of the taxes, for the
non-payment of which the second sale was had, was based
upon items in the ordinances of the city of Chicago, representing as well indebtedness which that city could not, under any
circumstances, legally contract, as indebtedness which was in
excess of the limit imposed by the State Constitution upon
counties, cities, and other municipal corporations. Law v.
People, 87 Ill. 385.

These grounds of objection to the title of the defendant
were, under the settled law of the State, open for consideration
in this suit. Being well founded, the conclusion must be that
the sales at which the defendant purchased, and, consequently,
the deeds which he received, were ineffectual to defeat the
title of the owner of the lot in question. By the decree, the
defendant receives all that he is entitled to demand as a condition precedent to his surrender of such title as he acquired by
his purchase; indeed, he received more than should have been
awarded to him; for, while, as a condition of granting the relief asked, the tax-payer was bound to do equity, and, therefore, should reimburse the purchaser to the extent of all tdxes
paid by him, whether those for which the property was sold,
or those subsequently levied thereon and paid by him, with
interest on each sum, Gage v. Busse, 102 Ill. 592; Srnit v.
-Tbtcldnom, 108 Il. 668; Peacock v. Carnes, 109 Ill. 100, the
defendant seems to have been allowed, in the present case,
among other sums, double the amount of the taxes for which
the lot was sold. Of this error in the decree the appellees
complain, but it cannot be considered upon this appeal by the
purchaser at the tax sale; and, perhaps, under the statutes
regulating the jurisdiction of this court, it could not have been
the subject of a separate appeal by the owner of the lot.
We perceive no error in the decree, and it is
Affirmed.

