OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

the business of a railroad company, to run on passenger trains
sleeping and drawing-room cars, with the conveniences usually
afforded by such cars for night travel," but it by no means
follows that the railway is, in law, obliged to arrange with the
Pullman Company for such accommodations. According to the
bill itself, two such car companies cannot successfully carry on
a competing business on the same road, and the custom has
been for the Pullman Company, if possible, to contract for the
exclusive right. The business is always done under special
written contracts. These contracts must necessarily vary, according to the special circumstances of each particular case.
Certainly, it cannot be claimed that a court of chancery is
competent to require these companies to enter into such a contract for the furnishing and hauling of Pullman cars, as the
court may deem reasonable. A mere statement of the proposition is sufficient to show that it is untenable.
An objection was raised to the jurisdiction of a court of
equity to grant relief such as is asked. This we do not consider,
as we are all agreed that the demurrer was properly sustained
upon the other grounds.
Decree afflrnwd.

HASSALL, Trustee, v. WILCOX & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted November 23, 188.-Decided December 7, 1885.

When separate judgments, for separate creditors, on separate claims, are
rendered in one decree in equity, and a general appeal is taken, the appeal
will, on motion, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction as to all who do not
recover more than $5000, and will be retained as to those who recover in
excess of $5000.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Waterman, 106 U. S. 265, approved and applied.

This was a motion to dismiss, with which was united a

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
Opinion of the Court.

motion to affirm.
court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the

.Mfr. IF. Hallett P~lipsfor the motions.
-r.

George Biddle opposing.

JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The grounds of the motion to dismiss are:
1. That the appeal is improperly taken in the name of
Ilassall, trustee, as it is apparent he has no interest in the
decree ; and
2. That the amounts involved are not sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction.
The controversy is between Hassall, the trustee in a railroad
mortgage, who intervened in a suit brought by one of the
bondholders for a foreclosure, and certain creditors of the railroad company claiming superior liens on the mortgaged property. The trustee came into the suit by agreement, and,
with leave of the court, "as a party complainant." Necessarily, as trustee, he represents all the bondholders, there being no conflicting interests among them. The demand of each
creditor is separate and distinct from all the others. Each
claim depends on its own facts, and a recovery by one does not
necessarily involve a recovery by any other. The decree is in
favor of each creditor separately. .The total amount of all the
recoveries is $19,043.45, or thereabouts, but, save the appellee
A. W. Wilcox, no one creditor gets more than $5000. The
mortgaged property has been sold, and the questions arise
upon the distribution of the proceeds in court. The claimants
are each severally demanding payment of their respective
claims, and the trustee is resisting them all. If the claimants
are paid, the trustee gets less for the bondholders. If they are
defeated, or either of them is, the amount going to the bondholders will be correspondingly increased.
It is clear that, as to all the creditors whose several decrees
do not exceed $5000, this case cannot be distinguished from

MR.CHMF

Farn2ers' Loan & Trust Co. v. TFaterman, 106 U. S. 265,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

and that, so far as those creditors are concerned, the motion
to dismiss must be granted. With Wilcox it is different.
He has recovered more than $5000. In Waterman's case the
dispute was between the several creditors and the purchasers
who bought at the foreclosure sale subject to their liens. It is
true the purchasers were a part of the bondholders, but in the
controversy then before us they appeared as purchasers and
not as bondholders. The amount for distribution to the bondholders from the proceeds of the sale would be the same
whether the creditors succeeded on the appeal or not. In this
case, however, the question is between the creditors and the
bondholders, as bondholders. If the creditors succeed, the
amount realized from the sale will be correspondingly reduced
for the purposes of distribution to the bondholders. Hassall
stands in the place of the bondholders on the record. Hence
it is his duty to do for the bondholder what they would do
for themselves if they were parties instead of himself. His
appeal is, therefore, their appeal, and is to be treated as such.
It follows that, as to all the parties except Wilcox, the
motion to dismiss the appeal must be granted, but that as to
him it must be denied.
The questions arising on the appeal from the decree in favor
of Wilcox are not such as ought to be disposed of on a motion
to affirm. The motion to that effect is denied.
Dismissed as to all the avpellee exc--,t Vilcox.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
TRAILL COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Submitted November 17, 1885.-Decided December 7, 1885.

The provisions in the act of July 17, 1870, 16 Stat. 291 (on page 805), that the
lands granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of
July 2, 1864. 18 Stat. 365, shall not be conveyed to the company or any
party entitled thereto, "until there shall first be paid into the treasury of

