SMITH v. WOOLFOLK.
Statement of Facts

SMITH & Another v. WOOLFOLK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARK.ANSAS.
Submitted April 0, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

In a suit in equity brought by creditors of a deceased person against his admministrator, for the settlement of his estate, a decree was made ordering
a sale of his estate and the distribution of the proceeds. This was done,
and the receiver reported his doing to the court. The report was confirmed, and the receiver was ordered to retain a small balance remaining
as his compensation : Held, that this was a final decree settling the rights
of the parties and disposing of the whole cause of action, and that one of
the complainants could not reopen it for the purpose of obtaining relief in
that suit against a co-complainant.
After a decree disposing of the issues and in accordance with the prayer of a
bill it is not competent for one of the parties without service of new process, or appearance, to institute further proceedings on new issues and for
new objects, although connected with the subject matter of the original
litigation, by merely giving the new proceedings the title of the original

cause.
To bar a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage in Arkansas, there must not
only be an adverse possession for such length of time as would bar an action in ejectment, but an open and notorious denial of the mortgagee's
title: otherwise the possession of the mortgagor is the possession of the
mortgagee.

The bill in this case was filed by Joseph S. Woolfolk to foreclose a mortgage executed to him by William H. Todd, the
intestate of L. H. Springer, one of the appellants, upon the
)Belleview plantation, situate in Chicot County, Arkansas.
The record disclosed the following facts; Junius W. Craig,
a citizen of Arkansas and the owner of the Belleview plantation, bad, on December 5, 1856, mortaged it to Mrs. Lucy D.
Craig, the widow of his brother, to secure $41,666 owing by
him to her. Some time after the date of the mortgage Mrs.
Craig intermarried with Joseph H. Woolfolk, the appellee.
Junius H. Craig died on September 17, 1858. .On March 16,
1866, Joseph H. Woolfolk and Lucy D., his wife, William H.
Frazier, assignee of A. D. Kelly & Co., William H. Todd, and
others, in behalf of themselves and all other creditors of the

OOTOBER TERI,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

estate of Junius W. Craig, filed their bill in equity in the Circuit Court of Chicot County, Arkansas, against Emma J.
Wright, executrix of the last will of Junius W. Craig, and
others, for the settlement of his estate. The case is styled in
the record "7we Creditors of Junius F.Craig v. Bmma J.
Tight, Executrix, and other.s." The bill alleged that many
debts had been proven against the estate, amounting in all to
the sum of $236,289.347, among which was the debt above mentioned due to Mrs. Lucy D. Woolfolk, a debt due to Frazier,
assignee of A. D. Kelly & Co., for $45,607.76, and a debt due
to Todd for $4'7,181.60. The prayer of the bill was that the
lands of the estate might be sold and the proceeds distributed
among the creditors.
On August 30, 1867, the plaintiffs in the original bill, including William H. Todd and Joseph S. Woolfolk and Lucy D.,
his wife, filed a supplemental bill of revivor, in which, among
other things, they averred the pendency of an intervention
filed by Woolfolk and wife in the Chancery Court of Jefferson
County, in the State of Kentucky, praying to have the debt due
them satisfied out of the property of the estate of Craig in
Kentucky. The supplemental bill prayed the same relief as
the original bill. The lands of the estate were brought to sale
in accordance with the prayer of the bill, and most of them,
including the Belleview plantation, were purchased by Todd.
Upon a report of the sale, the share of Mrs. Woolfolk in the
proceeds was found by the court to be $9,831, and Todd having paid a small part of this sum, Woolfolk, for the residue,
took the two notes of Todd, payable to himself, for $4,243.20
each, to secure which Todd executed to him a mortgage on the
Belleview plantation. The court having distributed the proceeds of the sale of the lands, directed the receiver to collect
the available assets of the estate and report to the next
term of the court. By his reports subsequently made it appeared that the receiver had been able to collect only the
sum of $157, which the court allowed him to retain as his compensation, so ihat nothing remained of the original cause in
which Woolfolk and his wife were in any way concerned.
Afterwards, on April 12, 1869, during a vacation of the

SMITH v. WOOLFOLK.
Statement of Facts.

court, Todd, who had become by assignment the owner of the
claim of A. D. Kelly & Co., filed a petition in the case of The
Creditors of Craig v. Emma J. TFright, executrix, and others,
in which he alleged among other things, that Woolfolk and
wife had brought suit in the Chancery Court of Louisville,
Kentucky, against Todd and the heirs of Craig, to subject to
the payment of the balance due -Mr.Woolfolk from the estate
of Craig certain real estate in the City of Louisville. The petition averred that the proceeds of the Louisville real estate
should be first applied to the satisfaction of the claim of A. D.
Kelly & Co., which bad been classed as a preferred debt by the
Probate Court in Arkansas, and prayed that Woolfolk and wife
might be required to account for any proceeds of the Louisville
real estate received by them, according to the rights of creditors as declared by the Arkansas Probate Court; the purpose
of the .petition being to subject the money arising from the
sale of the Louisville property to the payment first of the claim
of A. D. Kelly & Co., owned by Todd.
Upon this petition the Chicot Circuit Court made an order
that Woolfolk and wife answer the same on or before the third
day of the next term, and that in default thereof the petition
should be taken as confessed, and that service of the order,
"by letter or on attorneys of said parties, be sufficient service
thereof."
The statutes of Arkansas do not authorize service of process
in either of the methods directed by the order. Nevertheless,
the sheriff returned that he had served the order by mailing a
copy thereof to Woolfolk and wife, directed to their address,
without naming it. C. H. Carlton, upon whom, as attorney
of Woolfolk and wife, it appeared that a copy of the order
had been served, filed a writing in the case, in which he said
he was not their attorney, but the attorney of Todd, the petitioner, and disclaimed any interest in the cause on behalf of
Woolfolk. Upon these facts the court decided that there had
been sufficient service of the order.
Todd having died, the Chicot County Circuit Court, on January 23, 1880, by its order entered'in the case of The Creditors
of Craig v. .Emma J Fright,executrix, and others, made L.
VOL. cxv-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

H. Springer, his administrator, plaintiff in his stead; and upon
the same day decreed, among other things, that said L. H.
Springer, as administrator of Todd, "have and recover of and
from Lucy D. Woolfolk and Joseph H. Woolfolk the sum of
$37,995.65 out of the said funds and assets in their hands" of
the estate of Junius W. Craig, "and that payment thereof be
enforced by execution as upon executions at law."
This decree was based upon the report of a master who returned into court none of the evidence, if there was any, upon
which it was based.
Before the decree just recited was made, Woolfolk, on October 27, 1879, brought this suit in the Circuit Court of the
'United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, to enforce,
by the foreclosure of the mortgage made to secure them, payment of one of the two notes for $4,2,3.20 (the other having
been paid), given by Todd to him for the share of Mrs. Woolfolk
in the proceeds of the sale of the Belleview plantation. L. H.
Springer, the administrator of Todd's estate, and Benjamin H.
Smith, who before the death of Todd had acquired all his title
to the mortgaged premises, were made defendants.
Smith in his answer insisted upon his right to set off the decree rendered against Woolfolk and wife in favor of the administrator of Todd's estate by the Circuit Court of Chicot County,
on January 23, 1880, and set up the seven years' statute of limitations of the State of Arkansas in bar of the suit.
Springer, the administrator, adopted the answer of Smith,
and offered to set off so much of the decree in favor of Todd
mentioned in the answer of Smith as would satisfy the demand
of the plaintiff.
Woolfolk, whose deposition was' taken, testified that since
October, 1868, Carlton, on whom the order of the court above
mentioned was served, had not been his attorney, and that he
himself had never heard of the petition of Todd until after the
final decree had been rendered thereon, and that his wife, Lucy
D. Woolfolk, had died in the year 1876, four years before the
entry of the decree; that from the year 1856 until her death
'she had resided in Kentucky, and that he had resided there
all his life.

SMITH v. WOOLFOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

The deed of the receiver to Todd for the Belleview plantation was executed on October 28, 1868. It appeared from the
evidence that Todd and the appellant Smith, who claimed under him, had been in possession of the mortgaged premises
ever since that date.
Upon final hearing, the Circuit Court, on N~ovember 2, 1881,
rendered a decree in favor of the plaintiff for $9,743, to bear
interest from the date of the decree, and in default of payment;
ordered a sale of the mortgaged premises to satisfy the same.
From this decree the defendants, Benjamin H. Smith and
Springer, administrator of Todd, appealed.
.3Xยง.. Attorney General and

.Th.

. 1V. Compton for appel-

lants.
.3 . r U. [. Ro8e for appellee.
MR. JusrxcE Woois delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The decree of the Circuit Court was justified by the facts
appearing of record, unless one or both of the defences set up
in the answers of Smith were maintained.
We shall consider first the defence of set-off based upon the
record of the proceedings and decree of the Circuit Court of
Chicot County.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Chicot Circuit Court,
made on the 28th day of October, 1878, was, so far as it concerned Joseph S. Woolfolk and Lucy D., his wife, a final decree
in the cause, and they were bound to take no notice of the
subsequent proceedings, unless they were served with process
or entered their voluntary appearance. By that decree the
rights of the parties then before the court, as stated in the
original bill, and all the assets of the estate of Craig actually
or constructively within the jurisdiction of the court, were disposed of. It is true the receiver was directed by the decree to
proceed to collect the available assets of the estate. But, as
has been stated, only a small sum barely sufficient to pay the
receiver's compensation, was collected by him, and this he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed to retain by the decree of the court. The petition
filed by Todd, and the proceedings thereon subsequent to the
decree of October 28, 1868, had no reference to any additional
assets collected by the receiver after that date.
If the matter set up in the petition of Todd had been offered
as an amendment to the original bill when the latter was on
final hearing and Woolfolk and wife were b'efore the court,
there is no rule of equity pleading and practice or of the jurisprudence of Arkansas by which such an amendment could have
been allowed and have become the basis of a decree. Shield
v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; H7ardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756;
Walker v. Byers, 14 Ark. 246. As was said by this court in
Shields v. Barrow, ubi supra, " it is far better to require the
complainant to begin anew. To insert a wholly different case
is not properly an amendment and should not be considered
within the rules on that subject." So that, even if the decree
made on the original bill was not final, the petition filed by
Todd was so radical a departure from the case made and relief
prayed by the original bill as to be a new suit and require
service of process on the parties made defendant thereto. It
instituted a new litigation on new and distinct issues not raised
by the original pleadings, and between parties who were complainants in the original cause.
It is settled that one defendant cannot have a decree against
a co-defendant without a cross-bill, with proper prayer, and
process or answer, as in an original suit. Walker v. Byers, 14
Ark. 246 ; Gantt's Dig., ยง 4559 ; Cullum v. Erwin, 4 Ala. 452;
Cummins v. Gill, 6 Ala. 562; Shelby v. Smith, 2 A. K Marshall,
504. It follows, from the reason of this rule, that if one complainant can, under any circumstances, have a decree against
another upon a supplemental or amended bill, it must be upon
notice to the latter. After a decree disposing of the issues and
in accordance with the prayer of a bill has been made, it is not
competent for one of the parties, without a service of new
process or appearance, to institute further proceedings on new
issues and for new objects, although connected with the subject
matter of the original litigation, by merely giving the new proceedings the title of the original cause. If his bill begins a new

SMITH v. WOOLFOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

litigation, the parties against whom he seeks relief are entitled
to notice thereof, and without it they will not be bound. For
the decree of a court rendered against a party who has not
been heard, and has had no chance to be heard, is not a judicial
determination of his rights, and is not entitled to respect in any
other court. Windsor v. .Me Veagh, 93 Wall. 274.
Upon the original bill, filed in the Chicot Circuit Court by
Todd, it was not possible, therefore, for Todd to get a valid
money decree against Woolfolk and his wife without new and
adversary pleadings and service of process on Woolfolk and
giving him his day in court. Woolfolk and wife had the right
to rely on these principles of law, and were not bound to take
notice of the petition of Todd and the proceedings thereunder.
Todd and his counsel appear to have seen the necessity of
notice to Woolfolk and his wife, and made an attempt to give
them notice of the petition filed by Todd. But the record
shows that no lawful notice was served on them. It fails to
show notice of any kind.
The only service which the defendants assert to have been
made on Woolfolk and wife was the service on Carlton as their
attorney, who was not their attorney, but, as he averred, the
attorney of Todd, the petitioner, and the mailing to their address by the sheriff of the copy of the order. Conceding that
these kinds of service, if executed according to law, were good
under the statute of Arkansas, which they are not, they would
have been but substituted service, and could not support a personal decree against Woolfolk and wife. Pennoyer v. .YeVf, 95
U. S. 714; Har-ness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476 ; Brooldyn v. In8urance Company, 99 U. S. 362; Empire v. .Darlington,101
U. S. 87.
It follows that the record of the proceedings and decree of
the Circuit Court of Chicot County, subsequent to the decree
made in the case of The Creditorsof JuniWu T. Craigv. Emma
J *Wright, executrix, and others, on October 28, 1868, was not
binding upon Woolfolk and wife, and could not be received in
evidence against them. As this record contained the only
proof offered by the appellants of any set-off in behalf of any
one whatever against the mortgage debt due from Todd to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Woolfolk which the present suit was brought to enforce, it follows that the defence of set-off pleaded in the answers of the
appellants failed for want of proof, even conceding that they
were entitled to make the set-off.
It remains to consider the plea of the statute of limitations.
The note secured by mortgage, which is the basis of this suit,
fell due October 30, 1870, and the suit was brought October
27, 1879. It is insisted that the suit to foreclose the mortgage
was, under the law of Arkansas, barred in seven years from
the maturity of the note. In the case of Birnie v. Xain, 29
Ark. 591, it was declared by the Supreme Court of Arkansas
that "to bar a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage there
must not only be an adverse possession for such length of time
as would bar an action of ejectment, but there must be an open
and notorious denial of the mortgagee's title; otherwise the
possession of the mortgagor was the possession of the mortgagee." And in Colcleugh v. Jhnen, 314 Ark. 312, it was
said by the same court, that "the possession of a mortgagor is
not to be deemed adverse until he makes some claim or does
some open and notorious act adverse to the rights of the mortgagee." See also Mardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756. The only
evidence in the record of any such act, by either Smith or Todd,
was the denial by Todd, in his answer filed on April 18, 1876,
in a suit brought by Woolfolk against him in the Circuit Court
of Owen County, Kentucky, on one of the mortgage notes,
that he was indebted to Woolfolk thereon. Up to that date,
at least, the possession of Todd and Smith was the possession
of Woolfolk. This suit to foreclose the mortgage was not,
-Decreeafirmed.
therefore, barred.

