HAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

HAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CL

.

Argued October 23, 188.-Decided November 2, 1885.
A person who, by a contract made with him by the quartermaster's department of the army in behalf of the United States, agrees to furnish all the
steamboat transportation required by the United States for officers and soldiers between certain places, and to certain Indian posts and agencies, during a certain time, and to "receive from the officers or agents of the quartermaster's department all such military. Indian and government stores,
supplies, wagons and stock, as may be offered or turned over to him for
transportation in good order and condition by said officers or agents of the
quartermaster's department, and transport the same with dispatch, and deliver them in like good order and condition to the officer or agent of the
quartermaster's department designated to receive them," at a certain rate,
is not entitled to claim compensation for Indian supplies, never in the
charge of the quartermaster's department for transportation, transported
between places named in the contract, by another person under a contract
between him and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs ; although during the
same time some Indian supplies are delivered by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the quartermaster's department, and by that department
turned over to the claimant for transportation at the rate specified in his

contract.

The foundation of this action is a written agreement of February 17, 1870, between the United States and the appellant,
who was claimant below, in relation to the transportation by
him, at specified rates, of military, Indian, and government
stores, supplies, wagons, and stock. [Article I. of the written
agreement, on which the controversy arose, was as follows:
"Article I. That the said Hiram K. Hazlett shall furnish all
the steamboat transportation required by the United States
Government for officers and soldiers on the Missouri River, from
St. Louis, Mo., Wyandotte and Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and
Omaha, Neb., to Sioux City, Iowa, and Fort Benton, Mv.T.,
and the posts or Indian agencies between Sioux City and Fort
Benton, and which are mentioned in the tabular statement
hereto annexed, and from Sioux City, Iowa, Yankton Agency,
Fort Randall, Whetstone, Lower Brules, and Crow Creek agen-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

cies, Fort Sully, Big Cheyenne, and Grand River agencies,
Forts Rice, Stevenson, and Buford, D. T., and Camp Cooke, M.
T., to any or all the posts or Indian agencies that are above each
respectively, at any time from March 20th, 1870, to October
31st, 1870, and shall receive, at any time during said period,
from the officers or agents of the quartermaster's department
at St. Louis, Mo., or any point between St. Louis and Fort
Benton, mentioned in the tabular statement hereto annexed,
all such military, Indian, and Government stores, supplies,
wagons, and stock as may be offered or turned over to him for
transportation, in good order and condition, by said officers or
agents of the quartermaster's department, and transport the
same with dispatch, and deliver them in like good order and
condition to the officer or agent of the quartermaster's department designated to receive them at Sioux City, Iowa, or any
'of the posts or Indian agencies above that point mentioned in
the annexed tabular statement; all stores, supplies, wagons,
and stock to be delivered at their destination within the year
eighteen hundred and seventy, it being expressly understood
that the contractor shall furnish the required transportation
from any of the posts, stations, or Indian agencies mentioned in
this article to any post, station, or Indian agency that may be
established on &Missouri
the
River between Sioux City, Iowa,
and Fort Benton, M. T. (if any one or more of the posts or Indian agencies named in this agreement are situated between
the point of departure and the point of delivery), at the rate
herein provided for transportation, from the point of departure
to the nearest post or Indian agency named in this agreement
below the point of delivery, added to the rate to be fixed for
the additional distance from such nearest post or Indian agency
to the point of delivery-the rate of such additional distance to
be the same per mile as from the point of departure to the
nearest post or Indian agency named in this agreement to the
point of delivery. In case, however, none of the posts or Indian agencies named in this agreement is situated between the
point of departure and the point of delivery, then the transportation shall be furnished at the same rate per mile as from
the point of departure to the nearest post or Indian agency

HAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

named in this agreement above the point of delivery. The distances in all cases are to be determined.by the Chief Q. A. ]Mil.
Div., Mo. For the faithful performance of the above service
the contractor shall be paid in the manner hereinafter provided
in Article XIL of this agreement and at the rates specified and
shown in the tabular statement and remarks or memoranda hereto annexed, as signed by the parties to this agreement, which
statement and remarks or memoranda are considered a part
hereof." A finding of the Court of Claims, which also affects
the controversy, will be found in the opinion,.post, pp. 298-9.]
The appellant received full compensation for all services
actually performed by him. But he contended that he was entitled to transport certain Indian stores and supplies, which
were delivered, against his protest, to the Northwest Transportation Company for transportation to posts and agencies included in his contract. The supplies and stores last named were
transported under a written contract made, without advertisement, by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, in September,
1870, at higher rates than those allowed the claimant. If they
had been transported by him, under his contract, he would
have realized a large profit, after deducting what it would have
cost to do the work, and also a reasonable sum for being relieved from the care, trouble, responsibility, and risk attending
such service. Although fully prepared, and offering, to transport them, the officers of the Indian Bureau refused to turn
them over to him. This, he contended, was a breach of his contract: The court below adjudged that the law was with the
government, and dismissed the petition, from which judgment
the claimant appealed. He now insists that the judgment proceeded upon an erroneous construction of his contract, and was
also inconsistent with the practical interpretation given to its
provisions by officers of the government immediately charged
with its execution.
3 1r. Theodore 1T Y JloPherson and A1f'. Enock Totten for
appellant.-I. The rights of the appellant are to be determined
by the provisions of the contract taken in connection with
the findings of fact by the Court of Claims.

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

II. The legal intention of the contracting parties is to be ascertained and determined not only by reference to the contract
and the subject-matter of the contract, but also to the surrounding circumstances. M erriam v. United States, 107 1U. S. 437;
_Stash v. Towne, 5 Wall. 689; Barreda,v. Silsbee, 21 How.
146; Shore v. Wilson, 9 01. & Fin. 355; .3fcDonald v. Longbottom, 1 El. & El. 977; Carr v. 3lontefore, 5 B. & S. 407;
Br'awley v. United States, 96 U. S. 168.
Now what were the surrounding circumstances, and the
light which the parties possessed when this contract was made?
The quartermaster-general, who has charge of army transportation, and is familiar with the wants and demands of the
government in this respect, advertised that proposals would be
received at his office, Chicago, Ill., till 12 m. Tuesday, February
1, 1870, for the transportation of government troops, military,
government and Indian stores, supplies, &c., between certain
points named on the Missouri River, during the time from
March 20, 1870, and October 31, 1870. The claimant submitted proposals in answer to said advertisement, which were
accepted, and the contract was made to include all such
military, Indian, and government stores, supplies, &c., as may
be offered or turned over to him for transportation. The
quartermaster-general for the year 1869 made a contract for the
transportation of "all the military stores, supplies, &c.," over
the same route, and during the same period, in which the
Indian supplies were not named, and notwithstanding this the
contractor was required by the Indian Bureau and the quartermaster-general to transport the Indian supplies for that year.
In view of this fact the quartermaster-general took the precautionary steps, when he made the contract with the claimant
for the year following, 1870, and specifically named the Indian
supplies, and designated with great particularity the Indian
posts and agencies where they were to be transported. The
claimant, believing, as he had a right to, that the government
was acting in good faith, and intended to turn over all the
stores and supplies named in the said advertisement for proposals, and being an experienced steamboat man and entirely
familiar with the extent and character of the government trans-

HAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

portations on the iissouri River, and the number of pounds
uually transported, made his bid correspondingly low, expecting to receive all the stores, supplies, &c., specified in the advertisement which the government required to have transported,
and his bid was accepted and the contract made. It is manifest that it was the purpose of both parties that the claimant
was to transport all military, Indian, and government stores
and supplies over his route during the life of his contract. The
employment of other parties by the government to do any
part of this work during the contract term made the government responsible in damages. Caldwell v. United States, 19
Wall. 264, 270. It is true that there is not in the contract any
express covenant or agreement on the part of the United
States to offer the claimant for transportation any of the said
stores or supplies whatever; but where a contract in terms binds
a contractor to transport all the freight which the government may offer him, and involves on his part a large preparatory expenditure, and a continual readiness to perform, the law
implies a mutual obligation upon the government to give to
him all the freight for which it may require transportation by
contract. Speed v. United States, 8 Wall. 77.
III. The United States as principal are b6und by the acts
and contracts of their agent, done with their consent or by their
authority, or adopted by their ratification. The officers and
agents of the defendants represented that they had authority to
contract with the appellant for the transportation of the Indian
supplies, and he in good faith entered into the contract, under
the belief that the terms of the contract would be complied
with by the defendants; that he would have "any number of
pounds of stores and supplies, from and -between one hundred
thousand pounds and twenty millions pounds in the aggregate,
of "all such military, Indian, and government stores, supplies,
&c.," which the defendants required to have transported; the
appellant accordingly made the necessary preparations to execute his part of the agreement, and did execute it according to
its terms, and it was ratified by the defendants, with the exception that they refused to deliver to the appellant all of the
Indian supplies for transportation, after they had delivered

OCTOBER TERM1,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

part of them according to contract. The rules of law, that a
subsequent ratification of an act done as agent is equal to a
prior authority, are so well understood as to require no more
than a mere statement. The government having derived the
benefit of the appellant's low bid as incorporated in the contract, it constitutes a ratification and an adoption thereof.
And it is equally well settled that the law upon this subject
applies to the act of the sovereign ratifying the acts of its officers. In Baron v. Denman, 2 Exch. 188, Baron Parke, in giving the opinion, after stating the rule as between individuals,
adds: "Such being the law between private individuals, the
question is, whether the act of the sovereign ratifying the act
of one of its officers can be distinguished. On that subject I
have conferred with my learned brethren, and they are decidedly of opinion that the ratification of the crown, communicated as it has been in the present case, is equivalent to a prior
command." See also Secretary of State v. Saaba, 13 Moore
P. 0. Sections 219 and 220 iRev. Stat. authorize the Secretary of -War to prescribe the general regulations for the transportation of military stores and supplies, &c., for the army,
&c. Where a public officer is held out as having authority to
do an act, or is empowered in his capacity as a public officer
to make the declaration or representation for the government,
which is relied on as the substantial ground of relief, the government is bound by the acts and declarations of the agent.
Zee v. Xfonroe, 7 Cranch, 366, 368; Thliteside v. United States,
93 U. S. 241.
.r.

Solicitor-Generalfor appellees.

Mn . JUSTIcE IHAELA , delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the language above reported, except so much
thereof as is contained between brackets, and continued:
We are of the opinion that the claimant has no cause of
action against the United States. The contract did not obligate
the government to deliver to him, nor did it bind him to receive,
for transportation during the period designated, all Indian supplies or stores, in the hands of its agents or officers, of what-

HAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ever department or branch of the public service. It was made
with the claimant by an officer of the quartermaster's department under directions from the quartermaster-general of the
army. By its first article he became bound to furnish all the
steamboat transportation required by the United States for officers and soldiers on the Missouri River between certain named
places, and for posts or Indian agencies between certain other
named places, at any time from March 20, 1870, to October 31,
1870. He agreed to "receive, at any time during that period,
from the officeiy or agents of the quartermaster's department,
at St. Louis, or any point between St. Louis and Fort Benton,"
mentioned in the tabular statement annexed to the written contract, "all such military, Indian, and government stores, supplies, wagons, and stock as may be offered or turned over to
him for transportation, in good order and condition, by said officers or agents of the quartermaster's department, and transport the same with dispatch, and deliver them in like good
order and condition to the officer or agent of the quartermaster's department designated to receive them," &c. These words
define the nature and extent of the obligations assumed by the
contractor. It was entirely competent for the quartermaster's
department to enter into an agreement whereby the contractor
became bound to receive from its officers or agents all such
military, Indian or government supplies as they might deliver
to him for transportation. But it had no authority, without
reference to the views of the Interior Department, and of the
officers having special connection with Indian affairs, to control
the transportation of Indian supplies or stores of every kind.
Nor did the quartermaster's department assume to exercise
such authority; for it only stipulated with claimant that he
should receive and transport such supplies and stores as were
turned over to him by its officers and agents. As, therefore,
the claimant was not bound to receive Indian supplies or stores
turned over to him for transportation by the Indian Bureau,
the employment by the Cbmmissioner of Indian Affairs of
others to effect the transportation of Indian stores and supplies
-which were never, so far as the record discloses, in charge of
the quartermaster's department for transportation-was not

OCTOBER TERIi, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

an infringement of his legal rights. There is no escape from
this conclusion, unless it be that the quartermaster's department had, under the law, the sole power of making contracts
for the transportation of Indian supplies and stores. But that
proposition cannot be maintained.
It is, also, contended, that the government, in view of the
conduct of its agents, subsequent to the making of the contract
with claimant, cannot now be permitted to dispute the proposition, that he was entitled, by his contract, to receive for
transportation, during the period designated, all Indian supplies
and stores, by whatever department held, which were to be
sent to the several Indian posts or agencies designated in that
contract.
This proposition arises out of the following facts found by
the Court of Claims:
"It does not appear that either the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs or the Secretary of the Interior had actual knowledge
of the fact that the contract in suit existed with the claimant
relating to the transportation of Indian stores and supplies by
or through the officers of the quartermaster's department, nor
did they expressly authorize General Rucker to enter into a
contract for the transportation of Indian stores or supplies, nor
did they ratify such contract, unless its ratification be implied
from the following facts and circumstances: The Indian Bureau directed that two lots of Indian supplies be forwarded in
April and Mlay, 1870, amounting to 221,242 pounds, which
was accordingly done by Quartermasters Gillis and Fury, at
Sioux City, Iowa, turning them over to the claimant for
transportation, and they were by him transported (under his
contract with the quartermaster's department to include the
transportation of the Indian supplies) to Whetstone and Big
Cheyenne agencies, and the Indian Bureau reimbursed the
War Department for this transportation. The Commissioner
of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior directed
the Secretary of War, June 21, 1870,to turn over the army subsistence stores collected at the instance of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs for the Indians at Forts Rice, Stevenson, Buford,
and Shaw to the Indian agents at the Grand River and Fort

TTAZLETT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Berthold agencies, and that the cost of transporting the stores
from the forts to the agencies would be paid by the Indian
Bureau. The claimant transported, September 27, 1870, 82,720
pounds of Indian stores and supplies from Fort Rice to Grand
River agency, for which he was paid accordingly. The contract in suit was duly filed in the returns office of the Department of the Interior the 12th March, 1870."
These facts give no support to the suggestion that the government recognized claimant's right to transport all Indian
supplies for the posts or agencies named in his contract. That
contract did not forbid the quartermaster's department from
receiving Indian supplies, in the first instance, from the Indian
Bureau, and delivering them to the claimant for transportation under his contract. And that which was done in respect
of the Indian supplies forwarded in April and May, 1870, and
of those transported in September, 1870, to Grand River
agency, so far from implying authority in the quartermaster's
department to control the whole matter of the transportation
of Indian supplies, was a recognition of the authority of the
officers, having special charge of Indian affairs, to provide for
the transportation of any Indian supplies in their hands. For,
the cost incurred in transporting Indian supplies to the Whetstone, Big Cheyenne and Grand River agencies was borne by
the Indian Bureau. If the Indian Bureau chose to make arrangements with the War Department for the transportation
of certain Indian supplies, under the contract made with the
claimant, that fact falls short of proving that the purpose was
to grant him the right to transport all Indian supplies, by
whatever department or officers held, to the posts or agencies
designated in his contract.
We perceive no error in the judgment, and it is

-Afflrnwd.

