OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
CLAY & WIFE v. FIELD.
IN

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT

COURT

OF THE UNITEID

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted October 19, 1885.-Decided November 2, 18,5.

The Mississippi Code of 1871, § 2173, by which any action to recover property,
because of the invalidity of an administrator's sale by order of a probate
court, must be brought within one year, "if such sale shall have been made
in good faith and the purchase money paid," does not apply to an action
brought by the heir to recover land bid off by a creditor at such a sale for
the payment of his debt, and conveyed to him by the administrator, and
not otherwise paid for than by giving the administrator a receipt for the
amount of the bid.
Under the Mississippi Code of 1880, ', 2506, 2512, a tenant in common who
has been ousted by his cotenant may maintain ejectment against him, and
recover rents and profits in the same action.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
XL.

William.L. Vgent for plaintiffs in error.

23fr. Frank Johnston and

Vfr. J E. -fclfeighnan for defend-

ant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought November 27,
1880, to recover possession of an undivided half of a tract of
land, and the rents and profits thereof. Both parties claimed
title under David I. Field, who died in 1869. At the time of
his death, he and his brother, Christopher J. Field, owned in
fee simple and occupied the land as tenants in common, and
were partners in the business of planting thereon. The plaintiff, who came of age within a year before bringing the action,
was the only son and heir at law of David I. Field. The defendants were in possession and claimed title under a sale and
conveyance made by his administrator to the female defendant
on December 20, 1869, by virtue of an order passed by the
Probate Court on April 13, 1869, upon a petition filed by the
administrator for the sale of the land to pay a debt due from
the partnership to Christopher J. Field and by him probated
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

in the usual form. The judgment below was for the plaintiff,
and the defendants sued out this writ of error.
As appears by a uniform series of decisions of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, and is not denied by the defendants, that
sale was invalid as against the heir, because the administrator
never gave bond to account for the proceeds of the sale, as required by the statutes of the State. Curriev. Sewart, 26 Miss.
64(6, and 27 Miss. 52; IFashingtomv.2fcCaughan, 34 Miss. 304;
Ifleh v. Tilson, 55 Miss. 587. *
The other objections urged by the plaintiff against the
validity of the sale need not therefore be considered; and the
case turns on the effect of § 2173 of the Cod6 of Mississippi of
1871, which is in these words:
"No action shall be brought to recover any property heretofore sold by any administrator, executor or guardian, by virtue
of the order of any probate court in this State, on the ground
of the invalidity of such sale, unless such action be commenced
within one year after this chapter shall take effect, if such sale
shall have been made in good faith, and the purchase money
paid; nor shall any action be brought to recover land or other
property, hereafter sold by order of a chancery court, where
the sale is in good faith, and the purchase money paid, unless
brought within one year after such sale."
This is a remedial statute, the object of which is to shorten
litigation over the estates of deceased persons, and to quiet the
titles of those who have in good faith paid the purchase money
for lands sold under defective and invalid proceedings in the
Probate Court; and the courts of the State have given it full
effect, ,according to its terms, even against heirs who are infants or under other disability. 2foi-gan' v. Hazlehurst -Lodge,
53 Miss. 665 ; Hall v. TFells, 54; Miss. 289 ; Sumrnerm v. Brady,
5OMiss. 10.
But it protects no one who is not proved to have purchased
the land in good faith, and to have actually paid the purchase
money.
In the case at bar, Mrs. Clay (the daughter and sole heir of
the brother and partner of the intestate, who had probated
against the estate a debt due to him from the partnership) bid

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

off the land at the administrator's sale, and received a deed
thereof from the administrator. But the court, before which
the case was tried (a jury having been waived in writing by the
parties), has expressly found that "no money was ever paid on
the bid," and "no credit was ever entered upon the probated indebtedness." It is indeed found that "a receipt was given to
the administrator for the amount" of the bid; and, although
by whom that receipt was given does not appear, it may be presumed to have been given by some one authorized to represent
her father's estate and herself. But a mere receipt, acknowledging payment of money, is not conclusive evidence against
the person giving it. It is not shown that any release of the
probated debt was ever executed, or that the administrator
ever accounted in the Probate Court for the amount of the bid.
Mrs. Clay could not have been compelled to pay the amount;
and, if she bought without notice of the invalidity of the sale,
could have had the sale set aside in equity. -Millerv. Palmer,
55 Miss. 323. In short, no act appears to have been done by
herself, by the administrator, or by the Probate Court, which,
on the one hand, changed her condition, or estopped her, or
any representative of her father, to deny that the debt probated by him had been paid or discharged, or to assert any
right which existed before the sale; or, on the other hand,
estopped the administrator to deny that the purchase money
for the land had been paid to him.
Under such circumstances, to hold that the purchase money
is proved to have been paid would be to disregard both the
words and the intent of the statute.
The case of Summers v. Brady, above cited, on which the
defendants relied, is quite distinguishable. The facts of that
case, as assumed in the opinion, and more fully brought out
in Sively v. Summers, 51 Miss. 712, were as follows: The land
was sold by order of the Probate Court for the payment of
several debts probated by Sively, the administrator, by one
Drone, and by various other persons; and was bought by and
conveyed to Drone in his own name, but in fact for himself
and Sively jointly; Drone immediately conveyed two-thirds of
the land to Sively, and the two afterwards conveyed the whole

CLAY v. FIELD.
• Opinion of the Court.

to a third person, under whom the defendants claimed title.
The administrator settled his final account, charging himself
with the whole of the purchase money as in his hands; the
court ordered that money to be dividedpro rata on all the probated debts; and all the creditors but Drone and Sively were
actually paid their dividends out of it. Drone and Sively were
estopped to deny that their debts had been extinguished by
the sale and conveyance of the land to them, because they bad
not only taken possession of the land, but had conveyed it
away; and Sivelh, as administrator, was estopped to deny that
he had been paid the whole purchase money upon the original
sale, because he had charged himself with it in his final account
allowed by the Probate Court.
In the other case, cited for the defendants, of Callcott v.
Pa,s, 58 Miss. 528, the report does not show that any question
of the mode of payment was presented or considered.
The title in the land being in the plaintiff and Mrs. Clay as
tenants in common, each owning an undivided half, and she
having ousted hin, and claiming title to and holding possession
of the whole land, he has the right, under the Mississippi Code
of 1880, § 2506, as at common law, to maintain ejectment
against her, as well as to sue her for a share of the rents and
profits. Co. Lit. 199 b; Goodtitle v. Tombs, 3 Wils. 118; Corbn v. 6annon, 31 Miss. 570; letchford v. Cary, 52 Miss. 791.
And by § 2512 of that code, mesne profits for which any defendant in ejectment is liable may be sued for and recovered,
either in the action of ejectment, or by a subsequent separate
action.
Judgment afflrmed.

