OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

and that, so far as those creditors are concerned, the motion
to dismiss must be granted. With Wilcox it is different.
He has recovered more than $5000. In Waterman's case the
dispute was between the several creditors and the purchasers
who bought at the foreclosure sale subject to their liens. It is
true the purchasers were a part of the bondholders, but in the
controversy then before us they appeared as purchasers and
not as bondholders. The amount for distribution to the bondholders from the proceeds of the sale would be the same
whether the creditors succeeded on the appeal or not. In this
case, however, the question is between the creditors and the
bondholders, as bondholders. If the creditors succeed, the
amount realized from the sale will be correspondingly reduced
for the purposes of distribution to the bondholders. Hassall
stands in the place of the bondholders on the record. Hence
it is his duty to do for the bondholder what they would do
for themselves if they were parties instead of himself. His
appeal is, therefore, their appeal, and is to be treated as such.
It follows that, as to all the parties except Wilcox, the
motion to dismiss the appeal must be granted, but that as to
him it must be denied.
The questions arising on the appeal from the decree in favor
of Wilcox are not such as ought to be disposed of on a motion
to affirm. The motion to that effect is denied.
Dismissed as to all the avpellee exc--,t Vilcox.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
TRAILL COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Submitted November 17, 1885.-Decided December 7, 1885.

The provisions in the act of July 17, 1870, 16 Stat. 291 (on page 805), that the
lands granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of
July 2, 1864. 18 Stat. 365, shall not be conveyed to the company or any
party entitled thereto, "until there shall first be paid into the treasury of

NORTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. TRAILL COUNTY. 601
Statement of Facts.
the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same
by the company or party in interest," exempts these lands from State or
Territorial taxation until such payment is made into the treasury.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company has acquired no equitable interest in
the lands so granted to it, by reason of completing its road and thus earning the granted lands, which is subject to State or Territorial taxation before such payment is made into the treasury of the United States.
When an act granting public lands to aid in the construction of a railroad
provides that patents shall issue from time to time, as sections of the road
are completed, but reserves to Congress the right at any time "to add to,
alter, amend, or repeal this act," "having due regard for the rights of the
company," Congress may, without violating the Constitution of the United
States, by subsequent act passed before any of the road is constructed, or
any of the land earned, require the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the land to be paid into the treasury of the United States before
the conveyance of the granted lands to any party entitled thereto.
The principles on which Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603, and Railway
Co. v. eShane, 22 Wall. 444, were decided, are restated, so far as they
are applied to this case.

Suit to enjoin the collection of taxes levied upon lands of
plaintiff in error. A jury being waived, the court made a finding of facts of which the following are the material ones, in
view of the opinion of the court.
First. That the plaintiff is a corporation duly organized and'
existing under that certain act of Congress, approved July 2,
18641, entitled "An Act granting land to aid in the construction
of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget
Sound, on the Pacific coast, by the northern route, and under
those certain subsequent acts and joint resolutions of Congress
relating to the same subject-matter."
Second. That in and by the said act of July 2, 1864, among
other things, it is provided as follows:
"And be it further enacted, That there be, and hereby is,
granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction
alternate sections
of said railroad and telegraph line,
of public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of 20 alternate sections per mile on each side of said
railroad line as said company may adopt, through the territory
of the United States, and 10 alternate sections of land per mile
on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

State," etc. Then follow the conditions subsequent to be performed by the said railroad company to give it a complete title
to the said lands, and to a patent as the evidence of such title.
Section 20 is as follows: "And be it further enacted, That
the better to accomplish the object of this act, namely, to promote the public interest and welfare by the construction of
said railroad and telegraph line, and keeping the same in working order, and to secure to the Government at all times (but
particularly in time of war) the use and benefits of the same
for postal, military, and other purposes, Congress may at any
time, having due regard for the rights of said Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, add to, alter, amend, or repeal this act."
By an act of Congress approved July 15, 1870, among other
things appropriating money for the survey of the public lands
within the limits of the land grant of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, it is provided, "that before any land
granted to said company by the United States shall be conveyed to any party entitled thereto under any of the acts incorporating or relating to said company, there shall first be
paid into the Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same by the said company
or party in interest."
Third. That under and in pursuance of said several acts and
resolutions of Congress the plaintiff has built and caused to be
built and put in operation a continuous line of railroad and
telegraph, extending from the waters of Lake Superior, at
Duluth, in the State of Minnesota, westerly, across the said
State and across the Territory of Dakota, to and beyond the
Missouri River, and of the character and materials specified in
the said acts; and everything has been done by the said railroad company required by the terms of the grant, to enable
the said company to acquire a complete and perfect title to
the lands in controversy in this action, except as respects the
payment of the costs of survey, &c., required by the act of July
15, 1870, above mentioned. All that part of the said railroad
within the Territory of Dakota has been located and built since
July 15, 1870. The government of the United States, since
the passage of the said act of Congress of July 15, 1870, has

NORTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. TRAILL COUNTY. 603
Statement of Facts.
caused the lands described in the complaint to be surveyed at
its own expense, no part of which has ever been repaid it by
said company. The patents for the said lands described in
the complaint, or any of them, have never been issued to the
said railroad company, or to any person for said company, and
the government refuses to issue said patents until the payment
for survey and selecting the said lands, as above mentioned,
and required by said law of 1870, has been made.
Fourth. That the lands mentioned and described in the
schedule annexed to the plaintiff's complaint, and made a part
thereof, were, at the time said acts were passed, and the said
railroad located through the Territory of Dakota, a part of the
public domain of the United States, and not any part of the
right of way mentioned in said act, and had never been sold,
reserved, granted, or otherwise appropriated, except as above
mentioned, and were free of pre-emption and other rights, and,
were situated within a distance of 40 miles of the line of the
plaintiff's said railroad.
Fifth. That in the year 1880 the officers of the said county
of Trail, authorized by the laws of this Territory to assess
property therein for the purposes of taxation and to levy taxes
therein, assessed and levied taxes upon said land for that year
amounting in the aggregate to about the sum of $2000, all of
which remain unpaid, and which the plaintiff refused, and still
refuses, to pay; and the defendant, Iver L. Rockne, who is
county treasurer of said county of Traill, did advertise and
give public notice that on a certain day and place, to wit, on
the first Monday in October, 1881, he would sell the said lands
according to law, for the non-payment of the said taxes, and
for the collection of the same.
Judgment for defendant, which was affirmed on appeal in
the Supreme Court of the Territory. Plaintiff below appealed
to this court.
.Hr. W. P. Clough for appellant.
.Yr. Z S.
appellee.

MIlkenson, .Mr. -iller

and Mr. Greene for

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellee.

I. If the appellant owned the lands when the taxes were
levied, they were taxable. It derives its interest in them
solely through the act of July 2,1864, entitled "An Act granting Lands to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph Line from Lake Superior to Puget's Sound, on the Pacific
coast, by the Northern Route." 13 Stat. 365. The words,
"and be it further enacted that there be and hereby is granted
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company," found in ยง 3,
followed, as they are, by language defining the area of the
lands granted, constitute the basis of all the wealth and power
of this corporation: Without such words it would have had
no property to protect, no rights to enforce; much less could
this action have been maintained. No amendment to this
original grant has added to their force, or impaired an. rights
vested by them. The words "that there be and hereby is
granted" are words of absolute donation, and import a grant
inpreesenti. -Leavenworth &c. Railroad Co. v. United States,
92 U. S.733 ; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95; S hulenberg v.
Tarriman, 21 Wall. 44. Such words vest a present title in
the grantee, though a survey of the lands and a location of
the road are necessary to give precision to it, and attach it to
any particular tract. The grant, then, becomes certain, and
by relation has the same effect upon the selected parcels as if
it had specifically described them. In other words, the grant
was afloat until the line of the road should be definitely fixed.
Leavenworth &c.Railroad Co. v. United States, cited above;
lesseuir v. Price,12 How. 59; Blair Land Co. v. Jitteringham,43 Iowa, 462; Lee v. Summers, 2 Oregon, 260. Again,
the title of the United States may pass as well by an act of
Congress in the words of a present grant, as by patent.
ilcox v. Tackson, 13 Pet. 498 ; Stoddard v. Chambers,2 How.
284. And the position that the grant in question conveyed a
present existing title to the Northern Pacific Railroad Co.
of all the lands granted, is supported by the clear weight of
authority. Schulenberg v. Harriman, above cited; Central
Pacito Railroad Co. v. Dyer, I Sawyer, 641; Ballance v.
Forsyth, 13 How. 18; .feegan v. Boyle, 19 How. 130, 132,
175 ; Railroad Co. v. Smith, cited above.

NORTHE RN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. TRAILL COUNTY. 605
Argument for Appellee.

But even if the grant in question did not vest the appellant
with the legal title to the lands, still such lands may be taxed
before the government has parted with the legal title, when
the right to the title is complete. Carrollv. Safford, 3 How.
441; Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Railway Co. v.
.AkSAtane, 22 Wall. 444. It is conceded that except compliance
with the provisions of the act of 1870, the company had done
everything to perfect its title. As to that act we say: (a) Is it
not a fair and rational construction of it to say that the lawmaking power intended thereby, not to divest the company, or
persons interested in these lands, of any title given by the
original grant, but simply to declare that neither the company
nor persons claiming under it should receive from the United
States the evidences of their previously acquired title to particular tracts of land until the costs of survey should be paid?
(b) If this construction be not correct, then the act of 1870
must be construed either as one by which, the government
sought to reinvest itself with the title to lands it had ceased
to own-an act of forfeiture or confiscation, and therefore
absolutely void-or (c) An act impairing the obligation of the
original grant, and therefore void not only as to the corporation not assenting thereto, but. as to all interested in asserting
its invalidity.
II. The charter of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
as to the matters here discussed, has been before but two
courts for construction. The Supreme Courts of Minnesota
and Dakota, the former court without a dissenting opinion,
fully sustained the position here taken, that the grant operated
to divest the government of ownership, and vested it in the
company, and made the first judicial distinction between the
charter of this company and that of the Union Pacific Railroad Company. The judges of the latter court were divided
in their opinions in this case, hence no opinion was given; but
in NXortern Pacifit Railroad Co. v. Peranto,the Supreme
Court of Dakota fully sustained the position here taken as to
the nature and effect of the grant. The appellant bases its
right to relief mainly on the authority of Railway Co. v.
Prescott, and Railway Co. v. XAeShane, both cited above.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

As the latter case reverses the former, on a point not material
here, and affirms it as to matters which the appellant insists
axe important in the, case at bar, we shall consider only the
case last cited. It has no application to this case. An examination of the charters shows that there is a difference between the grants to the Union Pacific and those to the Northern Pacific. (1) The grants to the former are by patent, those
to the latter by statutory grant. (2) The former received
additional grants by the act of 1864, and of course took subject to the conditions of the supplementary grant. The latter
received no additional grants by the act imposing the conditions. These differences are sufficient to show the inapplicability of those cases to this one.
MR. Juseior. MiLLE delivered the opinion of the court:

This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Dakota.
A suit was brought by the appellant, in the District Court
of Traill County, for the purpose of enjoining the authorities
of that county from enforcing the collection of taxes assessed
on lands of the company, on the ground that, by law and the
acts of Congress to be hereafter considered, they were not subject to taxation. The District Court made a finding of the
facts in the case, on which it declared the law to be for the defendant, and dismissed the bill. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the case was twice argued, and, though
the membership of that court was changed by the substitution
of two new judges for two retiring judges between the two
hearings, the court was, in each instance, equally divided, and
the judgment it rendered of affirmance had but the assent of
two judges out of the six who had heard it argued.
The railroad company claims that the lands in question are
not taxable under the decisions of this court in the cases of the
Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603, and Railway Co. v. cShane, 22 Wall. 444.
In those cases taxes levied on lands granted by Congress to
aid in building the roads were held to be void by reason of the
fact that neither the companies, nor any one for them, had paid

NORTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. TRAILL COUNTY. 607
Opinion of the Court.

to the United States the costs of surveying those lands by the
government. The taxes in the first case had beeft levied by
authorities of the State, under the laws of Kansas, and in the
second by like authorities of the State of Nebraska..
These lands had originally been granted to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company and other companies, to aid in building a
road from the Iowa State line to the Pacific Ocean, by an act
of Congress approved July 1, 1862. The company to which
the grant was made for the branch of the road in Kansas was
already in existence, and the company which received the grant
to build the main road, namely, the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, was chartered by this act, and the corporators
immediately organized under it. In the year 1864, July 2,
Congress, by an amendatory act, made additional grants to the
companies, and made several changes in the charter or original
act, one of which, found in ยง 21, reads as follows:
"That before any land granted by this act shall be conveyed
to any company or party entitled thereto, .
.
there shall
first be paid into the Treasury of the United States the cost of
surveying, selecting, and conveying the same, by the said company or party in interest, as the titles shall be required by said
company." 13 Stat. 365.
In the case of Railway Co. v. Prvecott, which was a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Kansas, this court held these
lands could not be assessed and sold for taxes under State laws
until this cost of surveying them was paid to the United States,
because the government retained the legal title to the same to
compel this payment. The case was decided in 1872.
In 1874 the case of the Railway Co. v. .EcShane came before
us, involving the same question, and because it also involved
some other points decided in Railway Co. v. .Prewcott, which
the court reconsidered and overruled, it necessarily received
full consideration, the result of which was to reaffirm the proposition that, until the United States was reimbursed for the expenses of the survey of those lands, they were not subject to
State taxation.
By an act approved also July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, Congress
passed a law chartering the Northern Pacific Railroad Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

pany to construct a road from Lake Superior to Puget's Sound,
on the Pacffic coast, by the northern route, and made a munificent grant of the public lands to aid in this construction. The
terms of the grant and its conditions were much the same as
the original grant of 1862 to the Union Pacific Company and
its branches. It contained the following provision:
"SEc. 20. And be itfurther enacted, That the better to accomplish the object of this act, namely, to promote the public
interest and welfare by the construction of said railroad and
telegraph line, and keeping the same in working order, and to
secure to the government at all times (but particularly in time
of war) the use and benefits of the same for postal, military,
and other purposes, Congress may at any time, having due regard for the rights of said Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
add to, alter, amend, or repeal this act." p. 372.
And in 1870, when making the appropriation for the survey
of these lands within the limit of the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, Congress added this proviso:
"That before any land granted to said company by the United
States shall be conveyed to any party entitled thereto under
any of the acts incorporating or relating to said company,
there shall first be paid into the Treasury of the United States
the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same by the
said company or party in interest." 16 Stat. 305. It will be
seen that this language is almost identical with ยง 21 of the act
of 1864 concerning the lands granted to the Union Pacific
Company, which was construed in Railway Co. v. Prescottand
in Railway Co. v. .fcShane. As the principle of the exemption of these lands from taxation until the costs of surveying
them were paid received the full consideration of the court in
two cases argued and decided two years apart, and as it received the unanimous approval of the court, it must govern the
present case, unless a distinction can be shown.
Such distinction is relied on, and has received the support of
a decision of the Supreme Court of M[innesota in the case of
Cass County v. jforrison, 28 Minn. 257. It is there held that
the company, having built its road and earned the lands, had
thereby acquired a complete equitable title, with right to de-

NORTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. TRAILL COUNTY. 609
Opinion of the Court.

mand a patent, though the costs of survey had not been paid,
and this equitable title was subject to taxation. It was also
held that, because the requirement to pay these costs was made
in 1870, six years after the original grant, it was void as an unconstitutional exercise of power by Congress.
But we think that the clause authorizing Congress "to add
to, alter, amend, or repeal the act of 1864," clearly conferred
this power on Congress, especially when exercised, as in this
instance, before the company had built a mile of road, or earned
an acre of land, or in any other manner secured an equitable
right to the lands. Sinking-Fund Ca8es, 99 U. S. 700, '19.
But this very question, in a little different form, was raised
and decided in Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603. In that
case the original grant, made in 1862, contained no provision
about the payment of the costs of survey. The act of 1864,
which did contain this provision, added very largely to the
area of the land granted by the act of 1862, and the opening
sentences of the opinion state the proposition whether the requirement that the costs of surveying must be paid before the
patent shall issue, covers all of both grants or only that of 1864,
and it is held that it covers both. We think this governs the
present case. Independently of the clause of the act of 1864:
authorizing amendments, additions, and repeals, we think that,
until the lands were earned, and other acts that the law demanded that the company should do had been done, it had no
such right in the lands as would prevent Congress from passing a remedial provision so eminently just as the one under
consideration.
Again, it is said that, since the road was built before this tax
was levied and the company had earned the land, its equitable
title was complete, and, according to the decisions of this court,
it was subject to taxation.
The same point was urged in Railway Co. v. Prescott. But
the court said that "this doctrine was only applicable to cases
where the right to the patent is complete, the equitable title
fully vested, without anything more to be paid or any act to
be done going to the foundation of the right." But it added,
in that case, that two important acts remained to be done, the
VOL. CXV--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

failure to do which might wholly defeat the company's title.
One of these was payment of the costs of surveying.
It maybe well to restate the grounds on which this decision
rests.
The United States made a magnificent grant to this company
of lands equal in quantity to forty or fifty thousand square
miles, an area as large as an average State of the Union. It
thought proper to require of the grantee the payment of the
costs of making the surveys necessary to the location and ascertainment of these lands. To secure the payment of those
expenses, it decided to retain the legal title in its own hands
until they were paid. The government was, as to these costs,
in the condition of a trustee in a conveyance to secure payment
of money. But, if the land was liable to be sold for taxes
due to State, Territorial, or county organizations, this security
would be easily lost.
lNo sale of land for taxes, no taxes can be assessed on any
property, but by virtue of the sovereign authority in whose
jurisdiction it is done. If not assessed by direct act of the
legislature itself, it must, to be'valid, be done under authority
of a law enacted by such legislature. A valid sale, therefore,
for taxes, being the highest exercise of sovereign power of the
State, must carry the title to the property sold, and if it does
not do this, it is because the assessment is void.
It follows that, if the assessment of these taxes is valid and
the proceedings well conducted, the sale confers a title paramount to all others, and thereby destroys the lien of the United
States for the costs of surveying these lands. If, on the other
hand, the sale would not confer such a title, it is because there
exists no authority to make it.
At all events, the holder of the equitable title to these lands
has a right to prevent a sale which would have the effect of
impeding the United States in the assertion of the right to
them until these costs are paid.
We are aware of the use being made of this principle by the
companies, who, having earned the lands, neglect to pay these
costs in order to prevent taxation. The remedy lies with Congress and is of easy application. If that body will take steps

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. 611
Syllabus.

to enforce its lien for these costs of survey, by sale of the lands
or by forfeiture of title, the Treasury of the United States
would soon be reimbursed for its expenses in making the surveys, and the States and Territories, in which the lands lay, be
remitted to their appropriate rights of taxation. The courts
can do no more than declare the law as it exists.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of -Dakota
is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to
cause a decree to be entered perpetuallyenjoiningthe Treasurer of Traill County frorm any furtherproceeding to col-

lect the taxes in the bill mentioned.

BOWMAN & Another v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 17, 15S.-Decided December 7, 1885.
Plaintiff's declaration contained two counts, for the same cause of action, each
seeking the recovery of $1200 from defendant. Defendant pleaded to the
declaration, and plaintiffs demurred to the pleas. A few days later plaintiffs amended their declaration by leave of court so as to demand $10,000,
Parties then filed
and on the same day the demurrer was overruled.
a stipulation that in making up the record to this court the clerk of the
Circuit Court should only transmit the amended declaration and pleas
thereto ; and judgment was then entered for defendant on the demurrer;
HTeld, That it was apparent on the face of the record that the actual value
of the matter in dispute was not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
The right of a railroad corporation as a common carrier to carry goods for hire
is not a right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of the
United States, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 699, conferring upon
this court jurisdiction, without regard to the sum or value in dispute, for
the review of any final judgment at law or final decree in equity of any
Circuit Court, or of any District Court acting as a Circuit Court, brought
on account of the deprivation of any right, privilege, or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, or of any right or privilege of a
citizen of the United States.

