OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS & Others v.
TOMMEY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE{
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
Argued December 17, 1884.-Decided March 2, 1885 ; May 4,1885.

The statutes of North Carolina of March 28, 1870, and March 1, 1873, the
first, giving a lien to mechanics and laborers in certain cases, and the
other, regulating sales under mortgages given by corporations, do not give
to those performing labor and furnishing materials in the construction of
railroads, a lien upon the property and franchises of the corporation owning and operating such roads.
Ordinary lien laws giving to mechanics and laborers a lien on buildings including the lot upon which they stand, or a lien upon a lot or farm or other
property for work done thereon, or for materials furnished in the construction or repair of buildings, should not be interpreted as giving a lien upon
the r adway, bridges, or other property of a railroad company, that may
be essential in the operation and maintenance of its road for the public
purposes for which it was established.
The proviso of the third section of the said act of 1873 (Battle's Revisal, ch.
26, § 48), has reference to the debts and contracts of private corporations
formed under the act of February 12, 1872 (Pub. Laws N. 0. 1871-2, ch.
199), and not those of railroad corporations organized, for public use,
under the act of February 8, 1872.
The authority of State v. .Rives, 5 Ired. 297, is questioned by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina in Gooch v. 3IeGee, 83 N. C. 59.

The Spartanburg and Asheville Railroad Company-a corporation created by the consolidation, in the year 1874, of a
railroad company of the same name, organized under the laws
of South Carolina, and of the Greenville and French Broad
Railroad Company, of North Carolina-executed, under date
of October 1, 1876, a deed of trust, whereby, for the purpose
of securing the payment of its bonds, with interest coupons
attached, it conveyed its franchises, railroad, rights, lands, and
property, real and personal, in trust for those who should become holders or owners of such bonds. The deed contained
a provision by which the principal of all the bonds should become due after continuous default for six months in the pay-

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. TOM.AMEY. 123
Statement of Facts.
ment of semi-annual interest upon them, or upon any of them.
Such a default having occurred in respect of the instalments
of interest due January 1, 1878, the present suit was brought
for the purpose of enforcing, in satisfaction of the entire
amount of said bonds and coupons, the lien given by the
before mentioned deed. Certain parties-Garrison, Fry &
Deal, Clayton, and Rice & Coleman-were made defendants,
because, as creditors of the railroad company, they claimed,
respectively, a lien upon property covered by the mortgage
superior to that asserted in behalf of the bondholders. Garrison alleged that, being a mechanic, he contracted, December
1, 1876, and June 2, 1877, with, and afterwards built for, the
railroad company two trestles in Polk County, North Carolina,
his work being completed February 18, 1878; Fry & Deal
(the first named being a mechanic), that they furnished materials and work upon trestles in the same county, under a contract made with the company on June 2, 1871, and fully executed June 17, 1878; Clayton, that he performed work (grading, &c.) upon the company's road in the same county, under
a contract made with it prior to the mortgage, but not executed until after its date; and Rice & Coleman, that they did
work and labor, and furnished materials, on the company's
road in Hlenderson County, North Carolina, such work beginning June 1, 1876, and ending May 1, 1878.
The decree below, ordering a sale of the mortgaged prop-'
erty, must have proceeded upon the ground that, under the
laws of North Carolina, these defendants acquired no lien
whatever upon the property of the railroad company. The
contention here is, that some of the defendants acquired a lien
as well under a statute passed in 1873, regulating sales under
mortgages given by companies upon all their works and property, as under the act called the workmen's lien law of 1870;
and that one of thq defendants has a lien under the former,
while others have liens under the latter statute. The main inquiry now is, whether the court below correctly interpreted
those statutes. It is necessary to a clear understanding of the
case that their provisions be examined in detail.
By the constitution of North Carolina of 1868, the General

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Assembly of that State was required to "provide, by proper
legislation, for giving to mechanics and laborers an adequate
lien on the subject matter of their labor." Art. 14, § 4.
Subsequently, by an act approved March 28, 1870, entitled
"An Act for the protection of mechanics and other laborers,
materials," etc., it was provided that "every building built, rebuilt, repaired, or improved, together with the necessary lots
on which said building may be situated, and every lot, farm,
or vessel, or any kind of property not herein enumerated, shall
be subject to a lien for the payment of all debts contracted for
work done on the same or material furnished," § 1; that "any
mechanic or citizen, who shall make, alter, or repair any article
of personal property, at the request of the owner or legal possessor of such property, shall have a lien upon such property so
made, altered, or repaired, for his just and reasonable charge
for his work done and material furnished, and may hold and
retain possession of the same until such just and reasonable
charges shall be paid," etc., § 3 ; that "all claims under $200
may be filed in the office of the nearest magistrate; if over
$200, in the office of the Superior Court clerk in any county
where the labor has been performed or the material furnished,"
§ 4; that proceedings to enforce the lien created must be
commenced in the courts of justice of the peace and in the
superior courts, according to their jurisdiction, § 10 ; and, upon
judgment being rendered in favor of the claimant, an execution
for the collection and enforcement thereof may issue in the
same manner as upon other judgments in actions arising upon
contracts for the recovery of money, § 11. Pub. Laws N. C., ch.
206 p. 253; Battle's Revisal, N. C., ch. 65, pp. 563, 564.
By a general statute, approved February 8, 1872, entitled
"An Act to authorize the formation of :Railroad Companies
and to regulate the same," provision was made for the formation by any number of persons, not less than twenty-five, of
corporations for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, and
operating railroads. This statute contains sixty-six sections,
and prescribes the mode in which a company may be organized under it; what its articles of association shall contain;
what shall be the amount of its capital stock and in what way

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. TOMVMEY. 125
Statement of Facts.

subscribed; when it shall become a corporation, with the
powers and privileges therein granted; to what extent its
stockholders shall be liable for the debts of the company;
when it shall be liable to laborers for the amount due them
from contractors for the construction of any part of the road;
the mode in wbich it may, by condemnation, acquire real estate
needed for the purposes of its incorporation; an annual report
to the governor showing its operations and condition in every
respect; when and under what circumstances the legislature
may alter or reduce its rates of freight, fare, or other profits;
and many other duties respecting the operation and management of its railroad and other property. Public Laws N. C.,
1871-2, ch. 138; Battle's Revisal, ch. 99, p. 727.
Corporations formed under that statute are given power to
do various things, involving the raising and expenditure of
money, and, also, "from time to time to borrow such sums of
money as may be necessary for completing and finishing or
operating their railroad, and to issue and dispose of their bonds
for any amount so borrowed, and to mortgage their corporate
property and franchises to secure the payment or [of] any debt
contracted for'the purposes aforesaid," &c. The statute further
declares that "all existing railroad corporations within this
State shall respectively have and possess all the powers and
privileges" therein specified.
On the 12th of February, 1872, the General Assembly of
North Carolina passed another statute providing for the formation of "private corporations for any purpose not unlawful"
by three or more persons. Pub. Laws N. C., 1871-2, ch. 199.
At its subsequent session an act was approved, March 1,
1873, entitled "An Act to regulate mortgages by corporations,
and to regulate sales under them." As the present case depends
largely upon the construction to be given to the provisions of
that statute, its first and third sections (the second and other
sections being immaterial in the determination of any question
here involved) are given entire, as follows:
"SEc. 1. If a sale be made under a deed of trust or mortgage executed by any company on all its works and property,
and there be a conveyance pursuant thereto, such sale and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

veyance shall pass to the purchaser at the sale not only the
works and property of the company as they were at the time
of making the deed of trust or mortgage, but any works which
the company may, after that time and before the sale, have
constructed, and all other property of which it may be possessed at the time of the sale other than debts due to it. Upon
such conveyance to the purchaser the said company shall, ip'so
,facto, be dissolved, and the said purchaser shall forthwith be a
corporation by any name which may be set forth in the said
conveyance, or in any writing signed by him and recorded in
the same manner in which the conveyance shall be recorded."
"SEc. 3. When such corporation shall expire or be dissolved,
or its corporate rights and privileges shall have ceased, all its
works and property and debts due to it shall be subject
to the payment of debts due by it, and then to distribution
among the members according to their respective interests; and
such corporation may sue and be sued as before for the purpose
of collecting debts due to it, prosecuting rights under previous
contracts with it, and enforcing its liabilities and distributing
the proceeds of its works, property, and debts among those
entitled thereto: Provided, That all debts and contracts of
any corporation, prior to or at the time of the execution of any
mortgage or deed of trust by such corporation, shall have a
first lien upon the property, rights, and franchises of said corporation, and shall be paid off or secured before such mortgage
or deed of trust shall be registered." Pub. Laws N. C., 187273, ch. 131; Battle's Revisal, ch. 26, §§ 46, 48, pp. 269, 270.
2fr. Solicitor General for appellants.
Xr. William E. Earle (.r.
for appellees.

Jarne H. Rion was with him)

MR.JusTicE HA
ALA delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The first question to be considered is whether the act of 18110
gives a lien to mechanics or contractors upon the property of
a railroad corporation, for work performed or materials fur-

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v.TOMMEY. 127
Opinion of the Court.

nished in and about the construction of its road, or of its
bridges constituting a part of its line. We are of opinion that
no such statutory lien exists in North Carolina, or was intended
to be given by the act of 1870. In reaching this conclusion, we
are not aided by any direct decision of the question by the Supreme Court of North Carolina. Reference was made by counsel
to WMitaker v. Smith, 81 L. C.340, where it was held that an
overseer is not entitled, under that act, to a lien, for his wages,
upon the employee's crop or land over which he has superintendence. After alluding to the constitutional requirement
that laws be enacted to give to mechanics and laborers an
adequate lien on the subject matter of their labor, the court
said: "A very large proportion of the laboring population of
the State had just recently been released from thraldom, and
thrown upon their own resources, perfectly ignorant of the
common business transactions of social life, and this provision
of the Constitution, and the acts passed to carry it into effect,
were intended to give protection to that class of persons who
were totally dependent upon their manual labor for subsistence.
The law was designed exclusively for mechanics and laborers."
If such be the effect of the act of 1870, there is strong reason
to hold that a mere contractor for the construction of a railroad, or of railroad bridges, is not entitled to the lien given by it.
But, without accepting as conclusive an opinion delivered after
the rights of the parties had become fixed, Burgess v. Seligman,
107 U. S.20, 33, we rest our interpretation of the statute upon
the ground that it has no reference to work done or materials
furnished in the construction of railroads. The words of the
act are scarcely adequate to express a purpose to give a lien
upon a public improvement of that character. The words
"building," "lot," "farm " and "any kind of property not herein enumerated" are too limited in their scope to justify the conclusion that the legislature had any intention, by that act, to
give a lien upon railroad property. This view is strengthened
by the circumstance that, by the subsequent act providing for
the organization of railroad companies and regulating their
affairs, no saving is made of liens in behalf of mechanics and
laborers, and express power is given to such corporations to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

borrow, from time to time, any sums necessary for completing
and furnishing or operating their railroads upon bonds secured
by mortgage upon their corporate property and franchises.
Indeed, the idea of a lien in favor of laborers actually performing work in the construction of a railroad seems to have been
intentionally excluded; for, when the railroad contractor fails
to pay such laborers, the company, upon notice, may become
bound to do so; but no lien is given therefor upon the property
of the corporation.
Apart, however, from these considerations, we are of opinion
that a law, giving to mechanics and laborers a lien on buildings,
including the lot or ground upon which they stand, or a lien
upon a lot or farm or other property, for work done thereon,
or for materials furnished in the construction or repair of
buildings, should not be interpreted as giving a lien upon the
roadway, bridges, or other property of a railroad company,
that may be essential in the operation and maintenance of its
road. In North Carolina, as in most, if not in all the States,
railroads, although constructed for the private emolument of
those engaged in such enterprises, are highways which have
been established, under the authority of law, primarily for the
convenience and benefit of the public. The general statute of
February 8, 1872, authorized the formation of corporations to
construct, maintain, and operate railroads "for public use in
the conveyance of persons and property, or for the purpose of
maintaining and operating any unincorporated railroad already
constructed for the like public use." Battle's Revisal, ch. 99, § 1.
The pecuniary profit derived by those who project and operate
them is the reward which they receive for maintaining a public highway. Municipal taxation to aid in their construction
has been maintained only upon the ground that they are, in a
large sense, instrumentalities or agencies for the purpose of accomplishing public ends. Upon that ground rests the authority of the State to invest them with the right of eminent
domain in the condemnation of private property, and to prescribe from time to time, in the interest of the public, reasonable regulations for their control and management. Taylor v.
p2silanti, 105 U. S. 60, 68-9. Such being the relations exist-

BUNCOM1BE COUNTY COMIISSIONERS v TOAIMEY. 129
Opinion of the Court.

ing in North Carolina between these corporations and the public, it should not be presumed that the legislature intended to
subject them to the operation of ordinary lien laws, enacted for
the benefit of those performing labor and furnishing materials
in the construction, repair, or improvement of what the statute
of 1870 designates as buildings, or who perform labor upon
lots, farms, and other property, belonging to private persons,
and having no connection with public objects. A different
construction of the statute would enable parties having liens for
amounts, within the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, to destroy a public highway, and defeat the important objects which
the State intended to subserve by its construction. No such
intention should be imputed to the legislature, unless the words
of the statute clearly require it to be done.
There is nothing, it may be observed in this connection, in
Brook.9 v. Rtailway Co., 101 U. S. 443, in conflict with the
views here expressed. The decision in that case rests upon
the construction given to the mechanics' lien law of Iowa by
the Supreme Court of that State. Besides, the Iowa statute,
in terms, included, among those entitled to the lien it gave,
"contractors, sub-contractors, material furnishers, mechanics,
and laborers engaged in the construction of any railroad -or
other work of internal improvement." Iowa Rev. Stat., 1860, §
1846. The legislative will was there expressed so clearly as to
leave no room for interpretation of the statute.
It is, however, contended that the proviso of the third section of the act of March 1, 1873, is sufficient to sustain the lien
asserted by such of the appellants as were contractors and
mechanics. That act, as we have seen, regulates sales under
deeds of trust or mortgages ",executed by any company on all
its works and property," and provides for the purchaser becoming a corporation, with all the franchises, rights, and conveyances of, and subject to the duties imposed upon, the original corporation. In connection with a general provision for
the disposition of the assets of corporations which shall expire
or be dissolved, or whose corporate rights and privileges shall
cease, it is declared "that all debts and contracts of any corporation, prior to or at the time of the execution of any mortVOL. cxv.-9

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

gage or deed of trust by such corporation, shall have a first
lien upon the property, rights, and franchises of said corporation, and shall be paid off or secured before such mortgage or
deed of trust shall be registered."
It must be admitted that the broad language of this act
gives some support to the proposition that it was intended to
apply to all corporations, including those formed for the construction and operation of railroads. But there are reasons of
great weight that have brought us to the conclusion that such
is not its proper interpretation. The language of the proviso
in question is fully satisfied by restricting its operation to
merely private corporations, which may be formed by three or
more persons. And to this may be added the important consideration, that any other interpretation might defeat the express power given to railroad corporations to raise money for
completing and finishing or operating their roads, upon bonds
to be secured by mortgage upon their property and franchises;
for, such bonds, in the very nature of things, could not be
readily, if at all, disposed of, if the lien given by the railroad
mortgage is subordinate to a lien for "all debts and contracts,"
of whatever nature, "existing prior to and at the time of the
exbcution" of such mortgage. Did the legislature intend that
*the power of a railroad corporation to mortgage all of its property and franchises for money with which to complete or operate a road for public use should be exercised, subject to the
condition .that evefy creditor it had at the time of the mortgage, no matter how his debt originated, nor whether there
was an agreement for a lien, should have a first lien upon the
corporate property and franchises? If this construction should
be adopted, it would follow that mechanics and laborers would
acquire, as between them and the holders of mortgage bonds,
a first lien for work done or materials furnished to the railroad
company without filing a claim therefor, as required by the
act of 1870; and this, although the legislature had in that act
refrained from using language that necessarily gives them a lien
upon railroad property and franchises. We are of opinion that
the proviso of the third section of the act of 1873 has no application to deeds of trust or mortgage given by railroad corporations.

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMISSIONERS v. TOMMEY. 131
Opinion of the Court.

This view is strengthened by the history of the compilation
of the statutes of North Carolina, known as Battle's Revisal.
At the same session of the legislature at which the railroad
act of 1872 and the private corporation act of the same year
were passed, another statute was enacted providing for the
publication of the public statutes under the supervision of Win.
H. Battle, who was directed "to collate, digest, and compile
all the public statute laws of the State," distributing them
under such titles, divisions, and sections as he deemed most
convenient and proper to render them "more plain and easy
to be un*derstood." Acts N. 0., 1871-2, p. 373. His revision
was reported to the legislature in 1873, and was formally approved, to take effect January 1, 1874. Upon looking into that
revision, we find that the act of 1872, relating to private corporations, and that of 1873, in reference to sales of property
under deeds of trust or mortgages executed by "any company
on all its works and property," are consolidated, in one chapter, under the title of "Corporatiq n s" simply; the former
constituting §§ 1 to 44, inclusive, of that title, and the
latter act constituting § 45 to 49, inclusive; while the act
of 1872, in reference to railroad corporations, organized for
public use, is placed under the separate title of "Railroad
Companies." We have thus what may, not unreasonably, be
regarded as a legislative indication of the original purpose of
the act of 1873, viz., to make provision for sales of property
covered by deeds of trust or mortgages executed by merely
private corporations, formed by three or more persons, leaving
the rights of parties, in respect of like instruments executed by
railroad companies organized for public purposes, subject to
the terms of those instruments and the general principles of law.
While Mr. Battle had no power, by any mode of revision, to
change the words, or to modify the meaning, of the statutes
themselves, &ke8 v. Bladen, 72 N. 0. 34; State v. Cunning)am, 72 N. 0. 469; State v. Taylor, 76 N. 0. 64, he had authority to arrange them under their appropriate titles; and,
when the legislature approved his placing the act of 1873 in
direct connection with that of 1872, relating exclusively to
private corporations, that fact is not without weight in deter-

OCTOBER TERM2,

1s84.

Petition for a Rehearing.

mining the scope and effect of the original act of 1873. This
circumstance would be entitled to very little weight, if the
language of the last-named act necessarily embraced all corporations, public and private, and was not, as we have said,
fully satisfied by restricting its operation to private corporations, as indicated by the revision in question.
In view of what has been said, the issue made by the County
of Buncombe, as a stockholder of the company, in reference
to Inman's conduct as trustee, need not be examined. Upon
the facts disclosed, the county does not seem to be in any position to question the decree in favor of the appellees. There
is no error in the record, and the decrees are
Afinrmed.
_31r. Solicitor General, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error
thereupon filed a petition for a rehearing, accompanied by a
brief, citing State v. Rives, 5 Ired. 297, GooeA v. XToGee, 83
:N. C. 59, to the contention that the general lien law of Iorth
Carolina of 1868, created a lien upon the railroad, to be enforced by judgment and execution. In the latter case, he said,
will be found a sketch of the executions at law now valid in
that State. The policy which prevails in connection with judgments for unsecured debts, protects as well judgments upon
debts previously secured by lien; and the fact that certain
liens can bear their fruit only in the way that unsecured debts
do is a complete answer to a suggestion that these liens are
against the public policy of the State which appears to grant
them. The lien law operates in this instance but as it does in
others, i. e., only in the anterior security which it affords. It
follows that if the general words of the lien statute would
otherwise cover the case of all debtors owning real estate,
there is nothing in the character of the fruit of the lien to indicate a public policy to exclude therefrom such debtors as are
railroad companies. It is, of course, according to public policy
in North Carolina that debtor railroad companies,upon failing to
pay, &c., shall be sold out at law in the way referred to in 83 N.C.,
cited above. In common cases, therefore, an unsecured creditor
of a railroad company would sue, and, having obtained judg-

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. TOMMEY. 133
Petition for a Rehearing.

ment, would then create a lien by duly docketing this, and in
the end, avail himself of the statutory method of execution
sale. The creditor for work, who had availed himself of the
formal provisions of the lien act of 1868, could do no more than
also sue and obtain judgment and have the same statutory sale.
It is submitted, therefore, in the first place, that the act of
1868, by adding after certain enumerations the words: "or any
kind of property not herein enumerated, shall be subject to a
lien for the payment of all debts contracted for work done on
the same or materials furnished," includes property owned by
railroad companies.
2. The act of 1872, in its enforcement, would probably be
regulated by the provisions in the act of 1868. In any event
it operates upon railroad companies as well as upon other corporations. The language of the act is "That all debts and
contracts of any corporation, prior to or at the time of the execution of any mortgage or deed of trust by such corporation,
shall have a first lien upon the property, rights, and franchises
of said corporation, and shall be paid off or secured before such
mortgage or deed of trust shall be registered." It was argued
before that inasmuch as the Legislature of North Carolina in
1871-2 had passed two statutes, one upon Corporations and
the other upon Railroad Companies, the circumstance that an
act passed by the next legislature was entitled Corporations
indicated that it was intended as an amendment of the former
of the two acts of 1871, and that this presumption is fortified
by the circumstance that in Battle's Revisal the act of 1872 is
incorporated into that former act. As regards the influence of
Battle's Revisal upon the present question, the facts are that
the act was passed at the same session that the Revisal was reported, and that it was incorporated therein after the session
had ended under directions affecting all the legislation of that
session. See Battle's Revisal, p. 863, top, passage beginning:
"In the volume shall also be published the acts of a public and
general nature passed at this session, and not included in the
Revisal," &c. That act is ch. 74 of the session, whilst the act
upon which the reviser's arrangement is supposed to have
effect was enacted afterwards, being chapter 131. It will thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

appear that the general approving clauses of the previous act,
therefore, did not operate upon the latter. It was not yet in
existence, and its special position in the Revisal is the work of
the reviser alone. The action of the reviser upon the later acts
of that session, incorporating, arranging, &c., has never been
passed upon by the Legislature. Even as regards acts passed
before that session, and revised therein, the Supreme Court has
reduced the authority of the Revisal to nothing for any matter
in which it purports to modify previous laws.
It is submitted, therefore, that its arrangements of acts and
provisions adopted at that session must, a fortiori, be to no
purpose whatever, as ground for arguing upon the meaning of
such provisions.
Work incorporated into a railroad track, and thus maling
the mortgaged property more valuable, raises, in point of
reason, as much equity against the mortgagee as against the
mortgagor. Whoever gets the benefit of that mingling of
labor and land should, upon first principles, take it cum onere,
unless he purchases for value without notice; and the circumstances under which the labor is done, or fact that the lien
therefor is recorded, makes provision for that exceptional case.
RTh.JUSTIE HAnL.

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the opinion in this case it was stated that in North
Carolina, as in most, if not in all, the States, railroads, although
constructed by private persons or corporations for their own
emolument, are highways, established under the authority of
law, primarily for the benefit of the public. For that reason,
in the absence of an express statutory declaration to the contrary, we were not willing to presume that the legislature of
that State intended to subject railroads within her limits, and
established by her authority, to the operation of ordinary
lien laws; for, such a construction of her statutes would enable
creditors to enforce their liens upon distinct portions of a railroad, and thereby easily destroy a highway and defeat the
important public objects intended to be subserved by its construction. The petition for rehearing suggests that the court
is in error as to the policy of the State with reference to the

BUNCOMBE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. TOMAFMEY. 135
Opinion of the Court.

seizure of raih'oad property by execution or other process, and
we are referred, upon this point, to State v. Rives, 5 Ired. 297,
and Gooch v. .3k Gee, 83 N. 0. 59, authorities not heretofore
cited by counsel.
In the first of these cases it was decided that, under the law
of North Carolina as it then was, the writ of Sleri facias lay
against the land on which a railroad is laid out. In support of
that view reference was made to an act passed in 1820. But,
from the decision in Gooch v. 2k Gee, determined in 1880, it is
apparent that the court was not satisfied with the correctness
of that decision; for, it said that, "so far as the opinion, except
by force of the statute, extends the liability to the estates of
corporations for public purposes, indispensable to the exercise
of the conferred franchise and to the performance of correlative
duties, it is not in harmony with adjudications elsewhere of the
highest authority, and we are not disposed to enlarge the
sphere of its authority." After citing several adjudged cases,
including Cue v. Tide Mate' Canal, 24]How. 257, the court
proceeds: "In our researches we have met with a single case
(Artmi ,' v. Bank, 9 S. & M. 394) recognizing the authority
and approving the decision in State v. Rives, and in opposition
to the current of judicial opinion. The general words of the
statute, which to sofie extent influenced that decision, may,
without riolence to their meaning, admit of a narrower scope,
and be restricted to the property of private corporations, and
to that of public corporations which may be replaced and
is not indispensable to the exercise of their necessary functions,
and the discharge of public duties, upon the distinction taken
in the cases cited." It is difficult to resist the conclusion that
the Supreme Court of North Carolina intended, by their
opinion in Goocht v. JfcGee, to intimate that State v. ives was
wrongly decided, even with reference to the statutes in force
when (1844) the latter case was determined.
It is suggested that § 9, ch. "26 of the Revised Code of North
Carolina, adopted in 1855, indicated a public policy in that
State in harmony with the decision in State v. Rives; for, it is
claimed, by that section, the franchises and property of railroad
corporations having the right to receive fare or tolls may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

taken on execution.

Tpon this point it is sufficient to say, that

we are not satisfied that the statutory provision referred to, as
being a part of the Code of 1885, was in force after Battle's
R evisal was adopted. By express enactment, "all acts and
parts of acts passed before" the session of the legislature which
directed the publication of Battle's Revisal, "the subjects
whereof are digested and compiled" in that revisal, or which
were "repugnant to the provisions thereof," were declared to
be repealed and of no force or effect from and after the 1st of
January next thereafter, with certain exceptions and limitations,
not embracing the present case. Battle's .Revisal, p. 861.
Independent, however, of this question, and even if § 9, ch.
26 of the Code of 1855 be in force, we adhere to the opinion
that there was no purpose, by the act of 1870, to give a lieA
upon the property of a railroad corporation for work performed
or materials furnished in and about the construction of its road,
or of its bridges constituting a part of its line.
In the original opinion we were in error in supposing that
the act of 1873 was passed at a session previous to that at
which the act was passed approving Battle's Revisal, and
directing its publication under the supervision of the compiler.
Both acts, it seems, were passed at the same session. The incorporation of the act of 1873 into that part of the Revisal
which related to private corporations was, therefore, the work
of Mr. Battle and not in pursuance of any previous express
direction by the legislature. Making this correction in the
statement of a fact to which we attached but little weight in
our interpretation of the act of 1873, we perceive no sufficient
ground for extending its provisions to the property of corporations operating -. public highway.
The rehearingis denied.

