STANDARD OIL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
217 U: S.

Syllabus.

ment it must be assumed that the legislature would not have
defined and punished the crime to the legal extent, because
to some extent the legislature was mistaken as to its powers.
But this I contend is to indulge in an assumption which is unwarranted and has been directly decided to the contrary at
this term in United States v. Union Supply Company, 215 U. S.
50. In that case a corporation was proceeded against criminally for an offense punishable by imprisonment and fine.
The corporation clearly could not be subjected to the imprisonment, and the contention was that the lAwmaker must be
presumed to have intended that both the punishments should
be inflicted upon the person violating the law, and therefore it
could not be intended to include a corporation within its
terms. In overruling the contention it was said (p. 55):
"And if we free our minds from the notion that criminal
statutes must be construed by some artificial and conventional rule, the natural inference, when a statute prescribes
two independent penalties, is that it means to inflict them so
far as it can, and that if one of them is impossible, it does not
mean on that account to let the defendant escape."
I am authorized to say that MR.
in this dissent.

JUsTICE HOLMES

concurs

STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF KENTUCKY v. STATE
OF TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME: COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

No. 160.

Argued April 20, 1910.-Decided May 2, 1910.

The Fourteenth Amendment will not be construed as introducing a
factitious equality without regard to. practical differences that are

best met by corresponding differences of treatment.
Where a distinction may be made in the evil that delinquents are forced
to suffer, a difference in establishing the delinquency may also be
justifiable, and a State may provide for a different method of de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U.S.

termining the guilt of. a corporation from that of an individual
without violating the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and so held as to the provisions in the anti-trust statute of Tennessee of 1903 prohibiting arrangements for lessening competition under which corporations are proceeded' against by bill in
equity for ouster while individuals are proceeddd against as criminals
by indictment, trial and punishment on conviction.
A transaction is not necessarily interstate commerce because it relates
to a transaction of interstate commerce; and so held that a statute
of Tennessee prohibiting arrangements within the State for lessening
competition is not void as a regulation of interstate commerce as
to sales made by persons without the. State t persons within the
State.
While a Federal question exists as to whether unequal protection of
the law is afforded by excluding a class from the defense of the statute
of limitations, the construction of the statute as to its scope is for
the state court and does not present a Federal question.
120 Tennessee, 86, affirmed.

Tim facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions of the anti-trust statute of Tennessee of 1903, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. John J. Vertrees for plaintiff in error:
The anti-trust act Of Tennessee, upon which the present
proceeding is based, is not a statute prescribing the conditions on which foreign corporations are admitted to do business in Tennessee, neither is it a statute prescribing the procedure to be employed against corporations to punish them
for corporate wrongdoing.
It is. a general criminal law denouncing combinations,
agreements, and conspiracies against trade, as crimes and
prescribing the punishment' therefor. Carroll v. Greenwich
Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 409; Cargill v: Minnc,.sota, 180 U. S 468I;
Fidlity Mut. Life In. Co. v. Mettier, 185 U. S. 332; Am.
Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S. 103.
A Wiolation of the provisions of this anti-trust act of Ten-

nesse, is a conspiracy against trade.
The offense, when committed by a corporation, is a mis-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
217 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

demeanor. Acts of Tennessee, c. 140; Code of Tennessee
(Shannon), §§ 6694, 6736, 6993, 6942-6945.
Corporations may be punished for crime, although they are
not capable of having a guilty or criminal intent. Upon
grounds of public policy, the guilty intent of the agents who.
act for them may; and indeed oftentimes should, be imputed
to the corporations, and the corporations be punished accordingly. N. Y. Cent. R. R. v. United ,States, 212 U. S. 495.
Foreign tratIing corporations doing business in Tennessee
are entitled to the equal protection of the laws, like natural
persons.
The anti-trust act of 'Tennessee, as construed and applied
in the present case, is void, because it is a regulation of interstate commerce. Gen. Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 228;
Reovick v. Pennsylv'ania, 203 U. S. 507; People v. Hawkins,
157 N. Y. 1; Jerver v. The Carolina,66 Fed. Rep. 1013; Knop
v. Monongahela &c. Co., 211 U. S. 485; Adams Ex. Co. v.
Kentucky, 214 U. S. 221.
.The anti-trust act of Tennessee as construed and applied,
is unconstitutional and void, because it denies to the defendant the equal protection of the laws, and in these respects
namely: It accords to natural persons accused of violating
its provisions the right to a preliminary inquiry by a grand
jury; the fight to be put to answer the charge by indictment
or presentment; the right to a trial by a jury; the right to an
acquittal unless guilt be established by evidence beyond a
reasonable doubt; and the right to interpose the statute of
limitations (when it has run) as a defense.
. All these defensive rights are accorded to natural persons,
but denied to corporations. That denial is capricious, arbitrary and unreasonable, and therefore a denial of the equal
protection of the laws. Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S.
473; 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), 948; Turley v. State,
3 Heisk. (Tenn.) 11.
The transactions at Gallatin, alleged in the present proceeding.to be a conspiracy against trade, if an unlawful conspiracy

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

at all, is a conspiracy against interstate trade-a -iolation of
the act of Congress, the Sherman Act, and not a violation of
the anti-trust act of Tennessee. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co.
v. United States, 175 U. S.211, 229, 230; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 344; Railroad v. Husen, 95
U. S. 465; United States v. Swift & Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 534.
The defendant cannot be punished in the present proceeding for. a violation of the Sherman Act, because (1) the pleadings are not framed to that end; (2) and the state court has
no jurisdiction to entertain a proceeding for that purpose.
Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S.48; Loewe v.
Lawlor, 130 Fed. Rep. 633.
The statute of limitations in the case of a violation of the
provisions of this act by a corporation, is one year.
More than three years elapsed between the commission of
the alleged offense, and the institution of the suit in this case;
and the bar of the statute is a complete defense. Turley v.
State, 3 Heisk. (Tenn.) 11; Code of Tennessee (Shannon),
§§ 6736, 6942-6945, 6993, 6694.
Mr. Ch rles T. Cates, Jr., Attorney General of Tennessee,
for defendant in error:
No Federal question is involved in the decision of the state
court that the transactions at Gallatin complained of in the
bill were forbidden by the state statute.
The meaning and application of a state statute is to be determined by the decision of the state court. Wates-Pierce
Oil Co, v. Texas, 177 U. S.28, 42,. 43; Leeper v. Texas, 139
U. S.462, 467; Smileymv. Kansas 106 U. S.447, 455.
That the State of Tennessee had the right to deal with the
subject-matter of the act of 1903, and to prevent unlawful
agreements and arrangements in festraint of trade, or which
are designed or -tend to prevent competition in the sale of
commodities or prdducts, and to prohibit and punish such unlawful agreements or coniracts is -no longer open to question.
National CoUon Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115; Smiley v.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
217 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Kansas, 196 U. S. 447; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 86.
The proper construction to be given to a state statute and
as to what is to be regarded as among its terms presents no
Federal question. Phonix Ins. Co.'v. Gardner, 11 Wall. 204;
Morley v. Lake Shore &c. Co., 146 U. S. 162. This court does
not sit to review the findings of fact made in the. state court,
but accepts the findings of the state court upon matters of
fact as conclusive. Quimby v. Boyd, 128 U. S. 489; Eagan v.
Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.658; Thayer
v. Spratt, 189 U. S.346; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S.86.
The acts of plaintiff in error were interstate transactions.
Standard Oil Co. v. State, 117 Tennessee, 618, also approved
by the Supreme Court of the State in this case.
The Tennessee anti-trust act does not deprive plaintiff in
error 'of its rights, liberty and property without due process
of law, or deny to it the equal protection of the law.
A complete remedy was presented by bill in equity to be
conducted according to the recognized practice in courts of
equity, against corporations violating the law, which has been
sustained as "due process of law" by the Supreme Court of the
State. State v. Schlitz Brewing Company, 104 Tennessee, 715.
By this method of procedure against offending corporations, according to the well-established practice of courts of
equity, the alleged offender has full opportunity to be heard
upon all its defenses in the same and as full a manner as other
persons or corporations sued in such courts, and the right to
have any issue of fact submitted to a jury.
Whether a foreign corporation is entitled to the right of a
trial by jury does not involve any Federalqu estion. The first
ten amendments were not intended to restrict the powers of
the State, but to operate solely on the Federal Government.
Brown v. New Jersey, .175.U. S.174; Barrington v. Missouri,
205 U. S.483; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S.131; Jack v. Kansas,
199 U. S.372, 380. Nor are the "safeguards" of personal
VOL. ccxvlI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

rights, enumerated in the first eight amendments among
privileges and immunities, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Twining's Case, 211 U. S. 78. The
right to a trial by jury is not one of the fundamental rights
inherent in national cirizenship. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92
U. S. 90; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Missouri v.
Lewis, 101 U.S. 22, 31; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.581.
,Plaintiff in error is not deprived of due process of law or
denied the equal protection of the law, in that it was not
put to trial under an indictment as upon a criminal charge
and, in this way, arbitrarily discriminated against by being
denied a trial by jury, and the right to plead the statute of
limitations, applicable to criminal charges, under the statutes
of Tennessee, and forced to submit to a conviction upon
preponderance of testimony rather than have its guilt established beyond a reasonable doubt-all of which rightsit claims, were granted to natural persons under § 3 of said
act. Waters-PierceOil Co. v. State, 19 Tex. Civ. App. 1, aff'd
in Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; West v. Louisiana, 194
U. S.258, 263; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 468; Iowa Central Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393; Louisville &c.
Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 236; Hooker v. Los Angeles, 188
U. S. 314, 318; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425. See also Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638; Felts v. Murphy, 201 .,S.123;
Twining's Case, 211 U. S.78; Hager v. Reclamation District,
111 U. S. 701; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S.197, 360.
Nor was plaintiff in error discriminated against by being
put to trial under a bill in equity according to the practice
of.courts of equity and thus denied a tri l by a jury, or the
right of the statute of limitations. Magoun v. Illinois Trust
and Savings Bank, 179 U. S. 283; Orient Insurance Co, v.
Daggs, 172 U. S.557; Hager v. Missouri, 120 U. S.68; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, approved in Maxwell v Dow,
176-U. S. 598, 599.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There is no palpably arbitrary classification or discrimination. A corporation cannot .be imprisoned; the only method
of procedure appropriate to the case, adapted to the end to
be attained, is to prohibit it from carrying on its business,
through the injuncion process of a court of equity. An injunction issuing out of a criminal court is a thing unknown to
the law.
As to the statute of limitations, as this is a civil action.,
under the Code of Tennessee (Shannon's Code, § 4453), no
statute of limitations is applicable thereto as against the
State.
The state court held that the offense denounced by § 3 of
the act of 1903 is a felony of such grade and punishment that
no statute of limitations applies thereto. Thetefore, plaintiff in error has not been deprived of any right. The construction and effect given by the Supreme Crurt of the State. to
the state statute is not subject to reexamination by this court
under a writ of error. Harbinger v. Myer, 92 U. S. 111; McStacy et al. v. Friedman, 92 U. S. 723.
MR. JUSTiCE. HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error is a Kentucky corporation and seeks
to reverse a decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee forbidding it to do business, other than interstate commerce, in
the latter State. 120 Tennessee, 86. The ground of the decree is that the corporation and certain named agents entered into an arrangement for the purpose and with the effect of lessening competition in the sale of oil at Gallatin,
Tennessee, and with the further result of advancing the price
of oil there. The acts proved against the corporation were
held to entail the ouster under a statute Qf Tennessee. Act
of March 16, 1903. The corporation brings the case here on
the contentions that the statute as construed by the court is
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment and also is an unconstitutional interference with commerce among the States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The basis of the former contention is that by § 3 of the act
any violation of it is made a crimn, punishable by fine, imprisonment or both, and that this section has been construed
as applicable only to natural persons.. Standard Oil Co. v.
The State, 117 Tennessee, 618. H6 'ce, it is said, this statute
denies to corporations the equal protection of the laws. For
although it is addressed generally to the prevention of a certain kind of conduct, whether on the part of corporations or
unincorporated men, the latter cannot be tried without a
preliminary investigation by a grand jury, an indictment or
presentment, a trial by jury, the right to an acquittal unless
their guilt is established beyond a reasonable doubt, and the
benefit of a statute of limitations of one year. Corporations,
on the other hand, are proceeded against by bill in equity on
relation of the Attorney General without any of these advantages, except perhaps the right to a jury. Complaint is
not made of the difference between fine or imprisonment and
ouster, but it is insisted that this is a general criminal statute,
that ouster is a punishment as much as a fine, and that it is
not a condition attached to the doing of.business by foreign
corporations, Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S.
401, 409, or indeed a regulation of the conduct of corporations
as such at all. Therefore the plaintiff in error complains that
it is given a wrongful immunity from the procedure of the
criminal law. This suit is for the same transaction for which,
in the earlier case cited above, an agent of the company was
indicted and fined.
The foregoing argument is one of the many attempts to
construe the Fourteenth Amendment as introducing a factitious equality without regard to practical differences that
are best met by corresponding differences of treatment.
The law of Tennessee sees fit to seek to prevent a certain
kind of conduct. To prevent it the threat of fine and imprisonment is likely to be efficient for men, while the latter is
impossible and the former less serious to corporations. On
the other hand, the threat of extinction or ouster is not

STANDARD OIL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
217 U.S.

.421

Opinion of the Court.

monstrous, and yet is likely to achieve the result with corporations, while it would be extravagant as applied to men.
Hence, this difference is admitted to be justifiable. But the
admission goes far to destroy the argument that is made.
For if a fundamental distinction may be made in the evils
that different delinquents are forced to suffer, surely the less
important and ancient distinction between the modes of
establishing the delinquency, according to the nature of the
evil inflicted, even more easily may be justified. The Supreme
Court of the State says that the present proceeding is of a
civil nature, but 4ssuming that nevertheless it ends in punishment, there is nothing novel or unusual about it. We are
of opinion that subjection to it, with its concomitant advantages and disadvantages, is not an inequality of which
the plaintiff in error can complain, although natural persons
are given the benefit of the rules to which we have referred
before incurring the possible sentence to Prison, which the
plaintiff in error escapes.
The second objection to the statute is that, although construed by the court to apply to domestic business only,
nevertheless. it is held to warrant turning the defendant out
of the State for an interference, with interstate trade. The
transaction complained of was inducing merchants in Gallatin to revoke orders on a rival company for oil to be shipped
from Pennsylvania, by an agreement to give them 300 gallons of oil. It is said that as the only illegal purpose that can
be attributed to this agreement is that of protecting the defendant's oil against interstate competition it could not be
made the subject of punishment by the State; that the offense,
if any, is against izillerstate commerce alone.
The cases that have gone as far as any in favor of this
proposition are those that hold invalid taxes upon. sales by
travelling salesmen, so far as they affect commerce among the
States. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S.
489; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507. These cases
fall short of the conclusion to which they -are supposed to

OCTOIER TERM, 1909.
Opidion of the Court.

217 U. S.

point. Regulations of the kind that they deal with concern
the commerce itself, the conduct of the men engaged in it
and as so engaged. The present statute deals with the conduct of third persons, strangers to the business. It does not
regulate the business at all. It is not even directed against
interference with that business specifically, but against acts
of a certain kind that the State disapproves in whatever
connection. The mere fact that it may happen to remove
an interference with commerce among the States as well with
the rest does not invalidate it. It hardly would be an answer
to an indictment for forgery that the instrument forged was
a foreign bill of lading, or for assault and battery that the
person assaulted was engaged in peddling goods from another
State. How far Congress could deal with such cases we need
not consider, but certainly there is nothing in the present
state of. the law at least that excludes the States from a familiar exercise of their power. See Field v. "BarberAsphalt
Co., 194 I0. S. 618, 623.
There is an attempt also to bring this case within the statute of limitations. It was permissible for the corporation to
contend that it was discriminated against unconstitutionally
by being excluded from that defense, and we have dealt with
the argument that it was so. But the scope of. the state
statutes was for the state court to deternine and is not open
here.
Decree affirmed.

