OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

It results that as the part of § 1283, which relates to the
Statement to be filed with the Secretary is unconstitutional,
and as the c0ause in the same section, relating to suits in the
state court, is so dependent upon and connected with that
part as to be meaningless when standing alone, the section
must be held inoperative in all its parts and as not being in
the way of the enforcement in any state court of competent
jurisdiction of the plaintiff's right to a judgment against the
defendant for the amount conceded to be due from him to the
Textbook Company under his contract. The judgment must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR JUSTICE MOODY heard the argument of this case, participated in its decision in conference, and approves the
reversal of the judgment upon the grounds stated in this
opinion.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

SOUTHWESTERN OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 119.

Argued March 2, 1910.--Decided April 4, 1910.

This court will not consider whether a state statute is unconstitutional
under provisions of the Constitution other than those set up in the
state court even if those provisions be referred to in the assignment
of error.
On writ of error this. court is not concerned with the question of
whether the statute attacked as unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment violates the state constitution if the state courts
have held that it does not do so.
Whether the severity of penalties for non-compliance with a state
statute renders it unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment will not be considered in an action' in which the State does
not ask for any penalties.

rsOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to cripple the taxing
power of the States or to impose upon them any iron rule of taxation.
This court will not speculate as to the motive of a State in adopting
taxing laws, but assumes--the statute neither upon its face nor by
necessary operation suggesting a contrary assumption-that it was
adopted in good faith.
Except as restrained by its own or the Federal Constitution, a State
may prescribe any system of taxation it deems best; and it may,
without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, classify occupations,
imposing a tax on some and not on others, so long as it treats equally,
all in the same class.
An occupation tax on all wholesale dealers in certain specified articles
does not on its face deprive wholesale dealers in those articles of
their pr perty without due process of law or deny them the equal
protection of the law because a similar tax is not imposed on wholesale dealers in other articles, and so held as to the Kennedy Act of
Texas of 1905 levying an occupation tax on wholesale dealers in coal
and mineral oils.
A Federal court cannot interfere with the enforcement of N state
statute merely because it disapproves of the terms of the act, questions the wisdom of its enactment, or is not sure as to Ihe precise
reasons inducing the State to enact it.
100 Texas, 647, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain

provisions of the Kennedy Act of Texas of 1905 for taxing
certain classes of business, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George C. Greer, with whom Mr. F. C. Proctor and
Mr. D. E. Greer were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. James D. Wakh.)i, with whom Mr. R. V. Davidson,
Attorney General of the State of Texas, was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the State of Texas in one of
its own courts against the Southwestern Oil Company, a corporation of that State, to recover the amount of certain taxes
alleged to be due under what is known as the Kennedy act.
Chapter 148, General Laws of Texas, 1905, p. 358, providing

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

for the levy and collection of a tax upon individuals, firms,
associations or other persons, owning, managing, operating
or controlling for profit .within the State certain specified
kinds of business, including wholesale dealers in coal oil, etc.,
and prescribing penalties for violations of the act. The State
recovered judgment for a part of that amount. Upon appeal
to the Court of Civil Appeals the judgment was affirmed, and
the action of the latter court was'afterwards affirmed by fhe
Supreme Court of Texas.
Upon this writ of error the Southwestern Oil Company contends here, as it contended in the state courts, that the statute under which the State proceeded was in violation of the
Constitution of the United States.
The statute in question (§9) provides: "Each and every
person, association of persons or corporation created by the
laws of this or any other State or nation, which shall engage
in their own name, or in the name qf others, or in the name of
their representatives or agents in this State, in the wholesale
business of -coal oil, naphtha, benzine or any other mineral
oils refined from petroleum,. and any and all minperal oils,
shall pay an annual taxa of two per cent upon their gross receipts from any and all sales in this State of any of said articles in section 9 of.this act hereinabove mentioned, 4nd an an*nual tax of two per cent of the cah market value of any and all
of said articles that may be received or possessed or handled
or disposed of in any manner other than by sale in this State;
and it is hereby expressly provided that delivery to or possession by any person, association of persons or corporation
in this State of any of the articles hereii.above mentioned in
section 9 of this act, from whatever source the same may have
been received, shall for the purpose Qf this act be held and considered such a sale and such ownership and possession of such
articles and property (where no sale is made) as will and.shall
subject the same to the tax herein pro.ided for. .S~id tax
herein provided for shall be paid to the State Treasurer
quar terly, and every such persor., agent, association of per-

SOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U.S8.

Opinion of the Court.

sons, or corporation so owning, controlling or managing such
business shall, on or before the first day of April, and quarterly
thereafter, report to the Comptroller under oath of the president, treasurer, superintendent or some other officer of said
corporation or association, or some duly authorized agent
thereof, the amount received by them from such business in
this State. Should any person, association of persons or
corporation, or the officers or agents of any such corporation,
person or association of persons herein named, fail to make
the report herein provided for, and pay said taxes for thirty
days after the termination of any quarter of the year, then he
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, ,and upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not less than fifty nor more
than one hundred dQllars. Each and every day after said
thirty days have expired shall be deemed a separate offense.
In addition thereto, in the event of the failure of the officers
or agents of any such company or corporation to make the
reports and pay said taxes, for thirty days after the termination of any quarter of the year, each and every such company
or corporation, or their officers or agents so failing, shall forfeit and pay to'the State the sum of twenty-five dollars for
each day said report and payment are"delayed, which forfeiture and taxes shall be sued for by the Attorney General
in the name of the State. For the purpose of suits and prosecutions provided for in this article, venue and jurisdiction are
hereby expressly conferred upon the courts of Travis County,
and service may be had upon any officer or agent. of such
company or corporation in the State, and such service shall
in all respects be held legal and valid. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to all othcnr taxes levied by law."
The defendant insists that the statute is inconsistent with
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in the following particulars: That it arbitrarily selects and levies upon the wholesale business in coal oil, naphtha,
benzine or other mineral oils refined from petroleum, and any
and all mineral oils, a tax of from fifty to one hundred times

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

greater than is levied by the State upon wholesale business
in other articles; that it denies to the defendant the equal
protection of the laws, in that the failure of the wholesale
dealer to pay the required tax for thirty days is made a misdemeanor and subjects such dealer upon conviction to a fine
of not less than fifty nor more than one hundred dollars, each
day after the expiration of the thirty days being deemed a
separate offense, and, in addition, subjects him to a forfeiture
of $25 for each day's delay in making the report required and
paying the taxes imposed, while the only punishment prescribed against a wholesale dealer in other articles was a fine
in any sum not less than the taxes due, and not more than
double that sum and the cost of prosecution, the taxpayer in
such case having the right to a dismissal of the prosecution
on the payment of the 'tax and costs of prosecution and procuring the license to pursue or follow the occupation for the
pursuing of which, without license, the prosecution was instituted; no prosecution to be commenced against any person
after the procuring of said license, if the license procured covers
the time actually followed in said occupation or calling. Penal
Code, Art. 112.
The transcript contains three principal assignments of error,
one of which is that the state court should have held § 9 of
the statute to be unconstitutional as laying a tax or burden
on interstate commerce. It may be observed that no such
defense was made by the company in its answer, and we need
not stop to consider the question whether such a defense
would have merit. Besides, the certificate made by the
Supreme Court of Texas, at the request of the Oil Company,
shows that the alleged invalidity of the statute was based
entirely on the Fourteenth Amendment. Again, no point
under the commerce clause is urged in the brief of the company. In this court it contends only that § 9 of the statute
contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment. In our consideration of that proposition we assume, in conformity with
the decision of the state court, that the statute is not in vio-

SOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U.S .

Opinion of the Court.

lation of any provision of the constitution or statute of Texas.
That is a local question with which this court is not concerned
on this writ of error. We are only concerned to inquire
whether the statute is inconsistent with the Fourteenth
Amendment, either as depriving the taxpayer of property
without due process of law or as denying the equal protection of the laws.
Looking at the clause of the Amendment prohibiting the
deprivation of property without due process of law, it is to
be remembered that the provision to that effect appeared
in most of the state constitutions long before the Amendment
was adopted, and that principle was accepted everywhere
as ital in the American systems of government. But the
amendment, although negative in its words, had the effect
to incorporate into the fundamental law of each State a rule
theretofore prescribei by the Constitution of the United
States for the General Government and its agencies. So that
prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment the
States were controlled, in imposing and collecting taxes, entirely by their own fundamental law, and if they departed
from due process of law in matters involving the deprivation
of property the taxpayer injuriously affected by its action
could not, for that reason, prior to the Amendment, invoke
for his or its protection any provision of the Constitution of
the United States. But upon the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment-whatever their own constitutions may then,
or have subsequently, declared-the States became bound,
as was the United States by the Fifth Amendment, not to
deprive any person of property without due process of -law.
Still it was never contemplated, when the Amendment was.
adopted, to restrain or cripple the taxing power of the States,
whatever the inethods they devised for the purposes of taxation, unless those methods, -by their necessary operation,
were inconsistent with the fundamental principles embraced
by the requirements of due process of law and the equal
protection of the laws in respect of rights of property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Can it be predicated of the statute of Texas that its provisions for the imposition and collection of taxes is not conformable to due process of law? We think not. The tax in
question is an occupation tax only. The statute has been so
construed by the state court, and the counsel for the Oil
Company accept that construction as the law that should be
applied in this case. The tax was imposed by the legisature,
charged with the duty of providing the means necessary for
the support of the state government. That branch of the
state government alone could declare what taxes should be
imposed and upon whom or upon what kinds of business imposed. If the State seeks, directly by civil suit, or indirectly
by criminal prosecution in one of its courts, to enforce the
provisions of the statute, the way is open for the taxpayer,
in his defense, to raise the question of the constitutional
validity either of the statute as a whole, or of any method
prescribed in it for the collection of the tax. No element of
due process of law seems to be wanting unless it be, as contended by the Oil Company, that the penalties prescribed for
failing to make the "reports" required by the statute are
so severe and exacting as to make it unsafe for the taxpayer
to question the validity of such penalties and thereby interfere with or suspend the collection of the taxes by insisting
that they have been imposed in disregard of due process of
law. But this point, as to the severity and exacting character of the penalties, need not be now considered, because no
penalties are claimed by the State in this action and no judgment therefor was rendered. Besides, the provision as to
penalties is not so necessarily connected with the other parts
of the statute. as to vitiate the entire act, even if that provision should be held to be void. The right of the State, by
a civil suit, to recover the taxes imposed is wholly independent of its right, by suit or prosecution, to recover the prescribed penalties. If the provisions as to penalties should
be stricken down, there will still be left a complete act providing for the collection by civil suit of the taxes due the

SOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State. The rule is well settled that if one part of a statute is
valid and another invalid the former may be enforced, if it
be not so connected with or dependent on the other as to
make it clear that the legislature would not have passed that
part without the part that may be deemed invalid.
But it is contended that the statute contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it denies to the Oil Company the
equal protection of the laws. This position is based mainly
on the ground that the statute by imposing a tax on whole-"
sale dealers in coal oil, naphtha, benzine, mineral oils refined
from petroleum, and all other mineral oils, while omitting
to put any such tax whatever on wholesale dealers in other
articles of merchandise-such, for instance, as sugar, bacon,
coal and iron--so discriminates against wholesale dealers in
the several articles specified in § 9 as to deny them the equal
protection of the laws. This view gives to the Amendment
a scope that could not have been contemplated at the time of
its adoption. The tax in question is conceded' to be an occupation tax simply. It was imposed under the authority
of the state constitution, providing that the. legislature may
"impose occupation taxes, both upon natural persons and
occupations other than municipal, doing any business in
this State,

.

.

.

except that persons engaged in me-

chanical and agricultural pursuits shall never be required to
pay an occupation tax'" It is not questioned that the State
may classify occupations for purposes of taxation. In its
discretion it may tax all, or it may tax one or some, taking
care to accord to all in the same class equality of rights. The
statute in respect of the particular class of wholesale dealers
mentioned iM"
it is to be referred to the governmental power
of the State, in its discretion, to classify occupations for purposes of taxation. The State, keeping within the limits of
its own fundamental law, cani adopt any system of taxation
or any classification that it deems best by it for the common
good and the maintenance of its government, provided such
classificatibn be not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

A leading case on the general subject is Bell's Gap Rd. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237. In that case a question
arose as to whether a statute of Pennsylvania, subjecting
bonds and other securities issued by corporations, to a higher
rate of taxation than was imposed on other moneyed securities, was a denial of the equal protection of the laws to corporations. This court held that there was no discrimination
which the State was not competent to make, saying: "All
corporate securities are subject to the same regulations.
The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no State
shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, was not intended to prevent a State from
adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable
ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes of property
from any taxation at all, such as churches, libraries and the
property of charitable institutions. It may impose different
specific taxes upon different trades and professions, and may
vary the rates of excise upon various products; it may tax
real estate and personal property in a different manner; it
may tax visible property only, and not tax securities for payment of money; it may allow deductions for indebtedness, or
not allow them. All such regulations, and those of like character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits and
general usages, are within the discretion of the state legislature, or the people of the State in framing their constitution. But clear and hostile discriminations against particular
persons and classes, especially such as are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of our governments, might
be obnoxious to the constitutional prohibition. It would,
however, be impracticable and unwise to attempt to lay down
any general rule or definition on the subject, that would include all cases. They must be decided as they arise. We
think that we are safe in saying, that the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron
rule of equal taxation. If that were its proper construction,
it would not only supersede all those constitutional provisions

SOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

and laws of some of the States, whose object is to secure
equality of taxation, and which are usually accompanied
with qualifications deemed material; but it would render
nugatory those discriminations which the best interests of
society require; which are necessary for the encouragement
of needed and useful industries, and the discouragement of
intemperance and vice; and which every State, in one form
or another, deems it expedient to adopt."
In Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, involving the
constitutional validity of a law taxing corporate franchises
and business, the court held that the statute was not a denial of the equal protection of laws. It said that the Amendment "does not prevent the classification of property for
taxation-subjecting one kind of property to one rate of
taxation, and another kind of property to a different rate-distinguishing between franchises, licenses and privileges, and
visible and tangible property, and between real and personal
property. Nor does the Amendment prohibit special legislation. Indeed, the greater part of all legislation is special,
either in the extent to which it operates, or the objects sought
to be obtained by it. And when such legislation applies to
artificial bodies, it is not open to objection if all such bodies
are treated alike under similar circumstances and conditions,
in respect to the privileges conferred upon them and the liabilities to which they are subjected. Under the statute of
New York all corporations, joint stock companies and associations of the same kind are subjected to the same tax.
There is the same rule applicable to all under the same conditions in determining the rate of taxation. There is nor discrimination in favor of one against another of the same class."
So, in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540,
562: "A tax may be imposed only upon certain callings and
trades, for when the State exerts its power to tax, it is not
bound to tax all pursuits or all property that may be legitimately taxed for governmental purposes. It would be an
intolerable burden if a State could not tax any property or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

calling unless, at the same time, it taxed all property or all
callings. Its discretion in such, matters is very great and
should be exercised solely with reference to the. general welfare as involved in the necessity of taxation for the support
of the State. A State may in its wisdom classify property for
purposes of taxation, and the exercise of its discretion is not
to be questioned in a court of the United States, so long as the
classification does not invade rights secured by the Constitution of the United State."
There are many other cases in which the court considered
the meaning and scope of the constitutional guaranty of the
equal protection of the laws. We will refer to a few of them.
In Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337, the
court sustained, as not inconsistent with the elual protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a Kentucky statute
providirg for the assessment of railroad property for purposes of taxation in a mode different from that prescribed
as to ordinary real estate, or as to the property of corporations
chartered for other purposes, such as bridge, mining, street
railway, manufacturing, gas and water companies. It said
that "the rule of equality, in respect to the subject, only
requires the same means and methods to be applied impartially to all the constituents of each class, so that the law
shall operate equally and uniformly upon all persons in similar circumstances. There is no objection, therefore, to the
discrimination made as between railroad companies and other
corporations in the methods and instrumentalities by which
the value of their property is ascertained." In Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 294, which involved the constitutionality of an inheritance Jax law, the
court recognized the power of the State to "distinguish, select and classify objects of legislation," by lawc which did
not violate the settled usages and established practices of
our Government. In American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, a state enactment, impe-ing a license tax
on the business of refining sugar and molasses was held not

SOUTHWESTERN OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be a denial of the equal protection of the laws, because of
the exemption from such tax of planters and farmers who
ground and refined their own sugar and molasses. In W. W.
Cargill Co. v. Min.nesota, 180 U. S. 452, a statute requiring
a license to operate a warehouse for the receipt-of grain, lo;
cated upon the right of way of a railroad, but which did not
require a license as to a similar warehouse not located on any
right of way, was not a denial of the equal protection of the
laws to the first-named class. In Cook v. Marshall Co;, 196
U. S.268, which involVed the validity of a cigarette tax law
that made a distinction between jobbers and wholesale dealers in cigarettes, the court said: "There is a clear distinction
in principle between" persons engaged in selling cigarettes
generally or at retail, and those engagedlIn selling By wholesale to customers without the State. They are two entirely
distinct occupations.. One sells at retail, and the other at
wholesale, one to the public generally, and the other to a particular class; one within the State, the other without. From
time out of mind it has been the custom of Congress to impose a special license tax upon wholesale dealers different
from that imposed upon retail dealers. A like distinction.is
observed between brewers and rectifiers, wholesale and retail
deqiers in leaf tobacco and liquors, manufacturers of tobacco
and manufacturers of cigars, as well as peddlers of tobacco. It
may -bedifficult to distinguish these several classes in principle,
but the power of Congress to make this discrimination has not,
we believe, been questioned." In Armour PdcingCo. v. Lacy,
200 U. S. 226, a state law, imposing a license tax on meat
packing houses, did not deny the equal protection of the laws
to persons or corporations engaged in such business, because
a like ta* was not imposed on persons engaged in the business
of selling the products of such houses, or on those engaged in
packing articles of food other than meat.
In our judgment, the objection that. within the true meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, the statute.of Texas-has
the effect to deny to the Oil Company the equal protection

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

of the laws does not rest upon any solid basis. The statute
makes no distinction among such wholesale dealers as handle
the particulararticles specified in § 9. The State had the right
to classify such dealers separately from those who sold, by
wholesale, other articles than those mentioned in that section.
The statute puts the constituents of each of those separate.
classes on the same plane of equality. it is not arbitrary legislation, except in the sense that all legislation is arbitrary.
If it be within the power of the legislature to enact the statute, then arbitrariness cannot be predicated of it in a court
of law. And it cannot be held to be beyond legislative power
simply because of its classification of occupations. What
were the special reasons or motives inducing the State to adopt
the classification of which the Oil Company complains, we do
not certainly know. Nor is it important that we should certainly know. ' It may be that the main purpose of the State
was to encourage retail dealing in the particular articles mentioned in § 9. If the statute had its origin in such a view, we
do not perceive that this court can deny the power of the
State to proceed on that ground. We may repeat what was
said in Delaware Railroad Tax Cases, 18 Wall. 206, 231, that
"it is'not for us to suggest in any case that a more equitable
mode of assessment or rate of taxation might be adopted than
the one prescribed by the legislature of the State; our only
concern is with the validity of the tax; all else lies beyond
the domain of our jurisdiction." But we will not speculate
as to the motives of the State, and will assume-the statute,
either upon its face or by its necessary operation, not suggesting a contrary assumption-that the State has in good
faith sought,. by its legislation, to protect or promote the interests of its people. It is sufficient for the disposition of
this case to say that, except as restrained by its own constitution or by the Constitution of the United States, the
State of Texas, by its Legislature, has full power to prescribe
any system of taxation which, in its judgment, is best or
necessary for its people and government; that, so far as ,the

UNITY BANKING CO. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

power of the United States is concerned, the State has the
right, by any rule it deems proper, to classify persons or
businesses for the purposes of taxation, subject to the condition that such classification shall not be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States; that the requirement by
the State, that all wholesale dealers in specified articles shall
pay a tax of a given amount on'their occupation, without
exacting a similar tax on the occupations of wholesale dealers
in other articles, cannot, on the face of the statute or by
reason of any facts within the judicial knowledge of the court,
be held, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment,
to deprive the taxpayer of his property without due process
of law or to deny him the equal protection of the laws; and
that the Federal court cannot interfere with the enforcement
.of the statute simply because it may disapprove its terms, or
question the wisdom of its -enactment, or because it cannot
be sure as to the precise reasons inducing the State to enact it.
For the reasons herein stated, the judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITY BANKING AND SAVING COMPANY v. BETTMAN, TRUSTEE OF HOLZMAN &CO., BANKRUPTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 126.

Argued March 4, 7, 191 0.-Decided April 4, 1910.

As against the true owner, a right of property cannot be acquired by
means of a forged written instrument relating to such property, except when the owner has by laches or gross or culpable negligence induced another who proceeds with reasonable care to act in belief that
the instrument was genuine or would be so recognized by the owner.
Where the owner of property which passes only by written transfer has
left it with another who has wilfully forged the name of such owner
to a transfer of the property, the person taking it acquires no right
thereto merely because the property was left with party committing
the forgery.

