OCTOBER. TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Cam.

217 U. S.

LORD & HEWLETT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No 162. Argued April 20, 1910.-Decided May 2, 1910.
An act of Congress appropriating for a competition for plans of a proposed building, the successful ones to be transmitted to Congress,
and which does not appropriate for the building itself creates no
obligation on the part of t~he United States to use the plans of the
successful competitor, and so held in regard to the act of March 2,
1901, c. 805, 31 Stat. 922, 938, providing for competition for building
for Department of Agriculture.
Under the act of February 9, 1903, c. 528, 32 Stat. 806, providing for
plans for a building for the Department of Agriculture not to exceed
$1,500,000, the Secretary of Agriculture was not obliged to use the
successful plans under the competition provided in the act of March 2,
1901, and in the absence of a contract to use such plans the architects submitting them have no claim for fees against the United
States.
There is no contract unless the minds of the parties meet; and although
there were negotiations in this case the architects, having declined
to accept a contract submitted by the Department of Agriculture,
have no contractual claim against the United States.
43 C. Cl. 282, affirmed.
THE appellants, doing business as architects under the name
of Lord & Hewlett, brought this action to recover from the
United States the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars as due
them on account of certain transactions relating to a public
building which thOJnited States proposed to have constructed

and used by the Department of Agriculture.
The Court of Claims adjudged, upon the facts found, that
the plaintiffs had no cause of action against the United States
and dismissed the claimants' petition.
The material facts are as will be now stated: By the act of
March 2d, 1901, c. 805, 31 Stat. 922, 938, Congress appropriated
the sum of five thousand dollars, to be immediately available,

LORD & HEWLETT v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Statement of the Ce.

"to enable the Secretary of Agriculture 'to have prepared,
under his direction, plans for a fireproof administrative building, to be erected on the grounds of the Department of Agriculture, in the city of Washington, said plans, and such
recommendations thereon as the Secretary of Agriculture may
deem necessary, to be transmitted to Congress at it next regular
session."
Thereafter, the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department prepared what is described in the record as a "Programme and conditions of a competition for a building for
the Department of Agriculture in Washington, D. C." That
Programme was approved by the Secretary of Agriculture.
It recited the purpose to obtain designs for the proposed
building by. competition between ten architects of good professional standing and citizens of the United States, to be
designated by a special commission, and consisting of the
Secretary of Agriculture, the Supervising Architect of the
Treasury, and three named persons not in the service of the
Government, who should report as to the relative merits of
the designs submitted. The Programme contained, among
other provisions, the following: "It must be understood, however, that while the ultimate purpose of the competition is the
selection of an architect, the act does not providefor a building,
but simply for a design to be approved by Congress at the next
session; and, therefore, while it is to be supposed that the
architect or firm of architects whose design shall be placed
first in this competition will receive the commission to carry
out the work when the buildingis authorized, it must -be understood that the Secretary of Agriculture has no authory at
this time to enter into any contractfurther than is providedfor
by this programme. The programme sets forth, approximately,
the conditions and location of the building, modifications of
which may become necessary. If Congress provides for the
erection of the building the selected architect is then to prepare
such design or designs as may, in the judgment of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury, be necessary to meet the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 U. S.

conditions finally adopted by him.
. .
The three members of this commission, not in Government service, shall
receive in full compensation for their services, including traveling and subsistence expenses, the sum of two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250). . . . A uniform sum of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350) will be paid to each of the competitors invited, with the understanding and agreement that
unless otherwise provided for by act of Congress, the architect or architects whose design shall be placed first will be
awarded the commission for carrying out the work, at a fee
computed on the basis of the schedule of charges adopted
by the American Institute of Architects. It must be understood that no claim shall be made upon the United States by
any competitor for any fee, percentage, or payment whatever,
or for any expense incident to or growing out of his participation in this competitioni other than is expressly provided for
by the terms mentioned herein."
On the twenty-fourth of October, 1901, the appellantswho were among the ten architects selected to furnish necessary designs in competition-received notice from the Secretary of Agriculture that their plans for the building were
selected by the commission, and they received and accepted
the compensation ($350) which had been fixed by the Programme of competition as full compensation for this preliminary work. Subsequently; October 28th, 1901, the Secretary
of Agriculture notified Congress that the award had been made
to the appellants.
However, the parties, after discussion, concurred in the
view that as the Department proposed a building of increased
size and of more expensive materials, the cost would probably
amount to $2,500,000, and a bill appropriating that amount
was sent to Congress for its consideration and action. But
Congress took no action on the general subject of a public
building for the Agricultural Department until February 9th,
1903, when, without the knowledge of the Secretary of Agriculture, it passed an act entitled "An act for the erection of a

LORD & HEWLETT v. UNITED STATES.
217 U.8.

Statement of the Cae.

building for the use and accommodation of the Department of
Agriculture." That act, it may be observed, did not refer
to the above act of 1901, or to anything done under it. It
yet provided for a commodious fireproof building on the
grounds of the Department of Agriculture for the use of that
Department and its Bureaus, "to be constructed in accordance
with plans, to be procured, based on accurate estimates, providing for the erection of said building, complete in all of its
details, as herein described, and within the total cost of not
exceeding the sum herein stipulated, and he is hereby authorized, after procuring such plans, and after due advertisement
for proposals, to enter into contracts within the limit of 'cost
hereby fixed and subject to appropriations to be made by Congres, for the erection of said building complete, including
heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and approaches,
and the removal of the present building or buildings of the
Department of Agriculture on said grounds. Sec. 2. That
the supervision of the construction of said building shall be
placed in charge of an officer of the Government especially
qualified for the duty,- to be appointed by the Secretary of
Agriculture, subject to the approval of the head of the department in which such officer is employed, who shall receive for
his additional services an increase of twenty-five per centum
of his present salary, such increase to be paid out of the appropriation for the building herein authorized. Sec. 3. That the
limit of cost for the construction of said building complete,
including heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and
approaches, and the cost for removal of the present building
or buildings of the Department of Agriculture, is hereby fixed
at one million five hundred thousand dollars, and no contract
shall be entered into or expenditure authorized in excess of
said amount." February 9, 1903, c. 528, 32 Stat. 806.
The Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of March 3d, 1903, contained this additional provision: "To commence the erection
of a new building for the Department of Agriculture, authorized by the Act approved February ninth, nineteen hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 U. S.

and three, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, of which
sum one hundred thousand dollars shall be immediately available; and the Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized
to enter into a contract or contracts for the completion of
said building within the limit of cost of one million five hundred thousand dollars, fixed by said Act." March 3d,-1903,
c. 1007, 32 Stat. 1139.
Shortly after the passage of the act of March 2d, 1901, the
Supervising Architect of the Treasury, bAr. James Knox Taylor, was designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as expert
adviser, and an advisory building committee, of which B. T.
Galloway was chairman, was also formed. It was found by
the Court of Claims that "neither Mr. Taylor nor any of the
members of this committee had authority to enter into any
contract or agreement with the claimants, which arrangement
was continued under the act of 1903 until May 4, 1903, when
Taylor was superseded as expert adviser to the Secretary of
Agriculture by the appointment of Capt. John S. Sewell in
his stead.
After the passage of the act of February 9th, 1903, negotiations were had with the claimants, in relation to the detail of
plans and specifications for the erection of a building provided
for in that act. But it is found that at no time prior to
May 4th, 1903, when Sewell succeeded Taylor as expert adviser, "had the claimants and the Secretary of Agriculture or
any person or committee appointed by him to act for him,
agreed upon or accepted any specific plans or specifications
theretofore prepared and submitted by claimants for the erection of said building." On the contrary, they could not agree,
and their relations were terminated by the letter from the
Advisory Committee, addressed to the appellants under date
of April 15th, 1903. Subsequently, negotiations between the
parties were resumed, Capt. Sewell representing the Department as expert adviser. The findings state: "On May 4,
1903, and subsequent thereto, the negotiations between claimants and Captain Sewell, superintendent as aforesaid, had

LORD & HEWLETT v UNITED STATES.
217 U. B.

Argument for Appellant.

to do exclusively with the preparation and execution of a
written contract providing for their employment as architects
for said building. Captain Sewell had prepared and submitted
to claimants two forms of contract wherein claimants' compensation for services as architects for said building was fixed
at 3J per cent of contract price. After much lengthy correspondence, discussing the propriety of such a fee, and likewise
the respective duties of the architects and superintendent of
construction provided for by the act of February 9, 1903,
claimants declined to accept the terms of the said agreement,
at the same time insisting that the compensation provided for
in the original programme of the Secretary, to wit, 5 per cent,
should obtain; that they were employed under and by virtue
of said programme, and subsequent proceedings thereto."
The findings further show that on February 16th, 1903,
Taylor, who was then expert adviser to the Secretary, had
submitted to claimants for their examination and approval a
form of contract looking toward their employment as architects for the construction of said building, in which contract
the compensation set forth was 5 per cent of the sum expended
in the erection of the same. Claimants do not appear to have
examined, approved, executed, or returned said contract.
What disposition was ever made of it is not shown, Finally,
on May 13th, 1903, the Secretary of Agriculture addressed a
letter to the claimants, in which he referred to the failure of
the claimants to accept the above contracts submitted to
them by the Department, and announced his purpose to look
elsewhere than to them for assistance.
Mr Charles Fuller, with whom Mr. Benjamin F. Tracy and
Mr. Paul Fuller were on the brief, for appellants:
The programme of competition with its conditions, offered the claimants by the Secretary of Agriculture under
the act of March 2, 1901; the acceptance by the claimants
of its terms; the selection thereunder by the Secretary of
Agriculture of the claimants' plans, and the subsequent act

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Cae.

217 U. S.

of February 9, 1903, authorizing the building, constitute a
binding contract between claimants and the United States.
The nominal sum of $350 was named in the programme
of competition as compensation for the efforts of the competitors, and the additional inducement of permanent employment was expressly proffered the successful architect
in the event of subsequent legislation authorizing the construction of the building in accordance with the said programme.
.The "additional inducement" was the real consideration
offered: by the defendant to. the claimants, subject :to a future negative condition;. namely, that, .o -adverse action
should be taken by Congress, :and unless such adverse action
were taken, the agreement was final.'and complete.
Appellants, at request of defendant, ;undertook to make
plans for the building, to use their professional knowledge,
skill and labor, things ivhich prior: to -the. agreement they
were not bound to do. This consideration is sufficient:
Newell v. Page et at., 10 Gray, 366; Devemon v, Shaw, 69
Maryland, 199; Hamer v. Sidway, 124 N. Y. 538:
For eases similar to this see Walsh: v. St. Louis Exposition &c. Assn., 16 Mo. App. 502; affirmed, 90 Missouri, 459;
Palmerv. Board of Education, 220 Pa. St. 568.575: Molyneaux
v. Collier, 17 Georgia, 46.
Admitting that the offer of the Secretary was ultra vires
Congress could, of course, ratify it. The act of 1903, passed
by Congress, as above indicated with the proceedings of the
Secretary before it and without negativing his course in any
way was clearly such a ratification.
It was so recognized by the Secretary of Agriculture, who
upon the passage of the act of February 9, 1903, called upon
the claimants for its performance. Claimants performed
fully under such contract so far as permitted by the Secretary of Agriculture, and without default on their part and
without just cause, were prevented from completing the performance.

LORD & HEWLETT v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

The compensation had been fixed by the programme of
competition, and any change in this matter was a violation
of the claimants' rights and a breach of the agreement.
Smithmeyer v. United States, 147 U. S. 342.
The measure of the damages which the claimants are entitled to recover for the breach of their contract, is the compensation which the contract awarded them, and which
they would have received had they been permitted to complete their performance of it. 8 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
633; Wicker v. Hoppock, 6 Wall. 94, 99; Thompson v. Wood, 1
Hilton (N. Y.), 93; 2 Sedgwick on Damages, 8th ed., 272,
citing Hunt v. Test, 8 Alabama, 713; Baldwin v. Bennett, 4
California, 392; Lake Shore Railway Co. v. Richards, 126
Illinois, 448.
In this case the architect's office must continue and be
maintained at the same expense, though part of the anticipated and agreed compensation fails.
No successful or serious attempt has been made to in any
way justify the arbitrary and unjustifiable action of the defendant in discharging the claimants without cause, and preventing their completing the contract.
Mr. John Q. Thompson, Assistant Attorney General, with
whom Mr. George M. Anderson was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This statement of the controlling facts is quite sufficient to
show that the judgment below was right. We perceive no
ground whatever for a judgment against the United States.
Nothing done under the act of March 2d, 1901 created any
obligation upon the part of the Secretary of Agriculture,.as
representing the United States, to proceed under the plans
made by the appellants for the construction of the building

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

erred to in that act. The "Programme" of competition
devised, under that act, by the Architect of the Treasury,
under the direction of the Secretary, contemplated the payment of $350 to each of the ten competing architects, in full
compensation for their services in preparing and submitting
designs. That amount was paid to the appellants. And they
were expressly informed by the above act that the, plans and
recommendations of the Secretary were to be transmitted
to Congress. Besides, the Programme of competition explicitly stated that the act did not provide for a building, but
only for designs to be approved by Congress. The Secretary
was without authority under the act of 1901 to make any
binding contract for the erection of the proposed building;
and Congress, it seems, took no action in reference to the
designs prepared by the appellants under that act. Nothing
more was done by either side until Congress, by the' act of
February 9th, 1903, made independent provisions for the erection of a building for the use of the Department of Agriculture,
at a cost not exceeding $1,500,000. But no contract was
made under that act with the appellants. On the contrary,
the minds of.the parties never met as to the terms of any contract in execution of the provisions of the act of February 9th,
1903. The appellants declined to accept the contract prepared and submitted by the Department. Clearly, the appellants were not entitled, simply because of the acceptance of
their plans, prepared under the act of 1001, to construct the
building provided for in the separate, independent act of February 9th, 1903; and as no contract was made with them by
the Secretary under the latter act, they have no cause of
action against the United States.
Judgment affirmed.
j

