CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

last instance being in Citizens' National Bank v. Kentucky, an
opinion handed down with, and immediately following, this.
The excessive penalties provided by the Mississippi statutes have been urged as making the act unconstitutional under Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. No penalties were demanded •in-the present case, the State contenting itself with
abill in equity to dissolve the association. The penalty provisions. are plainly sep.rable from the section under which
such a combination is declared illegal. The penalty section
not being invoked, we are not called upon. to give any opinion
in respect to it. Unitcd States v. Delaware &c. R. Co., 213
U. S. 366, 417; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, handed down
April 4, ante, p. 114.
It is enough to say that the act as construed and applied
to the facts of this case by the Supreme Court of Mississippi
exhibits no such restraint upon liberty of contract as to violate the Federal Constitution. The decree must therefore be
Affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF
BOYLE COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALW OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 135.

Argued March 10, 1910.--Decided May 2, 191u.

An act assessing stockholders of national banks, although illegal as to a
class of stockholders not similarly taxed on shares in other moneyed
institutions, may be legal as to the class which is similarly taxed;
and so held that § 3 of the act of March 21, 1900, of Kentucky, providing for back assessments on shares of national banks, although
not legal as to non-resident stockholders, there having been no statute prior to 1900, providing for the assessing of stock of non-resident
stockholders of other moneyed corporations, is not illegal as to res-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

217 U. S.

ident stockholders, as there were statutory provisions for assessing
them for stocks in other moneyed corporations of the State prior to
1900. Covington v. FirstNational Bank, 198 U. S. 100, distinguished.
A statute is not lacking in due process of law within the Fourteenth
Amendment if it simply provides a new remedy for collecting a tax
liability already legally existing under prior law.
A state statute may make a bank the agent for its own shareholders
in compelling returns, and make it liable for taxes assessed against
the shareholders.
The constitutionality of a statute cannot be attacked because it relates to a certain class by one not of that class.
Shares of stock of a national bank pass from one holder to another
subject to the burden of taxes and if not properly returned for taxation as required by law the liability remains until barred by limitation and may be enforced although the stock has been transferred.
Liability for a tax is not subject to rules applicable to the vendor's
equity of one buying without notice. &al v. KeUeher, 195 U. S.
351.
The fact that the par value of shares of a national bank has been re-*
duced does not affect the right of taxation or to back assess unlisted
shares. The shares are the same although reduced.
Ciiwis' Savings Bank v. -Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636; Coington v. First
National Banki 198 U. S. 100, followed to effect that the act of
March 21, 1900, of Kentucky, does not impair-the obligation of the
supposed contract under the Upwitt Bank Act of that State.

TVE facts, which involve the validity of the statute of Kentucky of March 21, 1900, in regard to taxation of shares of
stock of national banks, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Taylor Quienberty for plaintiffs in error:
The interpretation placed on § 3, of the act of March 21,
1900, by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, not only brings

its operation into violation of §-5219, Revised Statutes, but
departs from the le that a statute shall have a prospective
operation only,. unless its terms show clearly a legislative in. tent that it shall operate retrospectively. Watts v. Commonwealth, 78 Kentucky, 331; Lawrence v. City of Louisville, 96
Kentucky, 598; Ohio Valley Telephone Co. v., City of Louis-

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK t. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ville, 948. W. Rep. 17; United States v. American Sugar Co.,
202 U. S. 577; United States v. Barr, 159 U. S. 778.
But a tax upon shares of stock in national banks is the
individual debt of the owner of the shares. If the judgment
in this proceeding is sustained, then the bank must pay it
out of the assets of the bank, thereby using the property in
which the shareholder of 1909 or 1910 has an interest, to pay
the debt of another party, together with a twenty per cent
penalty, which would not only violate the Constitution and
laws of the United States, but all known principles of law.
. The court below erred in declaring that the shares
of resident stockholders were taxable under general law of the States
for the years prior to 1900. Covington v. First National Bank,
198 U. S. 100; National Bank v. Oweneboro, 173 U. S. 676;
Owen County Court v. Farmers' National Bank, 59 S. W.
Rep. 7; Scobee v. Bean, 109:Kentucky, 526, do not sustain
this contention, or are in error.
The rule in Kentucky is that the situs of personal property
is the domicil of its owner, and is there taxable. Lexington
v. Fishback, 109 Kentucky, 770; Frankfort v. Fidelity Trust
Co., 111 Kentucky, 667.
Therefore to tax national bank shares according to" general
law," as defined by the state. court would result in taxing
only those shares which were owned by the residents and
citizens of Kentucky, and omitting all shares of stock owned
by non-residents. If 'all the shares of stock were owned and
controlled by non-residents then, according to the law of
taxation so laid down no tax could be assessed against said
shares in Kentucky, but they would have to be taxed, like
other choses in action, at the domicil of their owner. But
see § 5219, Revised Statutes.
This proceeding neither discloses the name nor residence
of any owners or holders of shares of stock in the Citizens'
National Bank, nor the agent or attorney of such owner, nor
the name of the person in possession of said shares. The
owner of said shares is excluded from all participation in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

217 V. S.

valuation, assessment and taxation of said shares, and the
whole matter is relegated into the hands of those who neither
own nor possess said shares. No notice is given to the owner
and no forum is provided before which he can be heard in
defense of his property upon the ground that the valuation
placed thereon is either unreasonable, or confiscatory. The
act denies him any voice in the matter and is in conflict with
§ 5219, Rev. Stat., in that respect and denies the shareholders
due process of law. See also Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S. 669. Section 5219 is plain,
and the right therein given a State to tax shares of stock in
national banks cannot be delegated to counties, cities, towns,
and taxing districts, except in the case of shares owned by
non-residents of the State, which must be taxed by the city
or town wherein the bank is located.
As this proceeding is instituted against the bank, its
president and its cashier, for the purpose of enforcing the
act of March 21, i900, by compelling them to comply with
its terms and provisions, it therefore becomes their duty to
raise and urge every ground upon which said act is conceived
to be repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The aforesaid defenses are not confined solely to
shareholders. Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319; Boyer
v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689; Cummings v. National Bank, 101
U. S. 153; Pelton v. Commercial Ndtional Bank, 101 U. S. 143.
The act permits an illegal discrimination against shares
Qf stock in national banks and in favor of moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of the State by requiring
these shares to be assessed as real estate, while no tax whatever is placed upon'shares of stock in state banks, these institutions being taxed under §§ 4077, 4020, Kentucky Statutes. And the shares of stock in said corporations are exempt
from taxation by § 4085, Kentucky Statutes. See Citizens
National Bank of Lebanon v. Burton, 121 Kentucky, 876;
Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 510.
The act is illegal in that it dcclares shares of stock in na-

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tional banks. subject to taxation, and makes it the duty of
the president and cashier to list said shares, and declares
that the bank shall be and remain liable for the taxes upon
said shares, without any provision being made whereby the
bank may recover the amount of the taxes so paid on behalf
of its shareholders.
An analysis of the act shows that it simply contemplates
the taxation of the property of the bank, and not its-shares,
and the opinion of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky herein
shows that that court construed that act to levy a tax upon
the property of the bank, and not upon its shares of stock.
Commonwealth v. Citizens' Nationql Bank, 117 Kentucky,
946; S. C., 80 S. W. Rep. 158. See Van Allenv. The Assessors,
3 Wall. 581; and dissenting opinion in Hager &c. v. Citizens'
National Bank, 105 S. W. Rep. 403.
Mj. John W. Yerkes for the defendants in error.
MR,JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding under the law of Kentucky to back
assess the shares of stock in the Citizens. National Bank as
property omitted from the tax list. After much petitioning,
pleading and demurring, and two appeals to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, 1,473 shares were assessed for
the taxes of 1896, 1897 and 1898, and 990 shares.for the taxes
of 1899, with a penalty of twenty per cent added to the tax
each year. The proceeding under which- this result has been
reached was started in the County Court of Boyle County,
Kentucky, in March, 190i, by a petition filed by the sheriff of
the county for the purpose of causing the shares of the bank
to be assessed as property omitted by the assessor. The authority under which the petition was filed is found in § 4241,
Kentucky Statutes, and the Kentucky act of March 21, 1900.
AS the validity of this later act is challenged, we set it out in
the margin.1
I Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States has lately de-

•448

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

- In the case of the Owensboro National Bank v. Owvensboro,
173 U. S. 664, this court held invalid certain legislation of the
State of Kentucky providing for the taxation of national banks
as laying a tax,, not upon. shares, which was permissible, but
upon the property and franchises of such banks which was
cided that article three (3), chapter 103 of tfie acts of 1891'-1892-1893
is. void, and of no effect in so far as the'same provides -for taxation of
the franchise of national banks, in consequence of which decision there
is not now and has not been since the adoption of said article in 1892,
any adequate mode of taxing national banks, while State banks are
now and have been ever since 1892 taxable for all purposes, State and
local, therefore.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky:
'SEc.1. That the shares ofstock in each national bank of this State
shall be subject to taxation for all State purposes, and shall be subject
to taxation for the purposes of each county, city, town, and taxing
district in which the bank is located.
SEC. 2. For the purposes of the taxation provided for by the next
preceding section, it shall be.the duty of the president and-the cashier
of the bank to list the said shares of stock with .the assessing: officers.
authorized to assess- real estate for taxation, and the -bank shall be,
and remain liable to the State, county, 6ity, town, and district for
the taxes upon said shares of stock..
SEc. 3. When any of said shares of stock have not been listed for
taxation for any of said purposes under levy or levies of any year since'
the adoption of the revenue law of eighteen hundred and ninety-two,
it shall be the duty of the president and the cashier to list the same for
taxation under said levy or levies: Provided, That where any national
bank has heretofore, for any year or years, paid taxes upon its franchise as provided in article three (3) of the revenue law of eighteen
hundred and ninety-two, said bank shall, be excepted from the operation of this section as to said year or years: And provided further,
That where any national bank has heretofore, for any year or years,
paid State taxes under the Hewitt bill in excess of the State taxes required by this act for the same year or years, said bank shall be entitled to credit by said excess upon its State taxes required by'this act.
SEc. 4. All assessments' of shares of stock contemplated by this
act shall be entered upon the assessor's. books, verified and reported
.by. the officers as assessment.s of real estate are entered, certified, and
reported, and the same shall be certified to the proper collecting officer

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

inadmissible under the restrictions of § 5219; Rev. Stat. In
consequence of this decision this act of March 21, 1900, -was
passed,..as shown both by its subject-matter and the recital
in the preamble. The act is both prospective. and retrospective. Of its prospective features, we need say nothing. The
third section is retrospective, in that it provides for.the return
of shares in national banks which,. during the years of the
operation-of the legislation held invalid by this court, had not
been returned for taxation, by: making it the duty of certain
officers of such banks to list for taxation for the years between
1892 and 1899 all shares, in such banks which had not been
returned, and by requiring all such banks to. pay the tax and
penalty upon all such omitted shares, subject, however, to
certain deductions and credits on account of taxes paid by
such banks under the act held invalid, as well as under the
prior. Hewitt act..
In Covington v. "irst National. Bank, 198 U. S.. 100, this
court was. required to'consider the effect of the third section
of the act in imposing upon national banks a liability for the
taxes and penalties upon such omitted shares, which, during
the years covered: by. this section, had been held by persons
.not domiciled within the State of Kentucky. The question
arose under a billfiled in a Circuit Court of the United States
for collection as assessments of real estate are certified for collection
Of taxes thereon.
SEc. 5. The assessments of said shares of stock and collection of
taxes thereon, as contemplated'by this act, may be enforced. as assessments of' real estate and collection of taxes thereon may be enforced.
SEc. 6. The purpose of this act is to place national banks of this
State with respect to taxation upon the same footing as State banks.
as nearly as may be consistently with said article three (3) of the revenue law and said decision of the Supreme. Court.
SFc.7. Whereas, it is important that State banks and national.
banks should be taxed equally for all purposes an emergency exists,
and this act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Approved March 21, 110).

VOL. ccxvii-29

OCTOBER. TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to enjoin the imposition of -liability.upon a national bank for
taxes and penalties upon shares held' between 1892 and 1900
by persons who were not domiciled in Kentucky, it being alleged that the purpose of the proceeding against the bank was
to charge the bank without discrimination between domestic
and foreign-held shares. Prior to this act of March 21, 1900,
there was no law requiring a return for taxation of bank shares
held by owners not domiciled within the State, either by such
holder .or by the bank in-which such shares were held. For
this reason we held in the case referred to that this act imposed, for the years prior to its passage, a liability upon
national banks for taxes upon shareholders, domiciled outside
of the State, which was not borne by other incorporated
moneyed institutions. Upon this subject the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Day, said:
"Without considering the question of constitutional power
to tax nonresident shareholders by means of this retroactive
law, it seems to us that in imposing upon the bank the liability
for the past years, for taxes and penalty, upon stock held without the State, and. which before the taking effect of..the act
under consideration it was not required to return, there has
been imposed upon national banks in this retroactive feature
of the law a burden not borne by other moneyed capital in the
State. This law makes a bank liable for taxes upon property
beyond the jurisdiction of the State, not required to .be returned by the bank as agent for the shareholders, by a statute
passed in pursuance of the authority delegated in § 5219, thus
imposing a burden not b6rne by other moneyed capital within
the State." (Covington v. First NationalBank, 198 U..S. 114).
In the case'now before us for consideration a.liability has
been imposed upon the Citizens Bank, the plaintiff in error,
not for taxes and penalties upon shares of the'bank held by
shareholders domiciled beyond the State-as. was attempted
in .Covington V. First National Batik, 198 U. S. 100-but exclusively upon shareholders domiciled within the State. The
liability is limited to the tax and penalty upon shares owned

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by shareholders domiciled within the State, the name, residence and amount due from each such shareholders being
distinctly set down in the decree.
Neither is the act lacking in due process if, as we shall assume for the moment is the case, the procedure under the third
section is but a new remedy for a tax liability imposed by
prior ldw of the State upon resident holders of shares of the
bank.
Section 5210, hey. Stat., requires every such bank to keep
a correct list of its shareholders accessible to taxing. fficers,
and by § 5219, Rev. Stat., the legislature of each State may,
for itself, determine the manner and method for taxing shares
in such banks, 'subject only to the restrictions named therein..
In making the bank the agent for its own shareholders in proceedings brought to compel a return and secure an assessment,
and in imposing upon the bank a liability for.the tax so assessed against the shareholders, the act only follows the wellsettled procedure sanctioned in National Bank v. CommonSwealth, 9 Wall. 353; Van Slye v. Wisconsin, 154 U. S.581, and
Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S.440..
That the third section does not impose a liability upon
either the domestic shareholders or the bank which did not
exist before under the prior law'of the State, was settled by the
case of Scobee v. Bean, 109 Kentucky, 526. In that case the
shares of certain resident shareholders had been assessed for
taxes laid for years prior to this act of 1900, and it was urged
that since thespeciallegislation for the taxation of such shares
had been held void by this court in Owensboro National Bank
v. Owensboro, that there was no law of the State under which
these shares could be assessed. But the Kentucky court, after
an elaborate review of the general taxing law df the State, held
that there was full prior statutory authority for the taxation
of duch shares, and that under that law, if the bank-failed to
return and pay the tax upon such sharep, it was the duty of the
shareholders to do so. That case has been followed in a.number of othei cases by the same court, and it is the basis upon

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

which the third section of this act of March 21, 1900, was upheld in the present case as not -imposing a new liability, but as
simply providing another method for the assessment of shares
which had escaped assessment under the prior law, because
neither the shareholders nor the bank had returned them for
taxation. In Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100,
111, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Day, accepted this
as the interpretation of the statutory law of Kentucky by the
highest court of the State, saying:
"Following the State court in the interpretation of its own
statutes, it may be said that, as to shareholders residing in
Kentucky and over whom the State has jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of that State has construed its statutes as requiring shareholders in national banks for the years 1893 to 1900,
inclusive, to return their shares -for taxation; and if they did
not make the return the duty was required of the corporation.
In this view of the law it may be that, as to local shareholders,
the act of March 21, 1900, as held by the Supreme Court of
Kentucky, created no new right of taxation, but gave simply
a new remedy, which by the law is operative to enforce preexisting obligations. It may be admitted that section 5219
permits the State to require the bank to pay the tax for the
shareholders. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353;
Van Slyke v. Wisconsin, 154 U. S. 581; Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, 166 U. S.440."
This construction of the prior law and of the act of 1900 was
reaffirmed upon the first' appeal of the present ease, where the

court said:

"The act of March 21, 1900, did not, therefore, make that
taxable which was not taxable before, but simply provided
another mode for the assessment of the shares of stock and the
.payment of the taxes. It was the duty of the assessor to make
the assessment. It was also the duty of the president and
cashier of.the bank to list the shares of stock with the assessor;
but when the asessment was not made. the property was
simply omitted from the tax list, and the sheriff is authorized

CITIZENS NAT'L BANK v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

.Opinion of the Court.

by section 4241, Ky. Stat. 1903, to institute the proceedings
to have any omitted property assessed. A penalty may be
properly imposed in the proceeding because the property was
not listed with the assessor as required by law, and stood as
any other property for the assessment of which a proceeding
under section 4241 may be instituted. While neither tije bank,
nor its president, nor its cashier is the owner of the shares of
stock, the bank is made by the act the agent of the'shareholders, and the notice to it is notice to his agent, within the
meaning of section 4241. The president and cashier were
properly made defendants because it is made their duty by the
statute to list the stock. The bank is required to keep a list
of-its shareholders, and therefore knows who they are. Notice
to the agent in an assessment of property is sufficient notice to
his principal." Comnonvealth v. Citizens National Bank, 117
Kentucky, 946, 957.
But it is said that in Covington v. First National Bank this
court held the third section broad enough to include liability
for omitted returns of shares. held by .non-resident shareholders, and for that reason discriminated against national
banks. But in that case the proceeding enjoined was one for
the purpose of fixing liability upon the bank without discriminating between resident and non-resident shareholders.
But in the present case the state court has not imposed liability upon the bank for taxes or penalties upon shareholders
w.ho were non-residents, but has applied it as affording a valid
remedy for the collection of taxes and penalties upon residents
who had not made return as required under the prior law. As
thus applied, the bank has neither been deprived of any rights
nor compelled to bear any burden in conflict with § 5219, Rev.
Stat., upon which it relies for protection. But if it be assumed-an assumption not sustained by any decision of the
Kentucky Court of Appeals--that the third section is broad
enough to include liability for delinquent taxes claimed fron"
both resident and non-resident stockholders, noneof the latter
class are here complaining, and such an objection cannot be

OC'1OBER TERM, 19u9.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

made by one unaffected by the alleged invalid feature. Austin
v. The Aldermen, 7 Wall. 694; Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S.
305; The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354.

That the body of shareholders in 1901, when the proceeding
was started, was not composed of the same individuals as the
body during the years for which the taxes were due, is doubtless true. But the shares pass from one holder to another subject to the burden of taxes, and if not returned by either the
shareholder or the bank, as required by the prior law, the liability remains to be enforced until barred by limitation of
time. The liability of the bank is that of the shareholder, and
its reimbursement must come from those who hold the shares
when the bank liability is enforced. In Seattle v. Kelleher, 195
U. S. 351, it is said that liability for a tax is not subject to the
rules applicable to the vendor's equity. "A man cannot get.
rid of his liability to a tax by buying without notice." The
liability of the purchaser of shares for taxes not paid, and of
the bank, as agent for its shareholders, is one of the notorious
and necessary consequences of the long sanctioned right of the
States to compel such banks to return its shares for taxation
and to pay the assessment thereon if the shareholder does not.
The legality of this method was reasoned out in National Bank
v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, a case arising under the Kentucky law imposing liability upon banks for the tax upon
shareholders. This answers the objection that in 1898 a reduction in the number of shares had occurred. That only
means that each share of $1,000 was reduced to a share of
$666.66; the shareholders remained the same, the proportion
held by each in the capital being the sanme as before the reduction. The tax upon the share before it wa reduced rested
upon the same share after it had been reduced. None of the
shares taxed had in fact gone out of.existeno-e before the proceeding to compel returns for purposes of taxation. The
original 1,500 shares were represented by the outstanding
1,000 shares, and were in the hands of the same general body
of shareholders.

FAY v. CROZER.
217 U. S.

455

Syllabus.

The objection made that the act violates the supposed contract under the Hewitt act is answered by Citizens Savings
Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, and City of
Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S.100.
The other assignments present no question which need be
more particularly answered.
Judpment affirmned.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent because I think, in substance
and effect the retroactive tax now upheld is a tax on the bank
and its assets, and is therefore void. The power to tax is controlled by § 5219, Rev. Stat., and, as in my judgment, the tax
*vhich.-is now sustained is in conflict with that section, in. my
opinion there should be a judgment of reversal.

FAY v.. CROZER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA'.

No. 165.

Argued April 21, 22, 1910.-Decided May 2,1910.

A writ of error based on constitutional question will not lie unless the
controversy is a substantial one and the question'open to discussion.
If the identical question has been determined in a suit involving a
state statute it is foreclosed although it may subsequently arise in
connection with the provision of the constitution of the State under
which the statute was enacted, and the writ of error will be dismissed.
There is no greater objection. under the Constitution of the United
States to.the forfeiture of land for five years' neglect to pay taxes
than there is to a similar forfeiture by the. statute of limitations for
neglect to assert title against one by whom the former owner has

been disseized.
The questions involved in this case having been determined in King v.
Mullin, .171 U. S. 404; King v. West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92; the writ

of error is dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

