H. C. COOK CO. v. BEECHER.
21o U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

H. C, COOK COMPANY v. BEECHER.
ERROR TO THi

(:IRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 659. Submitted March 14, 1910.-Decided May 16, 191(d.

An. action on a judgment obtained in a patent case is not itself a suit
upon a paxit, and the Circuit Court, in the absence of diverse citizenship, doei-, not have jurisdiction thereof; and so held in regard to
an action aginst directors of an insolvent corporation to make them
personally re-Fponsible for a judgment recovered in the United States
Circuit Court for damages for infringing Letters Patent; nor in this
case cun the complaint be construed as making such defendants
joint tort-feasors with the corporation in: infringing the patent so as
to confer jurisdiction on the court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Vemiire Munger for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tau,a H. Russell for defendant in error.
MR. JUS-.ICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here on the single question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, certified from the court below.
172 Fed. Rep. 166. The judge dismissed the complaint of his
own motion, and the defendants in error confine themselves
to the suggestion that for that reason the judgment should
be reversed at the cost of the plaintiff in error, concurring in
the argument that the judgment was wrong. As we are of
opinion that the judgment was right it will be unnecessary
to consider that point.
The suit is brought by a Connecticut corporation against
residents of Connecticut. We give an abridgment of the comVOL. ccxvii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

:217 U. S.

plaint. The plaintiff is the owner of a patent for fingernail
clippers. The.defendants during the time of the acts complained of were directors in control of another Connecticut
corporation, The Little River Manufacturing Company. This
company infringed the patent, and the plaintiff brought a suit
in equity against it in the same Circuit Court, which. ended in
a decree for an injunction, $12,871 damages and $496.35
costs. The defendants voted to continue the sale of the in.fringing clipper pending the suit, and also voted and caused
Ah be.executed a bond of indemnity from their company to
the selling agent against liability for the sale. As directors
and as individuals they authorized and brought about such
sales, and they directed the defense of the equity suit. In
consequence of the expenditures to the foregoing ends their
company became and is insolvent, and the defendants knew
that that would be the result of a judgment against it, but
did the acts alleged for the purpose of incrcasing the value of
their stock in the company, and of receiving the profits'and
dividends that might be received from the sale.
The plaintiff's argument is that the defendants and their
corporation were joint tort-feasors, and that this is a suitagainst the defendants for their part in infringing its patent,
the judgment against their co-trespasser not having been satisfied. It is unnecessary to speculate whether this is an afterthought or whether the complaint was framed with intentional ambiguity, so that if one cause of action failed another
might be extracted from the allegations, oi what the explanation may be. -But the present iniE rpretation is not the natural interpretation of the complaint The natural interpretation is that which was given to it by the court below; that it is
an attempt to make the defendarits answerable for the judgment already obtained. There w no other reason for alleging that judgment with such detail, while on the other
hand .the patent now supposed to be the foundation of the
claim is not set forth. The judge was full.y warranted in taking. this not to be a suit upon a patent. Tndeed it would seem

STOFFELA

t.

NUGENT.

499

Syllabus.

217.U. S.

from his opinion tha. one of the grounds of jurisdiction urged
before him was that this is an action ancillary to the judgment in the former suit, which of course it is not, any more
than Stillman v Combe, 197 U. S. 436; but the argument

recognized that the former judgment was the foundation of
the present case. Apart from that contention, there can be
no question that, as the judge below said, if the directors are
under obligations by Connecticut law to pay a judgment
against their corporation, that is not a matter that can be
litigated between citizens of the same State in the CircuitCourt of the United States. The only argument attempted
here is that which we have stated- and have decided not to be
open on the compila~at.
Judgment affirmed.

STOFFELA v. NUGENT.
APPEAL FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF TIlE TER1ITOICY

01'

ARIZONA,

No. 179.

Argued April 28, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

One committing a fraud does not become an outlaw and caput lupin*in.
Although one by reason of fraud may have no standing to rescind his
transaction, if it is rescinded by one having the right tp do so tho
ecurt should do such iu.tice as is consistent with adherence to law.
Al.-iough one hdldt Ig a -rot .ge may have fraudulently endeavored to
prevent anuhcr t'.i' ,v-quiring the fee of the property, .;,, way still
rmortgage paid if the other fina.ly gets the
Ti
be entitled t ',ave
property.
Deeds and discharges of mortgages although different in-trunients may
be parts of one transaction; aid one setting aside the deed may also
be required to give up the discharge so as to restore other parties
to the condition in which they stood prior to the transaction.
18 Arizona, 151, reversed

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

