MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

STATE OF MARYLAND v. STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
ON SETTLEMENT OF DECREE.

No. 1, Original. Forms of decree and briefs submitted April 20, 1910.Decree settled May 31, 1910.
Length of time that raises a right by prescription in private parties,
likewise raises such a presumption in favor of States.
Consistently with the continued previous exercise of political jurisdiction by the respective States, Maryland has a uniform southern
boundary along Virginia and West Virginia at low-water mark on
the south bank of the Potomac River to the intersection of the
north and south line between Maryland and West Virginia.
The division of costs between States in a boundary dispute is one
governmental in character in which each party has nbt a litigious,
but a real, interest, for the promotion of the peace and good of the
communities, and all expenses including those connected with making the surveys should be borne in common and included in the
costs equally divided between the States.
Decree in 217 U. S. 1, settled.
T E facts involved in this case are stated in the opin-

ion of the court delivered February 21, 1909, ante, p. 1;
the particular facts involved in the settlement of the decree
are stated in the opinion following.
Mr. .Isaac Lobe Straus, Attorney General of the State
of Maryland, for Maryland.
Mr. William G. Conley, Attorney General of the State
of West Virginia, and Mr. George E. Price for West Virginia.
MR. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
In accordance with the opinion of this court handed
VOL. ccxvi--37

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

down February 21, 1910, ante, p. 1, the learned counsel
for the States of Maryland and West Virginia have submitted drafts of a decree to be entered in the case
in accordance with the conclusions announced by this
court.
The differences in the proposed decrees are: first, concerning the boundary of Maryland along the south bank
of the Potomac River from a point at or near Harper's
Ferry, westwardly to the point where the north and south
line from the Fairfax Stone crosses the North Branch of
the Potomac River, should that boundary line be located at high-water mark as contended by counsel for
the State of Maryland, or -at low-water mark as contended by counsel for the State of West Virginia? In the
opinion heretofore delivered in this case it was declared
that the claim of the State of West Virginia for a location
of her boundary line along the north bank of the Potomac
River should be denied. This conclusion was reached
upon the authority of the case of Morris v. United States,
174 U. S. 196. In the Morris case it was held in a contention between a title holder whose rights originated with
the grant of 1632 to Lord Baltimore, and one whose
rights originated under the grant of James II to Lord
Culpeper, that the grant to Lord Baltimore included the
:Potomac River to high-water mark on the southern or
Virginia shore. As West Virginia is but the successor of
Virginia in title, the conclusion thus announced in the
Morris case necessarily denied her claim to the Potomac
River to the north bank thereof, and a decree was directed dismissing the cross bill of West Virginia in which
such a claim was made.
In the former hearing, however, and in the decision
rendered, the attention of the court was not directed to
the question whether the boundary of Maryland should
be at high-water mark or at low-water mark along the
southern bank of the Potomac River.

MARYLAND t. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As stated in the former opinion, after the State of
West Virginia was created, an arbitration was had between the States of Virginia and Maryland, and the Virginia boundary was fixed at low-water mark on the south
shore of the Potomac. See Code of Virginia, v. 1, title 3,
ch. 3, ยง 13, p. 18. This location of the boundary between
Maiyland and Virginia was accepted by the State of
Maryland and definitely fixed as the line between herself
and the State of Virginia. The arbitration of 1877 was
before eminent lawyers and an elaborate opinion was
rendered by them. They reached the conclusion that
following the description in the charter of Charles I to
Lord Baltimore, the right or south bank of the Potomac
River, at high-water mark, was the boundary between
Maryland and Virginia. This conclusion is in accordance
with the one reached by this court in the Morris case, in
which case it was declared that the province of Maryland
under the charter of Lord Baltimore embraced the Potomac River to high-water mark on the southern, or
Virginia shore, and the court then declared that this title
had not been divested by any valid proceedings prior to
the Revolution, nor was it affected by the subsequent
grant to Lord Culpeper, and therefore, as between the
claimants under the old grant to Lord Baltimore and the
one to Lord Culpeper, that the title of the claimants under the Baltimore grant embraced the Potomac River
to high-water mark on the Virginia shore. But the arbitrators proceeding to establish the boundary between the
States in the light of subsequent events, after referring
to the effect of long occupation upon the rights of States
and nations, and declaring that the length of time that
raises a right by prescription in private parties likewise
raises such a presumption in favor of States as well as
private parties, took up the location of the boundary between the States along the Potomac River, and said:
"The evidence is sufficient to ghow that Virginia, from

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the earliest period of her history, used the South bank of
the Potomac as if the soil to low water mark had been her
own. She did not give this up by her Constitution of
1776, when she surrendered other claims within the charter limits of Maryland; but on the contrary, she expressly
reserved 'the property of the Virginia shores or strands
bordering on either of said rivers, (Potomac or Pocomoke)

and all improvements which have or will be made thereon.'
By the compact of 1785, Maryland assented to this, and
declared that 'the citizens of each State respectively shall
have full property on the shores of the Potomac, and adjoining their lands, with all emoluments and advantages
thereunto belonging, and the privilege of making and
carrying out wharves and other improvements.'
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Taking all together, we consider it established that
Virginia has a proprietary right on the south shore to
low water mark, and, appurtenant thereto, has a privilege to erect any structures connected with the shore
which may be necessary to the full enjoyment of her riparian ownership, and which shall not impede the free
navigation or other common use of the river as a public
highway,
"To that extent Virginia has shown her rights on the
river so clearly as to make them indisputable."
The compact of 1785 (see Code of Virginia, v. 1, title 3,
ch. 3, ยง 13, p. 16) is set up in this case, and its binding
force is preserved in the draft of decrees submitted by
counsel for both States. We agree with the arbitrators
in the opinion above expressed, that the privileges therein
reserved respectively to the citizens of the two States on
the shores of the Potomac are inconsistent with the claim
that the Maryland boundary on the south side of the
Potomac River shall extend to high-water mark. There is
no evidence that Maryland has claimed any right to
make grants on that side of the river, and the privileges

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reserved to the citizens of the respective States in the
compact of 1785 and its subsequent ratifications indicate
the intention of each State to maintain riparian rights
and privileges to its citizens on their own side of the river.
This conclusion gives to Maryland a uniform southern
boundary along Virginia and West Virginia at low-water
mark on the south bank of the Potomac River to the intersection of the north and south line between Maryland
and West Virginia, established by the decree in this case.
This conclusion is also consistent with the previous exercise of political jurisdiction by the States respectively.
The decree will therefore provide for the south bank
of the Potomac River at low-water mark on the West
Virginia shore as the true southern boundary line of the
State of Maryland.
The other contention in the case concerns the costs of
the surveys made by the surveyors of the respective
States. It is the contention of Maryland that they should
be equally divided, while West Virginia contends that
each State should bear its own expense in this respect. An
examination of the record shows that early in the proceedings in this case, on the twenty-sixth day of May,
1894, an order was entered by consent of parties, which
authorized a survey to be made by surveyors to be agreed
upon in writing by counsel for the respective States, said
surveyor or surveyors to return to this court a report and
map or maps made by him or them under the order,
together with copies of such report, map or maps. The
order provided for notice to be given attorneys for both
parties of the time and place of commencing such surveys. Subsequently surveyors were designated, surveys
were made and elaborate reports were filed in this court.
Under these circumstances we are of opinion that the
order heretofore made concerning the division of the
costs should include the costs of such surveys. As was
said by this court in Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359, 370,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Decree.

217 U. S.

in making an order for a division of costs between the two
States in a boundary dispute, the matter involved is governmental in character, in which each party has a real
and yet not a litigious interest. The object to be obtained is the settlement of a boundary line between sovereign States in the interest, not only of property rights,
but also in promotion of the peace and good order of the
communities, and is one which the States have a common
interest to bring to a satisfactory and final conclusion.
Where such is the nature of the cause we think the expenses should be borne in common, so far as may be, and
we therefore adopt so much of the decree proposed by the
State of Maryland as makes provision for the costs of the
surveys made under the order of this court.
We append the decree to be entered:
DECREE

This cause came on to be heard at this term and
was argued by counsel; and thereupon, on consideration
thereof, it was adjudged and decreed as follows:
First. That the true boundary line between the States
of Maryland and West Virginia is ascertained and established as follows:
Beginning at the common corner of the States of Maryland and Virginia on the southern bank of the Potomac
River at low-water mark at or near the mouth of the
Shenandoah River, (near Harper's Ferry,) and running
thence with the southern bank of the said Potomac River,
at low-water mark, and with the southern bank of the
North Branch of the Potomac River at low-water mark,
to the point where the north and south line from the Fairfax Stone crosses the said North Branch of the Potomac,
and thence running northerly, as near as may be, with
the Deakins or Old State line to the line of the State of
Pennsylvania.
Second. That Julius K. Monroe, William McCulloch

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Decree.

Brown and Samuel S. Gannett be, and they are hereby,
appointed commissioners to run, locate and establish and
permanently mark with suitable monuments the said
Deakins or Old State line as the boundary line between
the States of Maryland and West Virginia from said point
on the southern bank of the North Branch of the Potomac River to the said Pennsylvania line, in accordance
with the opinion of this court heretofore filed in this case
and with this decree, the said line to be run and located as
far as practicable as it has been generally recognized and
adopted by the people residing about or near the same
as the boundary line between the said States, and not as
conforming, except to a limited extent, to the western
boundary of the Maryland Military Lots as said lots are
now located and held. Said commissioners shall -mark
said line as run, located and established by them with
suitable stone monuments, at reasonable and proper intervals, according to the topography of the country.
It is further ordered that before entering upon the discharge of their duties each of said commissioners shall
be duly sworn to perform faithfully, impartially and without prejudice or bias the duties herein imposed; said oath
to be taken before the clerk of this court, or before either
of the clerks of the Circuit Courts of the United States
for the District of Maryland or for the Northern District
of West Virginia, or before an officer authorized by law
to administer an oath in the State of Maryland or of
West Virginia, and returned with their report; that said
commissioners may arrange for their organization, their
meetings and the particular manner of the performance
of their duties, and are authorized to adopt all ordinary
and legitimate methods in the ascertainment of the true
location of said boundary line, including the taking of evidence under oath and calling for papers and documents,
but in the event evidence is taken the parties shall be
notified and permitted to be present and cross-examine

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Decree.

217 U.

the witnesses; and all evidence taken by the commissioners
and all exceptions thereto and action thereon shall be
preserved and certified and returned 'with their report.
Said commissioners are also at liberty to refer to and
consult the printed record in the cause so far as they may
think proper to enable them to discharge their duties under
this decree.
It is further ordered. that the clerk of this court shall
at once forward to the governor of each of said States of
Maryland and West Virginia, and to each of the commissioners appointed by this decree, a copy of this decree
duly autheliticated. And said commissioners are authporized, if they deem it necessary, to request the cooperation and assistance of the State authorities in the
performance of the duties imposed on them by this decree.
It is further ordered that said commissioners do proceed, with all convenient dispatch, to discharge their
duties in running, locating, establishing and marking said
line as herein directed, and make their report thereof and
of their proceedings in the premises to this court on or
before the first day of January, 1911, together with a
complete bill of costs and charges annexed.
It is ffhrther ordered that should vacancies occur in
said board of commissioners by reason of death, the refusal to act or inability to perform the duties required by
this decree, the Chief, Justice of this court is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint other commissioners
to supply such vacancies, and said Chief Justice is authorized to act on such information in the premises as
may be satisfactory to himself.
It is further ordered that all the costs of the proceedings by said commissioners under this decree, including a
remuneration of not exceeding fifteen dollars ($15.00) per
day and his reasonable'expenses for each commissioner
whilst actually engaged in the performance of his duties

MARYLAND v. WEST VIRGINIA.
217 U. S.

Decree.

hereunder, and the other costs incident to the running,
locating, establishing and marking said line, shall be
paid by the States of Maryland and West Virginia equally.
Third. That the cross bill of the State of West Virginia, in so far as it asks for a decree fixing the north bank
of the Potomac River as the boundary line between said
States, be, and the same is, hereby dismissed.
Fourth. That this decree shall not be construed as
abrogating or setting aside the compact made between
commissioners of the State of Maryland and the State of
Virginia at Mount Vernon on the 28th day of March,
1785, and which was confirmed by the general assembly of
Maryland and afterwards by act of the general assembly
of Virginia passed on the 3rd day of January, 1786, but
the said compact, except so far as it may have been superseded by the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, or may be inconsistent with this decree,
shall remain obligatory upoir and between the States of
Maryland and West Virginia, so far as it is applicable to
that part of the Potomac River which extends along the
border of said States, as ascertained and established by
this decree.
Fifth. That all the costs in this case and the proceedings therein as the same shall be taxed by the clerk of
this court, and including also the costs of the surveys
made by the two States under the order or orders of this
court, said costs for said surveys to be ascertained and
taxed by the clerk of this court upon vouchers sworn to
and exhibited to him, shall be equally divided between
the said two States.

