OCTOBER TERM. 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. 8.

UNITED STATES v. OBERLIN M. CARTER.
OBERLIN M: CARTER v. UNITED STATES.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE UNITED
STATES, PETITIONER.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION.

Nos. 551, 5 2.

No. 10, Original. Argued January 13,14, 1910.-Deeided
Ap ri 18, 1910.

Where both the courts below have concurred upon material- facts, the
burden rests on the appellant to satisfy this court that such conclusions are erroneous.
Where both courts below'have found on conceded facts the appellant accountable for illicit gains the burden rests on him to satisfy the courts that such conclusion is erroneous as matter of
law.

A public official may not retain any profit or advantage realized
through an interest in conflict with his fidelity as an agent.
Where an officer of the Unitc, . States secretly receives a part of the
profits gained by others in the cxecution of contracts with the Government over which he has ontrol, the United States is entitled to
a decree in equity for the amsvunt so received; and this, even if the
Government cannot prove fraud or abuse of discretion on the part
of such officer or that it has .utfered actual loss.
In determining whether an officer of the Government his beein guilty
of fraud in connection with contracts under his control, abnornmal
profits arouse suspicion and ',ernand clear explanation.
The receipt in any manner as a gratuity or otherwise by an officer of
the United States of a share, of profits on government contracts
under his control through a third party is the same, as to his liability t0 account therefor, as though he received such share direct
from the contractor.

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

The fact that a close friend of the accused, having intimate relations
with him in contiection with the matter in suit, and whose testimony would benefit him if statements made by accused in regard
to their relations are true, does not voluntarily appear in any of
several proceedings, but sees the accused convicted, justifies a presumption that his testimony would not have borne out the de-.
fense.
When an officer of the United States has received a'share of profits
from contracts under his control the Government is not limited, in
a suit to recover the same and in which it has impounded securities, to the traced securities; the officer must account for all his
gains and, under a prayer for other and general relief, the Government is entitled to a judgment for money had and received to its
.use, and may enforce it against any property of the defendant including property in the hands of third parties with notice of how it
was obtained.
The Government in a suit to recover illicit gains is justified in agreeing
to allow the payment of certain expenses connected with the litigation and to determine title of securities which have been impounded by it with difficulty, and in regard to which there are conflicting claims, in consideration of the surrender of the securities to
abide the decision of the court in the case.
Where two courts in succession have concurred in finding that counsel fees are reasonable as allowed, this court does not feel authorized
to disturb the finding.
An agreement on the part of one holding securities in trust, to turn over
all that have not been disposed of bonafide, is not necessarily broken
by a failure to turn over some that are held under claim that they
were retained for services and disbursements properly earned and
incurred, even if the claim cannac. be sustained, if it is made in good
faith and the question submitted to the court.
Where a stipulation for surrender of securities in suit is made by the
Government and other part.es, even though the Government may
make what appears to be a bad bargain, the stipulation must be
observed if it is actually a contract.
172 Fed. Rep. 1, affirmed.

TH facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marion.Erwin, with whom Mr. Edwin W. Sims was
on the brief for the United States, Appellant in No. 551 and

OCTOBER TrERM. 1900.
Argument for the United States.

217 U.S.

Appellee in No. 552, and The Solicitor General for the United
States in No. 10, Original:I
The right of the Govemmeit to the full measure of the relief prayed in its bill in this cause, and granted to it by the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, depends primarily
upon the sufficiency of the proof establishing the conspiracy
between Oberlin M. Carter and the contractors to defraud
the United States as charged in the bill.
The proof submitted established that in devising projects
of improvement, drafting specifications, advertising, letting
contracts, supervision and acceptance, large discretion and
options were reserved to and exercised by Carter as engineer officer in charge.
The proof establishes the fact that during the period in
controversy, Carter's discretion and options after the letting
of the contracts were so exercised uniformly as to create
the largest possible profit to the contractors at the expense
of the United Stites, and did in fact cause an advance of.
more than 300 per cent.
The foregoing facts cannot be seriously disputed, but it is
asserted the exercise of the discretions which Carter claimed
he h d the right to use in the manner in which they were
exercised, were either justified by special circumstances excusable for absence of corrupt motive.
The Government claims that the element of corrupt motive is demonstrated by the proof especially by the establishment of the system of division by currency deposits aggregating more than $578,299.66 up to 1896-which method
of concealment raises an overwhelming presumption of the
existence of the conspiracy. Wharton Criminal Evidence,
§§ 32-38; The Slaiers, 2'Wall. 401; Rea' v. Missouri, 17 Wall.

543.
'The briefs in this case were very voluminous, amounting in all
to over 600 pages; they were largely on the facts, the record consisting of over thirteen thousand pages, and it has not been practicable
to make abstracts of them except on a few points of law referred to.

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Argument for the United State&

The facts proved supply the corrupt motive in the acts of
Carter by which the exorbitant profits were created, and establish the existence of the fraudulent relations between
Carter and the contractors, as the ultimate fact. Tiedeman
on Equity Jr., § 235; Eaton on Equity, 1 135.
Both the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals in
this rause, having found as an ultimate fact that all of the
profits of the contracts are fraudulent profits, and that the
Government is entitled to recover a11"the investments made
therewith in the hands of Carter or his agents, or other persons taking with notice, this court will not disturb the finding unless shown to be clearly erroneous. Stuart v. Hayden,
169 U. S. 1-14; Brainard v. Buck, 184' U. S. 105; Towson v.
Moore, 173 U. S. 17; Dravo v. Fabel, 132 U. S. 487; Baker V.
Cumming, 169 U. S. 189; Smith v. Burnett, 173 U. S. 430, 436;
Sabine v. The Richmond, 103 U. S. 540,
The fundamental question of the guilt of Oberlin M. Carter
of conspiracy with Benjamin D. Greene and John F. Gaynor
to defraud the United States in the river and harbor contracts under consideration has been passed upon affirmatively
prior to thedecrees in the present suit, by numerous courts,
notably in the following proceedings in this and other courts:
. Verlict of guilty against Captain Carter by General CourtMartial.
Reviewed by Attorney. General Griggs and affirmed by
President McKinley, September 29, 1899. See Carter Cas,
22 Opin. Atty. Genl., 589.
Reviewed by this court and sentence affirmed on habea
corpus. Carter v. McClaughy, 183 U. S. 365.
Verdict of guilty against Benjamin D. Greene and John F.
Gaynor, on trial by jury on indictment, April 12, 1906, U. S.
Dist. Court, Southern Dist. Ga. United States v. Greene, 146
Fed. Rep. 803.
Reviewed and affirmed on writ of error by U. S. Circuit
Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit. Greene v. United State8, 154
Fed. Rep. 401-414.
VOL. CCXVn-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

217 U. S.

Petition of Greene and Gaynor for certiorari denied by this
court. Greene v. United States, 207 U. S. 596.
Although owing to Carter's pleading the statute of limitations before the court-martial, barred criminal prosecution
for acts done in connection with all the contracts let prior to
1896, the convictions in the criminal cases were for acts done
under the contracts of 1896, alone, and the bulk of the assets
sought to be recovered in the present suits are charged to
have arisen from funds fraudulently diverted under contracts let from 1891 to 1895, the proof shows that the conspiracy was in continuous operation from 1891 to 1897 under
all the contracts.
When the object is to show system, subsequent as well as
prior offenses when tending to establish identity or intent
can be put in evidence. Wharton, Crim. Ev., §§ 32, 38.
As to tracing trust funds and trusts ex male.ficio, see 2
Pomeroy's Eq. Jr., 2d ed., 1053.
As to elections 'Which the cestui que trust may exercise in
respect to the right to claim fraudulently diverted property
or its proceeds, or to take a money judgment for the trust
assets dissipated, and also as to the election which may be
exercised as to the remedy-at common law or in equity, see
May v. Claire, 11 Wall. 217; Smith v. Vodges, 92 U. S. 186;
Moore v. Crawford, 130 U. S. 122; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333;
17 A. & E. Enc. Law, 475.
Where the trustee commingles trust money with his own
-the right and lien of the beneficiary attaches to this entire
combined fund. 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Jr., §1076; Eaton on Equity,

§210.
If the trustee has withdrawn and dissipated a part of the
commingled fund from a bank account, there will be a conclusive presumption that he dissipated his own fund and the
balance not dissipated will be held to be tle trust fund. The
ordinary rule attributing the first withdrawals to the first
payments into the account does not apply. Nat. Bk, v. Ins.
Co., 104 U. S. 68; Knotchball v. Hallett, 13 Ch. Div. 696.

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.S.

Argument for the United States.

Where a trustee or bailee exchanges with himself the trust
fund for other property or money of his own, the trust will
attach to property taken in exchange, precisely as if the exchange had been made with a third person. Van Allen v.
Amer. Nat. Bk., 52 N. Y. 15; Nat. Bk. v. Ins. Co., 104 U. S.
70.
The beneficiary has a right- to elect to take a money judgment for such part of the assets which the person taking with
notice may have dissipated, or to reject an improper investment and take a money judgment for the conversion, and to
recover the profits of the trust fund. 17 A. & E. Enc. Law,
475; Oliver v. Piat, 3 How. 333; May v. Claire, 11 Wall.
236.
Neither the contractors, nor Carter or Westcott kept any
regular books showing the division of the profits of the contracts, such as would be kept in the conduct Qf a legitimate
business, in which millions were divided between the parties
interested. The proof of the facts has been 'supplied by the
Government through their accounts with banks and brokers
and other documentary evidence. When therefore the system of the division of the profits between Carter, Greene and
Gaynor month by month for a series of years is established,
every' doubt and difficulty bearing on the question as to
whether any particular piece of property in Carter's possession constitutes an investment of the profits of the contracls,
should be resolved against him. Rubber Company v. Good.year, 9 Wall.. 788-803.
After the Government close the taking of evidence in its
behalf, Carter undertook by his own testimony to set up a
claim as t 9 the origin of hisalleged title to a large part of the
securities in controversy wholly different from the claim he
had set up in his sworn answer filed Feb. 1, 1902. It is impossible if his last position be true, that he did not know the
facts when he filed his answer. He will not be allowed to
change his position under such circumstances. Henderson v.
Louisville & Nashville R.. R., 123 U, S. 64; The Santistima

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

217 U. S.

Trinidad,7 Wheat, 339. Much less can such a right of Carter
to the securities be sustained under a variance of the proof,
where that offered' is totally inconsistent with his answer
not amended. Garland v. Davis, 4 How. 131, 148; Boone
v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 178, 179.
If a party attempts to impose upon this court by knowingly or fraudulently claiming as his own, property belonging
in part to others, he shall not be entitled to restitution of
that portion which he may ultimately establish as his own.
The Do8-1termanoa, 5 Wheat. 76, 96.
On the direct appeal of th3 United States from allowance
of fees to defendants, counsel, etc,. the government contends,
besides the errors assigned as to the: exorbitant character of
the allowances to defendants' counsel, that- defendants did
not perform the stipulation under which it is claimed the allowances were made.
The Government had already tied up in the hands of receivers on auxiliary bills in other districts some $288,346.92
of the assets in controversy, and rules for contempt of court
were pending in the present suit in the Northern District of

Illinois against I. Stanton Carter, the brother, and Lorenzo
D. Carter, the uncle of Oberlin M. Carter, for failure to turn
over the assets described in the bill when the stipulation of
Nov. 6, 1901,was entered into.
By paragraph "2" of that stipulation the brother and
uncle were required forthwith, to turn over to the receiver all
the assets claimed by -complainant in its bill as being a part
of the trust funds, which were or might be in the possession,
power, custody or control of the said defendants. By paragraph "4" the brother and uncle were required to file forthwith or simultaneously with the delivery of the assets to
the receiver, answers disclaiming all personal interest in the
assets in controversy. By paragraph "9" the allowance of
attorneys' fees. to defendants' counsel out of the fund to be
turned over was made conditional upon the delivery of substantially all the assets referred to in paragraph "2." The

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Argument for Carter.

delivery to the receiver referred to in paragraph "9" was
not simply the delivery in paragraph "2" but the delivery
accompanied by the disclaimer of all personal interest in all
the assets claimed and described in the bill, which by paragraph "4" the defendants were to forthwith file. The
consideration to the Government was to get the assets at
once into the hands of a receiver, and to relieve itself from the
trouble, difficulties and expense of forcing the assets out of
the hands of the brother and uncle, and to eliminate from
the case any claims they might individually set up. The
brother and uncl9 did not forthwith deliver $23,000, Kentucky Central bonds claimed and described in the bill, but in
their answers did admit their possession and retention, and
did set up personal 6laims or liens thereon for alleged salaries
due them by Carter. The Government was therefore forced
to conduct a long litigation before the master and the courts,
until it overcame these personal claims set up by the brother
and uncle and forced the delivery of the bonds, and finall3
obtained deficiency judgments against the brother and unclc
for assets not even yet turned over. It is contended therefore that the defendants' counsel were not entitled to the
allowances by reason of the failure of the Carters to perform
that part of the stipulation upon which the right to the allowances were predicated.
Mr. J. B. Poraker,with whom Mr. JohnB. Daishwas on the
brief, for appellants in No. 552; appellees in No. 551:
The United States is not entitled to a deficiency decree for
any amount under the pleadings and the record in the •ase.
The theory of the complainant's case is that certain property and securities being in the possession of the defendants,
and the property and securities having been purchased with
the fruits of fraud practiced upon the complainant, it is entitled to said property and securities. Such is the basis of the
complainant's claim and the specific prayer for relief is in
harmony therewith.

OCTOBER TERM 1909.
Argument for Carter.

217 U. S.

The specific prayer must be in consonance with the case
made in the bill; and the relief grantable under the'general
prayer must be in harmony with the facts in the bill and such
as the proof will justify. Equity Rule XXI, 410 U. S.
In many classes of cases in equity the general prayer will
permit the granting of relief other than that specifically
prayed for, but only that relief which is in harmony with the
theory of the case. See English v. Foxhall, 2 Pet. 595; Hobson v. McArthur, 16 Pet. 182, 195; Street's Fed. Eq. Prac.,
§§ 247, 252. And see United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1.
In cases alleging fraud, however, if proof of fraud be wanting, the complainant is not entitled to substituted relief.
Eyr v. Potter, 15 How. 42.
Even, in cases where the general prayer is sufficient, the
special relief prayed at the barmust essentially depend upon
the proper frame and structure of the bill. Story, Eq. Plead.,
§ 38; Cooper Eq. P1. 14; Jones v. Parishesof Montgomery, etc.,
3 Swanst. 208; Lehal v. Miller, 2 Ves. 209; Lord Walpole v.
Lord Orford, 3 Ves. 416; Hiern v. Mill, 13 Ves. 119; 3 Wooddes
Lect. 55, p. 372; Walker v. Devereaux, 4 Paige, 229; &udder
v. Young, 25 Maine, 153.
The theory of this case is the same as one for the recovery of
an ancient silver altar claimed as treasure trove; for a cabinet
of family jewels; for a picture or statue of a particular artist;
and for other objects of a like kind. See Adams' Eq., p. 91,
and Mitf., 117; Duke of Somerset v. Cookson, 3 P. W. 389;
Earl of Macclesfield v. Davis, 3 Ves. & B. 16; Wood v. Rowcliffe, 3 Hare, 304.
The claim in the bill is modified by the stipulation of November 6, 1901, and particularly by paragraphs "2" and
"9" thereof. The former provides for turning over of assets
which have "not heretofore been bona fide' disposed of," the
latter for turning over "substantially all" of the Paul, Westcott and Bragg securities, not heretofore "bona fine paid. out
or pledged."

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Argument for Carter.

Prior to the stipulation of November 6, 1901, the claim of
the complainant was the specific property, real and personal,
above set forth.
By virtue of the stipulation, the claim of the Government
was reduced by the amounts bonafide disposed of.
The decree must conform to the prayers of the bill. Phipp8
v. &dgwick, 95 U. S. 3; Clark v. Beecher, 154. U. S. 631; Hayward v. Eliot National Bank, 96 Th- S.611.
In the present case, the decree. did not conform to the
prayers of the bill, as it awarded to the complainant relief
other than that prayed for, either specifically or'generally,
to wit, money other than that claimed by means of deficiency,
money decrees against L. D. Carter for $7,577.04 and against
I. S. Carter for $18,204.18.
The bill herein sought to have decreed to the complainant
certain property and securities in specie, and the prayers asked
for such relief. Story, Eq. P1., § 8, 42a and 42b; Hardin
v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756, citing Terry v. Rosewell, 32 Arkansas,
492; Colton v. Ross, 2 Paige, 396; Lloyd v. Brewster, 4 Paige,
540; Lingen v. Henderson, 1 Bland, 252; Murphy v. Clark, 1
Sm. & M. 236. The prayer for alternative relief may be by
amendment. Hubbard v. Urton, 67 Fed. Rep. 419.
Having elected to pursue the property and securities in
specie the Government cannot now claim.any other thing than
the property and securities.
The decree must conform to the pleadings; the relief granted
must always be in conformity with the case made in the pleadings. Simms v. Guthrie, 9 Cranch, 19; Crockett v. Lee, 7 Wheat.
523; Carneal v. Banks, 10 Wheat. 181; Harding v. Handy, 11
Wheat. 103.
Compjainant cannot ask for relief by relying on the general
prayer. The theory of the case is that the United States
was defrauded by means of a conspiracy, and the principle,
that if one fails to make out a case for the special relief relief can be secured under the general prayer does not apply
to cases alleging fraud. Brittan v. Brewster, 2 Fed. Rep. 160;

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Carter.

217 U. S.

Kent v. Lake Superior Ship Canal R. & I. Co., 144 U. S. 75;
Hendryz v. Perkins, 114 Fed. Rep. 801.
The decree entered by the Circuit Court on March 18, 1908,
was not in accord with the allegations of the bill, was not in
conformity with the proof, was not in harmony with the relief
prayed for, and was not proper under the rights of the litigants
as defined by the stipulation of November 6, 1.901.
The United States was not entitled to an accounting as
such from the defendants because: The bill is not framed upon
such a theory as will justify an-accounting; the prayers of the
g3ill did not ask such relief; there was no reference to a master
for an accounting generally .but only particularly as hereafter
stated; the right to general accounting was expressly waived
by the complainant in the stipulation of November 6, 1901.
But even if harmony exists between the allegations of the
bill; the relief prayed; the proof in the main case; and the decree, nevertheless the Government is not entitled on the facts
to a deficiency decree against any of the defendants.
The stipulation of November 6, 1901, did not require the
defendants in the trial court to turn over to the receiver all
of what remained of the property formerly in the hands of
Paul, Westcott and Bragg, but only "substantially all" of
it.
The right of the complainant below to a deficiency decree
against the defendants, if any it had, is the same as to each.
The.present deficiency decrees against L. D. Carter and I. S.
Carter are predicated* in part upon the testimony of Robert
F. Westcott in the Gaynor-Greene removal proceedings before
Shields, Commissioner.
This testimony, assuming that it may be used to give notice
to the two defendants (which is denied), is not entitled to any
weight for the reason that it is discredited by numerous false
statements that were palpably made for the purpose of misleading.
The contract of November 6, 1901, expressly exempted the
Carters from turning over anything which had been bona fide

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

disposed of or pledged. The complainant in writing conceded
that payments for salary were proper under that contract.
MR. JUSTICE LURToN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill which seeks to compel the defendant, Oberliii
M. Carter, late a captain in the army of the United States, to
account for illicit gains, gratuities and profits received by him
through collusion with contractors for river, and'harbor improvements in the Savannah, Georgia, improvement district,
and to follow such illicit profits into securities and other property held for him by other defendants to the suit.
In substance, the bill charges that under an appropriation
made by Congress for the improvement of the harbor of Savannah certain contracts were entered into with John F.
Gaynor and Benjamin D. Greene, doing business either in
their joint names, or the name of one of them, or as the Atlantic Contracting Company. That these contracts were made
in pursuance of plans and specifications prepared and let out
under biddings conducted by the defendant Oberlin M.Carter,
then an engineer officer assigned as local engineer of the improvements projected in the Savannah district. These contracts were executed, the appropriations disbursed and the
work supervised and accepted by said officer, or under his
advice and recommendations, by the War Department.
It is charged that Carter entered into a corrupt arrangement
with the said contractors, by which he undertook to use his
power and discretion in the preparation of specifications and
contracts, and in advertising and letting the same out in such
a way as to enable Gaynor and Greene to become contractors
under conditions which would insure them a large profit, and
to use his influence, power and discretion in the supervision
and acceptance of the work to their greatest advantage. It is
then, in substance, averred that in consideration of such service to them and the betrayal of his trust he should share in the
profits and receive one-third of every distribution made. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

charged in substance that under such agreement or understanding there was paid over to the defendant Carter about
$500,000 as his share of the profits, and that the same was converted into real estate, bonds, stocks and negotiable notes, and
that much of these gains were later placed in the custody of
certain other defendants named in the bill, two of them being
brothers of defendant Carter, to wit, Lorenzo D. Carter and I.
Stanton Carter, who are charged as holding same as agents for
Oberlin M. Carter. Securities aggregating in value some
$400,000, into which the larger part of the share of the defendant Oberlin M. Carter is said to have gone, were attached under
this and other bills, ancillary in character, and placed in the
hands of a receiver to abide the result of a decree in this case,
the same decree to go down in the ancillary suits in other
jurisdictions in which any part of the property or securities
has been impounded.
There was a decree in favor of the United States in the Circuit Court substantially as prayed for. Upon an appeal by the
defendants and cross-appeal by the United States, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the decree was affirmed as far as it went,
and was enlarged in certain matters upon the appeal of the
United States. The original defendants have appealed from
this last decree so far as it was favorable to the complainant,
and the United States has perfected a cross-appeal with reference to certain parts of the decree with which it is discontent.
Thus the whole case is here as upon a broad appeal and the
several appeals have been heard upon the entire record, consisting of some thirty printed volumes.
The facts essential to be stated, as sifted out of this great
record of pleadings and evidence, are these: From some time
in 1889 until July 20, 1897, Oberlin M. Carter, then a brilliant
and rising officer of engineers in the army of the United States,
was assigned to duty and placed in charge of certain improvements, for which an appropriation had been made, in the
harbor of Savannah. It is enough to say, without going into
particulars, that this duty involved large powers and con-

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

siderable discretion in the matter of plans, preparation of contracts, advertising for and acceptance of bids, superintendence
and acceptance of the work as it progressed, and some latitude
in the construction and modification of contracts. It is undoubtedly true that the plans, the form of contracts, the
character and time of advertising, and acceptance of bids, as
well as most matters involving the exercise of judgment and
discretion during the execution of contracts, were reported to
the War Department for its approval or rejection. Nevertheless it is inost thoroughly made out that the action and recommendation of a local engineer officer in charge of such work
practically determined the situation so long as he had the confidence of his superiors and kept within the general limits of the
appropriation by Congress for the work in hand. Passing by
a number of comparatively small contracts made prior to
1892, as well as a very large one made in 1896, but not completed when Captain Carter was succeeded in July, 1897, the
bill charges:
"That commencing with the contract No. 4820 of September 16, 1892, let in the name of Edward H. Gaynor, contractor,
that after the payment of the cost of the work, and after the
payment to the other persons, parties to the said fraudulent
scheme as aforesaid, the profits amounting to over two million
dollars, of all the aforesaid contracts so fraudulently let as
aforesaid, were divided from time to time between Oberlin M.
Carter, Benjamin D. Greene and John F. Gaynor in three equal
shares, one of which shares was apportioned to the said Oberlin
M. Carter as his share of the profits arising from the consummation of said scheme to defraud the United States."
Aside from certain contracts prior to September, 1892, and
subsequent to May, 1896, the Circuit Court found, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed the finding, that between
September 16, 1892, and May 12, 1896, the United States,
through the defendant Oberlin M. Carter, as its disbursing
officer, paid to Gaynor and Greene, or the Atlantic Contracting
Company, a corporation of which they owned all of the shares

OCTOBER' TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

except a few assigned to certain kinsmen for organization purposes, on account of what we shall hereafter describe as Gaynor
and Greene contracts, the sum of $2,567,493.48. They also
found that of this sum $1,815,941.62 was distributed as net
profits between John F. Gaynor, Benjamin D. Greene and
some third person not publicly known to be interested. The
remaindei, $751,551.86, was the sum disbursed by Greene and
Gaynor for labor, supplies and salaries, being the actual cost
of the work for which the Government had in some way been
induced to pay, under contracts drawn and supervised by
Captain Carter, the sum of $2,567,493.48. These figures are
not derived from any set of books kept by either the contractors or by Carter. Though the execution of these contracts
extended over a period of four years and involved the receipt
and expenditure of millions, yet the contractors say they kept
no books other than one which related to supplies bought and
ordinary labor or salary accounts, and that that book could
not be produced. The plan under which Greene and Gaynor
carried on these great affairs, as shown by the evidence, was to
apply monthly payments received from Carter, as the Government's disbursing officer, to the payment of the monthly expenses and advances which might have been made by one or
the other of the contractors, and then divide the balance into
three parts, one part being at once handed over to Greene, another to Gaynor and the third to some third person, who both
courts found upon the evidence to have been one Robert F.
Westcott, the father-in-law of the defendant Oberlin M. Carter, or to accounts kept in his name, and that this third was
ultimately turned over to Carter himself.
Without any distinct finding as to the method by which the
Government had been defrauded or tz to the extent of actual
loss sustained, both courts concurred in the conclusion that the
Government had been defrauded, and had suffered great loss.
Without any distinct finding as to whether one-third of the
profits realized had been paid over to Robert F. Westcott, as a
secret partner with Greene and G.aynor, or to him as the

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

representative of Captain Carter, yet both courts concurred
in holding that, if Westcott was interested as a partner in the
contracts, Carter, under all of the facts, was chargeable with
knowledge of such partnership relation, and that, if with such
knowledge he accepted from Westcott the share of profit so received, he was accountable to the Government for all such
illicit gratuities or gains. In view of this concurrence of
opinion upon these material facts the burden rests heavily
upon the appellant Oberlin M. Carter to satisfy this court that
their conclusions are plainly erroneous, or that, conceding the
facts to be as found, the decree holding him accountable is
erroneous as matter of law. The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655,.
658; Br~ainardv. Buck, 184 U. S. 99.
But counsel have urged with great force and much confidence that the conclusion of both of the courts. below rests
upon no secure foundation, and that 'there has been a great
miscarriage of justice in finding that Captain Carter was ever
in any way interested in these contracts or that he ever, directly or indirectly, consciously shared in any profits arising
therefrom. This protest does not, as we understand it, involve
any serious denial of the fact that nearly two millions of dollars
were realized as profit upon contracts drawn by, let out and
supervised by Captain Carter at a net cost to the contractors
of less than one million dollars; nor does it involve any serious
denial that approximately one-third of this abnormal profit
was paid over to some third person not publicly known to have
had any connection with the contracts or the contractors.
If, however, we are in error in assuming such a limitation upon
the contention of counsel, there is no reasonable ground, upon
this record, for doubting the correctness of the conclusion
reached by the courts below as to either of these matters. It
may be conceded that no witness proves an express agreement
between the contractors and Carter that he should serve them
in the letting or execution of these contracts. So far as the
principals have spoken, they have denied any such agreement.
But it is said that none of the specific averments of the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

as to the methods by which the Government had been defrauded were sustained by either the Circuit Court or the Circuit Court of Appeals. Thus it was averred that Carter had
shortened the time required by regulations for advertising
for bids, that he had made it difficult for some intending bidders to secure the plans and specifications, that he had deterred
others by unduly magnifying the risks of the work, that the
specifications were so drawn as to leave to the Government.
the option of two or more materials of different value, or two
or more methods of doing parts of the work, or the right to
substitute one material for another. It was also averred that
Greene and Gaynor were in advance advised as to how suchoptions would be exercised, but that other proposing bidders
were not, and that by this and other artifices Greene and
Gaynor were enabled to secure contracts at unreasonable
prices. It is then averred that Carter had collusively and.
fraudulently increased unduly the quantity of some materials
required and diminished that of other kinds; that he had exercised options reserved in such a way as to greatly increase the
cost of the work and the profit of the contractors; that he
had permitted changes in materials and methods of using the
materials and of doing the work in such manner as to be of
disadvantage to the United States and of advantage to the
contractors, and that he had permitted the use of cheap and
inferior materials and had accepted bad and inferior work.
Aside from the elusiveness of a fraud well concocted and
unsuspected while going on, there was in the way of the Government in this case the fact that in respect to almost everything which had served to add to the cost of the work and to
the profit of the contractors Carter had confessedly a wide
discretion. That he might be controlled in the exercise of this
by his superior officers or by the War Department when important changes, modifications or substitutions were made,
is true. But, in actual practice, this War Department approval
was largely official and formal when the engineer in charge
was regarded as capable and honest and his recommendation

UNITED STATES v. CARTER..
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the limit of the appropriation or of the contract as
made. It was the fact that such an officer in control of such
work had a wide discretion which at once made his fidelity
of the utmost importance to the Government and his cooperation and collusion of such large value to the contractors.
This discretion was the stumbling block in the way of the
Circuit Court. It was not easy to show in some instances that
the work had suffered by the substitution of one material for
another, or by the increase of one kind of mat in mattress work
for another, or by one method of measuring or paying for
mattress work rather than by another. When contracts and
specifications were elastic enough, as seems to have been the
case with the Greene and Gaynor contracts, to justify varying
interpretations, or full of options as to materials or methods,
as was the fact here, nothing short of conduct or action plainly
indefensible as an exercise of honest judgment would justify
an inference of corruption. When to this situation there was
added the fact that as a whole the harbor improvement had
been intelligently and scientifically carried out and was apparently an engineering success, and that this result had been
reached within the limit of the Congressional appropriation, it
was not surprising that upon this line of evidence, considered
apart from all other things, the Circuit Judge found himself
unable to predicate fraud and corruption upon the conduct of
Carter in these details which the bill pointed out as the
methods by which he had enabled a great fraud upon the
Government to be carried out and by which his corrupt collusion was to be established.
The Circuit Court, upon this aspect of the evidence, said:
"The evidence leaves the court with the impression that
there was carelessness in the manner in which some cf the
work was done, indeed, carelessness for which Carter was
justly entitled to be criticised, but considering the material
results, the magnitude of the work, and assuming the absence
of any mercenary or other ulterior motive on Carter's part,
except such as might be justly deduced from the facts so far

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

considered, I am of the opinion, as was Senator Edmunds in
the court-martial case, that Carter's course in the premises
was not necessarily an. abuse of the discretion vested in him,
nor seriously inconsistent with his claim that he discharged
his duty to the government, and that, limited as above
stated, under the rule of evidence obtaining in such case, the
government has failed to maintain its case."
Excluding, as the Circuit Court did, all consideration of
the extraordinary profit which the contractors had in some
way realized upon these contracts, and that through indirect
ways approximately five hundred thousand dollars of this
profit had come at last to the possession of Carter it is not*
surprising that that court did not find evidence of such gross
abuse of discretion as to justify a finding that he had conspired with Greene and Gaynor to defraud the Government.
But the case of the United States against the defendants
is not to be determined by the consideration of the sufficiency
of any one fact or group of facts, but by a judgment based
upon the evidence as a whole. The learned Circuit Judge
very nearly fell into error by such a partial view of the case.
From ultimate error he was saved by the subsequent consideration of the principal, and really determinative, factors
in the case, namely, the abnormal profit which the contractors
had in some way been able to realize, and the evidence tracing one-third of that profit into Carter's hands, with no credible reason for such result. The Circuit Court of Appeals
took a somewhat wider view of the matter. Thus that court
said:
"We concur, therefore, in the view expressed in the opinion filed by the triai judge, that the charge of conspiracy between Captain Carter and the contractors to defraud the
United States, under the contracts referred to, is: (a) neither
established by direct evidence, (b) nor can such charge be
upheld under the testimony alone of methods adopted in
making specifications, advertising for bids, treatment of
proposed bidders, or letting contracts, (c) nor under one or

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.

Opinion of the Court.

the other several branches of testimony reviewed in the
opinion, considered independently of the entire chain of
circumstances. But these conclusions are not the tests of
sufficiency of the entire chain of circumstantial evidence to
sustain that charge. While the fact is stablished, as there
stated, 'that a great wrong was practiced in this raid upon
the government,' we are not satisfied that the. right of the
United States, 'to a decree awarding to it' all property in
question 'arising from funds made up of profits realized by
the contractors' therein; may rightly rest, as there stated,
upon the proposition that Carter must 'ap a conclusion of law
be held chargeable with knowledge of what was being done
in the premises.'
"Under the settled facts above recited, however, linked
with cumulative evidence, tending to prove actual knowledge
on the part of Captain Carter of the excessive profit in the
mattress work and of divisions thereof with Wescott in
New York, and complicity in the fraudulent transactions,
-of which (at one time or another) he acquired approximately
one-third of the net proceeds, we are constrained to the belief that the evidence is decisive, not only of frauds perpetrated by the contractors, but of concurrence and participation therein by Captain Carter."
If it be once assumed that the defendant Carter did secretly receive from Greene and Gaynor a proportion of the
profits gained by them in the execution of -the contracts in
question, the right of the United States in equity to a decree
against him for the share so received is made cut. It is im.
material if that appears whether the complainant was able
to show any specific abuse of discretion, or whether it was able
to show that it had suffered any-actual loss by fraud or otherwise. It is not enough for one occupying a confidential relation to another, who is shown to have secretly received a
benefit from the opposite party, to say, "You cannot show
any fraud, or you cannot show that you have sustained any
loss by my conduct." Such an agent has the power to conVOL. ccxvii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

ceal his fraud and hide the injury done his principal. It
would be a dangerous precedent to lay down as law that unless some affirmative fraud or-loss can be shown, the agent
may hold on to any secret benefit he may be able to make
out of his agency. The larger interests of public justice will
not tolerate, under any circumstances, that a public official
shall retain. any profit or advantage which he may realize
through, the acquirement of an interest in conflict with his,
fidelity as an agent. If he takes any gift, gratuity or benefit
in violation of his duty, or acquires any interest adverse to
his principal without a full disclosure, it is a betrayal of his
trust and a breach of confidence, and he must account to his
principal for all he has received.
The doctrine is well established and has been applied in
many relations of agency or trust. The disability results
not from the subject-matter but from the fiduciary character
of tie one against whom it is applied. It is founded on reason
and the nature of the relation and is of paramount importance, "It is of no moment," said Lord Thurlow, in The
New York Buildings Company v. Alexander Mackenzie, 3
Paton, 378, "what the particular name or description, whether
of character or office, situation or position is, on which the
disability attaches." Thus, in Aberdeen Railroad Company v.
Blaikie Brothers, 1 MacQueen's Appeal Cases, 461, 472, it
was applied to a contract of a director dealing in behalf of his
company. Lord Chancellor Cranworth, in respect to the
general rule, said:
"And it is a rule of universal application, that no one
having such duties to discharge, shall Ire ail-,wed to enter
into engagements in which he has, or i:nl hu,+e, a personal
interest conflicting, or which possibly, may conflict with the
interest of those he is bound to protect.
"So strictly is this principle adhered t , .'at no question i;
allowed to be raised as to the fairness or Unfai:ness of a contract so entered into.
"I, obviously is, or may b(:, impossihK to demonstrate

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

how far in any particular case the terms of such a contract
have been the best for the interest of the cestui que trust,
which it was possible. to obtain.
"It may sometimes happen that the terms on which a
trustee has dealt or attempted to deal with the estate or interests of those for whom he is a trustee, have been as good
as could have been obtained from any other person-they
may even at the time have been better.
"But still so inflexible is the rule that no inquiry on that
subject is permitted. The English authorities on this head
are numerous and uniform.
"The principle was acted on by Lord King in Keech v.
Sandford,1 and by Lord Hardwick in Whelpdale v. Cookson, 2
and the whole subject was considered by Lord Eldon on a
great variety of occasions. It is sufficient to refer to what
fell from that very learned and able judge in Ex parte James.
"It is true that the questions have generally arisen on
agreements for purchases or leases of land, and not, as here,
on a contract of a mercantile character. But this can make
no difference in principle. The inability to contract depends
not on the subject-matter of the agreement, but on the fiduciary character of the contracting party, and I cannot entertain a doubt of its being applicable to the case of a party
who is acting as manager of a mercantile or trading business
for the benefit of others, no less than to that of an agent or
trustee employed in selling or letting land."
In City of .i"'!ay :. Pe.tz, 66 Fed. Rep. 427, 435, it was applied to a cuntra t v. :cre it was shown that a municipal official, buying for the municipality, had received a commission
from the seller. In tliat case the Circuit Court of Appeals said:
"His duty was to give to the public service the full benefit
of a disinterested judgment and the utmost fidelity. Any
agreement or understanding by which his judgment or duty
conflicted with his private interest was corrupting in its
I Select Cases, temp. King, p. 61.

2I

Ves. Sen. 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

tendency. We know of no more pernicious influence than
that brought about through a system of commissions paid
to public agents engaged in buying public supplies. Such
arrangements are a fruitful source of public extravagance
and peculation. The conflict created between duty and interest is utterly vicious, unspeakably pernicious, and an unmixed evil. Justice, morality and public policy unite in condemning such contracts, and no court will tolerate any suit
for their enforcement."
In Leake on Contracts, 409, it is said:
"Any profit made by an agent in the execution of his agency
must be accounted for to the principal, who may claim it as a
debt for money received to his use. A gratuity given to an
agent for the purpose of influencing the execution of his
agency vitiates a contract subsequently made by him, as being
presumptively made under that influence, and a gratuity to an
agent after the execution of the agency, must be accounted
for to his principal."
See also Perry on Trusts, § 430, and Parsons on Contracts,
6th ed., § 89.
The principle is most often applied in cases where one holding the relation of a trustee buys the trust property, though
at public sale. Examples are numerous. Michoud v. Girod,
4 How. 503, 555, is a leading case decided by this court. Referring to the general rule, which forbids one to buy in an estate, directly, or indirectly, when he is acting for the seller, this
court said:
"The general rule stands upon our great moral obligation
to refrain from placing ourselves in relations which ordinarily
excite a conflict between self-interest and integrity. It restrains all agents, public and private; but the value of the
prohibition is most felt, and its application is more frequent, in
the private relations in which the vendor and purchaser may
stand towards each other. The disability to purchase is a
consequence of that relation between them which imposes
on the one a duty to protect the interest of the other, from the

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

faithful discharge of which duty his own personal interest may
withdraw him. In this conflict of interest, the law wisely interposes. It acts not on the possibility that, in some cases,
the sense of that duty may prevail ovr the motives of selfinterest, but it provides against the probability in many cases,
and the danger in all cases, that the dictates of self-interest
will exercise a predominant influence, and supersede that of
duty. It therefore prohibits a party from purchasing on his
own account that which his duty or trust requires him to sell
on account of another, and from purchasing on account of another that which he sells on his own account. In effect, he is
not allowed to unite the two opposite characters of buyer arid
seller, because his interests, when he is the seller or buyer on
his own account, are directly conflicting with those of the n.rson on whose account he buys or sells."
In Robert8on v. Chapman, 152 U. S. 673, .681, this court, in
dealing with the matter of a sale by an agent to himself effected under cover of another, said:
"If an agent to sell effects a sale to himself, under the cover
of the name of another person, he becomes, in respect to the
property, a trustee for the principal, and, at the election of the
latter, seasonably made, will be compelled to surrender it, or,
if he has disposed of it to a bona fid purchaser, to account not
only for its real value, but for any profit realized by him on
such resale. And this will be done upon the demand of the
principal, although it may not appear that the property, at
the time the agent fraudulently acquired it, was worth more
than he paid for it. The law will not, in such case, impose
upon the principal the burden of proving that he was, inYact,
injured, and will only inquire whether the agent has been unfaithful in the discharge of his duty. While his agency continues he must act in the matter of such agency solely with
reference to the interests of his principal. The law will not
permit him, without the knowledge or assent of his principal,
to occupy a position in which he will be tempted not to do the
best he may for the principal."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Reading the evidence in relation to Captain Carter's conduct in drafting the specifications, advertising, acceptance of
bids, and more particularly his almost invariable exercise of
options and other discretionary powers in the subsequent execution of the contracts let to Greene and Gaynor, in the light
of the abnormal profit realized by them, of which, approximately, five hundred thousand dollars ultimately found its
way into his possession, we can but entertain a strong conviction that his relations with them from the beginning were inconsistent with his fidelity to the United States, and that he
must account to his principal for every dollar of gain or profit
or advantage which has been derived by him from *thesecontracts.
The defense against such a conclusion rests upon three
propositions:
1. That the affirmative evidence that he abused his discretion and secretly and corruptly favored Greene and Gaynor is
not sufficient.
We shall not consider this proposition apart from the other
two, for it is not material whether the evidence referred to,
considered out of relation to the other parts of the case, would
or would not make out a case of fraud.
2. That, in view of the great risk attendant upon such
works, the profit claimed to have resulted was not so abnormal
as to justify an inference of fraud, and that it was in part due
to cheap labor, bordering upon peonage.
Neither should this contention be considered apart from the
chain of evidence which leads to but one inevitable result,
namely, that this great profit was not legitimate. Looked at,
apart from everything else, a profit of $1,815,941.i2 upon L
job which cost the contractor but $751,551.86 arouses deep
suspicion, and demands a clear explanation. That explanation does not appear in the facts of this record.
3. It is urged that Captain Carter's greatly increased personal expenditures during the progress of this work, and his
acquisition of some four hundred thousand dollars' worth of

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. s.

Opinion of the Court.

bonds, stock and other property, much of which has been impounded in this case as property into which his illicit gains and
gratuitie have been -traced, arose from the generous bounty
of Robert F. Westcott, and that Carter was ignorant of any
interest Westcott had in the Greene and Gaynor contracts, and
of the fact, if it be a fact, that Westcott's gratuities came from
his participation in the distribution of the profit on the Greene
and Gaynor contracts.
This last proposition presents the very crux of the case.
What was Westcott's relation to the Greene and Gaynor contracts? It has been suggested rather than urged that he was,
secretly, a partner in these enterprises. There is no evidence
that he was, other than the fact that very many profit dividends are traced to bank accounts standing in his name. But,
if .he was, and Carter bargained with him for a share in the
profit, knowing his relation, the legal consequence is the same
as if he had received the same interest from Greene or Gaynor.
But the apparent participation of Mr. Westcott in the profit
arising from the Greene and Gaynor contracts is not inconsistent with a mere agency for Carter, and such an agent we
think he was. That Carter could not openly receive any gains
or gratuities from Greene and Gaynor is obvious. Some gobetween was essential. The requisite conditions for such a
screen would suggest Mr. Westcott. He was an aged retired
business man of some fortune, residing in New York. Captain
Carter, in October, 1890, married one of his daughters. Mrs.
Carter died in December, 1892, leaving no issue. During the
marriage Mr. Westcott made Mrs. Carter a small monthly allowance. His regard and esteem for Captain Carter during
the time of and subsequent to this marriage was, on the evidence, very pronounced, and this relation affords the basis for
the claim that Captain Carter's greatly increased personal expenditures during the progress of the Greene and Gaynor contracts was due to Mr. Westcott's generous and unceasing
gratuities. It is shown that Captain Carter's income was substantially limited to hij pay as captain and that his personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

expenditures did not exceed three or four thousand dollars
per annum down to 1892. From then on his expenditures
steadily increased, until they reached and passed twenty
thousand dollars per annum. Now it cannot escape observation that this great change in his manner of living began with
the Greene and Gaynor contracts and became rdore and more
marked through the progress of the work under his supervision. It does not follow, of course, that the means for such
widening expenditures came from these contracts, but the
circumstance is suspicious and calls for satisfactory explanation.
Among other details averred in the bill of complaint is, that,
beginning in 1892 and continuing down to 1896, Captain Carter
was continuously engaged in making investments in loans,
real estate, bonds and stocks, and that the amount so invested
aggregated more than four hundred thousand dollars. Many
of these investments turned out to be in the identical securities, which, after much difficulty, were impounded under the
process in this case, and are now in the hands of the receiver.
That the increase from these investments was collected by
him, ostensibly for Mr. Westcott, is not questioned. That he
applied it to his own personal use is shown by a comparison of
the bank accounts standing in his name and those in the name
of Westcott, as well as by the inference to be drawn from the
remarkable correspondence between the increasing volume
of this income and his own personal expenditures. Now
Carter does not deny that he did make large investments during 1892, and the years following, nor that the properties and
other securities impounded in this case are in large part the
result of such investments. What he does claim is that in making such investments he was acting for Westcott under powers
of attorney which cover most of the time, and under oral authority during the rest. His use of the income from such investments or of means approximating such income, he says,
was due to the generous bounty of Mr. Westeott. His title
and right to the property in which he made such investments

umi"ruw
217 U. L

rAxl
t'v.

CARTER.

Opinion of the Court.

for Mr. Weqtcott he distinctly sets up in his sworn answer as
resting alonq upon donations made to him in October, 1897,
and he sets Qut as evidence of title two receipts. In that he
says that he "never had any interest, direct or indirect, in the
securities desqribed in the receipts of October 11 and 29, 1897,

until the same were respectively given to this defendant as a pure
and original onation by said Westcott at O1w time of said respective receipts in October, 1897."
The first of these receipts reads thus: " Received New York
Oct. 11, 1897, from R. F. Westcott the following bonds, sixtythree in all." Then follows the numbers and description of
bonds. Signed "0. M. Carter." The other reads thus: "Received New York Oct. 29, 1897, from R. F. Westcott, the
following instruments." Then follows a long list of notes,
mortgages, stocks and bonds. Signed "0. M. Carter." The
securities described in these receipts are undoubtedly the
same securities bought by him from time to time, ostensibly
for Mr. Westcott. These purchases and investments show a
remarkable correspondence in date and amounts with the
dividend distributions of Greene and Gaynor profits, and undoubtedly represent the one-third of such profit nominally
paid to the account or credit of Westcott: During the years
covering these distributions Captain Carter, according to his
own account of matters, stood for and represented Mr. Westcott, sometimes by oral directioii and sometimes by power of
attorney. Certain it is that there was a blending of the business affairs of these two men rarely ever seen. Under Carter's
powers of attorney he checked upon Westcott's bank account
as his own. He had free access to his safe deposit box, where
these securities were kept, and collected interest and dividends
as they accrued. Certain investments of large amounts were
shown to have been made by him which did not appear in
Westcott's bank account. This was explained by Carter, who,
in substance, said that Mr. Westcott had, on going off to
Europe, left a large amount of currency in his safedeposit box,
and that he invested this money for Westcott. Not less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court

217 U. S.

one hundred thousand dollars of money appears to have come
from that source, and yet Carter says that he cannot say how
much Mr. Westeott left there, nor how much remained when he
returned, and that although he and Mr. Westcott had occasional settlements, they neither gave nor received receipts nor
rendered accounts. There is no positive, competent evidence
explaining just why these securities were in the personal
custody of Mr. Westcott in October, 1897. Captain Carter was
relieved at Savannah in July, 1897, by Captain Gillette, who
very early discovered indications of maladministration by his
predecessor. By direction of General Wilson he pressed his investigations and caused charges to be preferred. In August, 1897, and before Gillette's discoveries had been made
public, Captain Carter was sent to England as military attache
with the American embassy. Within a month he returned,
doubtless due to orders, only to find that serious charges, involving his career and his honor, had been preferred, and that
his management of the Savannah district improvements was
about to unaergo a thorough investigation. There is evidence.
as we have before stated, strongly tending to show that he had
himself collected the interest and dividends upon the shares
and bonds mentioned in these receipts up to the time he went
abroad, a fact which points to his having had personal custody
of these securities up to that time. Though there is no competent positive evidence that'he did turn these securities over
to Westcott, or caused them to be placed in his hands, for safekeeping, before his trip abroad, there is good reason for believing so. Frederick P. Solley, another son-in-law of R. F. Westcott, says that he went with Mr. Westcott to his safe deposit box
in October, 1897, to get these securities. The statement then
made to him by Westcott as to why he had possession of these
instruments was objected to as not competent, being declarations in the absence of Carter. The objection was sustained,
and there is no error assigned. Solley says "that he and Westcott carried them to the office of Mr. Stimson, Westcott's la%yer;" there a list was made out and the witness checked them

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

over. He did not see them delivered to, Carter. But Mr.
Stimson did. What explanation Mr. Westcott made to him of
the transaction before Carter's arrival and delivery to him has
been excluded, because not made in Carter's presence. He,
however, saw the transfer, and saw the receipt signed. The
significance of Stimson's evidence as to what was said in the
presence of both Westcott and Carter is that nothing was said
as to this being a gift, and that no acknowledgment was 'made
so indicating. He does not recall anything said by Westcott
in the presence of Carter. He does, however, say that after
Carter had taken the securities, alluding to a number of bonds
which were among the securities, he said: "Daddy, I want you
to take these," or "Daddy, I want to give these bonds to you.
Something substantially to that effect, and that Mr. Westcott
replied: 'No,' either verbally or with some gesture of dissent.
Captain Carter put the bonds which he had referred to back
with the others and took them all." A proposal to give to
Westcott a part of the very securities which Westcott was then
giving to Carter as a "pure dor:ation," is incompatible with
the latter coniention; it accords more with the attitude of one
who was receiving back his own from one who had performed
a great service as custodian of property which the owner had
reason
for concealing from publicity.
A more
significant fact pointing to the same conclusion
is
that Robert F. Westcott did not come forward and testify in
favor of his son-in-law before the board of inquiry, or before
the subsequent court-martial. The investigation before the
board of inquiry and the trial before the court-martial involved
Carter's execution of the contracts in question, and his business relations with both the contractors and with Westeott.
In both investigations Carter claimed, then as now, that his
large personal expenditures were met by gifts to his wife and,
after her death, to himself by Mr. Westcott, and that in the
purchase of large amounts of securities and other property he
had only acted for Mr. Westcott. The testimony of Mr. Westcott was vital to his defense upon the merits. The board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

inquiry sat in the fall of 1897, and the court-martial later.
Westcott was living during both proceedings; but he appeared
in neither, though urged to appear by General Gillespie, the
president of the board. When the evidence was taken in the
pending case he was dead, having died in July, 1901. If it be
conceded that the testimony of one not in the service could
not have been required in a purely military investigation, it
was within Westcott's power to have voluntarily testified as
many other witnesses did. After Carter had been convicted
there occurred in the city of New York certain removal proceedings before a United States commissioner, for the purpose
of removing Greene and Gaynor from New York to Savannah
for trial upon indictments there pending for the very fraud
here under consideration. Carter was included in the same
indictments, but was not a party to the removal proceedings
mentioned. In that case Mr. Westcott was examined by the
United States. His evidence then delivered was offered by the
United States in the Circuit Court as evidence in this case, but
was excluded upon objection, as having been given in a proceeding to which Carter was not a party and without opportunity for cross-examination by him. The objection was
rightly sustained. The evidne was, however, admitted for
the purpose of fixing notice upon the defendants Lorenzo D.
Carter and I. Stanton Carter of the character of the title of
their brother, Oberlin M. Carter, to the securities involved in
this suit. The evidence was properly admitted solely for the
purpose of showing Westeott's disclaimer of any title to or interest in the securities which he handed over to Carter, as
shown by his receipts mentioned above. We, however, exclude any statement made by him as against the defendant
Oberlin M. Carter. The significant fact remains that Robert
F. Wsteott, though the close friend, and, indeed, the affectionate friend of his ex-son-in-law, Oberlin M. Carter, did not
voluntarily appear before either of the military tribunals in his
defense, and, figuratively, stood by and saw him broken in
rank and sent in ignominy to serve a term of five years for

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

having betrayed his trust. It is true that Captain Carter says
that he did all he could to persuade Mr. Westcott to appear
and testify. Nevertheless the failure of Captain Carter to
secure his evidence, in view of their relation, justifies a presumption that it would not have borne out the defense.
The conclusion we must reach is that Robert F. Westcott
was but the agent and representative of Oberlin M. Carter in the
re6eipt of a share in the profit made by Greene and Gaynor.
For whatever gains, profits or gratuities he is shown to
have received he must account.
The contention that any recovery must be limited to property or securities into which such illicit gains have been traced

is not sound.
The facts stated by the bill and supported by the evidence
show that Carter received from Greene and Gaynor, directly
or indirectly, something in excess of five hunolred thousand
dollars as his share in the Greene and Gaynor contracts.
Under the legal principle, which we have heretofore announced, the United States may require Captain Carter to
account for all he has received by way of gain, gifts or profits
out of* the Greene and Gaynor contracts, irrespective of the
actual damage it has sustained or its ability to follow such
gains' into specific property. Undoubtedly it may, as by its bill
it sought. to do, follow the fund so corruptly received and
assert title to any property into which such illegal gains have
gone. But there was a prayer for "other, further and general
relief," and under that it was entitled to a judgment, as for
money had and received for its use, for any difference between the cost of the specific property recovered and the
gains so received which it is unable to trace. The decree
against 0. M. Carter was for a much less sum -than such
difference.
Neither did the agreement of November 6, 1901, between
the parties, of which we shall speak later, afford any defense
to the judgments against I. S. and L D. Carter. Those
judgments were for securities traced to their possession, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

had not been disposed of in good faith, in view of the knowledge they had of the character of Captain Carter's title and
the legal right of the United States to pursue his illegal gains
into the property in their hands. There is no error in the
decree below of which the cross-appellants can complain.
There remains for consideration the appeal by the United
States. This involves allowances made out of the funds in
court into which the gains of Carter had been traced, under
an agreement between the United States and the defendants
0. M. Carter and his brothers. • Only the second, seventh,
eighth and ninth paragraphs of the agreement need be set
out, and they are set out in the.margin.1
1 (2) That as to the assets claimed by the Government as assets
into which it charges the funds intrusted to Oberlin M. Carter as disbursing officer was diverted, with the proceeds, income and reinvestments thereof, where the form of the investments have been changed,
and which assets have or may be hereafter traced into the possession,
custody or control of said defendants, and have not heretofore been
bona fid disposed of by them and therefore beyond their control, shall
be forthwith by the said defendants turned over to the receiver appointed in this cause. But the court will determine whether the one
Kentucky Central bond and one Michigan Telephone bond charged
in the bill to be reinvestments of said alleged trust fund, and which
bonds are claimed by I. Stanton Carter, should be held by the receiver
pending the litigation.
(7) From said fund to be accounted for to the receiver the sum of
$5,000 shall be left in the hands of H. G. Stone, chief counsel for said
Oberlin M. Carter, from which to compensate and cover the expense
of employment of local counsel in any of the Oistricts in which local
counsel have been or may be employed in any branch of this case.
(8) From said fund, to be accounted for to the receiver, there shall

be paid:
(a) The fees, traveling expenses and other expenses of Oberlin M.
Carter's chief counsel and of his attorney at Chicago, to be fixed and
allowed by the court.
The importance of the case, and the means and methods taken to
bring the same to a just determination speedily and not the length
to whicli the proceedings may be protracted, to be considered as the
elements of merits in fixing such fees.

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The United States assigns as error the allowance of a fee
of $60,000 to Mr. H. G. Stone for his services in this and the
ancillary suits, of which a balance of $42,500 was directed
to be paid by the receiver out of the fund in court. Certain
other payments to other counsel and for other expenses are
also objected to. The ground of objection is that the allowance to Mr. Stone is excessive, and that neither that fee nor
any of the other items should have been paid, because the
condition upon which the United States agreed to the use of the
fund had not been complied with.
So far as the amount of the allowance is concerned, we do
not feel authorized to disturb it, as two courts in succession
(b) Also the fee of his attorney for representing said Carter in case
of any criminal trial in Georgia, if Carter should be placed on trial
there prior to the final disposition of this case.
(c) The expenses of taking evidence on behalf of'said Carter, including the services of an accountant at not exceeding ten dollars per
day for his services when needed and actually employed, plus his expenses, if any.
(d) And if before the hnal determination of this cause the said
Oberlin M. Carter shall be liberated from prison he shall be allowed
his reasonable personal expenses incurred by him while engaged in
work in this cause, including the taking of evidence, but with no
compensation for his time. Such expenses to be determined by the
court and paid out of the moneys in court.
Payments and allowances under paragraph numbered "(8)" of this
agreement to be determined by the court from time to time on petition, with the right of the United States to contest the same as unreasonable, or that any expense was not incurred as stated.
(9) The assent of the United 8tates to paragraphs numbered (1),"
"(7)," and "(8)" of this agreement is predicated upon the understanding that the said defendants will turn over to the receiver at
least substantially all of the assets tuined over to I. Stanton Carter
and L. D. Carter, by J. H. Paul and R. E. Westcott and James Bragg,
or their proceeds and reinvestments, except such as has been, prior
to the receivership, bonafide paid out or pledged by them for attorney's
fees or as expenses in defense of Carter, or expended by them legitimately in the handling of said properties, or which has not already been
taken possession by receivers in this cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 0.

have concurred in the. amount allowed as reasonable" The
consideration for the stipulation was abundantly sufficient
to justify the assent of the United States. As it turns out,
the bargain may appear to have been too generous, for the
right of the United States to the entire fund which had been
turned over to Lorenzo D. and I. Stanton Carter, as things
now appear, was clear. Whether the securities which were
the subject of this stipulation could have been seized and
subjected was not so clear then, nor was the character of the
claims which might be asserted by L. D. and I. S. Carter to
these assets: then fully known. Upon this stipulation they
agreed to turn over to the receiver the assets claimed by the
United States in the pending bill, which had not been theretofore "bona fide disposed of by them, and therefore beyond their
Control." This agreement necessarily left open for adjustment the question as to what assetb received from 0. M.Carter
by his brothers, the defendants L. D. and I. S. Carter, had
been theretofore disposed of by them bonafide, and which were
therefore beyond their control. Immediately thereafter I. S.
Carter delivered to the receiver assets in specie aggregating
$71,660. The receiver's receipt is dated November 11, 1901.
On May 23, 1900, I. S. Carter and Ditson P. Carter received
from one J. H. Paul, in trust, for 0. M.Carter, a long list of
securities, of which a part went into the possession of Ditson
P. Carter and the rest into the possession of I. S. Carter.
The securities turned over 'on November 11, 1901, by I. S.
Carter are a part -of those covered by the receipt given 'to
J. H. Paul. On December 23, 1901, Mr. H. G. Stone, counsel
for the Carters, reported to M,,',r. Edward I. Johnson, representing the United States, that, aside from the securities
theretofore turned over by I. S. Carter on November 11,
1901, there remained to be accounted for assets which he
listed, aggregating $69,704.53. Against this he claimed that
I. S. Carter and L. D. -Carter had disbursed $119,127.42.
This left the parties very wide apart. The matter was referred to Mr. William M. Booth, as special master. In the

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
'(A.Pin

of the CO

.

accounting which ensued it appeared that many of the
securities which had been received by one or the other of the
Carter brothers in trust for 0. M. Carter had been sold and
the proceeds either reinvested or disbursed by them, or retained
as salaries under agreements made between them and 0. M.
Carter. The master reported that there were very wide divergencies between the defendants and the United States as to the
rule of accountability, the defendants insisting that any disbursements made by them satisfactory to 0. M. Carter were
proper credits, including large sums appropriated as salaries
for managing these assets, as well as other large amounts for
which no vouchers could be. furnished. On the other hand, it
was claimed that disbursements made by them must be accounted for to the complainant, as to a oaui qu trmt, and
that all sums retained by them as compensation for their services should be disallowed; in view of their undoubted knowledge of the character of Carter's title.
We shall not go further into this matter than to say that
the final result in the Court of Appeals was to disallow the
salary claims and some of the disbursements, for which no
good reason was shown, or no vouchers produced. Among
the assets in the hands of these trustees, at the date of the
account, were twenty-one Kentucky Central bonds of one
thousand dollars each, which appeared to have been the result of reinvestments which had been appropriated by them
on account of salaries. These the court required them to
account for. The result was that, although they were allowed
many thousand dollars on account of very questionable disbursements, there was a considerable decree against each of
them for assets not accounted for or turned- over in specie.
The single question to which we shall apply this generalization
of facts respecting this'accounting is as it affects the condition
upon which the United States agreed that out of the funds in
court Captain Carter's expenses in conducting his defense,
including counsel fees, should be paid. The stipulation was
that "fees, traveling expenses and other expenses of Oberlin
VOL. ccXvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

M. Carter's chief counsel [meaning Mr. H. G. Stone] and of
his attorney at Chicago, to be fixed and allowed by the
court," etc. The "condition" which the United States
claims was violated was "that the said defendants will turn
over to the receiver at least substantially all of the assets
turned over to I. S. Carter and L. D. Carter by J. H. Paul and
R. E. Westcott and James Bragg, or their proceeds and reinvestments, except such as has been prior to the receivership
bona fide paid out or pledged by them for attorney's fees, or
as expenses in defense of said Carter, or expended by them
legitimately in the handling of said properties," etc. This
condition, we think, has not been violated by the insistence
upon a credit for all disbursements made by them in Captain
Carter's defense and in the care of his estate in their hands,
nor by their claim to the compensation which he had agreed
to allow them. The original agreement, as well as the provision inserted by the United States, alike provided that
they should not be required to turn over that which had
been disbursed in good faith. This involved the right to have
their disbursements and their claims for services inquired
into from their point of view. The Central Kentucky bonds
represented, as the court found, reinvestments of funds or
income from funds. They claimed that these bonds were
rightfully their own property under the agreement with
Captain Carter for a salary of $10,000 per year for one of
them and $3,600 per year for the other. The court decided
against this claim, but we do not believe that counsel, who,
in good faith, presented the defense of the Carters for such
salaries or for other disbursements made by them should be
deprived of the benefit of the stipulation which provided for
their compensation. The bargain with the Government may
appear a bad one, but it was a contract and should be observed.
The petition for, a writ of prohibition, being calendar
No. 10, Original, will be dismissed, as the court, in view of
the affirmance of the decree appealed from, finds it now

STEWART v. GRIFFITH.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

unnecessary to decide any question as to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court pending the appeal just disposed of.
The errors assigned by the United States are owded and

th decree affirmed in all particulars.

STEWART v. GRIFFITH, EXECUTOR OF BALL,
DECEASED.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 145. Argued April 8, 11, 1910.-Deided April 25, 1910.

Where, as in this case, a condition of forfeiture in a contract of sale of
real estate declaring it to be null and void in case of failure on the
part of the vendee to perform is plainly for the benefit of the vendor,
the word void means voidable with election to the vendor to waive
or to insist upon the condition.
A contract of purchase and sale of real estate, the tenor of which imports mutual undertakings, held in this case to be an absolute contract and not merely an option to purchase.
In this case a letter from an executor to a purchaser under an uncompleted contract of sale held not to be a waiver of right to compel
specific performance.
The party executing a sealed, contract for purchase of real estate as

principal cannot avoid specific performance on the ground that he
executed as agent for another not mentioned in the instrument.
Under the provisions of J 329, Code of the District of Columbia, an

executor who can maintain an action for specific performance in the
jurisdiction in which the land lies can maintain it in the District if

the defendant there resides.
Under the law of Maryland an executor may maintain an action for
specific performance of a contract made by his testator, to convey
real estate, and the title conveyed by him is good and valid if he
satisfies the Orphans' Court that the entire purchase price is paid,
and such condition is a condition subsequent.
A provision giving executors full and complete power over the entire
estate, real, personal and mixed, held in this case to imply a devise
to the executor of real estate under contract of sale and authority

