OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217. U. S.

CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND OMAHA
RAILWAY COMPANY t. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 133.

Argued March 9, 10, .1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

The acts of May 15, 1856, c. 28, 11 Stat. 9; March 3, 1857, c. 99, 11 Stht.
195, and § 13 of the act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, 19 Stat. 78, providing that mails should be transported over railroads constructed in
whole or in part by aid of land grants at eighty per cent of the
authorized price, apply to such transportation by companies which-..
carry the mail over a leased line which was partly constructed by
such aid, although the transporting company itself received no land
grant aid from the Government.
A court does not overlook contentions advanced which are necessarily
untrue if the proposition upon which its decision rests is true. The
statement of such proposition answers opposing contentions.
The reduction in mail service which the Government exacts in returii
for land grants for building railroads attaches to all tracks including those subsequently built, and to all companies operating thereover.
43 C. Cl. 595, affirmed ;41 C. Cl. 518, approved.

THE facts, which involve the amount of compensation due

for transportation of mail by a railroad company over a
railroad constructed in part by grant of land from. the Government, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel A..Pulman; with whom Mr..Charle8 W. Bunn
was on the brief, for -appellant.
Mr. John Q. Thompson; Assistant Attorney General, with

whom Mr. Philip M. Ashford was on -the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTiCE

McKENNA

delivered. the opinion of the court.

The, question in this case is the legality of certain deductions made by the Postmaster General from the amount

CHICAGO, ST. P. &c. RY.v. UNITED STATES. 181
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

which, it is contended, is due appellant for carrying the mails
between Minneapolis, Minnesota, and Sioux City, Iowa, over
postal route No. 121,045. The appellant sought to recover
the sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000). The Court of
Claims gave judgment for only thirty-three hundred and
eighty-nine dollars and fifty-three cents ($3,389.53), rejecting
the balance of the claim on the authority of Astoria.& Columbia River Railway Company v. United States, 41 Ct. Cl. 284.
The controversy turns upon the application of certain acts
of Congress, granting parts of the public domain to appellant
and to companies with which it has agreements. The acts
provide that the United States mails shall be transported on
such roads at such rates as Congress may by law direct.
Act of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9, c. 28; Act of March 3, 1857,
11 Stat. 195, 'c.
99. Subsequently it was provided as follows:
"SEc. 13. That railroad companies, whose railroad was
constructed in whole or in part by a grant of land made by
Congress on the condition that the mails shquld be transported over their road at such price as Congress should by
law direct, shall receive only eighty per centum of the compensation authorized by this act." Act of July 12, 1876,
19 Stat. 78, 82, c. 179.
The postal route begins at Minneapolis and consists of
land-aided and non-land-aided roads. The following diagram,
taken from the Government's brief, though not drawn to any
scale of measurement, exhibits with enough accuracy for
illustration the aided and non-aided parts of the route and
the companies which received aid.
It will be observed that appellant is the direct beneficiary
of the road from St. Paul south 237.81 miles to a point north
from a place marked as Le.Mars. It used the other parts of
the route under the contracts with the other companies, and
it is. found that from some time prior to October 1, 1900,
appellant used the tracks of such other companies to "form
a continuous route for the operation of its mail trains, made
up of its own rolling stock and controlled and operated by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

own servants, between Minneapolis and Sioux City, except that
within the last-named city it did not use the station of the Illinois Central Company, but had a station of its own." It is also

found that appellant operated its trains over the tracks of the
Great Northern Company under a contract in writing with the
predecessor of the latter company, the St. Paul, Minneapolis
and Manitoba Railway Company, and operated its trains over
the Illinois Central Company under a contract with the predecessor of that company, the Iowa Falls and Sioux City Railroad Company. By the first contract appellant is given "the

CHICAGO, ST. P. &c. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 183
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

right and privilege to run such of its locomotives, engines, car
and trains, handled by its own employds, as shall be reasonably
necessary for the efficient and full transaction of its business to
and from the city of Minneapolis, and all points on the second
party's road, east of St. Paul over the main track of the first
party as now constructed.", It was provided that the amount
of the monthly rental should -be a sum of money equal to
one-twelfth part of the annual interest at the rate of six and
one-half per cent per annum on one-half the value of the
property of the first party, which the second party is entitled
to use under the contract. And in addition such proportion
of cost of maintaining and repairing the properties, "as the
number of wheels per mile" appellant should "run over the
said property or any part thereof, bears to the whole number
of wheels per mile run over the same." It was provided that
the earnings of all local business done by appellant over the
railroad should- belong to the party of the first part, but the
appellant was not obliged to do such business. The contract
was to continue twenty-five years.
The contract of the appellant with the Iowa Falls and Sioux
City Railway Company may be said, as far as the question
in the case is concerned, to be substantially the same. Its
provision as to the use of tracks is more comprehensive. It
permits also appellant to do local business,, sixty *per cent of
the gross receipts of which, however, are to be paid to the
Iowa Falls Company. There is a provision for maintenance
and repairs, based on car mileage. The rental stipulated. is
$450 per mile for the use of each mile of main track.
It is found that appellant had no part in the construdion
of the tracks of the Great Northern Company or of the Illinois
Central Company, and received no benefit on account of their
construction by grants of land or otherwise; that ever since
the construction of the tracks the respective companies owning them have operated trains and transported United States
mails over them, and that the use of the tracks by those
companies does not appear to have been limited by appellants

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. &

using them; that the tracks of the Great Northern Company
between "University Switch and St. Paul are a portion of
postal route No. 141,004 between St. Paul and Fargo, North
Dakota, and those belonging to the Illinois Central between Le Mars and Sioux City are a portion of postal route
No. 143,021 between Dubuque and Sioux City, Iowa. That
prior to October 1, 1900, the Postmaster General designated
the line of railroad between Minneapolis and Sioux City as
postal route No. 141,025, and -has maintained it ever since,
and that between that date and September 30, 1906, appellant
has carried mails over such r6ute, but the Postmaster General
has allowed for the whole of the route only eighty per cent
of the compensation allowed and fixed by law for similar
service for non-land-granted roads. A table of reductions
is given, showing the deductions for the periods mentioned,
amounting in all to $33,301.17.
The contentions of the parties are foreshadowed by the
facts which we have recited. It may be conceded, appellant
says, that the grants of land to the companies to which they
were made "completed contracts between them and the
United States," and it may be further conceded, it is said,
"that by these contracts privity was established between the
United States and these various railroad companies." But
succession to the obligation of the contract is denied because
appellant "has not succeeded to the title or any part of the
title of these respective roads, nor has it in any way directly
or indirectly received any benefit from the respective grants
or done any other thing which creates privity of contract
between it and the United States or which makes it, in the
language of the thirteenth section of the act of 1876, a railroad
company 'whose railroad was constructed in whole or in part
by a grant of land,' " etc.
•This distinction is earnestly insisted on and is made the
foundation of the argument of the appellant. It makes
irrelevant, it is urged, the consideration of the obligations of
the other companies, and by overlooking it the Court of

CHICAGO, ST. P. &c. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 185
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Claims fell into error in Astoria & Columbia River Ry. Co. v.
United States, supra, and continued the error in its judgment
in the case at bar. But did the Court of Claims overlook it?
It was urged in Astoria & Columbia River.Ry. Co. v. United
States, as it is urged in this, to justify the distinction that the
"owning and aided companies," to adopt counsel's designation, are and always have been "ready to perform all the
service due them under the terms of their contract with the
United States,'" and it seems to us that the Court of Claims
did not misunderstand or overlook the contention. A court
does not overlook a contention because it rests its decision
upon a proposition which, if true, the contention is not true.
To bring forward a proposition upon which the questionto be
proved depends answers necessarily opposing propositions.
And this is what the Court of Claims did. It decided that the
power reserved to Congress was over the property, not alone
over the companies who owned it and extended'to every use
of it, whether by the owning companies or any company
who received a right from them. That proposition, if true,
necessarily determined the judgment against the Astoria and
Columbia River Railway Company in the cited case. It is
opposed to the proposition decided in that case by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Oregon, and
which is relied upon by appellant in this case. That case was
brought by the United States to enjoin the Astoria and
Columbia River Railway Company from charging for the
transportation of army supplies from Portland, carried by that
company over the tracks of the'Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, which it used under a contract with the litter
company. The suit was based on the fact that the Northern
Pacific was a land-aided road. The injunction was refused.
The court sustained the contention which was made (and
'which was repeated in the Court of Claims and is repeated
here), that the power reserved to Congress attached in effect
to the company, not to the property. The Circuit Court said:
"The defendant's use of the Northern Pacific Railroad track

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

•217 U. S.

between Portland and Goble does not affect the transportation due from the latter company to the plaintiff. It is still
open to the latter to have its freight carried over every part
of the railroad of the land grant company at fifty per cent
of the regular rate. This is the extent of its right. And this
right, as already appears, has not been affected by the use of
apart of that company's track by the defendant company.
It is a matter of no consequence to the plaintiff [United
States] how many railroads use this particular track of the
Northern Pacific Company, nor what their traffic rates are,
so long as the latter company :continues to afford all the
facilities for transportation over every part of its road required by the plaintiff." United States v. Astoria & C. R. R.
Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 1006.
The order denying application for injunction was pleaded
in the Court of Claims, as it appears from the opinion of the
court, as res judicata of the "subject-matter" there involved,
and therefore the full breadth of the contentions of the railroad company in the Circuit Court and of the decision of that
court was considered by the Court of Claims, and all of the
elements of decision and all the distinctions which depended
upon them the court must have taken into account in rendering its decision.

We are brought then to the question whether the decision
of the court was right. Certain concessions are made by
appellant at the outset of the argument. It is conceded that
the acceptance of the land grants by the "owned and aided
companies" completed a contract between them and the
United States, and that privity was established between
them and the United States. That is privity (we use the
word, as we presume that counsel does, in the sense of party
for the United States, and the companies are parties, not
successors, to rights or obligations) of contract, a personal
obligation, that is, not an obligation which attached to the
property and covered every use of it. This is necessarily
what appellant means, thoug.h it is confused in discussion.

CHICAGO, ST. P. &c. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 187
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant quotes the .statute to show that the obligation is
on the companies, not on the roads, as follows: "That railroad
companies whose railroad was constructed . . .-by grant
.
. shall'receive only eighty per centum of the
of land
compensation authorized by this act."
And further, it points out, as we have seen, that it has not
succeeded "to the title or any part of the title" of the roads,
nor "directly or indirectly receives any benefit from the
respective grants." And, finally, it urges that if appellant
"is a mere licensee, owing no contractual duty as a corporate
individual to the Government, owning no railroad property
which is pledged to the Government as security for the performance of any duty, and operating its trains on the joint
track in such manner as to interfere in no wise with its licensor
in the transaction of its business and the performance of its
contractual duty to the Government, it is difficult to understand how appellant can be held to fall within the terms of
the thirteenth section of the act of 1876, or why it does not
stand upon the same footing as any other company without
privity with the United States."
This is stating by periphrase the simple proposition that
there is a contract only between the United States and each
of the aided companies, in which such company "has bound
itself" [we quote from appellant's brief] "to operate trains for
the transportation of the Government business." And "whenever" appellant says "one of these companies shall fail to
perform its duty, whatever rlief the United States may be
entitled to must be sought 'y appropriate proceedings directed against the delinquent company." Appellant joiris to
this as a concession that the "railroad property" of an aided
company "ispledged to secure the performance" of its
obligation. In what way is not pointed out, or how the
security can be availed of.
The opposite contention to that of appellant is, therefore,
what it was decided to be by the Court of Claims, that the
obligation is upon the property of an aided company, and

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

attaches to all of the uses of the property, whether by the
"owned and aided companies" or any other company, We
concur with the decision of the Court of Claims, and we think
further discussion is not .necessary, except to notice some of
the reasons urged against the decision.
We have noticed and commented on one concession of appelant. Another is made, which we quote with its qualifications, as follows: "We do not contend that a land-aided road
can be sold, either in whole or in part, so as to avoid its obligations to the government. To this extent We concede that the
obligation runs with the railroad aided by land grant, but
the act does not say that companies permitted simply to run
trains on the road shall suffer reductions. They receive no
aid from the grant, and are neither within the terms or the
reason of the statute." .Of course, the statute did not deal
with other companies or with deductions. It would be very
strange if it had. It either imposed a service on the companies or on the road as well. If on the companies alone,
there would necessarily be exclusion of all others. If on the
roads as well, it would comprehend all that used them. If a
difference in degree of use or a participation in the use by
other companies than the aided ones, had been intended it
would have been expressed. The concession as to the effect
of the sale or lease of the road is fatal. As we have already
said, the obligation is either upon the aided companies, to be
enforced by remedies against them, or it is on the property
as well, and if on the property, necessarily on it by whatever
company or person it is used.
It is further contended in the brief filed for the Great
Northern that the condition of earning its grant was the
building of a single track and it or its grantors, it is said, has
provided several. It has therefore, it is further said, "a
surplus of track capacity and, by contract, permits the
Omaha [appellant] and other companies to run their trains
over its tracks." To this it is only necessary to reply that the
service that the Government reserved was coextensive with

BOSTON CHAMBER OF COMMERCE v. BOSTON. 189
217 U.

Sylabus.

the road as constituted under the grant and attached to as
many tracks as should be used.
Again, it is urged that if the Omaha Company had built its
own road there would be no assertion of a right to deduct
from its mail pay, and that it is to run over the Great Norther, the latter not being made thereby lees useful or efficient,
is fok its purpose equivalent to building its own road. An
answer to this is contained in what we have said. We may
add, however, that the appellant no doubt considered the
advantages and disadvantages of the alternative presented
before making its selection, but it could not have supposed,
nor can we admit, that it could lessen rights in property because it could acquire like property for -itself.
Union Pac*f v. Chicw &c. Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 564, and
Lake Superior & Missisaippi R. R. Co. v. United Sttes, 93
U. S. 442, are cited as authorities against our conclusion. We
content, ourselves by saying that they have not that effect.
On United States v. Astoria Company, 131 Fed. Rep. 1006,
we have commented.
Judment affirmed.

BOSTON CHAMBER OF COMMERCE v. CITY OF
BOSTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 99. Argued Marsh 2, 3, 1910.-Derided April 4, 19106

This court accepts the construction of a state statute as to condemnstion of land given to it by the state court.
While in condemnation proeedings the mere mode of occupation does
not limit the right of an owner's recovery; the Fourteenth Amendment does not require a disregard of the mode of ownership, or require land to be valued as an qnencumbered whole when not so held.
Where one person owns the land condemned subject to servitudes to

