BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U.S.

Syllabus.

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 6.

Argued April 11, 12, 1910.-Deoided May 16, 1910.

This court accepts the construction by the highest court of the State
that the tax imposed by the state statute in this case is not a property tax, but a license tax, imposed on the doing of a business which
is subject to the regulating power of the State.
The function of taxation is fundamental to the existence of the governmental power of the States, and the restriction against denial
of equal protection of the law does not compel an iron rule of equal
taxation, prevent variety in methods, or the exercise of a wide discretion in classification.
A classification which is not capricious or arbitrary and rests upon
reasonable consideration of difference or policy does not deny equal
protection of the law, antid so held that the classification in the Kentucky act of 1906, imposing a license tax on persons compounding,
rectifying, adulterating, orblending distilled spirits, is not a denial
of equal protection of the law because it discriminates in favor of
the distillers and rectifiers of straight distilled spirits.
A State cannot impose an occupation tax on .a business conducted
* outside -of the State; and a license tax imposedon those doing a
specified business within-the State is not -unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the law or violating the commerce clause because not imposed on those who carry on the same business beyond
the jurisdiction of the State and who ship goods into the State.
While taxation discriminating in favor of residents and domestic
products, and against non-residents and foreign products, might be
invalid.under the commerce clause, that objection does not apply
to uniform taxation on a business which does not discriminate' in
favor of residents or domestic products.
While a state tax on goods which discriminates arbitrarily against the
products of that State and in favor of other States denies equal protection of the law, as both classes of goods are within the taxing
power of the StatZ, where the license tax for the business of pro-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

ducing the product cannot be imposed on the business beyond the
State, it is not discriminatory. State v. Hojt, 71 Vermont, 59, distinguished.
125 Kentucky, 402, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Levi Cooke and Mr. A. B. Hayes, with whom
Mr. W. M. Hough was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The act is unconstitutional under the Fourteenth
Amendment; under the commerce clause, and under prohibition against inposts upon exports and imports.
On writ of_ erroirJ oreview the judgment of the highest
court of a State, .as against a right claimed uhder the
Federal Constitution, this court is not bound by the state
court's construction of the statute. Scott v. McNeal, 154
U; S. 34;' Huntingto v. A1ttr'l, 146 U. S. 657, 683; Mobile & 0. R. Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Connolly v
Union .Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558.
A State may not, by an arbitrary exercise of its taxing
function, single out for oppression a particular person or
class of persons within 'ts :domain, in violation of the
Constitution. McCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316;
Santa Clara County v. The Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 18
Fed.. Rep. 385, 398.
While the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to
'compel a- State to adopt an iron rule of equal taxation,
Adamns Express Co. v. OWii, 165 U. S. 194; it does prevent
singling out and subjecting to taxation a class, and in
this case the act discriminates against Kentucky rectifiers
and blenders included within its provisions, in favor of
other classes engaged in similar business.
The tax is a property tax. Thierma. v. Commonwealth,
123 Kentucky, 740. Its pjLne purpose is revenue, and as
a revenue measure' it must, to afford equal protection of
the laws, apply equally to all of the general class engaged
in the same business.

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Eror.

A license tax upon a sale of goods is in effect a tax upon
the goods. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 425; Welton v.
Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.
289; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Tiernan v.
Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; United States v. Mayo, 26 Fed.
Cas. 1231; United States v. James, 14 Blatchf. 207; Perry
County v. Railroad,58 Alabama, 546. The act cannot be
reasonably construed as a policing of the business, and
the only purpose it effects is -to secure accurate returns
upon the goods handled, similar to what is effected by
§§ 3259, 3260, Rev. Stat. U. S., and see State v. Bengsch,
170 Missouri, 81; City of Brookfield v. Tooey, 141 Missouri,
619; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171; Levi
v. Louisville, 97 Kentlqcky, 394, 408.
The tax is discriminatory. There is no inherent distinction between blended and unblended distilled spirits
sufficient to justify the classification. The tax discriminates against the distilled spirits attempted to be subjected thereto in favor of the exempted spirits produced
in the State as well as similar exempted spirits coming
from other States and countries.
As to similar statutes held unconstitutional see Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148; State v. Bengsch, 170 Missouri,
81; State v. Hoyt, 71 Vermont, 59; State v. Pratt, 59 Vermont, 590; State v. Montgomery, 94 Maine, 192.
State measures have been sustained on the ground that
they operated with equality both upon domestic goods
and goods from other States, in Kehrer v. Stewart, 197
U. S. 60; Phillips v. Mobile, 208 U. S. 472; Pabst Brewing
Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17; Howe Machine Co. v. Gage,
100 U. S. 676, and see Darnell'v. Memphis, 208 U S. 113,
holding a tax levied upon logs brought into the State of
Tennessee from elsewhere invalid, so long as logs cut from
lands within the State of Tennessee were exempt as
products of the State. The converse of this rule must he
equally true, i. e., a tax levied upon the product of a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

is in.ralid so long as the similar product of other States is
exempt within the State.
A State cannot impose burdens in the way of taxation
upon goods from other States or countries not imposed
upon those produced within its borders, nor can a State
impose burdens upon domestic goods not imposed upon
those coming within its borders from other States and
countries.
In this connection intoxicating liquors, where authorized as legitimate articles of commerce by the public
policy of a State, are upon exactly the same plane as any
other legitimate articles of commerce, in their relation to
the commerce clause of the Constitution. License Cases,
5 How. 577; Bowman v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 125
U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 150.
Under the Wilson Act foreign liquors upon their arrival in a State must be subjected to its law the same as
though they had been produced within the State.
The act to be valid, should require the placing of the
same burden upon spirits brought into the State as upon
those produced within its borders. Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58, 94; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Welton v.
Missouri, 91 U. S. 275.
A State cannot, under the guise of inspection laws,
make discriminations against the products of other States
in favor of its own, Voight v. Vright, 141 U. S. 62, and
the converse of this proposition must also be true.
While a State may validly, in the exercise of its police
power, regulate the manufacture of goods that eventually will go into interstate commerce, and conversely
Congress, in its regulation of interstate commerce, cannot control the manufacture of, as distinct from the commerce in, goods that may eventually go into interstate
commerce, when a State singles out a particular article
on which it places a tax burden as a distinct impost, so

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

that when that article goes into commerce among the
States it inevitably bears such impost as distinct from the
general property tax requirements of the State, such impost must be considered as a regulation of commerce.
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1.
The act makes no attempt to prohibit the manufacture
of liquors, and as to at least one of the classes of liquors
involved, i. e., blended liquors, no act of manufacture is
committed. The mere mixing for sale of two whiskies,
for instance, cannot be regarded as dn act of manufacture.
Hartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609.
The vicious tendency of the tax is that one State takes
tribute from a particular article of its production to the
manifest injury'of interstate commerce in that article.
The prohibition upon the States against placing imposts upon exports is, as to imports, confined to a restriction of -the state power as regards imports from foreign
countries. Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123. The prohibition as to exports does apply only to exports from a
to a foreign country.
State
A charge
upon passengers leaving the State by stage
coach, imposed by a Nevada act, was held unconstitutional
under the commerce clause, and as violating the prohibition against state imposts, and on the ground that it imposed a charge upon the passing of stage-coach passengers
through the State, and thereby abridged the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the United States. Crandall
v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Cook v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S. 566.
Mr. James S. Morris, with whom Mr. James Breathitt,
Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, was on the
brief, for defendant in error:
This act does not affect, nor is interstate commerce involved. Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674; People v.
Rennsalaer & SaratogaR. Co., 15 Wend. (N. Y.) 113; Clark
v. Kansas City, 176 U. S. 114; Co. Supervisors v. Stanly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

105 U. S.305; Stickrod v. Commonwealth, 86 Kentucky,
285; Jones v. Black, 48 Alabama, 540; State v. McNulty, 7
N. D. 169; Board of Comrs. v.. Reeves, 148 Indiana, 467;
Schmidit v. Indianapolis, 168 Indiana, 631.
It does not violate the constitutional prohibition
against imposts on imports. Am. Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, 192 U. S. 500; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123;
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.
It does not deny due process of law. 3 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 717. Part may b6 invalid. Cooley, Const.
Lir., 6th ed., 213; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540; 105 U. S. 305.
Nor does it deny equal protection of law. Mo., Kansas
& C. R. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580-586; Acts, 1906,
pp. 24-205; Act of Congress June 30, 1906, '"Pure Food
Law;" Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 278; Soon Hing v.
Crowley, 113 U. S. 709; Bell's Gap Rd. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Fraser v. McConway & T. Co., 82
Fed. Rep. 257; In re Grice, 79 Fed. Rep. 627; State v.
Garbroski, 11 Iowa, 496; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.
344; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 504; Am. Sugar Refinery Co. v. L. A. An., 179 U. S.89; Mo. P. R. Co. v.
Mackay, 127 U. S. 205; Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584;
Fidelity Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Metler, 185 U. S. 308;
Farmers' & Merchants' Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301;
Tullis v. Lake E. & Western R. R., 175'U. S.348; Mo.,
Kansas & T. P. R. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267.
MR. JusTrcE LURTON delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Commonwealth of Kentucky instituted this proceeding to collect an occupation tax imposed by an act
of the general assembly of that State of March 26, 1906,

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whereby every corporation or person engaged in the
State, "in the business or occupation of compounding,
rectifying, adulterating or blending distilled spirits," is
required to pay "a.,license tax of one and one-fourth
cent upon every wine gallon of such compounded, rectified, blended or adulterated distilled spirits." The defenses presented were, first, that the plaintiff in error had
paid the tax due for the rectification of "single stamp
spirits," and that the act does not cover "double stamp
spirits," used as a basis for its operations; second, that
the act was repugnant to the constitution of the State;
and, third, that the act is repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, in that it is a regulation of interstate commerce, and operates as a denial of the equal protection of the law. The questions concerning the validity of the act-under the state constitution and as to
the liability of the plaintiff in error under the act as construed and enforced by the highest court of Kentucky,
may be laid on one side, for the only contentions which
concern us under this writ of error to the-state court are
those which arise under the Constitution of the United
States.,
The two sections of the act which need be examined are
the first and seventh, *hich are set out in the margin.
I Sac. 1. Every corporation, association, company, copartnership or
individual engaged in this State in the business or occupation of compounding, rectifying, adulterating or blending distilled spirits, known
and designated as single stamp spirits, shall pay to the Commonwealth
of Kentucky a license tax of one and one-fourth cent upon every'wine
gallon of such compounded, rectified, blended or adulterated distilled
spirits.
SEc. 7. Any corporation, association, company, copartnership or individual who shall ship any compounded, rectified, blended or adulterated distilled spirits, known and designated as single stamp spirits,
into this State for the purpose of labeling, branding, marking or stamping the same as Kentucky whiskey, product or spirits or which, before shipment into this State, shall have been, or may thereafter be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The other sections provide for reports and impose penalties for delinquencies in reporting or paying.
. It is said that the seventh section of the act imposes a
license tax upon the business of shipping into the State
of goods like those made by the plaintiff in error, when
deceptively marked or labelled "as Kentucky whiskey,"
or intended to be so deceptively branded or labelled when
received in the State; and that such a burden is illegal as
a regulation of interstate commerce. But as plaintiff in
error concedes that it is not~engaged in bringing into the
State. spirits deceptively marked as a Kentucky product
nor intended to be so branded and has not been proceeded against under that section, it is clear, the section
being a separable provision, that we need not deal with
either of these objections, save only as the presence of
that section in the act may have a bearing upon the question of discrimination between the domestic and foreign
product, which is the real question in the case.
The question upon which the case must turn comes to
this: Has the State denied to the plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the law, guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, by the imposition of the tax provided under the first section of the act? It is urged that that section falls under the condemnation of the provision of the
Federal Constitution, because, to quote from the brief
of counsel, it "creates an unjust discrimination against
labeled, branded, marked or stamped as Kentucky whiskey, product
or spirits, shall be deemed compounders, rectifiers, blenders or adulterators under the provisions of this act, and shall pay the license tax
imposed herein on compounders, rectifiers, blenders or adulterators of
such spirits in this State, and shall make the report required herein to
the auditor of public accounts. Any corporation, association, company, copartnership or individual who shall violate this section of this
act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and fined in any sum not
less than five hundred nor more than one thousand dollars. Each
shipment shall be deemed a separate offense. The Franklin Circuit
Court shall have jurisdiction of all offenses committed under this act.

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky rectifiers and blenders included within the provisions of the act, in favor of the three other classes engaged in the same business, to wit: (1) Kentucky distillers
who vend unrectified and unblended spirits; (2) distillers
of other States, or countries, who vend in Kentucky
dlnrectified and unblended spirits; and (3) rectifiers and
blenders of other States, or countries, who vend in Kentucky untaxed rectified or blended spirits, in direct competition with the spirits of Kentucky rectifiers, or blenders,
subject to the tax."
It has been urged that the tax is not imposed as a license upon the doing of business, but is laid upon the
goods produced, and is therefore arbitrary and discriminatory as one not imposed upon all other like kinds of
liquor, whether produced in or out of the State. This
contention, if good, would only carry the case back to the
underlying objection that .the classification is arbitrary
and unreasonable, and therefore void, as denying the
equal protection of the law, a question which at last must
be answered, whether the tax be an occupation or a property tax. But, the Kentucky Court of Appeals has construed the act as not a property tax, but as one imposing
a license or occupation tax upon the business. Speaking
by Judge Hobson, the Kentucky Court of Appeals said:
"A license tax is imposed. The amount of the license
tax is determined by the amount of the spirits produced.
The tax is not upon the spirits. It is a license tax upon
the business. To hold it as a tax upon the property, we
must disregard the word 'license' in both the title 'and
the body of the act. That a license tax was contemplated
is also shown by § 3, which requires that notice shall be
given to the auditor, stating certain facts, before the
business shall be engaged in; by §4, that upon such notice. the auditor shall thereupon issue to each applicant a
certificate showing that he has complied with the act, and
by §5, that upon the payment of the license tax to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opikijon of the Court.

217 U. A.

treasurer the auditor shall issue to such persons authority
to continue in the business, if such authority is desired.
Under the statute a man may not legally engage in the
business without giving notice and having the certificate
from the auditor. The payment of the tax at the times
required by the statute is the condition upon which authority to continue in the business is made to depend.
This is manifestly a tax on the business and not upon the
property. The amount of the tax is simply regulated by
the amount of the product, but it is a license tax upon the
business. To hold otherwise would be to say that the
legislature cannot impose a graduated license tax based
upon the amount of product manufactured." Such a construction and interpretation of the statute here involved,
by the highest court of the State, should be accepted as
definitely determining that the tax complained of is not
a property tax, but a license tax imposed upon the doing
of a particular business plainly subject to the regulating
power of the State.
We come then to the question as to whether this act
makes an arbitrary and illegal discrimination in favor of
other persons or corporations engaged in the same business. The question is at last one of classification of subjects, trades or pursuits for the purpose of taxation, and
concerns the power of the States to exercise discretion in
the methods, subjects and rates of taxation. Fundamental to the very existence of the governmental power of the
States as is this function of taxation, it is nevertheless
subject to the beneficent restriction that it shall not be so
exercised as to deny to any the equal protection of the
law. But this restriction does not compel the adoption
of "an iron rule of equal taxation," nor prevent variety in
methods of taxation or discretion in the selection of subjects, or classification for purposes of taxation of either
properties, businesses; trades, callings or occupations. This
much has been over and over announced by this court.

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bell's Gap Rd. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Cargill Co.
v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452; Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267; Cook v. Marshall
County, 196 U. S. 268; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U..S.
79; Southwestern Oil Co. v. State of Texas, 217 U. S. 114.
The ahswer of the plaintiff in error concedes that it is
'doing business in this State and engaged in the business
or occupation of compounding, rectifying, adulterating
or blending distilled spirits, known and designated as
single stamp spirits." Plaintiff in error now says that
it has been arbitrarily singled out and its business or occupation taxed, thereby discriminating in favor of "three
other classes engaged in the same business." The first
class which is named as favored are distillers who neither
rectify, compound, adulterate nor blend their products.
Manifestly there is nothing capricious in putting the occupation carried on by the plaintiff in error'n a class distinct from that of the whiskey distillers whose straight
product is the basis for the manipulated product of those
engaged in the taxed business. A very wide discretion
must be conceded to the legislative power of the State
in the classification of trades, callings, businesses or occupations which may be subjected to special forms of
regulation or taxation through an excise or license tax.
If the selection or classification is neither capricious nor
arbitrary, and rests upon some reasonable consideration
of difference or policy, there is no denial of the equal protection of the law. The reasons for discriminating between distillers and rectifiers is not obscure, and a classification which includes one and omits the other is by
no means arbitrary or unreasonable. In American Sugar
Ref. Co. v. Louisiana, cited above, a license tax imposed
upon the business of refining sugar and molasses was sustained, although planters grinding and refining their own
sugar were excluded. In Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180
U. S. 452, 469, a state statute requiring elevator com-

OUIrOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

panies operating elevators situated upon railway rights
of way to take out a license, without requiring those not
so situated to do so, was held not to be an illegal discrimination. This court there said, in reference to the insistence that the discrimination was a denial of the equal
protection of the law, that "No such judgment could be
properly rendered unless the classification was merely arbitrary or was devoid of those elements which are inherent in the distinction implied in classification. We
cannot perceive that the requirement of a license is not
based upon some reasonable ground-some difference that
bears a proper relation to the classification made by the
statute." In Williams v. State of Arkansas, cited above,
a classification in a state statute which prohibited drumming on trains for business for any hotel, lodging house,
bath house, physicians, etc., was sustained as not a capricious classification, although it did not apply to drumring for other business not mentioned, but distinguishable by reason of local conditions. In Southwestern Oil
Co. v. State of Texas, 217 U. S. 114, it was held that an
occupation tax on all wholesale dealers in certain articles
did not deny to the class taxed the equal protection of
the law because a similar occupation tax was not imposed
on wholesale dealers in other articles.
It is next said that "distillers of other States and countries, who vend in Kentucky unrectified and unblended
spirits," are untouched by the law. This is answered by
what we have said as to such distillers manufacturing
within the State, as well as by the obviousness of the fact
that the State of Kentucky had no more right to impose
an occupation tax upon a business conducted outside of
the State than it had to lay a property tax upon property
outside of the State.
Finally, it is said that "rectifiers and blenders of other
States or countries who vend in Kentucky untaxed rectified or blended spirits, in direct competition with the

BROWN-FORMAN CO. v. KENTUCKY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

spirits of Kentucky rectifiers, or blenders, are not subject to the tax."
The contention comes to this: A State may not impose a tax upon the privilege of carrying on a particular
businews or occupation in the State, unless it can impose a
similar tax upon the same business or occupation carried
on outside of the State, if the latter may, through interstate commerce, compete by shipments into the State
with the product of the taxed resident. A system of taxation discriminating in favor of residents and domestic
products and against non-residents and foreign products
might result in commercial non-intercourse between the
States, and as a regulation of interstate commerce would
clearly be invalid. The objection, however, would not
apply to a uniform tax upon goods which does not discriminate in favor of residents or products of the State.
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Himon v. Lot, 8 Wall.
148; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S.296.
There is no pretense here that there has been any discrimination in favor of either the residents or the products
of Kentucky, but the reverse, in that the resident rectifier is discriminated against because the product of the
untaxed non-resident rectifier meets those of the taxed
rectifier in competition for the trade of Kentucky. But
counsel say that discrimination against residents or products of the State is as much a denial of the equal protection of the law as any other method of unequal taxation, and cite State v. Hoyt, 71 Vermont, 59, 64. That
was a case involving the validity of a license tax by the
State of Vermont upon peddlers of goods, "the manufacture of this State." The Vermont court held that when
a business consists in selling goods the exaction of a license for its pursuit was in effect a tax upon the goods
themselves, and that as this tax discriminated arbitrarily
against the products of the State, it was void as denying the equal protection of the law. But the ground of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the decision was that the discrimination against the
goods of the State and in favor of the products of other
States, both classes of goods being within and subject
to the taxing power of the State, was an illegal discrimination, as arbitrary and capricious. The court said:
"The question, therefore, is one of classification. If,
in the case supposed, the resident and the non-resident
manufacturer or their goods can be differently classed,
the statute can be sustained; otherwise not. The rule
on this subject is, that the mere fact of classification is
not enough to exempt a statute from the operation of the
equality clause of said amendment, but that in all cases
it must appear, not only that a classification has been
made, but that it is one based on some reasonable ground,
some difference that bears a just and proper relation to
the attempted classification, and is not a mere arbitrary
selection. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe R. R. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150."
The case has no bearing upon the present case. In
that case the license might have been exacted from one
peddling in Vermont, whether he peddled domestic or
foreign goods. Here the exaction is not upon the product
at all, but upon the business of producing the product
in the-State.. The same business carried on beyond the
State could not have been subjected to a like tax. There
has therefore been no arbitrary or capricious discrimination against the resident rectifier.
There is no error in the judgment, and it is
Affirmd.

