STEWART v. GRIFFITH.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

unnecessary to decide any question as to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court pending the appeal just disposed of.
The errors assigned by the United States are owded and

th decree affirmed in all particulars.

STEWART v. GRIFFITH, EXECUTOR OF BALL,
DECEASED.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 145. Argued April 8, 11, 1910.-Deided April 25, 1910.

Where, as in this case, a condition of forfeiture in a contract of sale of
real estate declaring it to be null and void in case of failure on the
part of the vendee to perform is plainly for the benefit of the vendor,
the word void means voidable with election to the vendor to waive
or to insist upon the condition.
A contract of purchase and sale of real estate, the tenor of which imports mutual undertakings, held in this case to be an absolute contract and not merely an option to purchase.
In this case a letter from an executor to a purchaser under an uncompleted contract of sale held not to be a waiver of right to compel
specific performance.
The party executing a sealed, contract for purchase of real estate as

principal cannot avoid specific performance on the ground that he
executed as agent for another not mentioned in the instrument.
Under the provisions of J 329, Code of the District of Columbia, an

executor who can maintain an action for specific performance in the
jurisdiction in which the land lies can maintain it in the District if

the defendant there resides.
Under the law of Maryland an executor may maintain an action for
specific performance of a contract made by his testator, to convey
real estate, and the title conveyed by him is good and valid if he
satisfies the Orphans' Court that the entire purchase price is paid,
and such condition is a condition subsequent.
A provision giving executors full and complete power over the entire
estate, real, personal and mixed, held in this case to imply a devise
to the executor of real estate under contract of sale and authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

217 U. S.

to convey in order to carry out the contract on receiving the balance
due.
As against heirs, real estate under contract of sale made by testator
may be treated as personalty and conveyed by the executor safe
from any collateral attack upon the will.
31 App. D. C. 29, affrmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jame8 E. Padgaand Mr. Henry E. Davis for the appellant:
The appellee has no right to bring or maintain this suit,
and the alleged action-of the Orphans' Court was without jurisdiction and void; the court had no jurisdiction to pass the
order of December 15, 1903, and it is a nullity.
When a court exercises an extraordinary power under a
special statute prescribing its course, that course ought to be
exactly observed, and jurisdictional facts must appear in
order to show that, its proceedings are coram judice. Thatcher
v. Powell, Lessee, 6 Wheat. 119; Thompson v. Whitman, 18
Wall. 457; United States v. WaLker, 109 U. S. 258; Windsor v.
McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274. Orphans' courts have power to take
probate of wills but not to adjudicate questions of title dependent upon their operation or effect, or to decide upon
the rights of disposition. Schull v. Murray, 32 Maryland, 9;
Ramsay v. Welby, 63 Maryland, 584; Grant Coal Company v.:
Clary, 59 Maryland, 445; Baltimore v. Hood, 62 Maryland, 378.
The record does not show any existing contract which can
be enforced by specific performance against the appellant,
or any contract binding the appellant existing after. November 7, 1903. The contract does not provide that either the
appellee or appellant shall have the option to consider the
contract continuing, and enforce the same after the happening of the contingency, which the contract itself says
shall terminate its own existence.
This contract being a Maryland contract, affecting lands
in that State; must, of course, be construed and its meaning

STEWART'v. GRIFFITH.
217 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

determined in accordance with the decisions of the courts
and the laws of that State.
The primary technical, as well as ordinary, meaning of
the words is. without legal effect or force, incapable to bind
parties or support a right. 29 Amer. & Eng. Ency. Law
(2d ed.), 525. But the contract itself shows that the parties
did not intend the result of the happening of the contingency
to make the contract merely voidable, because they use not
only the term "null and void" but added to it the term "and
of no effect in law." See Pullman Palace Car Co. v. Central
Trans. Co., 139 UI S. 24; Cherry v. Stein, 11 Maryland, 1, as to

the terms of avoidance of a contract for the sale of real estate came before the court for determination. The contract
begins by saying, "I have this day purchased from C.R. Tate,
Administrator," and concludes -with "this sale to be null and
void in case the whole square, as advertised, shall be sold
together, otherwise to remain in full force:" The court said:
"Such an instrument constitutes a valid and effective sale,
subject to become a nullity upon a single contingency."
Hazelton v. Le Duc, 10 App. D. C. 379, does not support appellee's position, and see Jones v. Holliday, 2 App. D. C.279.
Whep the contingency happened the contract terminated and
has since had no existence. But if there should be doubt, the
conduct and conversations of the parties and their agents
maintain this contention. Varnum v. Thurston, 17 Maryland, 471; Roberts v. Bonaparte, 73 Maryland, 191; United
States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S. 118.

The acts and declarations of agents of the parties in the
course of their employment are admissible. Main v. Aukam,
12 App. D. C. 375. So that it is quite certain. that all the
parties understood that if the first payment was not made on
November 7, the contract would become void and ended.
To avoid the effect of this ending of the alleged optional
right the appellee contends that as he had not then received
his letters testamentary his action owas without authority and
not binding upon him under 548, Art. 93, of the Maryland

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Code, but a contract void by statute cannot-be enforced directly or indirectly. It confers no right and creates no obligation as between the parties to it. The party who refuses
stands upon the law and has a right to refuse. Dunphy v.
Ryon, 116 U. S. 491; May v. Rice, 101 U. S. 231. The record
shows that the heirs of Alfred W. Ball are indispensable parties to this suit. 3 Por. Eq. Jur., § 129; Lynn v. Zephart, 27
Maryland, 547; Kellar v. Harper, 64 Maryland, 74.
Where'the court appoints a trustee to sell real estate and
the trustee sells the property no conversion takes place until
the court ratifies the sale and the purchaser pays the purchase money. Dalrymple v. Taneyhill, 2 Md. Ch. 125; Jnes
v. Plummer, 20 Maryland, 416. So where the testator directs his real estate to be sold and the proceeds applied to a
special purpose, no conversion takes place if the purpose falls.
Rizer v. Perry, 58 Maryland, 112; 3 Por. Eq. Jur. 138, 141.
Until the appellant had made his first payment under the
contract, or, in the event of his default, until Ball had made
his election, assuming that he had the right so to do, to enforce the contract there could be no equitable conversion.
3 Por. Eq. Jur. 132; 30 Beav. 206; White's Estate, 167 Pa.
St. 206; Edward v. West, 7 Ch. Div. 858; Smithers v. Loehenstein, 50 Ohio St. 346.
Mr. Charles H. Merillat and Mr. George R. Gaither, with
whom Mr. Charles J. Kappler was on. the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, brought by the executor of one Ball
for the specific performance of a contract made by the appellant to purchase certain land. The plaintiff had a decree in the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and the defendant appealed. 31 App. D. C. 29.
The material parts of the contract are as follows: "This
agreement, Made by and between L. A. Griffith, duly authorized Agent and Attorney under a certain power of At-

STEWART "r.GRIFFITH.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

torney from Alfred W. Ball both of Prince George's County,
Maryland, parties of the first part, and Win. W. Stewart of
Washington D. C. of the second part. Witnesseth that the
said W. W. Stewart has paid to the said L. A. Griffith, Agent,
the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) part purchase price
of the total sum to be paid for a certain tract of land, owned
by the said Alfred W. Ball," in Maryland as described, "same
being sold at the rate of $40 per acre." "And the said L. A.
Griffith as the Agent and duly authorized Attorney of said
Alfred W. Ball, hereby grants bargains and sells, and agrees to
convey by proper deed .
.
duly executed by the said
Ball to the said Stewart, the said Two Hundred and forty acres
of land upon further payments and conditions hereinafter
named to wit: The balance of one-half of the purchase price
of the said 240 acres, more or less, at the rate of Forty dollars
per acre is to be paid to the party of the first part on the 7th
day of November 1903, and the remaining one-half of the total
purchase price, is to be divided into five equal payments secured by five promissory mortgage notes, secured by purchase
money mortgage upon the said property to be given by the
said Stewart and. Wife," with immaterial details. A burial lot
of one acre is reserved "conditioned however that if the said
Ball should desire to abandon the said burial tract
he shall have paid to him therefor by the said party of the
second part the sum of ($40) Forty Dollars," &c. "The said
land is to be surveyed and a plat made thereof, and the total
purchase-price is tn be at the rate of Forty Dollars per acre as
determined by the said Survey the costs of the said Survey is
to be borne equally by the said parties of the first part and the
second parts; the said L. A. Griffith and W. W. Stewart each
to pay one half of the total survey costs. Proper Deed or
Deeds of Conveyance and abstracts of title of the said land
based upon title search therefor is to be made and by J. K.
Roberts . . . showing clear and unencumbered fee
simple title, in the said land above mentioned and described,
in the said Alfred W. Ball, and one half of the total costs for

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. B.

same not exceeding $W0, is to be borne equally by the parties
hereto. In case the remainder of the first half of the purchase
price be not paid on November 7, 1903 then the said $500 so
paid to the said Griffith is to be forfeited and the Contract of
ae and conveyance to be null and void, and of no effect in
law, otherwise to be and remain in full force."
.
"The
possessory right to all of the said prenises on the property
mentioned herein is to remain in the said Ball, until the one
half payment of the total purchase price herein provided for
on November 7th, 1903, has been fully paid and satisfied, to
the said L. A. Griffith Agent. Witness our hands and seals
this 5th day of June 1903. L. A. Griffith. Win. W. Stewart."
With seals.
The first defensk is based on this document itself. It is said
that the defendant made no covenant and therefore was free
to withdraw if he chose to sacrifice the five hundred dollars
that he had paid. This contention should be disposed of before we proceed to the other questions in the case. The argument is that the condition of forfeiture just stated and the
consequence that the contract is to be void and of no effect in
law disclose the only consequences of default on the purchaser's part, much as until well after Lord Coke's time the
only consequence of breaking the condition of a bond was an
obligation to pay the penalty. The obligor was held to have
an election between performing the condition and payment.
Bromage v. Genning, 1 Roll. R. 368; 1 Inst. 2065; Hulbert v.
Hart, 1 Vern. 133 (1682). Some circumstances were referred
to in aid of this conclusion, but as we think the meaning of the
document plain we sl not mention them, except in connection with other matters, further than to say that there is nothing that would change or affect our view.
It seems to have been held within half a century alter
Hulbert v. Hart, that, under some circumstances at least, a
bond would be construed to import a promise of the event constituting the condition. Hobon \'. Trevor, 1 Strange, 533,
S. C., 2 P. Wins. 191 (1723). Anonymous, Moseley, 37 (172.):

STEWART v. GRIFFITH.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Roper v. Bartholomew, 12 Price, 797, 811,822, 826, 832. Hooker
v. Pynchon, 8 Gray, 550, 552. But in this case we are not confined to a mere implication of a promise from the penalty.
The tenor of the .'agreement' throughout imports mutual undertakings. The $500 is paid as 'part purchase price of the
total sum to be paid,' that is, that the purchaser agrees to pay.
The land is described as 'being sold.' There are words of
present conveyance inoperative as such but implying a conchded bargain, like the word 'sold' just quoted. So one-half
of the purchase price 'is to be' divided and the notes secured
by mortgage 'to be given;' and in the case of the burial lot
Ball 'shall have paid to him' $40 if he elects to abandon it.
Here is an absolute promise in terms, which it would be unreasonable to hake except on the footing of a similar promise
as to the main parcel that the purchaser desired to get. We
are satisfied that Stewart bound himself to take the land. See
Wilcoxson v. Stitt, 65 California, 596. Dana v. St. Paul Investmernt Co., 42 Minnesota, 194. The condition plainly is for the
benefit of the vendor and hardly less plainly for his benefit
alone, except so far as it may have fixed a time when Stewart
might have called for performance if he had chosen to do so,
which he did not. This being so, the word void means voidable
at the vendor's election and the condition may be insisted upon
or waived at his choice. Insurance Co. v. Norton, 96 U. S. 234.
Oakes v. Manufacturers'InsuranceCo., 135 Massachusetts, 248,
249. Titus v. Glen Falls Ins. Co., 81 N. Y. 410, 419.
Ball died on November 5 or 6, 1903, just before the date
fixed by the contract for the- payments (November 7). He
left a will appointing Griffith his executor and containing provisions to which we shall refer later. Before probate Griffith
wrote to Stewart as follows on November 10:
"I have consulted two lawyers and am satisfied that I am
fully authorized and empowered to complete sale of land and
give deed. It rests with you. Please let me know positively
on or before Monday next (16th) what you intend to do. There
is a proposition on hand from other sources and I have under

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinio
.

f the Court.

217 U. S.

this will power to act. I will make private arrangements at
once for the disposition of it, if you do not take it. If you do
not meet the requirements and satisfactory arrangements are
not made before Monday, 16th at 12 o'clock please consider
the matter ended. I think you entitled to the property*and
I desire that you shall get it, but I must do for the best interests of the estate, and I will gladly wait for you until Monday, 16th." There is a suggestion in argument not quite unwarranted by the language of this letter, that so far as in
Griffith's power he then left the choice to Stewart whether to
go on with the bargain or not. But apart from Griffith's lack
of authority to change rights at that time, we are satisfied that
the true import of the letter was politely to apply a spur to
Stewart on the assumption that he had a bargain that he
would not want to let go. The land was supposed to contain
oil.
The stipulations in the contract were performed on the part
of the vendor, and it now may be assumed that Stewart's obligation is outstanding, although repudiated by him, and that
the only question is whether it can be enforced by Griffith in
this action. To be sure, there was some attempt on Stewart's
part, earlier, to say that he merely represented an oil company, and that the company alone was bound; but this properly was abandoned at.the argument--Stewart's name is the
only one appearing in the instrument, and he signed and sealed
it, so that no such escape is open. Glenn v. Allison, 58 Maryland 527; M'Ardle v. Irish Iodine & Marine Salts Manf. Co.,
15 Ir. C. L. 146, 153.
Coming, then, to the question that remains, it-is to be noticed as a preliminary that if Ball's executor could have maintained this suit in Maryland, where the land lies, he can maintain it here, where the defendant resides. Code, D. C., § 329.
Some technical objections were raised before, us as to the proof
of the probate proceedings, but it sufficiently appears that
Ball's will was proved and that the plaintiff qualified as executor under the same.

STEWART v. GRIFFITH.
217 U; S.

Opinion of the Court.

By the Maryland code an executor may prosecute any personal action whatever, whether at law or in equity, that the
testator might have prosecuted, except an action for slander.
Code of 1888, Art. 93, § 104. And by § 81 of the same article the executor of a person who shall have made sale of real
estate, and has died before receiving the purchase money
or conveying the same, may convey said real estate to the
purchaser, and his deed shall be good and valid in law, and
shall convey all the right, title, claim and interest of such
deceased person in such real estate as effectually as the deed
of the party so dying would have conveyed the same; provided, the executor of the person so dying shall satisfy the
Orphans' Court granting him administration that the purchaser has paid the full amount of the purchase money.
These seem sufficient to make out the plaintiff's case, if there
were nothing more. The proviso in the Maryland statute
obviously must create a condition subsequent only, as it is not
to be supposed that a purchaser would pay unless he got what
he paid for at the same time. In substance, the code points
out the executor as the proper person to enforce the contract,
gives him a right of action to that end and empowers him to
make the deed. We do not perceive how a conveyance could
be qifestioned, if made by an executor upon a cotemporaneous
payment of the price, in pursuance of a binding contract of his
testator, even without obtaining antecedent authority from
the Orphans' Court. Therefore we do not perceive why the
executor is not entitled to require specific performance if he is
ready to deliver a deed at the moment of recei ;ing the price.
In this case the executor obtained an order from the Orphans'
Court, purporting to authorize him to complete the sale, as if
it had been an application for leave to sell under § 276. This
seems to us to have been superfluous, but it did no harm, and
it does not narrow the plaintiff's right to recover, by being set
out as onV of the foundations of the bill.
Next, apart from statute, it would be going far in search Qf
p6ssible doubts to say that sufficient authority could not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

derived from the will. The language is, "I direct, authorize
and empower" the executor "to have full and complete power
and authority over my entire estate, real, personal and mixed,"
and it directs and empowers him to sell the testator's real estate
at public sale, after one month's notice, upon such terms as he
thinks proper. We are not inclined to disagree with the Court
of Appeals in its opinion that the words taken with the whole
will imply a devise of the legal title to his executor and an authority sufficient to warrant his carrying out the sale. It is
urged that the probate of the will does not establish it conclusively as to real estate, and that the heirs might attack it
hereafter, but it is answered that by the contract the land had
become personalty as against them, and that therefore so far
as this land is concerned the will is safe from collateral attack.
Moreover, as it is clear that the estate has and is subject to a
binding contract, it is hard to see how it matters to the heirs
who does the formal acts of accomplishment so long as he is
accountable to the Orphans' Court.
No question was raised on either side as to the covenants of
Stewart being enforceable only by Griffith personally, because
the agreement was under seal, and Griffith alone was party to
it. Berkeley v. Hardy, 5 B. & C. 355; Frontin v. Small, 2 IA.
Raym. 1418, 1419. It is enough to say that Stewart could not
have profited by the suggestion had it been made.
Deeree arirmed.
MR. JusTcICE HARLAN concurs in the result.

