OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

him on account of dealings for crr on behalf of such customer.
We say this, because it appears, and it is so found, that at the
close of the business transacted by Holzmar, & Co. for Fritz,
the latter was a creditor, not a debtor, of that. firm.
In any aspect in which the case can be properly viewed,
and for the reasons stated, the judgment sustaining Fritz's
claim to the stock and certificate in question faust be
Affirmea.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 111.

Argued January 26, 27, 1910-Decided April 4, 1910.

Where the constitutional defenses asserted in the answer, and embraced in the instructions asked, and refused, in an action for penalties for violating an order of a state commission are net confined to
the reasonableness of the order as such, but also challenge the power
of the State to inflict the penalty at allunder the circumstances dinclosed by the answer, the judgment does not rest on gounds of local
law alone, but a Federal right has been set up and denied which giv&
this court jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev.
Stat.
A state statute which compels a railroad to distribure cars for shipments in a manner that subjects it'to payment of hL rvy penaltiein connection with its interstate busmess irnpow? a burden on it,
interstate business, and is unconstitutional under fhe commerce
clause of the Constitution; and so held in regard to thp Arkansas act
and order of the commission in regard to distribution of cars for
shipment of freight.
Whether or not the rules of an association of railroads in regard to exchange of cars are efficient to secure just dealings as to cars moved iD
interstate commerce is a matter within Federal control, and it is beyond the power of a state court to determine that they are inefficient
and to compel a member of the association to violate such rules.
85 Arkansas, 311, reversed.

ST. LOUIS S. W.'RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States of
a regulation of the Railroad Commission of Arkansas as to
delivery of freight cars, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Roy F. Britton, with whom Mr. Samuel H. West, Mr.
Frank G. Bridges, Mr. William T. Woolbridge and Mr. Nicholas
J. Gantt, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Order No. 305 of the Railroad Commission of Arkansas, or
§§ 6803 and 6804 of Kirby's Digest, as construed by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, being the necessary basis for this
suit, and being, by their terms and as so construed, a burden
on interstate commerce, there is a Federal question involved,
and this court has jurisdiction. Arrowsmith v. Harmoning
118 U. S. 194; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93; Houston & T. C.
Rd. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
United States v. E: C. Knight Co., 156 U. S.1; Wabash &c. Ry.
Cb. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.196; Johnson v.-So. Pac. Co,, 196 U. S. 1.
Order No. 305 of the Railroad Commission of Arkansas, and
§j 6803 and 6804 of Kirby's Digest, as construed by the Supreme -Court of Arkansas in this suit, are void as regulations
of interstate commerce.
A regulation of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce
is a regulation of that commerce, and is repugnant to the commerce clause of the United States Constitution. Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; United States v. E.
C. Knight Co., 156 U. S.1; Johnson v. Southern Pac. Co., 196
U. S. 1; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299; Hall v.
De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204; Louisvile Rd. Co. v. Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132;
Miss. R. R. Com. v. Illinois Cent. R., 203 U. S. 335; McLean v.
Denver &c. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S.218; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Central
Stock Yards Co. v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 113;
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465: Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

v. Alabama, 128-U. S. 196; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S.
299; New York &c. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628.
The order of the Railroad Commission and the statutes of
Arkansas, as applied to the facts in this case, impose a direct
burden on interstate commerce. Houston & T. C. Rd. Co. v.
Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S.
543; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Wabash
&c. Ry,Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Southern Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 107 Virginia, 771; S. C., 60 S. E. Rep. 70; Minnesota
v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S.78;
Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S.62.
The order and statutes are void because Congress has legislated with respect to their subject-matter in the act to regulate
commerce, approved February 4, 1887, and amendments
thereto. U.S. Comp. Stat., 1901, pp. 3155,3172; Pennsylvania
Rd. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v.
Hefley, 158 U. S.98.
Order 305 and the statutes of Arkansas are void, because
they are unreasonable, and their enforcement constitutes a
taking of property without due process of law. They are,
therefore, in conflict with § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356; Houston & T. C. R.Co. v.
Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
154 U. S. 362;CoringtonTurnpike Road v. Sandford, 164 U. S.
578; L. S. & M. S.R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.684; Railroad Co.
v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S.259;
Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.418; Iawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S.133; St. L. & S. F. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649;
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.45.
Mr. Hal Norwood, Attorney General of the State of Arkansas,
and Mr. F. E.Brown, for the defendant in error, submitted:
. For the statute law of Arkansas concerning furnishing of
cars and undenied allegations of complaint filed thereunder,
see act of March 11, 1899, Acts 82-99; Kirby's Dig., Ark.,
§§ 6787, 6286.

ST. LOUIS S. W. 'RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

For the law of Arkansas concerning cars, as construed by the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, which recognizes and establishes
the common-law excuses for failure to furnish sufficient shipping facilities, see St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Gin Company, 77 A.rkansas, 362; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Leder,
79 Arkansas, 59; St. Louis, I. M. & So. Ry. Co. v. Cooperage
Company, 81 Arkansas, 373; and the case below, Oliver v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 89 Arkansas, 467, express no opinion as to interstate shipments.
In this case the validity of order No. 305 of the Railroad
Commission is immaterial. This suit is based upon failure to
furnish cars as required by law.
On this theory, too, the instructions to the jury presented
the law and not the order of the Railroad Commission, and declared the duty of carriers to furnish cars "without undue and
unreasonable delay" (not in five 'days as in the Commission
Order 305) and declared such duty in the language of the Supreme Court declaring the common-law duty to furnish cars
and not in the language of Order 305.
Accordingly, the Supreme Court of Arkansas sustained this
suit as one instituted for a violation of statute (not fdr a violation of rule of Railroad Commission), the language of the
opinion of the lower court on this point being as follows:
"Order 305 is not unreasonable on the ground that it contains
no exception whatever, but requires the cars ordered to be
furnished within five days in all cases and under all circumstances. But the order should be construed, if reasonably
possible, to uphold its validity; and the Supreme Court of
Arkansas has not construed this order as creating an absolute
duty to furnish cars, but on the contrary, has in effect said,
that the duty of a railroad company to furnish cars is no
broader than the common-law duty, whether the railroad be
notified to furnish cars under the statute or the rule of the
Railroad Commission."
There is no Federal question involved. The statutes and
decisions of the Arkansas Supreme Court do not seek to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the duty of railroads to furnish cars an absolute one and the
Arkansas law is simply declaratory of the common law. The
cars not furnished in this case were ordered for shipments
within the State of 'Arkansa--intrastate business.
The law of Arkansas which is simply declaratory of the common law requiring railroads to furnish cars, subject to reasonable excuses, is not a burden on interstate commerce. As to
Houston & Tex. Cen. Ry. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321, see Calvert
on Reg. of Commerce, p. 5, preface 160, 96 and 77.
Referring to interstate shipments, plaintiff in error suggests
in its brief, page 31 of the Interstate Commerce Act of 1877,
requiring railroads to furnish cars, thereby covering the same
subject-matter as the state legislation, has been construed in
10 I. C. C. Rep. 636; 2 I. C. C. Rep. 116; 109 Fed. Rep. 831,
as makihg no requirement concerning furnishing of cars, except to prevent discrimination.
Even if the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 had applied to
furnishihg of cars beyond discrimination, anid even if the law
in this case were being tested with reference to interstate
shipments, the state law declaratory of the common law would
be in 'aid of interstate commerce, Federal policy and Federal
statute, and not inconsistent therewith.
MR. Jus~ricE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Prior to October, 1905, the Railroad Commission of Arkansas promulgated a rule by Which, within five days after
written application by a shipper, it was made the duty of a'
railway company, under the conditions prescribed in the rule,
to deliver freight 'cars to such shipper for the purpose of
enabling him to load freight. The rule-m question, known as
Order No. 305, is in the margin.1

I It is ordered by the commission that its rules be so amended that
when a shipper makes'written application to a railroad company for a
car or cars, to be loaded with any kind of freight embraced in the tariff
of said company, stating in said application the character of the freight,

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Complaint was made by Philip Reinsch before the commission, charging the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company
with having violated this rule, in that it was fifty-one freight
cars short in complying with written applications made at
various times in October, November and December, 1905,
and January, 1906, for the delivery at a station called Stuttand its final destination, the railroad company shall furnish same
within five days from 7 o'clock a. m. the day following such application. Provided, that when a shipper orders a car or cars and does not
use the same, he shall pay demurrage for such time as he holds the
car or cars, at the rate of $1.00 per car per day, dating from 7 o'clock
a. m. after the car or cars are placed.
Or, when the shipper making such application specifies a future day
on which he desires to make a shipment, giving not less than five days'
notice thereof, computing from 7 o'clock a. m. the day following such
application, the railroad company shall furnish such car or cars on the
day specified in the application.
When freight in carloads or less is tendered to a railroad company,
and correct shipping instructions given, the railroad agent must immediately receive the same for shipment, and issue bills of lading therefor, and whenever such shipments have been so received by any railroad company, they must be carried forward at the rate of not less than
fifty miles per day of twenty-four hours, computing from 7 o'clock a. m.
the second day following receipt of shipment. Provided, that in computing the time of freight in transit there shall be allowed twenty-four
hours at each point where transferring from one railroad to another, or
rehandling freight is involved.
The period during which the movement of freight is suspended on
account of accident, or any cause not within the power of the railroad
company to prevent, shall be added to the free time allowed in this
rule, and counted as additional free time.
The commission reserves the right on its own motion to suspend the
operation of these rules, or any one or more of. them, in whole or in part,
whenever it shall appear that justice demands such action, and the
commission will, upon complaint, hear and act upon applications for a
like suspension.
Nothing in these rules shall apply to shipment of live stock and
perishable freight where the rules of this commission or the laws of the
State require the more prompt frnishing of cars or movement of
freight than provided for by these rules.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

gart, of a much larger number 01 freight cars. The commission found that the railWay company was short in the delivery
of cars as alleged, and that its failures in that respect not only
violated Order No. 305, previously referred to, but also § 10
of an act of March 11, 1899, embodied in Kirby's Digest as
§ 6803. It also declared that by these violations of the statute
and rule of the commission the railway company had become
subject to penalties in favor of the State of Arkansas, as provided in § 18 of the act of 1899, being § 6813 of Kirby's Digest,
which penalties were to be enforced as therein provided.
Conformably to the section in question the prosecuting attorney for the proper county commenced this action in the:
name of the State against the railway company to recover
penalties to the amount of $1,950. Rule No.. 305 of the commission was recited, the proceedings before the commission
were detailed, and the order made by the commission finding
the defaults on the part of the railway company was set out,
and upon these considerations the prayer for the statutory
penalty was based.
A demurrer having been overruled, an answer was filed on
behalf of the railway company. By that answer it was alleged
that the company was engaged in the transportation of interstate shipments of freight over its line of railroad in the States
of Arkansas, Illinois, Louisiana and Missouri, and that its
equipment of freight cars for tl.e transaction of its business,
both interstate and state, was ample. That, anticipating. the
possible increase of business, both interstate and state, and
as a precautionary measure, the company had, prior to the
autumn of 1905, endeavored to contract for the construction
of a large number of additional freight cars, but failed to do
so, because the car manufacturers had such a press of work
that they were unable to take the order. That thereupon,
in an effort to provide for every future contingency, the corporation had at a very large expense commenced the construction
of a plant of large capacity to enable it to manufacture its
own cars and was pressing the same to completion in the

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shortest possible time. It was alleged that at the time of the
alleged defaults there was an extraordinary demand for cars,
both for the movement of interstate and local traffic, and
when, as the result of this condition, the shortage developed
the company had equally distributed its cars to the shippers
along its line, giving no preference to interstate over local
shipp'ers or to local over those desiring cars for interstate
shipments. It was alleged that it would have been impossible
for the company to comply with rule No. 305 without discriminating against its interstate comunerce shippers, and
therefore obedience to the rule would have resulted in a direct
burden upon interstate commerce. Referring to the interstate
commerce business of the company, which it was alleged moved
over its own line through the States of Arkansas, Illinois,
Louisiana and Missouri, and thence by connecting roads
throughout the United States and Canada, it was charged the
burden imposed upon the company to deliver cars to local shippers without reference to the effect and operation of such
delivery upon the interstate commerce business of the company would be a direct burden upon interstate commerce,
and therefore repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and that the same result would flow from ehforcing the
command of the commission as embodied in its rule No. 305.
The rule, moreover, was especially assailed as being repugnant
not only to the commerce clause, but to the Fourteenth
Amendment, both because of the inherent nature of the duty
which the rule sought to impose, and also because of the unreasonable conditions which were expressed therein.
There was a trial to a jury. Without going into detail it
suffices to say that specific instructions were asked, in reiterated form, by the defendant company concerning its asserted
defenses under the Constitution of the United States; that is,
the repugnancy to the Constitution of the rule of the commission and of the statute imposing penalties upon it for its failure to furnish cars. After verdict against the company for
$1,350 and judgment thereon, the cause was taken to "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, and from the action
of that court in affirming the judgment (85 Arkansas, 311)
this writ of error is prosecuted.
The question for decision will be simplified by analyzing
the action of the court below-that is, by stating the facts
which it deemed were established, and by precisely fixing the
issues and principles governing the same which the court
stated and applied. Clearing the way to consider the propofition which it conceived the case involved in its fundamental
aspect, the Supreme Court of Arkansas at once disposed of
the contention that the commission was without power to
adopt rule No. 305 by the statement that the power to do so
was expressly conferred by statutes of the State. The court
did not pass on the contentions concerning the alleged conflict
between the rule and the Constitution of the United States,
because it was expressly declared that it was not at all necessary to do so. This was based upon the conclusion that the
duty to furnish the cars which had been demanded arose from
statutory provisions (Kirby's Digest, §§ 6803-6804), which
were but expressive of the common law, and that the liability
for the penalty which was imposed by the judgment below
equally resulted, considering the default as alone arising from
violations of the statutory duty.
The statutory duty to supply cars on application having
been thus ascertained and the failure of the company to furnish after demand not being disputed, the court was brought
to consider what it declared to be the only question in the
case, that is, "Whether the undisputed evidence introduced
by appellant presented a sufficient excuse for the failure to
furnish the cars." In so far as adequate excuse could arise
from the complete discharge by the company of the duty to
equip its road with a sufficient number of cars, it was recognized that the proof was ample, indeed the court said:
"In fact, the appellant was shown to have a larger car
equipment than the average freight carrying road, and the
failure to furnish cars was wholly due to an inability to regain

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

its cars which were sent to other roads carrying freight from
its own line."
Coming then to state the facts concerning the cause which
the court expressly found was wholly responsible for the
failure to dcliver all the cars asked for, it ws pointed out:
"The appellant is an originating line, originating about
70 per cent of its traffic and receiving about 30 per cent. To
illustrate its situation, during the month of November, 1905,
it had in revenue service 9,517 cars, of which it averaged
daily 3,982 in use on its own lines, 5,525 off its line, and
2,519 foreign cars in use. In other words, a daily balance of
exchange of 1,473 cars was against it, and its shortage in cars
was only ab,)ut 650 per day."
Directirg t.ttention to the fact that the preponderant
originating- business of the road led to a preponderance of
interstate over domestic or local traffic, and that such interstate traffic would be greatly impeded, if not paralyzed, by
breaking bulk at the state line and refusing to give continuous
transportation, by not allowing its cars when loaded to move
beyond its line to the roads of connecting carriers, .the court
was brought to consider whether, thus permitting the cars
to move for the purpose of continuous interstate commerce
traffic, was in and of itself a fault entailing legal responsibility
under the statute for a refusal to deliver cars for local traffic
when requested. In holding the negative of this proposition
the court said;
"The vi1enci indisputably establishes that it is a benefit
tc the shi -ping public to interchange cars and not to refuse
to send cars off the line. . . . It is unquestionably good
fcr the public that the railroads of the United States have a
system of interchange of cars, instead of each road hauling
to its termini only, and thereby force reloading and reshipment.. The inconvenience and expense of such a system
would at once condemn it as failing to meet public requirements. It is unquestionably the policy of both State and
Federal legislation to facilitate, if not require, an interchange
voL. CCXVII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

of cars. The most recent illustration of this policy is found
in section 17, act April 19, 1907 (Acts 1907, p. 463). For one
railroad company to be an Ishmaelite among its associates
would operate disastrously to its shippers. The shippers of
Arkansas expect the public carriers to put their cotton to
the spinners in New England, and their fruits to the North,
and their lumber and coal to the four quarters of the Union,
without change from consignor t o consignee."
Thus deciding that the mere delivery of cars for through
transportation was not a factor in determining whether there
was legal fault, the court came to consider whether there was
anything in the arrangement by which the cars in question
were permitted to go off the line, which in and of itself constituted fault and consequent responsibility for. failure to
furnish all the cars required in time of shortage. Reviewing
the evidence on this subject it was found that the company
was a member of an association known as the American Railway Association, which had adopted rules governing the
interchange of cars from one road to another, with provisions
for the return thereof and for compensation therefor, the
association embracing and its ri des governing ninety per cent
of the railroads of the United States. Fixing thus the system
which controlled the company in the interchange of its cars
it was determined that the mere formation of an association
for such purpose was not repugnant to the laws against
combinations in restraint of trade, thi court, after referring
to various state decisions to that effect, saying:
"The result of these and other decisions, as summed up
in an excellent ,text-book, is that tl.ese associat.i s are lawf,.,l.
and their rules and regulations, when reasu.,, ible, will :e
upheld. 2 Hutchinson on Carriers (3d ed.), § Se]. Mr. Elliott
says that such associations, formed for the purpose of making
and enforcing reasonable regulations to facilita i. business and
secure the prompt loading, unloading, and ccturn of cars,
cannot be held illegal, upon the ground iit the constituent
companies by becoming memberm sur.nd&r tiieir corporate

ST. LOUhIS S. W. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court"

functions and control to the association. 4 Elliott on Railroads, § 1568."
Having thus sustained the right of the road to deliver its
cars for the purpose of continuous transportation beyond its
line in interstate commerce, and sanctioned the general
method by which it was sought to regulate and control the
transmission and return of such cars, that is, by membermhip
in the American Railway Association, the nature and character of the rules of the association were considered. Without
going into detail or following the statements of the court on
the subject it suffices to cay that, analyzing the rules of the
association the court concluded that the xegulations were
inefficient in many respects, did not provide sufficient penalties
to secure the prompt return of cars by roads which might
receive the same, but on the contrary afforded a temptation
in time of car shortage, inducing a road having the cars of
another road to retain and use them, paying the penalty, as
to do so would afford it an advantage. Pointing out that the
general result of the operation of the rules of the American
Railway Association for the interchange of cars had proven
ineffective mi the past, it was held that the company was at
fault for delivering its cars to other roads for the movement
of interstate commerce subject to the regulations of the
American Railway Association, and therefore the penalty imypAaed in the judgment was rightly assessed.
As the penalty, which the court sustained, was enforcea
solely because of its conclusion as to the inefficiency of the
rules and regulations of the American Railway Association,
which governed ninety per cent of the railroads in the United
States, the court was evidently not unmindful that the carrier
before it was powerless of its own motion to change the rules
thus generally prevailing, and therefore was necessarily either
compelled to desist from the interchange of cars with connecting carriers for the purpose of the movement of interstate
commerce, or to conduct such business with the certainty of
being subjected to the penalties which the state statute pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

vided for. We say this, since the court said (85 Arkansas,
322): "It may be better for the appellant to suffer these ills
than to sail under a black flag, and refuse to send its cars
beyond its line; that is not a question for the court. Until
the appellant carrier shows reasonable rules and regulations
for -the interchange of cars, it cannot avail itself of these rules
of interchange as causing and excusing its default to the
public, for the rules here shown have proved unreasonaile
and inefficient before this default occurred." And the gravity
of the ban on interstate commerce which it was thus recognized would result from the ruling made cannot be more
vividly portrayed than by once again quoting the statement
of the court on the subject, saying: "For one railroad company to be an Ishmaelite among its associates would be
disastrous to its shippets." If the railroad company, compelled to be a law unto itself because of its inability to change
by its own isolated will the rules of the American Railway
Association, should prefer to subject itself to the penalties
inflicted by the state statute rather than bring disaster to its
shippers, the seriousness of the burden to which interstate
commerce would be subjected cannot be better illustrated
than by saying that by the provisions of the state statute,
the penalty upon the carrier for each violation of the act or
of the rules and regulations of the commission was not less
than five hundred nor more than three thousand dollars.
When, by thus following the careful analysis made by the
court below, the contentions which the case present are circumscribed and the issues to which all the controversies arc
reducible are accurately defined, we think no serious difficulty is involved in their solution. In the first place, it is
suggested by the defendant in error that no Federal question
arises for decision, and, therefore, the writ of error should be
dismissed. This rests upon the theory -that, as the court
below put the rule of the commission, No. .305, out of view
and declared in its statement of the case that no extraordinary
or unusual rush of business on the line of the defendant corn-

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany occasioned the. car shortage, therefore no ground of
Federal cognizance remained, as, in other respects, the action
of the court below was, in effect, placed purely upon matters
of local concern broad enough t0 sustain its judgment. The
contetition is plainly without merit. It is to be conceded
that the ruling of the court as to the irrelevancy of the rule
adopted by the commission eliminates from consideration s6
much of the answer and of the instructions asked by the company and refused, relating to the repugnancy of the order
to the commercd clause of the Constitution, both on account
of its inherent operation and because of unreasonable provisions, which, it was alleged, it contained. But the constitutional defenses which were asserted by the answer, and
which were embraced in the instructions asked and refused,
were not confined to the mere order as such, but plainly
challenged the power of the State to inflict the penalty for
the failure to furnish the cars under the circumstances disclosed by the answer. And the ruling of the court, that the
asserted power arose from the statute instead of from the rule
adopted by the commission, but ch*enged the form without
in any way minimizing or obscuring the completeness of the
Federal defense which was made in the pleading and necessarily passed upon by the court below.
Coming to the merits, we think it needs but statement to
demonstrate that the ruling of the" court below involved
necessarily the assertion of power in the State to absolutely
forbid the efficacious carrying on of interstate commerce, or,
what is equivalent thereto, to cause +he right to efficiently
conduct such commerce to depend upon the willingness of the
company to be subjected to enormous pecuniary penalties
as a condition of the exercise of the right. It is to be observed
-that there is no question here of a regulation of a State forbidding an unequal distribution of cars by a carrier for the
benefit of interstate to the detriment of local commerce.
This is the clear result of the finding below as to the proportion of the originating traffic of the road and the extent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

the cars retained and those permitted to go beyond the line
of the road for the purposes of interstate commerce. If it be
that the court below was right in its assumption that the
rules of the American Railway Association, governing, as was
conceded by the court, ninety per cent of the railroads and
hence a vast proportion of the interstate commerce of the
country, are inefficient to secure just dealing as to cars moved
by the carriers engaged in interstate commerce, that fact
affords no ground for conceding, that such subject was within
the final cognizance of the court below and could by it be
made the basis of prohibiting interstate commerce or unlawfully burdening the right to carry it on. In the nature of
things, as the rules and regulations of the association concern
matters of interstate commerce inherently within Federal
control, the power to determine their sufficiency we think
was primarily vested in the body upon whom Congress has
conferred authority in that regard.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas
is revrsed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings
-notinconsistent with this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER dissents.

TODD v. ROMEU.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 408. Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

In Porto Rico a cautionary notice must be filed in accordance with the
local law in order to render an innocent third party liable to dismembership of ownership by reason of purchase during pendency of
a suit to set aside a simulated sale. Romeu v. Todd, 206 U. S. 358.
The right to file a cautionary notice in Porto Rico under the existing
mortgage law is not absolute in all eases; in certain classes of cases

