O(TOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

Angeles River by the one or the other of the parties to this suit.
The plaintiff in error, as we have seen, contends that by its
grant it became the owner of riparian rights in such waters
without limitation by any supposed right in the city of Los
Angeles to use the water of the river, and that the city of Los
Angeles, by failing to present the claim it now makes for the
use of the waters of the river to the commissioners undcr the
act of 1851, and by the effect of the judgment of the commissioners upon the petition presented by the city is forever adjudicated to have no such water rights in the river as the city
now contends for and as were awarded to it by the decision and
judgment of the Supreme Court of California.
The defect of these contentions from the standpoint of
Federal jurisdiction is that this court has already determined,
in the cases above cited, that the act of 1851 was a confirmatory act; that by its terms it did not undertake to originate
titles or make the patents to be issued in pursuance of the decisions of the commission conclursive except upon the United
States; and that the extent of the riparian rights belonging to
pueblos or persons receiving such patents are matters of local
or general law.
IAthis view the writ of error must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 449.

Argued February 28, March 1, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

The words "out of the jurisdiction of any particular State" as used in
1 5339, Rev. Stat., refer to the States of the Union and not to any

separate particular community; and one committing the crimes
referred to in that section in the harbor of Honolulu in the Territory

of Hawaii is within the jurisdiction of the District Court. of the

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

United States for that Territory. United Stat v. Bevam, 3 Wheat.
337, and Talbot v. Silver Bow County, 139 U. S. 438, distinguished.
While by 1 5 of the Organic Act of the Territory of Hawaii of April 30,
1890, c. 339, 31 Stat. 141, the Constitution of the United States and
laws not locally inapplicable were extended to Hawaii, and by § 'I
of that act laws of Hawaii not repealed and not inconsistent with
such Constitution and laws were left in force, nothing in the act
operated to leave intact the jurisdiction of the territorial courts
over crimes committed in the harbors of Hawaiian ports exclusively
cognizable by the courts of the United States under § 5339, Rev.
Stat.
A copy of the original certificate of enrollment of a vessel certified
under seal by the deputy collector of customs of the port where
issued which is in form as required by § 4155, Rev. Stat., held to be
sufficient under the conditions of identification of the signature
and seal and § 882, Rev. Stat., to prove the national character of
the vessel upon which the crime was committed by one indicted
and tried under 15339, Rev. Stat.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry B. Davis, with whom Mr. Frank B. Thompson
and Mr. Charles F. Clemons were on the brief, for plaintiff in

error:
The trial court was without jurisdiction of any actalleged
in the indictment, and of any act proved to have been committed.

If defendant is prosecuted for violation of § 5339, Rev.
Stat., the justification for the indictment must be found, if at
all, in the provisions of § 5 of the organic act for Hawaii, by
which in a general way the laws of the United States are extended to the Hawaiian Islands, 31 Stat. 141, but the extension is limited by the provision continuing the laws of Hawaii
not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
Among the statutes so preserved and continued in force are
'those relating to homicide and punishing murder. Organic
act, §6; Penal Laws, 1897, Hawaii, pp. 62-64; Rev. Laws,
1905, Hawaii, pp. 1074-1076.

OCTOBER TERM; 1909.
.Argment for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. .

The relations between the United States District Court for
the District of Hawaii and other Federal courts on the one
hand and the Hawaiian territorial courts on the other are
similar to those between Federal and state courts. See
Equitable L. A. Co. v. Brown, 187 U. S. 309; Ha ii v. Carter,
19 Hawaii, 198; Hawaii v. Martin, 19 Hawaii, 201; Hawaii v.
Keizo, 17 Hawaii, 297; Bierce v. Hutchins, 18 Hawaii, 518.
The tepublic of Hawaii, before its annexation to the United
States had"& fully organized government. Re Wilder 8. .Co.,
183 U.' S.545; Territoryv. Martin, 19 Hawaii, 201, 214.
There can be no. reasonable doubt that Congress intended
to leave the jurisdiction of the crime of murder, as of the crimes
of manslaughter, rape, and assault and battery and other
crimes which originated as comnon-law offenses, just where
itbad always been before annexktion, i. e., in the -Hawaiian
courts, whose existence was continued by-.§§ 81, 82, of the
organic .act, and see Rev. Laws, 1905,
.c. 112, 113;
pwaii,
Civil taws, 1897, Hawaii, cc. 80, 8i..
The word" State" -should be construed in its broader meaning of, any separate 'political community, Talbott v. Siler
Bow County, 139 U. S. 438,444; The Ullock, 19 Fed. Rep. 297,
212; Neill v, Wilson, 14 Oregon, 410; Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S.
258, unless there is something to require a narrow construction
of the word State when used in our statutes, it should'be given
a broad and liberal meaning, in order to effect a reasonable
construction, and to carry out the reason and spirit of the
law.
The words "out of the jurisdiction of any particular State,"
were intended to provide a means of punishment where no
such means were afforded. It was thereby intended to give
jurisdiction to the Federal court in cases where the judicial
bodies of the particular State (i. e., political community, including Territory), were not invested with jurisdiction in the
premises. See UnitedStates v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 387, as to construction of effect of Art. III of the Constitution, and intent
of Congress, in originally enacting the statute, here involved

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U.S.
&Aument

for Plaintiff in Error.

(Rev. Stat., § 5339), for punishment of imurder comitted
"in .a river, etc., out of the jurisdiction of any State," and
holding.dat if there be common jurisdiction, the crime cannot
be punished in the courts of the Union.
In United States v. Bevana, this court held the Federal
court to have no jurisdiction even though the act charged was
committed on board a ship of war of the United States, which
was contended to be "a place within the sole and exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States," under the terms of the
statute in question, and was at all events clearly "out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State." And see Manchester v.
Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240, applying the principle of the
Bevane case nearly three-quarters of a century later. The
act here charged in the indictment was committed within the
body of the county, then the County of Oahu, now the City
and County of Honolulu. United States v. New Bedford Btidge
Co., Fed. Cases, No. 15,867. Under the Hawaiian judicial
system, as continued in force by the organic act, the territorial
judiciary has the functions of state courts, while a separate
Federal judiciary is created. 35 Stat. 838. This is quite different from the provisions which, for instance, were enacted
in the case of the Territory of Washington, in which *onlyone
single judicial tribunal was created. See The City of Panama,
101 U. S. 461.
So, while the Republic of Hawaii ceded its territory, its public property and its rights therein 4nd control thereof to the
United States of America (Treaty of Annexation, Art. II, Rev.
Laws, 1905, Hawaii, pp. 37, 40; Joint Res. Cong. of July 7,
1898) nevertheless the United States forthwith vested the possession, use, and control thereof in the government of the
newly constituted Territory of Hawaii, reinvesting sovereignty
subject to the future action of Congress.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the United States had so ceded to
the Territory of Hawaii the control of these places and property, or, more strictly, having reinvested the Territory with
such control, tnere was no jurisdiction left in the United States

OCTOBER .TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

217 U. S.

courts, which are courts of limited jurisdiction and whose
jurisdiction is never presumed but must always be found in
the strict letter of the law.
There was a failure to prove the nationality of the vessel.
While it is no defense to an indictment, under § 5339, Rev.
Stat., that the vessel on which the crime was committed was
never legally registered or enrolled, provided that she was
owned by a citizen of the United States, it must yet appear
that either she was registered or enrolled, or so owned by a
citizen; and as a general rule, to which this case offers no exception, courts of the United States have no jurisdiction of
the crime of murder when committed on board a foreign vessel.
United States v. Plumer,3 Cliff. 28. See United States v. Holmes,
5 Wheat. 412.
And the general rule is that such courts have no jurisdiction
of the offense even when committed upon the high seas, except
when committed on board a ship of the United States, unless
it appears that the vessel was sailing under no national flag.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Fowler for the United States:
The United States District Court for the Territory of
Hawaii had jurisdiction of the offense.
It is insisted on behalf of the plaintiff in error that the
courts of the government of the Territory of Hawaii alone had
jurisdiction to try the accused. This contention is not maintainable for the following reasons:
The Unitedl States courts had jurisdiction of this offense
prior to the passage of the act of April 30, 1900, to provide a
government for the Territory of Hawaii. 31 Stat. 141.
The claim of plaintiff in error that the phrase "particular
State," as used in § 5339, Rev. Stat., is not limited to the several States of the Union, but that it also includes any other
government which is regularly organized and has courts in
which punishment for offenses may be inflicted, cannot be sustained-for cases to the contrary see United States v. Ross, 1
Gall. 626; St. Clair v. United States, 154 U. S. 144; Anderson

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U.S.

Argument for the United State.

v. United Staes, 170 U. S. 489. The indictments in all these
cases were drawn upon the theory that the word "State"
as used in the statute had reference to a State of the United.
States, and in each case they. were treated as sufficient by the
court.
If, however, the word "State" as used had the meamng insisted upon by plaintiff in error, the indictments in those cases
were not sufficient, because they did not allege the necessary
jurisdictional fact that the offense was committed outside of
the United States or any other State or government. United
States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336.
There is nothing in the act under which the territorial government of Hawaii was organized which either expressly or by
implication affects § 5339, Rev. Stat., or indicates that it was
the intention of Congress to deprive the United States court
of jurisdiction to try an offender for the crime of murder
committed in any place mentioned in said section within the
jurisdiction of said Territory. of Hawaii. See 31 Stat. 141.
Sectioni 6 of the organic act only continued in force all laws
which had theretofore existed in Hawaii, except such as were
repealed by the act and were inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States, while the purpose of section 5 was to extend the Constitution and laws of the United
States to the Territory of Hawaii.
Sections 5 and 6 of the organic act do nothing more wan to
leave the jurisdiction of the courts of Hawaii precisely as it
was before the passage of the act, and certainly do not have
the effect o increasing their jurisdiction to such an extqnt as
to deprive the Federal courts of the jurisiction which they
had previously possessed under § 5339, Rev. Stat,
It is sufficiently proven by competent evidence that the
vessel Rosecrans, upon which the murder was committed, was
owned by a corporation organized under the laws of California.
Courts will notice without proof the signatures and official
seals of public officers. 17 Am. Eng. Enc. of Law, 919, and

OC7OBER. TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. I.

numerous cases cited; Himmelmann v. Hoadley, 44 California,
214.
MR. Jusrca LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, John Wynne, has sued out this writ of
error from a judgment and sentence of death for a murder
committed on board the steamer Roaecrans, an American
vessel, while lying in the harbor of Honolulu in the Territory
of Hawaii. The indictment upon which he was tried included
four counts. In each it was charged that the. murder had been
done on board the said American vessel, lying in the harbor of
Honolulu, in the district and territory of Hawaii, and within..
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States,
"and out. of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the said
United States of America." In two of the counts the locality
is described as a certain "haven" of the Pacific Ocean, and in
the others as a certain "arm" of the Pacific Ocean.
The question to which the counsel for the plaintiffin error
has chiefly invited the attention of the court is, whether the
indictment, charges an offense within, the jurisdiction of the
District Court of the United.States for the Territory of Hawaii.
It was founded upon § 5339, Rev. Stat., and particularly the
second paragraph. The section is set out below:
"S.c. 5339. Every person who commits murder"First. Within any fort, arsenal, dock'-yard, magazine, or in
any other place or district of country under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States;
"Second. Or upon the high seas, or in any arm of the sea, or
in any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the
of any particular State;
jurisdiction
"Third. Or
who upon any such waters maliciously strikes,
stabs, wounds, poisons, or shoots at any other person, of which
striking, stabbing, wounding, poisoning, or shooting such other
person dies, 'either on land or at sea, within or without the
United States, shall suffer death."

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

Shortly stated, the conteution is, that the haven or arm of
the Pacific Ocean which constitutes the harbor of Honolulu,
although "within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of
the United States," is a locality not "out of the jurisdiction
of any particidar State," because within the jurisdiction of the
Territory of Hawaii. The basis for the contention is that the
words, "out cf the jurisdiction of any particular State," do not
refer to tht jurisdiction of a State of the United States, but are
to be given the wider uieaning of out of the jurisdiction of any
separate political community, and that the Territory of Hawaii
constitutes such a political organism. The postulate cannot
be conceded. The Crimes Act ofkApril 30, 1790, ch. 9, yol. 1,
Statutes at Large, p. 112, contained the same limiting words.
Thus in the eighth section of that act jurisdiction was asserted
over the ernime c murder, as well as certain other crimes, when
committed ' upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, basin or
bay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State." The act
was remolded by the act of March 3, 1825, ch. 65, 1 4, p. 115,
4 Statutes at Large. The further limitation of "within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States" was
added, but otherwise the jurisdiction remained the same.
Without substantial change the provision of the last act was
carried into the Revised Statutes as part of § 5339.
To support the contention urged counsel have cited United
tates v. Bevane, 3 Wheat. 337, 388, and Talbott v. -ilver Bow
County, 139 U. S.438,444. The indictment in the Bevan8 case
was for a murder done on board a war vessel of the United
States while she lay at anchor a mile or more from the shores of
.the bay constituting the harbor of Boston, in the State'of Massachusetts. The bay was wholly within the territorial jurisdiction of the State of Massachusetts, and the court said that it
was not material whether the courts of that State had cognizance of the offense or not. "To bring the offense," said the
court, "within the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union, it
must have been committed in a river, etc., and out of the jurisdiction of any State. It is not the offense committed, but the
VOL. CCXVII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

bay in which it is committed, which must be out of the jurisdiction of the State. If then it should be true that Massachusetts
can take no cognizance of the offense; yet unless the place itself
be out of her jurisdiction, congress has not given cognizance of
that offenseto its courts. If there be common jurisdiction, the
crime cannot be punished in the courts of the Union." The
case has no bearing upon the question here involved, except
so far as that the jurisdiction of the courts of the United Stateq
was there held to be excluded, because the place where the
offense was committed was within the territorial jurisdiction
of one of the States of the Union. The question in the Talbott
case was whether a Territory was within the meaning of
§ 5219, Rev. Stat., which permitted a "State within which"
a national bank is located to tax its shares. The court held
that the permission extended to States in that regard included
Territories. The decision was based upon the obvious intent
of Congress looking to the scope and purpose of the act; the
court saying, among other things, "While the word State is
often used in contradistinction to Territory, yet in its general
public sense, and as sometimes used in the statutes and the
proceedings of the Government, it has the larger meaning of
any separate political community, including therein the District of Columbia, and the Territories as well as those political
communities known as States of the Union." But te word
"State, "asused in the eighth secti on of the act of 1790, and the
subsequent Act of 1825, as well as used in § 5339, Rev. Stat.,
must be determined from its own context. The word State as
there used has been uniformly held ns referring only to the ter
ritorial jurisdiction of one of the United States, and not to any
other government or political community Thus, in United
States v. Ross, 1 Gall. 626, Mr. Justice Story said, in reference
to the words in § 4 of the act of 1825, above referred to, that
"The additional words of the act, 'in any river, haven, basin,
or bay out of the jurisdiction of any particular State,' refer to
such places without any of the United States.. an, not without
foreign Sttes w will be very r,ar or, examining the pro-

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opnio of the 0ourt

vision as to the place of trial, in the close of the same section."
In United States v. Brailsford, 5 Wheat. 184, 189, 200, one of
the questions certified- was "whether the words, 'out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State,' in the eighth section bf the
act of Congress of the 30th of April, 1790, ch. 9, vol. 1, Statutes at Large, must be construed to'mean out of the jurisdic'tion of any particular State of the United States?" To this
the court said: "We think it obvious that out of any particular
State must be construed to mean 'out of any one of the United
States.' By examining the context it will be seen that par
ticular State is uniformly used in contradistinction to United
States." In United States v. Rodgers, 150 U. S.249, 265, the
same meaning was attached to the words in question, and an
offense committed on the Detroit River, on a veesel belonging
to a citizen of the United States, was held cognizable by the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Michigan, although it appeared that the offense had beeh committed within the territoriallimits of the Dominion of Canada,
. 1-d therefore not within the jurisdiction of any particular
State of the United States. See also St. Clairv. United States,
154 U. S.134, 144, and Andersen v. United States, 170 U. S.
489.
That there existed an organized political community in the
Hawaiian Islands, exercising political, civil and penal jurisdiction throughout what now constitutes the Territory of Hawaii,
including jurisdiction over the bay or haven in question, when
that Territory was acquired under the joint resolution of Congrv-s of July 7, 1898, -lid not prevent the operation of § 5339,
Rev. Stat. That "political community" did not constitute
one of the States of the United States; and if the other jurisdictional facts existed, § 5339 came at once intu operation.
Unless, therefore, there was something in the legislation of
Congress found in the act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, 31 Stat
141, providing a government for the Territory of Hawaii,
which excluded the operation of the statute, the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States over the bay here in question

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.S.

in respect of the murder there charged to have been committed, was beyond question.
Counsel have cited and relied upon the fifth, sixth and
seventh sections of the organic act referred to, in connection
with §§ 83, 84, 89 and 91, as operating to leave intact the
jurisdiction of th6 territorial courts of the Territory under
existing penal-laws over this "haven" or "arm" of the sea in
respect to homicides there committed. The fifth section of thq
organic act, referred to provided, "That the Constitution, and
except as herein otherwise provided, all the laws Qf the United
States, which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same
force and effect -within the said Territory as elsewhere in theUnited States." The sixth section continued in force the laws
of Hawaii "not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of
the United States, or the provisions of this act;
subject to repeal or amendment by the legislature of Hawaii or
the Congress of the United States." The seventh section expressly repeals a long list of local laws, civil and criminal, and
does not expressly include the chapter of the penal laws of
Hawaii of 1897 relating to homicides. The eighty-first section
vests the judicial power of the Territory in one Supreme Court
and such inferior courts as the legislature may establish, and
continues in force the laws of Hawaii concerning the jurisdiction and procedure of such courts, "except as herein provided." Section 83 continues in force the laws of Hawaii relating to the judicial department, including-civil and criminal
procedure, subject to modification by Congress or the legislature. Section 89 provides that the control of wharves and
landings constructed by the Republic of Hawaii, on any seacoast, bay or harbor, shall remain under the control of the government of'the Territory of lawak:. Section 91 leaves public
property, which had been ceded to the United States, under
the control of the government of the Territory.
We cannot see that any of the things referred to have the
effect claimed for them. The plain purpose of the fifth section
was to extend the Constitution and laws of the United States,

WYNNE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not locally inapplicable, to the Territory, ahd of the sixth section, to leave in force the laws of Hawaii, except as repealed by
the act or inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the
United States.
If, when that act was passed, one who committed murder
in the harbor of Honolulu was subject to trial in the courts of
the United States, though within the territorial waters of
Hawaii, the organic act neither expressly nor impliedly deprives the courts of the Union of the jurisdiction which they
had before. It was within the power of Congress to confer
upon its courts exclusive jurisdiction over all offenses cbmmitted within the Territory, whether on land or water. This
it did not elect to exercise. It provided for the establishment
of aDistriet Court of the United States, with all of the powers
and jurisdiction of a District Court and of a Cireuit Court of
the United States. It provided also for the organization of
local courts with the jurisdiction conferred by the existing
laws of Hawaii upon its local courts, except as such laws were
in conflict with the act itself or the Constitution and laws of
the United States. If it be true, as-claimed, that the territorial courts exercise jurisdiction over homicides in the harbor
of Honolulu, under and by virtue of the laws of Hawaii thus
continued in force, it only establishes that there may .beconcurrent jurisdiction in respect of certain crimes when committed in certain places, and is far from establishing that the
courts-of the Union have been deprived of a jurisdiction which
they have at all times claimed and exercised over certain
offenses when committed upon the high seas, or in any-arm of
the sea, or in any river, basin, haven, creek or bay withiA the
admiraltz and maritime jurisdiction of the United States and
out of the jurisdiction of any particular State.
We find nothing in the special legislation applicable to that
Territory which prevented the operation of §5339.
There are assignments touching the competency of certain
evidence relied upon to establish the national character of the
Rosecrans, and others which challenge the sufficiency of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Cuurt.

217 U. S.

evideace to carry the case to the jury against a motion to direct a verdict for insufficiency of evidence upon that point.
A certificate of enrollment, purporting to have been issued at
San Francisco by one Coey, "acting deputy collector of customs," initialed "W," and signed by E. W. Marlin, deputy
naval officer, as required by § 4332, Rev. Stat., which recited
that the vessel was solely owned by the National Oil and
Transportation Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of California, was introduced for the purpose of establishing that the vessel was of American nationality. There was
also evidence that she carried the flag of the United States,
evidence admissible upon a mere question of nationality. St.
Clair v. United States, 154 U. S. 134, 151. The principal objection is that this certificate was not the original, but a copy
not sufficiently authenticated. The authentication was in
these words:
"District and Port of San Francisco.
"I hereby certify the within to be a true copy of the original
issued by this office.
"Given under my hand and seal this .5day of October, 1907.
N. S. FARLEY,
[SEAL.]
(Sgd.)
Deputy Collector of Customs.
The requirements for registration are set out in § 4142. The
certificate in qtuestion was in form as required by § 4155.
There was evidence of a witness that he had himself received
custom papers from the customhouse at San Francisco, signed
by Farley, and was familiar with the signature from Its appearance upon ship licenses on board ships. He had never
seen Farley write, and only identified the signature from
familiarity with it obtained from this and other like official
papers. He also said he was familiar with the seal of the
customs officials at San Francisco.
The appointment of deputy collectors is provided for by
§ 2630, 2633, Rev. Stat. By k 882. Rev. Stat., copies of any

ST..LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. v. W. R. R. CO. 247
Syllabus.:.

217 U. S.

papers or documents, in any of the executive departments,
under the seal of the proper department, are made admissible
in evidence equally with the original.
There 'was no evidence whatever casting suspicion i.pon the
genuineness of the copy or of the seal or the Signature of Farley, and none. which challenged in any way the American
character of the ship. Under such circumstances and for the
purposes of this case it was not error to assume that the document was genuinely executed by Farey, that he wa. what he
claimed to be, adeputy collector of customs, and that his
signature had been signed by himself or one authorized to
sign for him. 3 Wigmore on Evidence, §2161.
There was no error, and the judgment is

Affimed.

ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CITY AND COLORADO RAILROAD
COMPANY v. WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY AND
CITY OF ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

SAME v. SAME.:
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
'Nos. 7, 301.

Argued December 9, 1909.-Decided April 11, 1910.

Jurisdiction in ease of an intervention is determined by that of the
main case, and where the original foreclosure case was based solely
upon diverse citizenship an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals on a petition to enforce rights granted by a decree
in an intervention in such foreclosure suit does not lie to this court.

Where the Circuit Court of Appeals remands a suit to the Circuit
Court with instructions to enter a decree, the Circuit Court cannot,

