OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

EX PARTE: MATTER OF GRUETTER,
PETITIONER.
MANDAMUS.
No. 9, Original.

Submitted April 11, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where the Circuit Court has jurisdiction to determine questions
presented on a motion to remand a case to the state court and denies
the motion mandamus will not lie to compel it to remand the case.
In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323.
In this case diverse citizenship existed but plaintiff moved to remand
because the suit was not of a civil nature but for a penalty, because
the record did not show that plaintiff or defendant resided in the
District to which removal was sought, and because defendant did not
specifically pray for removal of cause; held that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to determine whether the case was removable and
that mandamus would not lie to compel the Circuit Judge to remand the cause.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur Crownover, Mr. Isaac W. Crabtree and Mr.
William L. Myers for petitioner.
Mr. William L. Granbery for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of
the court.
Gruetter brought an action in the Circuit Court of
Franklin County, Tennessee, against the Cumberland
Telephone and Telegraph Company to recover $20,000
for violation of ยง 2 of chap. 66 of the Acts of 1885, which
is ยง 1842 of Shannon's Code of Tennessee, for the unjust
discrimination by defendant against plaintiff set up in
the declaration. The section is as follows:
"Every telephone company doing business within this

EX PARTE GRUETTER.
217 U.S.

-Opinion of the Court.

State, and engaged in a general telephone business, shall
supply all applicants for telephone connection and facilities, without discrimination or partiality, provided
such applicants comply, or offer to comply, with the reasonable regulation of the company; and no such company
shall impose any condition or restriction upon any such
applicant that are not imposed impartially upon all persons or companies in like situations, nor shall such company discriminate against any individual or company in
lawful business by requiring, as condition for furnishing
such facilities, that they shall'not be used in the business
of the applicant or otherwise, under penalty of $100.00 for
each day such company continues such discrimination and
refuses such facilities after compliance or offer to comply
with the reasonable regulations, a time to furnish the
same has elapsed, to be recovered by the applicant whose
application is so neglected or refused."
Defendant filed a petition to remove the case to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle Division
of the Middle District of Tennessee, to which plaintiff
demurred on the ground that it was an action to recover
a penalty, and therefore was not removable. The demurrer was heard by the Circuit Judge of Franklin County.
Who sustained it, dismissed the petition, and refused to
remove the case. Defendant obtained a certified copy of
the record and filed the same in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Sixth Circuit, and plaintiff moved
to remand the case because it was a suit to recover a
penalty and the action was not of a civil nature; because
the petition and record did not show that the suit was
sought to be removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district in which either the plaintiff or the
defendant resided; and because the defendant did not
specifically pray for the removal of the cause.
The Circuit Court upon hearing filed a memorandum
opinion considering and overruling all -of the grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.

a

presented to sustain the motion and denied the motion to
remand, whereupon Gruetter filed a petition for writ of
mandamus directing the District Judge of the United
States for the Middle Division of the Middle District of
Tennessee, holding the Circuit Court for that division,
to remand the suit to the Circuit Court of Franklin
County, State of Tennessee. Leave to file this petition
was granted and a rule to show cause was thereon entered,
to which the judge filed his return, stating that the motion
of plaintiff to remand was denied for the reason that in
respondent's opinion the several grounds of the petitioner's
motion were not well founded in law, and that under the
facts and pleadings presented by the record the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Tennessee, sitting at Nashville, had jurisdiction of said cause.
There was no controversy as to there being diversity of
citizenship. The defendant was a corporation of Kentucky
and plaintiff was a citizen of Tennessee. Inasmuch as we
are of opinion that the Circuit Court of the United States
had jurisdiction to determine the questions presented, we
hold that mandamus will not lie. The final order of the
Circuit Court cannot be reviewed on this writ. In re
Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323.
Rule dischargedand petition dimised.

