FAY v. CROZER.
217 U. S.

455

Syllabus.

The objection made that the act violates the supposed contract under the Hewitt act is answered by Citizens Savings
Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, and City of
Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S.100.
The other assignments present no question which need be
more particularly answered.
Judpment affirmned.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent because I think, in substance
and effect the retroactive tax now upheld is a tax on the bank
and its assets, and is therefore void. The power to tax is controlled by ยง 5219, Rev. Stat., and, as in my judgment, the tax
*vhich.-is now sustained is in conflict with that section, in. my
opinion there should be a judgment of reversal.

FAY v.. CROZER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA'.

No. 165.

Argued April 21, 22, 1910.-Decided May 2,1910.

A writ of error based on constitutional question will not lie unless the
controversy is a substantial one and the question'open to discussion.
If the identical question has been determined in a suit involving a
state statute it is foreclosed although it may subsequently arise in
connection with the provision of the constitution of the State under
which the statute was enacted, and the writ of error will be dismissed.
There is no greater objection. under the Constitution of the United
States to.the forfeiture of land for five years' neglect to pay taxes
than there is to a similar forfeiture by the. statute of limitations for
neglect to assert title against one by whom the former owner has

been disseized.
The questions involved in this case having been determined in King v.
Mullin, .171 U. S. 404; King v. West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92; the writ

of error is dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Mr. George E. Price for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. F. Brown, Mr. W. W. Hughes and Mr. D. J. F.
Strother for defendants in error.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of West Viiginia,
brought directly to this 'court, and as such falls within the
rule that the controveroy must be substantial and the question
open to discussion.. Tested by that rule, we think the writ of
error must be dismissed on the authority of King v. Mullins,
171 U. S. 404; Kzng.v. West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92. A-id see
King v. Panther Lumber Company, 171 U. S. 437; Swann v.
State, 188 U. S. 739. It is contended that the question of the
forfeiture of plaintiffs' title under the constitution of West
Virginia was not ruled in those. cases, because they also involved the statute of the State referred to, while this case
presents the validity of the forfeiture provision of the state
constitution alone. But it was pointed out in King v. West
Virginia, 216 U. S, 100, that the right to redeem given by the
statute was, not coextensive with the forfeiture under the'state
constitution, and yet the constitution was upheld, as it was if)
King v. Mullinsi 171 U. S. 404. It follows, therefore, that
the state constitution must be upheld in the present case. The
only hearing that could be necessary would be whether -the
facts coristitue a forfeiture and that question when it arisei
between a former owner and a claimant under the State can be
tried in a case between.those parties, as it was here. There is
no greater objection under the Constitution of the United
States to the forfeiture of land for, five years' neglect to pay
taxes than there is to a similar forfeiture by the statute of
limitations for neglect to assert title against one by whom. the
former owner has been disseised. We think that the question
suggested is so plainly covered by the preceding cases that the
writ of error must be dismissed.
It is so ordered.
PER CURIAM:

