INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U.S.

91

Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK COMPANY v. PIGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 15. Argued April 21, 1909.-Decided April 4, 1910.
The reasonable construction of a state statute relating to foreign corporations doing business within the State does not include the doing
of a single act or the making of a single contract, but does include a
continuous series of acts by an agent continuously within the State.
Cooper Manufacturing Company v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727.
A foreign corporation engaged in teaching by correspondence and
which continuously has an agent in a'State securing scholars and
.receiving and forwarding the money obtained from them, is doing
business in the State; and such a corporation does business in Kansas within the meaning of §1283 of the general statutes of that
State of 1901.
Commerce is more than traffic; it is intercourse, and the transmission
of intelligence among the States cannot be obstructed or unnecessarily encumbered by state legislation. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1; PensacolaTelegraphCo. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1.
Intercourse or communication betwveen persons in different States
through the mails and otherwise, and relating to matters of regular
continuous business, such as teaching by correspondence, and the
making of contracts relating to the transportation thereof, is commerce among the States within the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution.
A state statute which makes it a condition precedent to a foreign corporation engaging in a legitimate branch of interstate commerce to
obtain what practically amounts to a license to transact such business is a burden and restriction upon interstate commerce and as
such is unconstitutional under the. commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution; and so held as to the requirements of § 1283, General
Laws of Kansas of 1901, when applied to a foreign corporation
carrying on the business of teaching persons in t*at State by correspondence conducted from the State in which it is organized.
Quare how far a foreign corporation carrying on business in a State
may claim equality of treatment with individuals in respect to the
right to sue and defend in the courts of that State; but where a
condition precedent to a foreign corpoi-ation doing business at all
in a State is unconstitutional, the" further condition that it cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U.S.

maintain any action in the courts of the State until it has complied
with such unconstitutional condition is also stricken down as being
inseparable therefrom.
Where a statute is unconstitutional in part the whole statute must
be deemed invalid except as to such parts as are so disconnected
with the general scope that they can be separably enforced; and so
held as to the provisions in § 1283 of the General Laws of Kansas
of 1901 against a foreign corporation maintaining any action until
it has complied with another provision as to filing a detailed statement which is unconstitutional as to foreign corporations engaged
in interstate commerce.
76 Kansas, 328, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of § 1283 of
the General Statutes of Kansas of 1901, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Seth T. McCormick
and Mr. David C. Harringtonwere on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The contract between the plaintiff and the defendant for
the shipment by the plaintiff from Scranton, Pennsylvania, to
the defendant in Topeka, Kansas, of printed and documentary
merchandise for a pequniary consideration, was a transaction of interstate commerce. Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203
U. S. 507, 512; Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398.
Plaintiff's business is essentially and practically that of
compiling, printing, selling and shipping educational publications. As such it is one of the greatest, if not the greatest,
educational, publication house in the world.
It was formed in October, 1891, and it now has $6,000,000
of paid up capital; 2,800 employees, including an instruction
staff of 400 trained teachers; 200 courses of study; its pamphlets and text-books are protected by 5,700 copyrights; it has
three home office buildings, of seven acres floor space, and its
annual expenditures include $100,000 for postage, $350;000
for printing and $250,000 for preparation and revision of
courses. It ha. enrolled to April 1, 1909, over 1,100,000 purchasers of its educational literature. Its printing establish-

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. 9.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ment issues over 25,000,000 separate pieces of prnted matter
each year. In the first fifteen years of its existence, its receipts were over $28,000,000.
The case presents every element of a transaction 6f interstate commerce. There is a vendor and a vendee, a thing
bought and a thing sold, a price paid and merchandise delivered. Such merchandise is physically delivered by the
vendor directly to the vendee and "such delivery is effected,
as in the case under consideration, by a continuous and unbroken shipment from a destination i one State to a destination in another, forming "a current of commerce among
the States." Swift v. United States, 196 U. S.375,.399.
Even if the "instruction papers" were not regarded in
common with all other educational publications as printed
merchandise but simply as printed information of a peculiar
or special character it would nevertheless be within the commerce clause of the Constitution. To sell information in a
concrete and tangible form, as in a printed pamphlet, is as
much a commercial transaction as to sell a bushel of wheat
or a pound of iron. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; and see
Mr. Justice Johnson's concurring opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden,
p. 222; PassengerCases,7 How. 282; Covington Bridge Company v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 218. Indeed, the mere
transmission of intelligence or information is commerce, even
without regard to its strictly commercial purpose. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Pendleton,.122 U. S.347; Lottery Cases, 188 U. S.
321. While policies of insurance have been held not to be articles of commerce, this is wholly for the reason that they are
mere contracts for the ultimate and possible payment of
money.
Shipping newspapers from New York to Texas is a transaction of interstate commerce, Preston v. Finley, 27 Fed.
Rep. 850, 857; also shipment of books from one State to another. In re Nichols, 48 Fed. Rep. 164; In re White, 43 Fed.
Rep. 914; Culberson v. Am. T. & B. Co., 107 Alabama, 457.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

Anything which can be bought and sold is a subject of
commerce and it cannot be reasonably questioned that these
educational pamphlets, prepared at so much expense, could
be bought and sold like any other commodity. Butler Bros.
Shoe Co. v. United States Rubber Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 1, 17.
The right to engage. in interstate commerce includes the
right to employ representatives to solicit contracts for the
purchase of interstate commodities, and 'the mere fact that
such an agent solicits a contract, and collecQ the price, does
not give the State any larger power to burden or restrain
such business by license taxes or police regulations. Robbins
v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 491, 493;
Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, 1.66; Norfolk & Western R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Cruteher v. Kentucky, 141
U. S. 47, 57-59; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622,
623.
The statutes of Kansas, requiring plaintiff to obtain its
"permission" to engage in interstate commerce and birdening the exercise of its constitutional right to do so with license taxes, and fees, and penalizing the plaintiff for engaging
in interstate commerce without the "permission" of the
State by denying to the plaintiff equality of judicial relief
in its courts, are unconstitutional.
-The right of a State altogether to exclude foreign corporations or to impose conditions upon their right to do business
within the State, is so far modified and restricted by the commerce clause of the Constit ution that the State cannot exclude any foreign corporation from entering said State to
engage in interstate commerce with its citizens. Stockton v.
Balt. R. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 9; Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western
Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113
U. S. 727; Norfolk & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136
U. S. 114, 118; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289. See also Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Stoutenburgh v.

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG..
217U. S.

95

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Hennick, 129 U. S. 142; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania,
i28 U. S. 190.
In the absence of congressional action, the Constitution
provides that interstate commerce be free. This rule applies
no matter how salutary the police regulations might otherwise be, or however insignificant the tax. Any burden or
condition is void except such purely local police regulations
as refer strictly to the health or morals of the community.
The requirements of §§ 1260 and 1283 may not in themselves be unreasonable, but their fatal defect is that they exercise a power which belong exclusively to Congress. Section 1283 is soJnseparably linked with the other statutory
requirements that the burden is much greater than merely
filing these annual statements.
When the Kansas statutes state that a foreign corporation
engaged in interstate commerce cannot as to a transaction
in such commerce enforce its claims in the courts of Kansas,
it in part, and in many cases altogether, prohibits the making
of such contracts and therefore the carrying on of such commerce.
The judicial enforcement of a contract is as much a part
of the contract as vital motion is a part of vital existence.
It caimot be argued that while Kansas could not prohibit
the making of a contract in interstate commerce it could destroy its very life.
It matters not whether an attempted regulation of such
commerce by the State is through its executive or judiciary,
for the State may not "by any of its aencies, legislative,
executive or judicial," impair or destroy a right under the
Constitution of the United States. San Diego Land Co. v.
National. City, 174 U. S. 739, 753; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 234.
A judicial regulation which directly burdens interstate commerce, is as invalid as an act of the executive. Security Ins.
Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, distinguished, as not applying
to a case where a Federal right was sought to be indirectly

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

nullified through a destruction of judicial relief. Ex parts
Young, 209 U. S. 123.
The Kansas statute clearly operates to deny to the plaintiff the full and equal protection of the laws. The plaintiff is
within its constitutional rights in declining to comply with
the requirements thereof. Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113
U. S. 727, 736. With. the exception of the Supreme Court
of Kansas it has been uniformly held by state courts that such
a law is unconstitutional. Underwood TypeurriterCo. v. Pigott,
60 W. Va. 532; S. C., 55S. E. Rep. 664; Woessner v. Cottam &
Co., 47 S. W. Rep. 678; Lane Co. v. City Electric Co., 72S. W.
Rep. 425; Texas Railway Co. v. Davis, 54 S. W. Rep. 381;
Coweta Fertilizer Co. v. Brown, 163 Fed. Rep. 162, 168;
Greek-American Sponge Co. v. Drug Co., 124 Wisconsin, 469,
476; Haldy v. Tomoor-Haldy Co., 4 Ohio Decs. 118; Hargraves
Mills v. Harden, 25 N. Y. Misc. 665; Coit & Co. v. Sutton,
102 Michigan, 324; Gunn v. Sewing Mach. Co., 57 Arkansas,
24; Hovey's Estate, 198 Pa. St. 385; Savage v. Atlanta Home
Ins. Co., 66 N. Y. Supp. 1105; S. "C., 55 App. Div. 20.
The right to contruct within a State implies necessarily the
right to use the courts of the State to enforce the contract.
Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535.
While a State is competent to regulate the procedure of
its courts it cannot so regulate them as to discriminate against
those who are engaged in interstate commerce by denying
to them judicial remedies on terms of absolute equality with
other litigants. A State cannot discriminate against citizens or products of other States, Railroad v. Husen, 95
U. S. 465; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v.
Pebman, 138 U. S. 78; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62; Tiernan
v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434;
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S' 275; Walling v. Michigan, 116
U. S. 446; nor impose a tax on interstate commerce either by
a tax laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 279; Telegraph Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 465; People v. Cornpagnie &c. Trans-

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

atlantique, 107 U. S. 59; or by a tax on the receipts derived
from that transportation or upon the capital stock of the
carrier, Phila.S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S.472; Pensacola Tel. Co. v.
West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Ratterman v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 127 U. S.411; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 128
U. S. 39; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530;
Fargo v. Michigan,. 121 U. S. 230; California v. Central Pactfic, 127 U. S. 1; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196; or by means of a.license fee on the privilege or occupation of engaging in interstate commerce, Robbins v.
,Shelby Co., 120 U. S.489; Corson v. Maryland, 120 U. S. 502;
Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Harman v. Chicago, 147 U. S.
396; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; McCall v.
California, 136 U. S. 104; N. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
136 U. S. 114; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 259; Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S.
34; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U.. S. 141; nor can a State in any way attempt to
regulate interstate commerce by imposing burdcnsome conditions under which it may be conducted whether by fixing
rates,' Wabash Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Covington
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204, or preventing the introduction of certain articles of commerce, Boman v. ChicagoRy.
Co., 125 U. S.465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; or by requiring telegraphic messages to be sent in the order received
.ind delivered by messengers within one mile of the office,
IVe66. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S.347; or by requiring
common carriers to give equal passenger accommodations without distinction on account of race or color. Hall v. DeCuir,
95 U. S.485.
A State may not destroy a Federal right by a threatened
denial of jUdicial relief in the courts Qf the State. Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S.123; Cotting v. Stockyards, 183 U. S.79.
To the extent that this plaintiff conducts its business
VOL. ccxvi-7

ourOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

•217 U. S.

through the mails, it is not important whether the subjectmatter, which is transmitted from Pennsylvania to Kansas,
was an article of commerce or not, or whether its mere transmission was strictly interstate commerce, for the State of
Kansas was powerless to invade the exclusive power of the
Federal Government to determine what should and what
should not be transported through the mails. See Ex parte
Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; In re Rapier, 143 U. S. 110; Homer v.
United States (No. 1), 143 U. S. 207.
As to how the words in § 1260 "doing business" or "engaged in business" have been judicially construed by the
courts of other States than Kansas, see Bertha Zinc Co. v.
Clure, 7 Misc. Rep. (N. Y.) 23; Washington Mills Co. v. Roberts,
8 App. Div. (N. Y.) 201; Southern Cotton Oil Co. v. Roberts,
25 App. Div. (N. Y.) 13; Soda Fount Co. v. Roberts, 20 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 585; Kellogg Newspaper Co. v. Roberts, 30 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 150; Ware Cattle Co. v. Anderson et al., 77.N. W:
Rep. 1026; Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S.81; Sullivan v. Sullivan Timber Co., 15 So. Rep. 941; Toledo Commercial Co. v.
Glen Mfg. Co., 45 N. E. Rep. 197; Mearshon & Co. v. Lumber
Co., 187 Pa. St. 12; Wolff-Dryer Co. v. Bigler & Co., 192 Pa.
St. 466; Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; David &
Rankin Mfg. Co. v. Dix, 64 Fed. Rep. 406-412; Brewing Co.
v. Roberts, 22 App. Div. (N. Y.) 282; Smith Co. v. Roberts,
27 App. Div. (N. Y.) 455; Beard v. Publishing Co., 71 Alabama, 60; Murphy Varnish Co. v. Connell, 10 Misc. Rep.
(N. Y.) 553; Harlan.& Hollingsworth Co. v. Campbell, 139
N. Y. 68; Chicago Stock Yards Company v. Roberts, 154
N. Y. 1; Havens & Geddes Co. v. Diamond, 93 Ill. App.
557.
These cases hold that a corporation incorporated to do
a manufacturing business, and exercising all its corporate
franchises in the State where it is incorporated and manufactures the article which it sells in the State where it is incorporated, although it sends agents to other States to sell
its goods, does not engage in business in the other States.

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It can only be stated "doing business" in other States when
it opens its manufacturing establishment and manufactures
its goods in another State.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MI.

JUSTICE

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the International Textbook
Company in one of the courts of Kansas-the court of Topeka-to recover from Pigg, the defendant in error, the sum of
$79.60 with interest as due the plaintiff under a written contract between him and that conrpany made in 1905. The case
was tried upon agreed facts and judgment was rendered in
favor of the defendant for his costs. That judgment was
affirmed in a state District Court, which held that the plaintiff was not entitled to maintain the- action, and the latter
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Kansas.
It is assigned for error that th e final judgment-based upon
certain provisions of the statutes of Kansas, to be presently
referred to-was in violation of the company's rights under the
Constitution of the United States.
The facts agreed to-using substantially the language of the
parties-make substantially the following case:
The International Textbook Company is a Pennsylvania
corporation, and the proprietor of what is known as the International Correspondence Schools at Scranton in that Commonwealth. Those Schools have courses in Architepture, Chemistry, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Steam Engineering,
English Branches, French, German, Mathematics and Mechanics, Pedagogy, Plumbing, Heating, Telegraphy and many
other subjects. It has a capital stock, and .the profits arising
from its business are distributed in dividends or applied otherwise as the company may elect. The executive officers of the
company, as well as the teachers and instructors employed by
it, reside and exercise their respective functions at Scranton.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court,

217 U. S.

Its business is conducted by preparing and publishing instruction papers, textbooks and illustrative apparatus for

courses of study to be pursued by means of correspondence,
and the forwarding, from time to time, of such publications
and apparatus to students. In the conduct of its business the
company employs local or traveling agents, called SolicitorCollectors, whose duties are to procure and forward to the
company at Scranton, from persons in a specified territory,
on blanks furnished by it, applications for .scholarships in its
Correspondence Schools, and also to collect and forward to
the company deferred payments on scholarships. In order
that applicants may adopt applications to their needs each
Solicitor-Collector is kept informed by correspondence with the
company of the fees to be collected for the various scholarships
offered and of the con tract charges to be made for cash or
deferred payments, as well as the terms of payment acceptable
to the company. In conformity with the contract between
the company and its scholars, the scholarship and instruction
papers, text-books and illustrative apparatus called for under
each accepted application are sent by the company from
Scranton directly to the applicant and instruction is imparted
by means of correspondence through the mails between the
company at its office in that city and the annlicant at.his
residence in another State.
During the period covered by the present transaction the
company had a Solicitor-Collector for the territory that included Topeka, Kansas, and he solicited students to take correspondence courses in the plaintiff's schools. His office in
Kansas was procured and maintained at his own expense, for
the purpose of furthering the procuring of applications for
scholarships and the collection of fees therefor. The company
had no office of its own in that State. The Solicitor-Collector
was paid a fixed salary by the company and a commission on
the number of applications obtained and the collections made.
He sent daily reports to the company for his territory, those
reports showing that for March, 1906, the aggregate collections

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

101

Opinion of the Court.

on scholarships and deferred payments on subscriptions approached $500.
At the date of the agreement sued on, and at the time this
suit was brought, numerous persons in Topeka were taking
the plaintiff's course of instruction by correspondence through
the mails. The contracts for those courses were procured by
its Solicitor-Collector assigned to duty in Kansas, and, as
stated, payments thereon-were collected and remitted by him
to the plaintiff at Scranton.
The written contract in question, signed by the defendant at
Topeka, Kansas, And accepted by the company at Scranton
showed that he had subscribed for a scholarship covering a
course of instruction by correspondence in Commercial Law,
and had agreed to pay therefor $84, in installments. When this
suit was brought there remained unpaid on the principal of
that subscription the sum of $79.60.
The present action was brought to recover that sum, with
interest, as due the company- under the defendant's contract
with it. The defendant did not deny making the contract nor
that he was indebted to the company in the amount for which
he was sued. But it was adjudged, in conformity with his
contention, that by reason of the company's failure to comply
with certain proviown of the statutes of Kansa, it was not entitled to maintain this action in a court of Kansas.
We will now refer to the provisions of the Kansas statute
under which the Textbook Company was held not to be entitled to maintain the present -action in the courts of the State.
The statute, the plaintiff alleges, cannot be applied to it without violating its rights under the Constitution of the United
States.
By § 1260 of the Kansas General Statutes of 1901 it is provided,4.mong other things, that a corporation organized. under
the laws of any other State, Territory or foreign country and
seeking to do business in Kansas, may make application to the
State Charter Board, composed of the Attorney General, the
Secretary of State and the State Bank Commissioner, for" per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

mission" to engage in business in that State as a foreign
corporation. It is necessary that the application should be
accompanied by a fee of $25, and as a condition precedent
to obtaining authority to transact business in the State, a corporation of another State was required to file in the office of the
Secretary of State its written consent, irrevocable, that
process against it might be served upon that officer. § 1261.
In passing upon the application the Charter Board is authorized to make special inquiry in reference to the solvency
of the corporation, and if they determined that such corporation was properly organized in accordance with the laws
under which itwas incorporated, "that its capital is unimpaired and that it is organized for a purpose for which a domestic corporation may be organized" in Kansas, then its
application is to be granted, and a certificate issued, setting
forth the fact that "the application has been granted and that
such foreign corporation may engage in business in this State."
Before filing its charter, or a certified copy thereof, with the
Secretary of State the corporation is required to pay to the
State Treasurer for the benefit of the "permanent school
fund" a specified per cent of its capital stock. §§ 1263,
1264. The last-named section was the subject of extended
examination in Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, recently
decided (216 U. S.1), and was held to be unconstitutional in
its application to the Western Union Telegraph Company
seeking to do local business in Kansas.
But the section which controlled the decision by the state
court in the present case is § 1283, which is as follows: "It
shall be the duty of the president and secretary or of the
managing officer of each corporation for profit doing business
in this State, except banking, insurance and railroad corporations, annually, on or before the 1st day of August, to prepare and deliver to the Secretary of State a complete detailed
statement of the condition of such corporation on the 30th
day of June next preceding. Such statement shall set forth
and exhibit the following, namely: 1st. The authorized capital

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

103

Opinion of the Court.

stock. 2d. The paid-up capital stock. 3d. The par value and
the market value per share of said stock. 4th. A complete
and detailed statement of the assets and liabilities of the corporation. 53th. A full and complete list of the stockholders,
with the post-office address of each, and the number of shares
held and paid for by each. 6th. The names and post-office
addresses of the officers, trustees or directors and manager
elected for the ensuing year, together with a certificate of the
time and manner in which such election was held
and the failure of any such corporation to file the statement
in this section provided for within ninety days from the time
provided for filing the same shall work the forfeiture of the
charter of any corporation organized under the laws of this
State, and the charter board may at any time thereafter declare the charter of such corporation forfeited, and upon the
declaration of any such forfeiture it shall be the duty of the
attorney-general to apply to the District Court of the proper
county for the appointment of a receiver to close out the business of such corporation; and such failure to file such statement by any corporation doing business in this State and
not organized under the laws of this State shall work a forfeiture of its right or authority to do business in this State,
and the charter board may at any time declare such forfeiture, and shall forthwith publish such declaration in the
official State paper. . . . No action shall be maintained
or recovery had in any of the courts of this State by any corporatiQn doing business in this State without first obtaining the
certificate of *he Secretary of State that statements provided
for in this sedton (§1283) have been properly made." L. 1898,
ch. 10, §12, as amended by L. 1901, ch. 126, § 3.
1. In view of the nature and extent of the business of the
International Textbook Company in Kansas, the first inquiry
is whether the statutory prohibition against the maintaining
of an action in a Kansas court by "any corporation doing
business in this [that] State" embraces the plaintiff corporation. It must be held, as the state court held; that it does; for,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

it is conceded that the Textbook Company did not, before
bringing this suit, make, deliver and file with the Secretary of
State either the statement or certificate required by § 1283;
and upon any reasonable interpretation of the statute that
company, both at the date of the contract sued on, and when
this action was brought, must be held as "doing business" in
Kansas. It had an agent in the State who was employed to
secure scholars for the schools conducted by correspondence
from Scranton, and to receive and forward any money obtained from such scholars. Its transactions in Kansas, by
means of which it secured applications from numerous persons
for scholarships, were not single or casual transactions, such
as might be deemed incidental to its general business as a
foreign corporation, but were parts. of its regular business
continuously conducted in many States for the benefit of its
Correspondence Schools. While the Supreme Court of Kansas
has distinctly held that the statute did not embrace single
transactions that were only incidentally necessary to the
business of a foreign corporation, it also adjudged that the
business done by the Textbook Company in Kansas was not
of that kind, but indicated a purpose to regularly transact its
business from time to time in Kansas, and therefore it was to
be regarded as doing business in that State within the meaning
of the statute; and that it "was the intention of the legislature
that the State should reach every continuous exercise of a
foreign franchise," and that it should apply even where the
business of the foreign corporation was "purely interstate
commerce." Deere v. Wyland, 69 Kansas, 255, 257, 258;
State v. Book Co., 65 Kansas, 847; Commission Co. v. Haston,
68 Kansas, 749. In our judgment, those rulings as to the scope
of the statute were correct. They were in substantial harmony
with the construction placed by this court upon a Colorado statute somewhat similar to the Kansas act. A statute passed in
execution of a provision in the Colorado constitution required
foreign corporations as a condition of their authority "to do
business" in that State, to make and file with the Secretary of

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

105

Opinion of the Court.

State a certificate covering certain specified matters. An
Ohio corporation having made in Colorado a contract for the
sale of machinery to be sent to it from the latter State to Ohio
and the vendor having failed to perform the contract, a suit
was brought against him in the Federal court, sitting* in
Colorado. One of the defenses was the failure of the Ohio,
corporation to make and file with the Secretary of State the
certificate required by the Colorado statute before it should
be "authorized or pernitted to do any business" in Colorado.
It became necessary to inquire whether the Ohio corporation,
by reason of the above isolated contract, did business in
Colorado within the meaning of tho constitution and laws of
the latter State. This court said: "Reasonably construed,
the constitution and statute of Colorado forbid, not the doing
*of a single act of business in the State, but the carrying on of
business by a foreign corporation without the filing of the certificate and the appointment of an agent as required by the
statute. . . . The making in Colorado of the one contract
sued on in this case, by which one party agreed to build and
deliver in Ohio certain machinery and the other party to pay
for it, did not constitute a carrying on of business in ColoTo require such a certificate as a prerequisite
.
.
rado.
to the doing of a single act of business when there was no purpose to do any other business or have a place of business in the
State, would be unreasonable and incongruous." Cooper Mfg.
Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727, 728, 734.
In view of the agreed facts and the principles announced
both by the Kansas Supreme Court and by this court we hold
that, within the meaning of § 1283 of the Kansas statute, the
International Textbook Company was doing business in the
latter State at the time the contract in question was made,
and was therefore within the terms of that section.
2. But this view as to the meaning of the Kansas statute
does not necessarily lead to an affirmance of the judgment blow if, as the plaintiff contends, the business in which it is
regularly engaged is interstate in its nature, and if the statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

by its necessary operation, materially or directly burdens that
business.
It is true that the business in which the International Textbook Company is engaged is of a somewhat exceptional character, but, in our judgment, it was, in its essential characteristics commerce among the States within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States. It involved, as already
suggested, regular and, practically, continuous intercourse
between the Textbook Company, located in Pennsylvania,
and its scholars and agents in Kansas and other States. That
intercourse was conducted by means of correspondence
through the mails with such agents and scholars. While this
mode of imparting and acquiring an education may not be
such as is commonly adopted in this country, it is a lawful
mode to accomplish the valuable purpose the parties have in
view. More than that; this mode-looking at the contracts
between the Textbook Company and its scholars-involved
the transportation from the State where the school is located
to the State in which the scholar, resides, of books, apparatus
and papers, useful or necessary in the particular course of
study the scholar is pursuing and in respect of which he is entitled, from time to time, by virtue of his contract, to information and direction. Intercourse of that kind, between
parties in different States-particularly when it is in execution
in
of a valid contract between them-is as much intercourse,
the constitutional sense, as intercourse by means of the telegraph-."a new species of commerce," to use the words of this
court in Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 96 U. S. 1, 9. In the great case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 189, this court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall,
said, "Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic, but it is something
more; it is intercourse." Referring to the constitutional power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States and with
foreign countries, this court said in the Pensacola case, just
cited, that "it is not only the right but the duty of Congress to
see to it that intercourseamong the States and the transmission

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. . PIGG.
217 U.S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

o inteliigeWne are not obstructed or unnecessarily encumbered
by state legislation." This principle has never been modified
by any subsequent decision of this court.
The same thought was expressed in Western Union Tel. Co.
v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 356, where the court said: "Other
commerce deals only with persons, or with visible and tangible
things. But the telegraph transports nothing visible and
tangible; it carries only ideas, uwihes, orders, and intelligence."
It was said in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, speaking by Judge Sanborn, in Butler Bros. Shoe Co. v.
United States Rubber Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 1, 17, that "all interstate commerce is not pales of goods. Importation into one
State from another is the indispensable element, the test, of
interstate commerce; and every negotiation, contract, trade,
and dealing between citizens of different States, which contemplates and causes such importation, whether it b of goods,
persons, or information, is a transaction of interstate commerce." If intercourse between persons in different States
by means of telegraphic messages conveying intelligence or
information is commerce among the States, which no State
may directly burden or unnecessarily encumber, we cannot
doubt that intercourse or communication between persons in
different States, by means of correspondence through the
mails, is commerce among the States within the meaning of
the Constitution, especially where, as here, such intercourse
and communication really relates to matters of regular, continuous business and to the making of contracts and the transportation of books, papers, etc., appertaining to such business.
In our further consideration of this case we shall therefore
assume that the business of the Textbook Company, by means
of correspondence through the mails and otherwise between
Kansas and Pennsylvania, was interstate in its nature.
3. We must next inquire whether the statute of Kansas, if
applied to the International Textbook Company, would directly burden its right by means of correspondence through
the mails and by its agents, to secure written agreements with

OCTOBER TERM, 1909..
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

persons in other States, whereby such persons, for a valuable
consideration, contract to pay a given amount for scholarships
in its Correspondence Schools, and to have sent to them, as
found necessary, from time to time, books, papers, apparatus
and information, needed in the prosecution, in their respective
States, of the particular study which the scholar has elected to
pursue under the guidance of those who conduct such schools
at Scranton? Let us see.what effect the statute by its necessary operation must have on the conduct of the company's
business.
In the first place, it is made a condition precedent to the authority of a corporation of another State, except banking, insurance and railroad corporations, to do business in Kansas,
that.it shall prepare, deliver andfile with the Secretary of State a
detailed "Statement," showing the amount of the authorized,
paid-up, par and market value of, its capital stock, its assets
and liabilities, a list of its stockholders, with their respective
post-office addresses and the shares held and paid for by each,
and the names and post-office. addresses of the officers, trusand managers.
tees,
In or
thedirectors
next place, the statute denies to the corporation
doing business in Kansas the right to maintain an action in a
Kansas court, unless it shall first obtain a certificate of the
Secretary of State to the effect that the Statement, required
by § 1283, ha been properly made.
Was it competent for the State to prescribe, as a condition
of the right of the Textbook Company to do. interstate business
in Kansas, such as was transacted with Pigg, that it q ould
prepare, deliver, and file with the SecFetary of State the
Statement mentioned in § 1283? The above question must
be answered in the negative upon the authority of former
adjudications by this court. A case in point is Crntcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S.47, 56, 57, often referred to and never
qualified by any subsequent decision. That case arose under
a statute of Kentucky regulating agencies of foreign-express
companies. The statute required as a condition of the right

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

10d

Opinion of the Court.

of the agent of an express company, not incorporated by the
laws of Kentucky, to do business in that Commonwealth, to
take out a license from the State Auditor, and to make and
file in the Auditor's office a statement showing that the company had an actual capital of a given amount, either in cash
or in safe investments, exclusive of costs. These requirements
were held by this court to be in violation of the Constitution
of the United States in their application to foreign corporations engaged in interstate commerce. The court said: "If
the subject was one which appertained to the jurisdiction of
the State legislature, it may be that the requirements and
conditions of doing business within the State would be pro"
motive of the public good. It is clear, Imwever, that it would
be a regulation of interstate commerce in its application to
corporations or associations engaged in that business; andthat
is a subject which belongs to the jurisdiction of the National
and not the State legislature. Congress would undoubtedly
have the right to exact from associations of that kind any
guarantees it might deem necessary for the public security,
and for the faithful transaction of business; and as it is
within the province of Congress, it is to be presume4 that
Congress has done, or will do, all that is necessary and proper
in that regard. Besides, it is not to be presumed that the
State of its origin has neglected to require from any such
corporation proper guarantees as to capital and other securities
necessary for the public safety. If a partnership firm of
individuals should undertake to carry on the business of interstate commerce between Kentucky and other States, it would
not be within the province of the State legislature to exact
conditions on which they should carry on their business, nor to
require them to take out a license therefor. To carry on interstate commerce is not a franchise or a privilege granted by the
State; it is a right which every citizen of the United States is
entitled to exercise under the Constitution and laws of the
United States; and the accession of mere corporate facilities,
as a matter of convenience in carrying on their business,

OCTOBER TERM. 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

cannot have the effect of depriving them of such right, unless
Congress should see fit to interpose some contrary regulation
on the subject." Again, in the same case: "Would any one
pretend that a State legislature could prohibit a foreign corporation-an English or a French transportation company,
for example-from coming into its borders and landing goods
and passengers at its wharves, and soliciting goods and passengers for a return voyage, without first obtaining a license fzom
some State officer, andfiling a sworn statement as to the amount
of its capital stock paid inY And why not? Evidentlyhecause
the matter is not within the province of State legislation, but
within that of national legislation." Further, in the samecase: "We do not think that the difficulty is at all obviated by
the fact that the express company, as incidental to its main
business, (which is to carry goods between different States,)
does also some local business by carrying goods from. one
point to another within the State of Kentucky. This is,
probably, quite as much for the accommodation of the people
of that State as for the advantage of the company. But
whether so or not, it does not obviate the objection that the
regulations as to liceinse and capital stock are imposed as
conditions on the company's carrying on the business of interstate
commerce, which was manifestly the principal object of its
organization. These regulations are clearly a burden and a
restriction upon that commerce. Whether intended as such or
not, they operate as such. But taxes or license fees in good
faith imposed exclusively on express business carried on
wholly within the State would be open to no such objection."
To the same general effect are many other cases. Robbins v.
Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Leloup v. Mobile,
127 U. S. 640; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141; Lyng
v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 166; McCall v. California, 136 U. S.
104; Norfolk & Western Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136
U. S. 114; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansa.9, 216 U. S. 1. It
is true that the statute does not, in terms, require the corporation of another State engaged in interstate commerce to take

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v. PIGG.
217 U. S.

111

Opinion of the Court.

out what is technically "a license" to transact its business in
Kansas. But it denies all authority to do business in Kansas
unless the corporation.makes, delivers and files a "Statement"
of the kind mentioned in § 1283. The effect of such requirement is practically the same as if a formal license was required
as a condition precedent to the right to do such business. In
either case it imposes a condition upon a corporation of another'
State seeking to do business in Kansas, which, in the case of
interstate business, is a regulation 6f interstate commerce
and directly burdens such commerce. The State cannot thus
burden interstate commerce. It follows that the particular
blause of 1 1283 requiring that "Statement" is illegal and void.
-In this connection it is to be observed that by the statute
the doors of Kansas courts are closed against the Textbook
Company, unless it first obtains from the Secretary of State
a certificate showing that the "Statement" mentioned in
§ 1283 has been properly made. In other words, although the
Textbook Company may have a valid contract with a citizen
of Kansas, one directly arising out of and connected with its
interstate business, the statute denies its right to invoke the
authority of a Kansas court to enforce its provisions unless it
does what we hold it was not, under the Constitution, bound
to do, namely, make, deliver and file with the Secretary of
State the Statement required by § 1283. If the State could,
under any circumstances, legally forbid its courts from taking
jurisdiction of a suit brought by a corporation of another
State, engaged in interstate business, upon a valid contract
arising out of such business and made with it by a citizen of
Kansas, it could not impose on the company, as a condition
of its authority to carry on its interstate business in Kansas, that
it shall make, deliver and file that Statement with the Secretary of State and obtain his certificate that it had been properly made. This court held in Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co., 207 U. S.142, 148, that a State may, subject to
the restrictions of the Federal Constitution, "determine the
limits of the jurisdiction of its courts, and the character of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

controversies which shall be heard in them." But it also said
in the same case: "The 6ight to sue and defend in the courts
is the alternative of force. In an organized society it is the
right conservative of all other rights, and lies at the foundation
of orderly government. It is one of the highest and most
essential privileges of citizenship, and must be allowed by
each State. to the citizens of all other States to the precise
extent that it is allowed to its own citizens. Equality of
treatment in this respect is not left to depend upon comity
between the States, but is granted and protected by the Federal Constitution." How far a corporation of one State is
entitled to claim in another State, where it is doing business,
equality of treatment with individual citizens in respect of
the right to sue and defend in the courts is a question which
the exigencies of this case do not require to be definitely
decided. It is sufficient to say that the requirement of the
Statement mentioned in§ 1283 of the statute imposes a direct burden on the plaintiff's right to engage in interstate
business, and, therefore, is in violation of its constitutional
rights. It is the established doctrine of this court that a
State may not, in any form or under any guise, directly burden
the prosecution of interstate business. But such a burden is
imposed when the corporation of another State, lawfully
engaged in interstate commerce, is required, as a condition of
its right to prosecute its business in Kansas, to make and file
a Statement setting forth certain facts which the State, confessedly, could not control by legislation. It results that the
provision as to the Statement mentioned in § 1283 must fall
before the Constitution of the United States, and with itaccording to the established' rules of statutory cpnstructionmust. fall that part of the same section which provides that the
obtaining of the certificate of the Secretary of State that such
Statement has been properly made shall be a condition precedent to the right of the plaintiff to maintain an action in the
courts of Kansas. Section 1283, looking at the object for
which it was enacted, must be regarded as an entirety. These

INTERNATIONAL TEXTBOOK CO. v PIGG.
217 U. S.

113

Opiniou of the Court.

psrts of the statute are so connected with and dependent
upon each other that the clause'relating to actions brought in
the courts of Kansas cannot be separated from the prior
clause in the same section referring to the Statement to be filed
with the Secretary of State, and the former left in force after
the latter is stricken down as' invalid. As the clause about
suits in the courts of Kansas expressly refers to the prior clauses
in the same section prescribing the Statement to be filed with
the Secretary of State, the clause relating to suits would be
meaningless without reference to the latter. We cannot suppose, from the words of the statute, that the legislature
would have adopted the regulation about actions in the state'
courts) cxcept for the purpose of enforcing the prior clause in
the same section relating to the Statement to be filed with-the
Secretary of State. The several parts of the section are not
capable of separation if effect be given to the legislative
intent. It is well settled that if a statute is in part unconstitutional the whole statute must be deemed invalid, if the
parts not held to be invalid are so connected with the general
scope of the statute that they cannot be separately enforced,
or, if. so enforced, will not effectuate the manifest intent of the
legislature. In Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 84, this
court referred with approval to what Chief Justice Shaw said
on this point in Warren v. Mayor &c., 2 Gray, 84. Referring
to the rule obtaining in cases of statutes in part constitutional
and in part unconstitutional, that eminent jurist said: "But, if
they are so mutually connected With and dependent on each
other,, as conditions, considerations, or compensations for
each other as to warrant a belief that the legislature intended
them as a whole, and that, if all could not be carried into
.effect, the legislature would not pass the residue independently, and some parts are unconstitutional, all the provisions
which are thus dependent, conditional, or connected must fall
with them." See also Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270;
Spraigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90; Huntington v, Worthen,
120 U. S. 97.
VOL. ccxvu--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

It results that as the part of § 1283, which relates to the
Statement to be filed with the Secretary is unconstitutional,
and as the c0ause in the same section, relating to suits in the
state court, is so dependent upon and connected with that
part as to be meaningless when standing alone, the section
must be held inoperative in all its parts and as not being in
the way of the enforcement in any state court of competent
jurisdiction of the plaintiff's right to a judgment against the
defendant for the amount conceded to be due from him to the
Textbook Company under his contract. The judgment must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR JUSTICE MOODY heard the argument of this case, participated in its decision in conference, and approves the
reversal of the judgment upon the grounds stated in this
opinion.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

SOUTHWESTERN OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 119.

Argued March 2, 1910.--Decided April 4, 1910.

This court will not consider whether a state statute is unconstitutional
under provisions of the Constitution other than those set up in the
state court even if those provisions be referred to in the assignment
of error.
On writ of error this. court is not concerned with the question of
whether the statute attacked as unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment violates the state constitution if the state courts
have held that it does not do so.
Whether the severity of penalties for non-compliance with a state
statute renders it unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment will not be considered in an action' in which the State does
not ask for any penalties.

