OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

the cars retained and those permitted to go beyond the line
of the road for the purposes of interstate commerce. If it be
that the court below was right in its assumption that the
rules of the American Railway Association, governing, as was
conceded by the court, ninety per cent of the railroads and
hence a vast proportion of the interstate commerce of the
country, are inefficient to secure just dealing as to cars moved
by the carriers engaged in interstate commerce, that fact
affords no ground for conceding, that such subject was within
the final cognizance of the court below and could by it be
made the basis of prohibiting interstate commerce or unlawfully burdening the right to carry it on. In the nature of
things, as the rules and regulations of the association concern
matters of interstate commerce inherently within Federal
control, the power to determine their sufficiency we think
was primarily vested in the body upon whom Congress has
conferred authority in that regard.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas
is revrsed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings
-notinconsistent with this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER dissents.

TODD v. ROMEU.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 408. Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided April 4, 1910.

In Porto Rico a cautionary notice must be filed in accordance with the
local law in order to render an innocent third party liable to dismembership of ownership by reason of purchase during pendency of
a suit to set aside a simulated sale. Romeu v. Todd, 206 U. S. 358.
The right to file a cautionary notice in Porto Rico under the existing
mortgage law is not absolute in all eases; in certain classes of cases

TODD v. ROMEU.
217 U. B.

Argument for Appellant.

the right but depends on an express permissive order of the court,
and one having knowledge of a suit to dismember title of his grantor
in which such order is not a matter 'of right and no such order
is applied for or granted is not bound because he had general knowledge of the pendency of the suit.
Quwre, whether one buying property in Porto Rico with actual knowl-"
edge of pendency of a suit to dismember title for fraud in which the
law gives an absolute right to a cautionary notice without the pre
requisite of judicial permission would be liable'for the ultimate result of the suit even if no cautionary notice were registered.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill for appellant:
There is but one question before the court on this appeal,
and that is: What is the law of Porto Rico as to the effect of
bringing home to an intending purchaser of real estate knowledge or notice of a defect in the title to, or of a lien upon,
such real estate in favor of some person other than the vendor,
where such knowledge or notice is not required from the
registry of property, such defect or lien not being recorded?
Or, to state it in another way: Is an intending purchaser of
real estate in Porto Rico permitted by the law to ignore
knowledge actually possessed or acquired by him, otherwise
than from the registry, before completing his purchase, that
the title to, or lien upon, such property in fact exists in favor
of a person other than the proposed vendor?
The articles of mortgage (or recording) law, which are
material to this inquiry, and which may be referred to in
some of the cases hereinafter cited, are as translated in the
War Department edition of 1899: Arts. 2, 23, 25, 27, 33-36,
42, 69, 99; and see Valdes v. Valle, 1 Dec. de P. R.; and see
also §§ 612-615, 1258-1265 of the Civil Code of 1902 having
more or less correlation with the articles of the mortgage law,
especially § 34. with which the present controversy, however,
has directly to do especially with reference to the phrase "third:
persons" as used therein. See 58 Juris. Civil de Espafia, 460;
vol. 102, p. 390.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

From all these cases we submit it conclusively appears that
the answer to the questions propounded at the opening of
this discussion must be in the negative, and that any proper
and sufficient proof of notice, which would be sufficient to
destroy the good faith of an intending purchaser and make
it equitable that he be charged with the claim or lien of a
person other than his vendor, will under the Spanish law,
and the mortgage law, result in his being so charged.
We leave those cases and the conclusion to be drawn from
them to the consideration of the court without further discussion.
It may also be shown, although not material, we believe,
in this case that in the jurisdictioins of those States of the
Union which have derived their systems of jurisprudence
from the Civil Law, the same rule prevails, as to which, see
the following cases: Sampson v. Ohleyer, 22 California, 200,
211; Sharp v. Lumley, 34 California, 611, 615; Wise v. Grifith,
78 California, 152; Christie v. Sherwood, 113 California, 530;
HiberniaSoc. v. Lewis, 117 California, 577; Splane v. Mitcheltree, 2 La. Ann. 265; Bach v. Abbott, 6 La. Ann. 809; Swan v.
Moore, 14 La. Ann. 833; Brian v. Bonvillain, 52 La. Ann.
1794, 1806.
In Louisiana the rule seems to be different as to the effect
of notice of unrecorded mortgages, or of those not reinscribed as required by law; but that is clearly the result bf
an unusual statutory provision, and does not affect the application of the ordinary rule otherwise. Ridings v. Johnson,
128 U. S.212; Lacassagne v. Chapius, 144 U. S.119.
There was no appearance or brief filed for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Todd, a judgment creditor of Pedro and Juan Agostii, sued
Anna Merle to subject property registered in her name to the
payment of the judgment, on the ground that she was a mere
interposed person, resulting from simulated conveyances to

TODD v. ROMEU.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

her made by the Agostinis. To enforce a *decree in his favor
Todd advertised the property for sale. Romeu, alleging himself to be an innocent third person, who had bought the property pending the suit, filed a bill to enjoin. A demurrer on
behalf of Todd having been sustained, and a final decree entered against Romeu, he brought the cause to this court. The
judgment was reversed and the case remanded. Romeu v.
Todd, 206 U. S. 358.
In virtue of leave given him by the court below, Todd answered, and. alleged that Romeu was not an innocent third person, because he had bought with notice of the pendency of the
suit. A demurrer on the ground that this answer stated no defense was sustained, and a final decree was rendered enjoining
Todd from proceeding against the property. This appeal is
prosecuted by Todd, and the question for decision is thus
stated in the brief filed on his behalf: "What is the law of
Porto Rico as to tht effect of bringing home to an intending
purchaser of real estate knowledge or notice of a defect in the
title to, or of a lien upon, such real estate in favor of some perion other than the vendor, where such knowledge or notice is
not required (acquired?) from the Registry of prierty, such
defect or lien not -being recorded?" Under the assumption
that the pending suit, by operation of law, dismembered the
ownership of Merle in the property to which the suit related,
pending the same, or operated, from the fact of its pendency,
to create a lien upon the property, decisions of the Supreme
Courts, both of Porto Rico and of Spain, are referred to as
establishing that one who acquires a right in or to property
with knowledge of a defective title or of an existing lien is not a
third party, and therefore is not entitled to rights which depend for their existence upon that relation. Conceding, for the
sake of the argument, that the decisions relied on announce
the principle which is attributed to them, we think they are
here inapposite. We say this because their applicability depends upon the erroneous assumption upon which the entire
argument necessarily proceeds, that is to say, upon the theory

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

that by operation of law the offect of the pending suit against
Merle was either to create a defect in the title of the property
standing in her name, or to engender a lien on the same.
When the case was previously here we held: (a) That, differing from the ancient Spanish law, the modern Spanish law did
not deprive an owner of property of the ight, because a suit
was brought against him concerning the same, to dispose of the
property pendente lite. Pp. 363, 364. But while this was the
case, the modern law, in order to prevent this right from depriving suitors of the ultimate benefit to result from the suecessful prosecution of suits, and to protect the public, provided
for a system of cautionary notices, by means of which suitors
in the cases provided for could put upon the public record a
notice concerning the pendency of their suits, thus protecting
those who dealt with property upon the faith of the recorded
title, leaving the owner the power to dispose of his property
pending a suit, and at the same time saving to those who sued
the enjoyment of their ultimate rights if they recorded a
cautionary notice. (b) As these requirements of the local law
were incompatible and in conflict with the doctrine of lis
pendens prevailing in the courts of the United States, it was
held that"that doctrine did. not obtain in Porto Rico, because
the legislation of Congress concerning that island contemplated
the fostering and not the overthrow of the local laws, especially
those governing the title to real estate. P. 364. (c) Applying these rulings, it was decided that as Todd had not availed
of the privilege of the local law by applying for and recording a cautionary notice, the court below had erroneously decided that the property in the hands of Romeu, an innocent
third person, who had bought from Merle on the faith of the
record title, was liable to Todd as the result of the decree ultimately rendered in his favor.
It thus becomes apparent that the assumption as to dismemberment of ownership and consequent defective title, or
a lien on the property arising solely by the pendency of the
Todd suit upon which the case before us primarily depends, is

TODD v. ROMEU.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without foundation, and was expressly decided to be so by
our previbus ruliig. The case then, if it has any foundation
at all, can only rest upon the hypothesis that, as by the pendency of the-suit, the law gave the right to obtain a cautionary
notice and put the same upon the public recordsi so that if
the suit ultimated in favor of the complainant the person
buying the property or dealing concerning the same pending
the suit would do so subject tu rights finally established in
favor of the complainant, therefore the knowledge of the suit
and of the rights arising from it as a result of the privilege of
registering a cautionary notice deprived the person having
such knowledge of the attitude of an innocent third party, and
subjected the property in his hands to a-responsibility for the
result of .the suit to the extent which would have been the case
had the notice been recoraed. But this also depends upon
an erroneous assumption as to the operation and effect of the
local law as to cautionary notice. In that law; as expressly
held in the previous opinion, the provision as to cautionary
notices which was applicable to the suit of Todd v. Merle was
embraced in the mortgage law, and was as follows (article 42,
p. 365): "Cautionary notices of their respective interests in
the corresponding public registries may be dei~anded by:
1. The person who enters suit for the ownership of the real
property, or for the creation, declaration, modification, or
extinction of any property right." This provision ia followed
by nine other paragraphs, specifying particular cases in which
a cautionary notice is authorized, none, however, of these paragraphs having any relation to the case in hand. But the right
to have a cautionary notice and to record it in order to cause
the pendency of the suit to be operative against property involved in the suit, against persons buying, pending the suit,
on the faith of the registered title was not an absolute one
arising in and by the effect of the pendency of the suit, but
-was contingent; that is to say, could only arise as the result of
an application made to the court to grant the cautionary notice and by a judgment of the court awarding the same. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

clearly follows from a subsequent provision of the mortgage
law, saying (art. 43):

"In the case of No. 1 of the preceding article no cautionary
notice may be made unless it is so ordered by a judicial decree issued at the instance of a person having a right thereto
and by virtue of a document sufficient in the opinion-of the
judge."
In other words, the right in the case specified to the cautionary'notice was not absolute, but relative. That is to say,
the law, considering the right of an owner to dispose.of his
property and the injustice which would arise from limiting
such right in every case merely because a suit was brought
-against him concerning the property, gives the right to the
cautionary notice in such case, not merely because of the
commencement of the suit, but makes it should depend upon
an express order of the court granting the cautionary notice.
As, therefore, the right to a cautionary notice did not arise
in and by virtue of the pendency of the suit and could only
have come from a judicial decree which was never applied for
and never rendered, it must follow that the assumption tlat
there was an existing dismemberment of ownership or lien
arising from the conception that there was the absolute right
to the cautionarynotice has no foundation upon which to rest.
It results that the contention reduces itself to this, that
Romeu, the purchaser, who bought the property on the faith
of the recorded title and in the absence of a cautionary notice, was bound because he had knowledge of the suit, although by opetation of law the suit had no effect whatever
upon the right bf the owner to dispose of the property during
its pendency, sihce the steps which the law provided as necessary to limit the right of the owner had not been taken.
Thus to bring the proposition relied upon to establish that
error was committed by the court below to its ultimate conclusion is to demonstrate its want of merit.
Of course, our ruling is.confined to the case before us, and
we do not, therefore, intimate an opinion as to whether the

DAVIS v. C. C. C. & ST. L. RY.
217 U.S.

Syllabus.

doctrine that notice is equivalent to registry is or not compatible with the public policy manifested by the requirements
of the mortgage law prevailing in Porto Rico. And upon the
hypothesis that the doctrine that notice is equivalent to registry is not incompatible with the requirements of the mortgage law, we must not be understood as deciding that one who
bought where no cautionary notice had been registered, but
with knowledge of a pending suit from which, owing to its
character, the law gave an absolute right, without the prerequisite of judicial action to the cautionary notice, would
not be liable to the extent of the property acquired pendente
lite for the ultimate results of the suit. See, among others,
paragraph 2 of article 42 of the mortgage law in connection
with the second paragraph of article 43 of the same law.
'Affirmed.

DAVIS v.. CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI,- CHICAGO & ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 123. Argued INarch 3, 4, 1910.-Deoided April 4, 1910.
Even though the certificate is not in proper form this court can review
the judgment of the Circuit Court under § 5 of the act of 1891 if the

record shows clearly that the only matter tried and decided in that
court was one of jurisdiction.
The fact that a writ of. error was sued out from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to the Circuit Court and dismissed is not a bar to the jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment of the Circuit Court on
the question of its jurisdiction aA a Federal court.
A court cannot without personal service acquire jurisdiction over the
person, and it is open to one not served, but whose property is attached, to appear specially to contest the control of the court over
such property; and in this case the appearance of the defendant for
that purpose was special and not general.

