WALLACH v. RUDOLPH.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

WALLACH v. RUDOLPH ET AL., COMMISSIONERS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.'
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 148.

Argued April 12, 13, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

Jurisdiction to review, when dependent on amount, is determined by
the amount directly and not contingently involved in the decree
sought to be reviewed.
A writ of error will not lie to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia confirming assessments for less
than .000, even though plaintiff in error may be contingently
liable in ease the judgment stands for other assessmenti exceeding
$5,000, in the same proceeding on other lots disposed of pending
the proceeding.
Writ of error to review,31 App. D. C. 130, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain assessments in the District of Columbia, and the jurisdiction of
this court to review judgments of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Samuel Maddox, with whom Mt'. H. Prescott
Gatley was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James Francis Smith, with whom Mr. Edward H.
Thomas was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was argued with the case of Columbia Heights
Realty Company v. The Commissioners"of-the District of
Columbia, and the questions presented are substantially
the same. The plaintiffs in error wdre interested as
owners of certain lots or parts of lots involved in the genI Original Docket Title: Rosa Wallach v. Henry. B. F. Macfarland
and others, Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

VOL. ccxvi-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

eral proceeding for the condemnation of property for the
extension of Eleventh street, and an assessment for benefits was confirmed as .to the property owned by them.
They were allowed to prosecute a separate writ of error
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia from
so much of the award as affected them, where the judgment was affirmed, and from that affirmation this writ
of error has been sued out. The aggregate of the amounts
which affect these plaintiffs in error and in respect of
which they have assigned. error is only $2,450.
Jurisdictional limit upon writs of error and appeals to
or from the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
is $5,000, exclusive of interest and costs. See act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, 436.
To sustain the jurisdiction an affidavit has been filed
to show that plaintiffs in error are contingently liable for
an amount in excess of $5,000, if this judgment is sUstained, by reason of like assessments in the same proceeding upon certain other lots or parts of lots, under other
subdivision numbers and standing in the name of different owners, being lots disposed of pending the proceeding under an undertaking to remove the lien of any assessment for benefits which might be made herein. It does
not follow as matter of law that such assessments against
such other lots to other parties will be determined by this
review. But, however this may be, "jurisdiction is to be
determined by the amount directly involved in the decree appealed from, and not by any contingent demand
which may be recovered, or any contingent loss which
may be sustained by either one of the parties through the
probative effect of the decree, however direct its bearing
upon such contingency." Hoflander v. Fechheimer, 162
U. S. 326, 328.
The motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction must be
granted, and the writ is accordingly
Dismissed.

