.OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. B.

adequately performed. As it is patent from the statement
we have made that the only ground upon which the power
to certiorari could have been exerted was the failure of the
court below to consider the case before it, we think this record
presents an exception to the general rule of procedure above
-referred to. In other words, in a case like this we think the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed
and the case be remanded to that court to the end that the
duty to hear and decide it may be performed. To hold otherwise would be repugnant to the plain intent of the act of
1891, since it would recognize a practice by which the concededly essential purpose of the act of 1891 could be disregarded or be made practically of no avail.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case is remanded to that court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND, UNITED STATES DISTRICT
JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 630. Argued January 25, 26, 1910.-Decided April 11, 1910.
The power of this court to issue writs of certiorari to the Citcuit Court

of Appeals is not limited to the provisions of the Court of Appeals
Act. It may issue them under 1 716, Rev. Stat. In re Chetwood,
165 U. S. 443; Whitney v. Dick, 202 U..S. 132.
Under J 716, Rev. Stat., and §.12 of the Court of Appeals Act the
Circuit Court oi' Appeals has authority to issue writs of cire facia
and all writs not specifically provided for by statute and necessary
for' the exercise of the court's jurisdiction, and agreeable to the
usages and principles of law.

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217 U. 8.

Argument for Petitioners.

Where a case is within the appellate jurisdiction of the higher court
a writ of mandamus may issue in aid of the appellate jurisdiction
which might'otherwise.be defeated by the unauthorized action of
the court below; and so held that the Circuit Court of Appeals may
issue mandamus to compel the Circuit Court to vacate a stay pending proceedings in the state court to determine and thus render
ree *dicda questions within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
and involved in the action in which the stay was granted.
The. constitutional grant of chancery jurisdiction to Federal Courts
in cases where diverse citizenship exists, to determine interests in
estates, is the same as that possessed by the Chancery Courts of
England and it cannot be impaired by subsequent state legislation
creating courts of probate. Watserman v. Canal-LouisianaBank,
215 U. S. 33.
A Federal court cannot abandon its jurisdiction already properly obtained of a suit and turn the matter over for adjudication to the
state court. Chcot County v. Shewood, 148 U. S. 529.
The pendency of a suit in the state court ieno bar to proceedings concerning the sane matter in a Federal court having jurisdiction
thereover.
The judgment in a suit between claimants of an.estate and the administrator does not conclude the rights of the State claiming an
escheat so long as it is not a party and has not been allowed to intervene on its own behalf.
On tertiorari this court will consider only the record in the Circuit
Court of Appeals as certified here in return to the writ, and it decides the case solely as presented in such return.
In this case held that the Circuit Court of Appeals should have issued
an -alternative writ of mandamus to, or order td show cause why,
the Circuit Judge should not vacate a stay in an action brought
against an administrator by one claiming to be an heir while and
until proceedings brought by the State for escheat in the state court
should be finally determined.
Tmz facts are stated in the opinion.
*Mr.Meln Grigsby for petitioners:
The Circuit Court cannot rightfully
an action there pending to await the
determination of another action in a
Asphalt Co. v. Judge Morris, 132 Fed.

stay proceedings of
commencement and
state court. Barber
Rep. 945, citing In-

OCTOBER .TERM, 1909.
Argument for Petitioners.

21T U. S.

surance Co. v. Harris,97 U. S. 331, 336; and see Harkraderv.
Wadly, 172 U. S. 150, Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Lang v.
Choctaw & Gulf R. R. Co.? 160 Fed. Rep. 359; Sullivan v.
Algrem, 160 Fed. Rep. 366; Gordon v. Logeet, 16 Pet. 97;
In re Langford, 57 Fed. Rep. 570.
The writ of mandamus from the Circuit Court of Appeals
was the proper and only availabQ remedy for the correction
of the error made by the Circuit Court in staying proceedings.
in that court. Barber Asphalt Paving Company v. Morris,
supra.
The Circuit Court could not properly stay proceedings on
the ground that it was necessary for the protection of theState of South Dakota, the State having appeared in that
court claiming to be an interested party.
The opinion below is based on the theory that the Circuit
Court could not proceed without making the State a party,
and that to make the State a party would oust the jurisdiction of the court under the Eleventh Amendment, and
that Minnesota v. The Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 200;
Califirnid v. Southern Pacific Company, 157 U. S. 229, controlled, relying on cases cited. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130;
Hipp v. Babin, 19 How.' 271, 278; Parker v. Winnipiseogee
Woolen Co., 2 Black, 545; but'in these cases this court held
that the complaints disclosed that the relief could not be
granted as prayed for without affecting the rights of others not
parties to the suits.
In the case at bar it does not appear that the State or any
party, except only the petitioners and the defendant, had
any interest whatever in the subject-matter of the suit, unless it can be claimed that in every case wherein heirs seek
to establish title to the property of a decedent the State is a
necessary party, and can claim the right of intervention on
the ground that the property of all decedents escheats to the
State in default of legitimate.heirs.
The State of South Dakota petitioned the Circuit Court
for leave to intervene, claiming to be the owner of the prop-

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217'U. S.

Argument for John E. Carland.

erty in question, because the same had escheated to the State,
making a case almost exactly in line with United States v.
Judge Peters, 5 Cranch-, 115; and see South Carolinav. Wesley,
155 U. S. 543, almost identical in principle with the case here
presented, and in which, although it appeared that the property was in possession of and belonged to the State, the Circuit Court overruled the motion to dismiss, and was sustained
by this court, citing United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115,
supra; The Exchange v. McFadden, 7 Cranch, 116; Osborn v.
Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196;
Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508; see also Tindal v. Wesleyj
167 U. S. 203, 206.
- The same doctrine was laid down in United States v. Lee,
106 U. S.196, 251; Carrv. United ,States',98 U. S. 433; in which
it was held that judgment against a defendant who claimed
title under the United States could be set up by way of estoppel in an action brought by the United States to quiet
title to the same land, was no estoppel, even though in the
former action the United States district attorney for the district, and other counsel employed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, attended at the trial on behalf of the defendant.
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suit of John McClellan v. Blackman, as administrator; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall.
425; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U.S.608, 867; Ingersoll v. Coram,
211 U. 8. 335.
The petitioners will be deprived of their rights under
Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution of the United States unless
the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals shall by this honorable court be reversed.
Mr. Frderic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. S. W. Clark,
Attorney General of South Dakota, and U. S. G.Cherry were
on the brief, presented a statement and suggestions on behalf of John E. Carland, United States District Judge for the
District of South Dakota:
The statutory writ of certiorari under the provisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for John E. Carland.

217 U. S.

the act of March 3, 1891, is not available, nor is § 716, Rev.
Stat.
The writ of mandamus in the Federal courts is never an
independent suit, as it is in many States and in England.
The courts of the United States have no power to acquire
jurisdiction of a case or question by issuing a writ of mandamus. Their authority in this regard is limited to the issuance
of writs of mandamus in aid of their appellate jurisdiction.
and in such cases as are already. pending and wherein jurisdiction has been obtained on other grounds and by other
process. McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 601; Mclntire v.
Wood, 7 Cr. 504; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; Riggs v.
Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166, 197, 198; Secretary v. McGarrahan, 9 Wall. 311; Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244; Grahawf
v. Norton, 15 Wall. 427; Greene County v. Daniel, 102 U. S.
187; Davenport v. Dodge County, 105 U. S. 237; Smith v.
Bourbon County, 127 U. S. 105; United States v. Williams,
67 Fed. Rep. 384; United States v. Judges, 85 Fed. Rep. 179;
In re Forsyth, 78 Fed. Rep. 301; Waite v. Santa Cruz, 89 Fed.
Rep. 619; Shepard v. Irrigation.Dist.,94 Fed. Rep. 3; Roenbaum v. Supervisors, 28 Fed. Rep. 223.
If the Circuit Courts of Appeals have the powel' to issue
writs of mandamus at all, that power is derived from the
provisions of § 716, Rev. Stat., as read into the Circuit Court
of Appeals Act by § 12, such writ can issue only in aid (f
their appellate jurisdiction, and in the exercise of their discretionary authority. Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Morris,
132 Fed. Rep. 945; In re Pacquet, 114 Fed. Rep. 437; Travers
Co. v. Bridge Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 690; United States v. Severens,
71 Fed: Rep. 768.
But if the case here should be retained on the writ of
certiorari under § 6 of the act of 1891, no order purporting
to direct or control the conduct of District Judge Carland in
the future course of the cause could well be issued without
said District Judge first being accorded an opportunity to
show cause in the premises.

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217 U.S.

Argument -forJohn E.Carland.

-The record shows that petitioners invoked the jurisdiction
of the proper state courts to determine the very matter,
namely, the question of his and their relationship to John
McClellan, deceased. Under §80, Probate Code of South
Dakota, "administration of the estate of a person dying intestate must be granted to some one or more of the persons
herein mentioned."
The refusal of the county court to appoint any of the petitioners administrator carries with it, at least by necessary
implication, the finding that none of said petitioners was
either the son or grandson of the intestate as alleged.Where the order or judgment of a state court in proceedings. for administration depends, upon the question as to
whether the party claiming the right to administer such estate is next of kin or heir at law of the intestate, such order
or judgment is conclusive upon that question until vacated
or reversed in any and all subsequent suits or proceedings,
whether in the state or Federal courts. Such order or judgment until vacated or reversed is pleadable in bar and as
res adjudicata in such subsequent proceedings. Caujolle v.
Curtis, 13 Wall. 465; Howell v. Budd, 91 California, 342.
Under §5651, Laws of South Dakota, being §26, Probate
Cde, the county court, when acting, as a probate court and
in respect to probate matters, is a court of general jurisdiction. Matson v. Swen8son, 5 So. Dak. 191; and see Woerner
on Administration, 2d. ed., 1234. Matters of administration
affecting decedents' estates in th0 courts of South Dakota
are proceedings in rem. Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608;
O'Callaghanv. O'Brien, 199 U. S.89; Hook v. Payne, 14 Wall.
253.
" In South Dakota no right bf action exists in favor of an
heir, devisee or legatee to recover his portion or share of an
estate, against an administrator, independent of a proceeding either direct or ancillary in probate. A suit inter partes
between the administrator and the heir, devisee or legatee is
not provided for. Final distribution must be made in the
VOL. ccxvu--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the court.

217 U.S.

probate court before the person entitled to the estate can
recover it.
In South Dakota the order or decree of the probate court
must name .the persons and the proportions or parts to which
each is entitled before any right of action accrues in favor of
any person to recover from an administrator. The final order
and decree is conclusive and can only be reversed, set aside,
or modified on an appeal. Carrauv. OCYalligan, 125 Fed. Rep.
657; Richardson v. Green, 61 Fed. Rep. 423 Watermn v.
Canal-LouisianaBank, 215 U. S. 33.
The application of the State to intervene in the Federal
court was proper. Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 143; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S.276, 283; State of Floridav. Georgia,
17 How. 478; Paradisev. Farmers' d; Mechanics' Bank, 5 La.
Ann. 710.
. The bill of complainant as drawn, conmdered in the light
of the scope of its prayers, is clearly bKyond the. jurisdictional powers of the Circuit Court. Waterman v. CanalLouisiana &c., 215 U. S.33.
In either event, and as well for the want of an indispensable party-the State of South Dakota, as above notedthe Circuit Court of the United States for the IiMtrict of
South Dakota is without jurisdiction to proceed with the
cause otherwise than by dismissing the bill of complaint for
want of jurisdiction.
MR.JusTICE DAY delivered tho ,ninwont rff the court.

This case comes here upon a was, oi ?trtiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eigha Cirruit. in that court
McClellan and others, petitioners, filed a petitloa for a writ
Judge for
of mandamus against the United State,- Dist:
the Distridt of South Dakota, praying a w-it, of mandamus
to said judge, sitting as a judge of the Circuit i* ourt of said
district, .commandiiig him to set aside ;_-J v, cate certain
ordero staving proceedings in an ,ctioa peu,&Mg in the Cir-

. McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court, and to proceed to try and determine the suit in
the usual course of procedure, without regard to the pendency
of certain proceeding, to be hereinafter referred to, in the
courts of the State of South Dakota. The Circuit 0ourt of
Appeals upon the petition for a writ of mandamus being
presented to it denied the prayer thereof and dismissed' it.
Thereafter this court granted the writ of certiorari.
From the transcriptI of the record of the case in the Circuit
Court of Appeals it appears that petitioner and others, on
the eighth day of September, 1908, commenced suit against
George T. Blackman, special administrator of the estate of
John C. McClellan, deceased, and others, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of South Dakota, in
which *suit complainants were citizens of States other than
South Dakota, and. respondent, George'T. Blackman, a citizen of South Dakota, was sued as special administrator 'f the
estate of John C. McClellan, deceased. The bill set up that
complainants were the sole. surviving heirs at law and next
of kin of John C. McClellan, deceased, who died on or about
the thirty-first of August, 1899, intestate, in. the city of
Sioux Falls, county of Minnehaha, South Dakota, leaving an
estate of real and personal property of the value of about
$33,000. The bill sets out the issuing of letters of administration to one William Van Eps, who held possession of the
estate until July 12, 1906, when he died; that subsequently
thereto special letters of administration were issued to George
T. Blackman, the respondent. The bill further avers that
there was in posse;sion of said Blackman, as said special
administrator, beloging to said estate, assets in excess of
the sum of $35,000, consis.ing of real estate, cash on hand,
etc. The bill avers that there were no claims against the
estate, and that all the creditors of John C. McClellan had
been paid, and that the estate was ready for distribution
According to the laws of South Dakota. The bill further
prayed that the complainants might be adjudicated the sole
heirs at law and next of kin of said decedent, and entitled to

OCTOBER'TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

inherit the estate, real and personal, and that the said Blackman render a just and true account of the property in his
hands belonging to said estate, and, after deducting his lawful
fees and expenses, be required to distribute the samein certain proportions to the complainants, as heirs at law of the
decedent. The defendant Blackman appeared and answered
the bill, admitting certain allegations thereof, and denying
others, and demanding proof thereof, and stating that he
held the property described in the bill of complaint subject to
the order of the court. A general replication was filed to the
answer, and thereupon it appears that the State of South
Dakota came, by its attorney general and its attorney for
the county of Minnehaha, and special counsel, and asked
leave to intervene in the case, and, upon hearing, the Circuit
Court of the United States overruled the motion, and ordered
that the further prosecution of the action then pending before
it be stayed for the period of ninety days, for the purpose of
allowing the State of South Dakota to commence a proper
action or proceeding to establish its title and interest in and
to the property in the estate of the decedent, and that in the
event that such action be commenced within that time, then
the pending action to be stayed until the determination of
such action brought by the State of South Dakota. Afterwards the complainants fied an application for the vacation
of the orders staying the prosecution of their suit until the
determination of the suit in the state court, but the same
was denied, and thereafter the petitiori for mandamus in the
Circuit Court of Appeals was filed, with the result already
stated.
The matters we have stated constitute the entire record
before the Circuit Court of Appeals. Upon that record it
appears that the Circuit Court of the United States having
an action before it to determine the interest of the complainants in the estate of John C. McClellan, upon which issue
had been joined, upon application of the State of South
Dakota refused to permit it to iitervene in the case to set

McCLELLAN
217 U. S.

v.

CARLAND

Opinion of the Court.

up its right and title to the property in the estate of the
decedent, upon the claim that he died without legal heirs,
and stayed the proceedings in the case before it until the
State of South Dakota could bring an action in the state
court for the purpose of determining such rights; and afterwards, it appearing that the State had commenced such action
against all persons having or claiming a right, title, or interest
therein, stayed the pending action until the determination of
the action in the state court.
It is first objected on behalf of the respondent herein that
this is not a case in which this court has the authority to issue
the writ of certiorari. It is contended that the application
for the writ in this case was under the act of March 3, 1891
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, and that the right to grant writs of
certiorari te the Circuit Court of Appeals is limited by the
act to certain cases made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that by § 10 of the Court of Appeals Act it is declared that whenever on appeal, writ of error, or otherwise,
a case coming from the Circuit Court of Appeals shall be
reviewed and determined in the Supreme Court, it shall be
remanded to the proper District or Circuit Court for further
proceedings in pursuance of such determination.
These provisions, it is contended, show that a writ of certiorari is not warranted in this case, it being an original
application in mandamus in the Court of Appeals, and the
jurisdiction in the Circuit Court not depending upon the
opposite parties to the suit being citizens of different States,
and, therefore, the judgment not final in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, nor could the case be remanded to the proper Diftrict
or Circuit Court, as it was an original proceeding in mandamus
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. But the power of this court
to issue writs of certiorari is not limited to the Court of Appeals Act. Section 716 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States provides:
"The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District Courts
shall have power to issue writs of .,cirefama. They shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

also have power to issue all writs not specifically provided
for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of
their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and
principles of lav."
Of this section it was said in In re Chetu,ood, 165 U. S. 443,
461:
"By section 14 of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789,
c. 20, 1 Stat. 81, carried forward as section 716 of the Revised Statutes, this court and the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States were empowered by Congress to issue
all writs, not specifically provided for by statute, which may
be agreeable to the usages and principles of law; and, under
this provision, we ca a undoubtedly issue writs of certiorari
in all proper cases. Amer. Construction Co. v. Jacksonville
Railway, 148 U. S.372, 380. And although, as observed in
that case, this writ has not been issued as freely by this court
as by the Court of Queen's Bench in England, and, prior to
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, had been
ordinarily used as an auxiliary process merely, yet, whenever
the circumstances imperatively demand that form of interposition the writ may be allowed, as at common law, to
correct excesses of jurisdiction and in furtherance of justice.
Tidd's Prac. 398; Bacon's Abr. Certiorari."
In Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S.132, a writ of certiorari was
granted to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
to review the judgment of that court where an original application had been made for the writ of habeas corpus and a writ
of certiorari in that court. This court held, upon the question
of jurisdiction, that there could be no appeal from the Circuit
Court of Appeals in such a case, but that a writ of certiorari
might issue to bring the case here from the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon the authority of In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. supra.
The case at bar being a petition for mandamus there is no
amount in controversy, and, consequently, there could be no
appeal to this court; and, as in Whitney v. Dick, supra, the
iudgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was not final because

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.

217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the diversity of citizenship in the court below, and, consequently, certiorari would not issue under the act of 1891. In
Whitney v. Dick the case was remanded to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, with instructions to quash the writ of certiorari issued by that court and to dismiss the petition for habeas corpus.
In the present case we have no doubt of the authority of this
court to issue the writ of certiorari under § 716 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States as construed and applied in the
cases just cited-In re Chetwood, 165 U. S., and Whitney v.
Dick, 202 U. S. supra. The suggestion, therefore, that this
case should be dismissed for want of power in this court to
grant. the writ of certiorari cannot be entertained. While the
power to grant this writ will be sparingly used, as has been
frequently declared by this court, we should be slow to reach a
conclusion which would deprive the court of the power to issue
the writ in proper cases to review the action of the Federal
courts inferior in jurisdiction to this court.
It is further objected that the Circuit Court of Appeals had
no jurisdiction to issue the writ of mandamus, as that writ can
only be issued in aid of the appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and, it is contended, as that court had no
jiisdiction of the suit when the application for mandamus was
filed, it ought to have been dismissed. Section 12 of the Court
of Appeals Act declares that the Circuit Court of Appeals shall
bttve the powers specified in § 716 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. That section we have already had occasion
to quote, and when read in connection with § 12 of the Court
of Appeals Act it gives to the Circuit Court of Appeals the aunority,
,
as this court has, to issue writs of scirefacias, ankl all
writs not specifically provided for by statute, and necessary
for the exercise of the court's jurisdiction, and agreeable to
the usages and principles of law.
In this case it appears that the original action commenced
in the Circuit Court of the United States might have been
taken on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals., The suit involved over $2,000 in amount and was between citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. .

different States. There are not wanting decisions in the Federal courte holding different views as to the right to issue such
writs as are involved in this case, before the appellate court
has actually obtained jurisdiction of the case. There are expressions in opinions of this court to the effect that such writs
issue in aid of a jurisdiction actually acquired. But we think
it the true rule that where a case is within the appellate jurisdiction of the higher court a writ of mandsmus may issue in aid
of the appellate jurisdiction which might otherwise be defeated
by the unauthorized action of the court below. This rule was
distinctly stated and the previous cases referred to in Instrance Company v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258, 270. In that case
the rule was recognized that this court had the power to issue
the writ of mandamus to compel the Circuit. Courts to proceed
to final judgment in order that this court may exercise the jurisdiction of review given by law. In that case the court said:
"Repeated decisions of this court have established the rule
that this court has power to issue a mandamus, in the exercise
of its appellate jurisdiction, and that the writ will le in a
proper case to direct a subordinate Federal court to decide a
pending cause."
In Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Pet. 634, the same rule was laid
down by Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court, requiring a Federal court of inferior jurisdiction to reinstate a
case, and to proceed to try and adjudicate the same. And see
In re Pennsylvania Co., 137 U. S. 451, 452; Virginia v. Rives,
100 U. S. 313; United States, Petitioner,194 U. S. 194; Barber'
Asphalt Co. v. Morris, 132 Fed. Rep. 945.
Inasmuch as the order of the Circuit Court staying the proceeding until after final judgment in the state court might prevent the adjudication of the questions involved, and thereby
prevent a review thereof in the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
had jurisdiction for that purpose, we think that court had
power to issue the writ of mandamus to require the Circuit
Court to proceed with and determine the action pending before it.

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

The question then arises, was the Circuit Court justified in
staying the proceedings in the case, and withholding further
action until the case involving the same question might be
brought and determined in the state court? We think that
there can. be but one answer to this question. The case made
upon the bill was within the original jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United Stats. The right of the Circuit Court to
maintain such actions, notwithstanding the legislation of the
State creating probate courts, has been so recently before this
court as to require no further consideration now. Waterman
v. CanalLouiwianaBank, 215 U. S.33. In that case, following
previous decisions of this court, it was held that the chancery
jurisdiction of the Federal courts to entertain suits between
citizens of different States to determine interests in estates,
and to have the same fixed and declared, having existed from
the beginning .of the Federal government, and created by the
grant of equity jurisdiction to such courts as it existed in the
chancery courts of England, could not be impaired by subsequent state legislation creating courts of probate. The action
was therefore within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the United States.
So far as the record presented to the Circuit. Court of Appeals shows, the only ground upon which the Circuit Court
acted in postponing the suit was because the State of South
Dakota, which had applied to be made a party, and which application was denied, was about to begin a suit in the state
court" to ditermine an escheat of the estate of John C. McClellan, therefore the action was stayed, first, until the beginning of such suit, and then until it was determined.' It,
therefore, appeared upon the record presented to the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the Circuit Court had practically aband6ned its jurisdiction over a case of which it had cognizance,
and turned the matter over for adjudication to the state court.
This, it has been'steadily held, a Federal court may not do.
Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529, 534.
It cannot be denied that a Circuit Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion -f the Court.

217 U. S.

States: like other courts, had power to postpone the trial of
cases for good .reasons, but by the orders made in this case the
Federal court withheld the further exercise of its authority until the state court, by its action in a case involving all the parties, might render a judgment which would be res judicata, and
thus prevent further proceedings in the Federal court.
The rule is well recognized that the pendency of an action
in the state court is no bar to proceedings concerning the same
matter in the Federal court having jurisdiction, for both the
state and Federal courts have certain concurrent jurisdiction
over such controversies, and when they arise between citizens
of different States the Federal jurisdiction may be invoked,
and the cause carried to judgment, notwithstanding a state
court may also have taken jujisdiction of the same case. In
the present case, so far as the record before the Circuit Court of
Appeals discloses, the Circuit Court of the United States had
acquired jurisdiction, the issues were made up, and when the
State intervened the Federal court practically turned the
case over for determination to the state court. We think it
had no authority to do this, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon the record before it, should have issued the writ of
mandamus to require the judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States to show cause why he did not proceed to hear
and determine the case.
Whether the State ought to have been allowed to intervene
in the Federal court is not a question now before us; but, if not
made a party to the suit, its rights would not have been concluded by any adjudication made therein. Tindal v. Wesley,
167 U. S. 204, 223.
We have thus far considered the case upon the record made
in the Circuit Court of Appeals and certified here upon the
writ of certiorari. In this court the honorable judge of the
District Court entered special appearance, and filed an affidavit
as to the proceedings before him, in which much appears which
is not in the record presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In that appearance and affidavit the petition in intervention

McCLELLAN v. CARLAND.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

filed in the Circuit Court of the United States is set forth in
full, as well as certain affidavits which were filed. We shall
not enter upon a consideration of these papers, because they
are not in the record, as the same has been certified to us from
the Circuit Court of Appeals as the one upon which it acted,
and declined to issue the writ of mandamus. They set forth
at length certain proceedings in the state courts of South
Dakota, in which it is alleged that the issue of the right of the
complainants in the equity suit to take the estate of John C.
McClellan, as his heirs at law, was determined adversely .to
them, and that such proceedings were had as showed that further proceedings in reference to the escheat of the estate of
McClellan for want of legal heirs ought to be determined by
proceedings in the state court. In making his appearance in this
court, and in presenting these papers, it is evident that the
District Judge was much influenced in ordering the stay of proceedings, and withholding judgment until the state court had
rendered its judgment, by the proceedings already had in the
state courts of South Dakota.
As we have said, we do not pass upon the sufficiency of those
proceedings to authorize the orders in question. We must
take the case as it is presented here upon the stipulated return
to the writ of certiorari on the record as presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Upon that record, we think, the Circuit Court of Appeals should not have dismissed the writ of
mandamus, but should have ordered the alternative writ, or an
order to show cause, to issue, in order that the District Judge
might have been fully heard before the question was determined as to whether mandamus should issue or not.
We shall, therefore, reverse the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and remand the case to that court, with directions to issue the alternative writ, or an order to show
cause. All we decide is that upon the petition and record
made in the Circuit Court of Appeals and as now presented by
the transcript filed in this court such alternative writ or order
to show cause ought to have issued. The judgment dismissing

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the petition is reversed and the case is remanded to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for further proceedings, as herein indicated.
Reversd.

BRANTLEY v. STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT (b# '1wr RTATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 692.

Argued April 6, 1910.-Decided April 11, 1910.

Where one has been tried in a state court for murder and convicted
of manslaughter, and, on his own motion, obtains a reversal and
new trial, on which he is convicted of a higher offense, and the constitution of the State provides that no one shall be put in second
jeopardy for the same offense save on his own motion for new trial
or in case of mistrial, there is no question involved of twice in
jeopardy under the Constitution of the United States.
132 Georgia, 573, affirmed.

TEm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Randolph Cooper for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John C. Hart, Attorney General of the State of Georgia,
for defendant in error, submitted.
PER CURIAM: Brantley was indicted in the Superior Court
of Washington County, Georgia, charged with the offense of
murder; was tried and found guilty of voluntary manslaughter; filed a motion for new trial, and upon appeal to the state
Court of Appeals obtained a reversal of the judgment, and a
new trial was ordered.
At the second trial he filed a plea of former jeopardy, claiming that he had been tried for murder, and having been found
guilty of a lesser grade of homicide that operated to acquit
him of the charge of murder, and to try him again for murder
under the same indictment would be to try him again for an

