ST..LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. v. W. R. R. CO. 247
Syllabus.:.

217 U. S.

papers or documents, in any of the executive departments,
under the seal of the proper department, are made admissible
in evidence equally with the original.
There 'was no evidence whatever casting suspicion i.pon the
genuineness of the copy or of the seal or the Signature of Farley, and none. which challenged in any way the American
character of the ship. Under such circumstances and for the
purposes of this case it was not error to assume that the document was genuinely executed by Farey, that he wa. what he
claimed to be, adeputy collector of customs, and that his
signature had been signed by himself or one authorized to
sign for him. 3 Wigmore on Evidence, ยง2161.
There was no error, and the judgment is

Affimed.

ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CITY AND COLORADO RAILROAD
COMPANY v. WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY AND
CITY OF ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

SAME v. SAME.:
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
'Nos. 7, 301.

Argued December 9, 1909.-Decided April 11, 1910.

Jurisdiction in ease of an intervention is determined by that of the
main case, and where the original foreclosure case was based solely
upon diverse citizenship an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals on a petition to enforce rights granted by a decree
in an intervention in such foreclosure suit does not lie to this court.

Where the Circuit Court of Appeals remands a suit to the Circuit
Court with instructions to enter a decree, the Circuit Court cannot,

.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 1, S..

without permission from the Circuit Court of Appeals, introduce
new questions into the litigation; and the unwarranted introduction
of new questions cannot be made the basis of jurisdiction. The mere
construction of a decree involves no challenge of its validity.
It is proper for this court to grant certiorari where the questions involve the. construction of a prior decree of a United States Circuit
Court granting rights of use of railroad tracks and terminal facilities
in a great city, and where not only the private interests of the railroad companies and of the shippers, but also the greater interests
of the'public, require such rights to be settled.
Where a decree gives to another company the equal use and benefit
of the right of way of a railroad company in a terminal city or a
basis of compensation and apportionment of expenses, with provision for modification in case of un.xpeected changes, it will be
construed as applying to the terminal T-%cilities and the connectlans
with industrial establishments as the smrne naturally increase in a
growing city, and not to the mere right of way as it existed when
the decree was entered, and the court has power to provide for the
use of such increased facilities on a proportionately increased rental
based on the increased valuation.
152 Fed. Rep. 849, modified.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the decree of
the Circuit Court in 29 Fed. Rep. _46, as affirmed by this court
in the case of Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1, are stated in the

opinion.
Mr. Frank Hagerman, with whom Mr. W. F. Evans and
Mr. M. A. Low were on the brief, for appellant in No. 57 and
petitioner in No. 301.
Mr. James L. Minnis, with whom Mr. Wells H. Blodgett was
on the brief for appellee in No. 57 and respondent in No. 301.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court, after reading the following memorandum:
This opinion was prepared by our Brother BREWER, and
had been approved before his lamented death. It was then
recirculated and is adopted as the opinion of the court.
On January 6, 1886, there was entered in the Circuit Court

ST. LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. .W.
217 U. B.

R. R. CO. 249

pin of
a the Court.

of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri a decree of foreclosure and sale of the Wabash, St. Louis and
Pacific Railway Company, hereinafter called the Wabash
Company. In that suit, before the execution of the deeds to
the purchasing committee, a railway corporation known as
the St. Louis, Kansas City and Colorado Railroad Company
(hereinafter called the Colorado Company) and the city of St.
Louis intervened to compel the Wabash Company to give to
the Colorado Company the use of its tracks and a right of
entrance over them to the Union Depot of that city. On that
intervention a decree was entered finding the equities in favor
of the intervenors, and granting the Colorado Company the
use of the tracks and right of way. 29 Fed. Rep. 546. On
appeal to this court the decreer of the Circuit Court on the
intervention was, on January 19, 1891, sustained. Joy v. St.
Louis, 138 U. S. 1.
A dispute having arisen as to the rights granted by that decree, a petition was filed at the March term, 1902, of the Circuit Court in. the original foreclosure case to enforce those
A
rights as the Colorado Company claimed they existd1
upon
this
application,
large amount of testimony was taken
and a decree entered April 2, 1906. Thereupon an appeal was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
which, on April 3, 1907, reversed the decree and remanded the
case "with directions to enter a decree not inconsistent with
the views" expressed in the opinion of the court. 81 C. C. A.
643. The case went back to the Circuit Court, and after an
amendment to the petition, which was allowed by the court, a
decree was entered in obedience to the mandate, from which
decree an appeal was again taken to the .Circuit Court of Appeals, and also to this court. On the appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the record was filed in that court, and thereupon an application for a certiorari was made to this court,
so that two cases are before us with records precisely alike, one
the appeal from the Circuit Court directly to this court (being
case No. 57) and the other the petition for a certiorari to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Court of Appeals (being case No. 301). [This petition was
filed and presented to the court November 30, 1908, and on
December 7, 1908, consideration of the petition was postponed
to be heard with No. 57.]
The Wabash Company has filed a motion to dismiss No. 57,
the case appealed directly to this court. The jurisdiction of
the original'foreciosure suit was based solely upon diverse
-citizenship, and it has been repeatedly decided that the jurisdiction in the case of an intervention is determined by that of
the main cause. Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47; Gregory v.
Van Ee, 160 U. S. 643; Carey v. Railway Company, 161 U. S.
115; Rouse v. Hornsby, 161 U. S. 588; Pope v. Railway Company, 173 U. S. 573.
If this be true in respect to an intervention, a fortiori must
it be true in respect to a petition to enforce rights granted by
the decree in the intervention. Nor is this rule changed by the
fact that when this case went back from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to the Circuit Court the latter court authorized an
amendment to the petition, alleging that the decree ordered by
the Court of Appeals failed to give full faith and credit to ,the
original decree in the intervention proceedings, for, as said in
Popev. Railway Company, supra (p. 578):
"And this is true although another ground of jurisdiction
might be developed in the course of the proceedings, as it must
appear at the. outset that the suit is one of that character of
which the Circuit Court could properly take cognizance at the
time its jurisdiction is invoked. Colorado Central Mining
Company v. Turk, 150 U. S. 138; In re Jones, 164 U. S. 691,
693; Third St. and Suburban Railway Company v. Lewis, ante,
456."
Further, the power of the Circuit Court was limited to the
entry of a decree as ordered by the Court of Appeals, and it
could not introduce new questions into the litigation without
the permission of that court. Ex parte Dubuque & Pacific
Railroad, 1 Wall. 69; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Company, 160
U. S. 247. Still further, the mere constructioD of a decree in-

ST. LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. v. W. R. R. CO. 251
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

volves no challenge of its validity. Smith~snian Institution v.
St. John, 214 U. S. 19,29, and cases cited in the opinion.
The motion to dismiss No. 57 must, therefore, be sustained
with costs.
With reference to the application for a certiorari, the power
of this court cannot be doubted. As said in Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 514.
"We reaffirm in this case the propositions heretofore announced, to wit, that the power of this court in certiorari extends to every case pending in the Circuit Courts of Appeal,
and may be exercised at any time during such pendency, provided the case is one which but for this provision of the statute
would be finally determined in that court."
On the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the case was
there pending for consideration and decree, and, as for reasons
heretofore stated, an appeal to this court would not lie, the
case can be brought here by certiorari.
The question then is whether the writ of certiorari ought to
be granted. That question involves the construction of a prior
decree of a United States Circuit Court, affirmed by this court.
It is not a question of the payment of money, but of the extent
of the use belonging to one railroad company in the tracks,
right of way and terminal facilities of another, as well as the
rights of access by the one company to industries established
along the line of the other. This, in view of the increasing
number of industries in a great and growing city like St. Louis,
is of constantly enlarging importance, and ought, so far as
possible, to be settled. It seems to us that both the private
interests of the railroad companies, and of the separate industries and the greater interests of the public call for the
granting of the writ of certiorari, and it is, therefore, so ordered.
This brings before us the original decree on the intervention.
That decree, and the facts upon which the original controversy
arose, as well as those upon which the present di.qpute rests,
will be found fully stated in 29 Fed. Rep. 546; Joy v. St. Louis,

252-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

138 U. S. 1, and 81 C. C. A. 643, aupra, and need not be repeated. It is sufficient to say that the decree was founded
upon contracts to which the railroad companies, -or their
predecessors, were parties, by which the Wabash Company
agreed to "permit, under such reasonable regulations and
trms as may be agreed upon, other railroads to use its right of
way through the park, and up to the terminus of its rdad in the
city of St. Louis, upon such terms, and for such fair and
equitable compensation, to be paid to it therefor, as may be
agreed upon by such companies." It provided that the
Colorado Company should pay $2;500 a month "for the use of
the right of way, and tracks, side tracks, switches, turnouts,
turntables and other terminal facilities of the said Wabash, St.
Louis and Pacific Railway at and between the north line of
Forest Park and .Eighteenth street in the city of St. Louis,"
and that of these properties it should "enjoy the equal use
and benefit." It apportioned the expense of maintaining on
a wheelage basis this right of way and other property during
such joint use.
Two principal questions are presented, each having reference to the existence of the rights granted by the intervention
decree. The eastern line of Forest Park is about three miles
west of Eighteenth street, and at the time the decree was entered the Wabash Company owned a strip of land varying in
width from twenty-eight to over two hundred feet and extending from Eighteenth street to the east line of the park, and
also had an easement for the passage of its trains and engines
through the park upon a strip of land forty-two feet wide from
the east to the north side thereof. The ground owned by the
Wabash is not, as stated, of equal width, portions having been
obtained by deeds from different owners, some being only
twenty-eight feet in width and others extending quite a distance, so as to furnish room for roundhouses and other terminal facilities. Now, it is contended that the only effect of
this decree was to give to the Colorado Company the right to
use the two continuoUs tracks from the north line of Forest

ST. LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. v. W. R. R. CO. 253
217.U. &

Opinon of the Court.

Park into the Union station, while, on the other hand, it is contended. that it gave to the Colorado Company the equal use
and benefit of the entire-ground owned by the Wabash and
used for its terminal facilities. Both the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the latter construction, and
with that conclusion we concur. The terminal facilities, and
not simply a right of way over the tracks of the Wabash running to the Union station, were granted by the decree. As
s&id by Circuit Judge Sanborn, delivering the opinion of the
Court of Appeals (p. 646):
"The ordinary signification of the term 'right of way,' when
used to describe land which a railroad corporation owns or is
entitled to use for railroad purposes, is the entire strip or tract
it owns or is entitled to use for this purpose, and not any specific or limited part thereof upon which its main track or other
specified improvements are located. Joy v. $t. Louis, 138
U. S. 1, 44, 45, 46; Territory of New Mexico v. United States
Trust Co., 172 U. S.171, 181-2; 174 U. S.545, 546; Chicago &
Alton R. Co. v. People, 98 Illinois, 350, 356-7; Lake Erie & W.
R. Co. v. Middlecoff, 150 Illinois, 27, 37 N. E. Rep. 660, 663;
Pfaff v. Terre Haite & I,.
R. Co., 108 Indiana, 144, 148,
9 N. E. Rep. 93, 95.
To one ignorant of the origin and history of the rights of
the contending parties and unaware of the persuasive arguments of counsel the reading of this decree would suggest no
doubt-that it granted the joint use of the entire strip owned by
the Wabash Company and'of all the railroad facilities thereon
between the east line of the park and Eighteenth street. Upon
its face there is no ambiguity in its terms. They suggest no
limitation or exception, and when the terms of a decree are
plain and clear their ordinary meaning and effect may not be
lawfully contracted or extended unless it appears with reasonable certainty that such was the purpose of the court; for the
legal presumption is that the judge carefully and thoughtfully
expressed therein his deliberate intention. The Wabash Company, therefore, gasumed'. no light burden when it essayed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

prove that the court intended by this decree to grant to the
Colorado Company the joint use of a strip only thirty feet in
width out of the wider strip the Wabash Company owned between the east line of the park and Eighteenth street."
The other matter involves the question of the right of
access to industrial establishments which have been built up
near to the line of the Wabash road. As might be expected in
a growing city like St. Louis, there are now many such establishments, access to which has been obtained by the construction of tracks connecting them with the main tracks of
the railway. The use of these connecting tracks, which were
constructed under different arrangements with the various
establishments, is claimed by the intervenor, thus making
itself a close and active competitor with the Wabash Company for their transportation business.
The general conclusion of the Court of Appeals is stated in
these words (p. 657):
"The conclusion is that the Colorado Company is entitled
to enjoy the joint and equal use of the entire strip of land
between the east line of the park and Eighteenth street,
which the Wabash owned or had acquired the right to use
when the decree of 1886 was rendered, and of the tracks,
side tracks, turnouts, turntables and terminal facilities now
thereon. But it is not entitled to the use under that decree
of any of the property, industrial or railway facilities of the
Wabash Company beyond the limits of that strip. Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Mason City & Fort Dodge R. Co., 199 U. S.
171."
From the lattei part of this conclusion Circuit Judge Hook
dissented, and that presents the question now to be considered. We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred, and that the views of Judge Hook are correct. That
the matter was considered by the Circuit Court at the time
of the original decree is evident from the opinion of the Circuit Judge, in which it was said (29 Fed. Rep. 559):
"The final matter is that of compensation. In this I think

ST. LOUIS, K. C. & C. R. R. CO. v. W. R. R. CO. 255
217 U. B.

Opinion of the Coun.

the master erred. He fixed the value of the right of way at a
million of dollars; and reported that, in his judgment, the
share of the interest on this value and in the expenses of keeping up the track, which the intervenor company should pay,
should be fixed upon a wheelage basis. So far as respects
the mere matter of keeping up the track, I see no reason to
doubt the justice of the rule fixed by the master but in regard
to the interest on the value, I think the intervenor should pay
one-half of that, and for these reasons: It is a familiar fact
that in a large city like St. Louis, along the track of an important railroad, within the city limits, are built large manufacturing establishments, warehouses and other buildings foi
the convenient transaction of business between the carriei
on the one-hand and the manufacturer and the merchant on
the other. Another road coming over the same track not
only. uses the property, of great value, which. the company
owner has in the first instance paid for, but also shares in
the. benefit of access to all these manufactories, warehouses,
etc. It thus places itself in competition" with the original
company for this valuable business. Such competition may
operate to diminish the business of the original company, or
compel it to lower its rates to preserve
Wthe business. In either
way it operates to the serious detriment of the original company. The new company comes in as an equal competitor.
It shares in all the benefits of this business, and it may share
equally. Under those circumstances it seems to me no more
than fair that a new company, which crowds itself into an
equal access to such benefits and such privileges, should pay
an equal share of the interest on the value of the property..
Hence I shall sustain the objections of the respondent to the
report of the master, so far as concerns the amount of compensation, and I think that the intervenor company must
pay one-half the interest on the value and its share of the
cost of keeping up the track, determined upon a wheelage
basis. In other respects the report of the master will be con-

firmed."

OCTOBER TERM, .1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. &

That is an interpretation of the language of the intervention
decree giving the use of the right of way, side tracks, switches,
turnouts, turntables and other terminal facilities. It is
doubtless true that a connection with these industrial establishments has become a matter of far greater importance than
at the time of the decree. If it be said that this has cast an
unexpected burden upon the Wabash, it must also be remembered that provision was made for such unexpected
changes. As said in the opinion (p. 558):
"An act of the legislature might be passed giving to one
company the right to use the tracks of another, and prescribing all the terms and conditions-the details for the use. I
take it, an act of the legislature'would also be valid which
simply declared that one company should have the right to
use the tracks of another upon such terms and conditions as
the parties might agree upon, or should be prescribed by the
courts, and if such a legislative act would have to be adjudged valid and 6omplete, I see. no satisfactory reason why
courts may not also hold sufficient and valid a mere contract
for the right, and, determining the right, also settle and
prescribe the terms of the use. It is true that such a decree
cannot be executed by the perfvmance of a single act. It is
continuous in its operation. I,requires the constant exercise
of judgment and skill by the officers of the corporation defendant; and therefore, in a qaalified sense, it may be true
that the case never is ended, but remains a permanent case
in the court, performance, of whose decree may be the subject
of repeated inquiry by proceediags in thenature of contempt.
It is also true that in the chairing conditions of business the
details of the use may requirm change. The time may come
when the respondent's business may demand the entire use of
its tracks, and. the intervenor's right wholly cease. But other
decrees ate subject to modification and change, as in decrees
for alimony. The courts are rrt infrequently called upon to
modify them by reason of the changed condition of the parties
thereto. So, when a decree passes in a case of this kind, it

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER CO. v. KNIGHT. 257
217 V. 8.

Syllabus.

remains as a permanent determination of the respective rights
of the parties, subject only to the further right of either party
to apply for a modification upon any changed condition of
affairs; and, so far as any matter of supervision of the personal skill and judgment of the officers of the respondent
corporation, the cotract, in terms, provided that the regulation of the running of trains shall be subject to the control of
the officers of the respondent."
See also the opinion of this court in 138 U. S. 1, 47.
The decree of the Circuit Court of December 20, 1907, is
therefore modified in accordance with the views we have
expressed as to. terminal facilities in connection with the
industrial establishments now existing near the right of way
of the Wabash Company. If that company shall desire it
may apply, for a valuation of the additional properties of
which the equal use and enjoyment is given to the intervenor,
and upon that valuation the same per cent shall be paid by
the intervenor. The costs, except so far as they have been
already taxed, shall be charged against the respondents.

LUTCHER & MOORE LUMBER COMPANY v.KNIGHT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TM FIFTH
CIRCUT.

No. 101. Argued January 24, 1910.-Deided April 11, 1910.
A party who as defendant in an equity case has puccessfully asserted
that his adversary's claim is not. cogniable in equity, cannot subsequently in an action at law brought by him against the plaintiff
involving the same matter assert that the same claim set up as a
defense is of an equitable character.
The objection in an action at law in the Fgderal courts that a defense
.is of equitable cognizance cannot be taken for the first time in the
appellate court Burbank v. Bipow, 154 U. 8. 558.
On certiorari granted under the provisions of the Court of Appeals Act
voL. ccxvii-

7

