NEW JERSEY WELFARE RIGHTS ORG. v: CAHILL 619

Per Curiam
NEW JERSEY WELFARE RIGHTS ORGANIZATION ET AL. V. CAHILL, GOVERNOR OF
NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

No. 72-6258.

Decided May 7, 1973

Statute limiting benefits of the "Assistance to Families of the Working Poor" program to those households in whiich .the parents are

ceremonially married and have at least one minor 6hild of both,
the natural child of one and adopted by the other, or a. child
adopted by both, denies equal protect-ion to illegitimate children.
349 F. Supp. 491, reversed:
PER CURIAM.

This case presents the question of the constitutionality
under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the New Jersey "Assistance to Families
of the Working Poor" program, N. J. Stat. Ann. ยง 44:13-1
et seq., that allegedly discriminates against illegitimate
children in the provision of financial assistance and
other services. Specifically, appellants challenge that
aspect of the program that limits benefits to only those
otherwise qualified families "which -consist of a household
composed of two adults of the Opposite sex ceremoniallyj
married to each other who have At least one minor
child ... of both, the natural child of one and adopted
by the other; or a .child adopted by both. . . ." N. J.
Stat. Ann. ยง 44:13-3 (a). Appellants do not challenge
the statute's "household" requirement. Rather, they
argue that although the challenged classification turns
upon the marital status of. the parents as well as upon
the parent-child relationship, in practical effect- it operates almost invariably to deny benefits to illegitimate
children while granting benefits to those children who

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Per Curiam

411 U. S.

are legitimate. Although apparently conceding the correctness of this position, the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey, sitting as a three-judge
court,* upheld the statutory scheme on the ground that
it was designed "to preserve and strengthen family life."
349 F. Supp. 491 496 (1972).
Confronted with similar arguments in the past, we
have specifically declthred "that:
"The status of illegitimacy has expressed tbrough
the ages society's condemnation of irresponsible
liaisons beyond the bonds of marriage. But visiting
this condemnation on the head of an infant is illogical and unjust. Moreover, imposing disabilities on
the illegitimate child is contrary to the basic concept
of our system that legal burdens should bear some
relationship to individual responsibility or wrongdoing. Obviously, no child is responsible for his
birth and penalizing -the illegitimate child is an
ineffectual-as well as an unjust-way of deterring
the parent." Weber v. Aetna Casualty& Surety'Co.,
406 U. S. 164, 175 (1972).
Thus, in Weber we held that under the Equal Protection
Clause a State may not exchide illegitimate children
from sharing equally with other children in the recovery
of workmen's compensation benefits for the death of
their parent. Similarly, in Levy v. Louisiana, 391 U. S.
68 (19158), we held that a State may ndt create a tight
*In

prior proceedings

in this case, a, single judge of

the

United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, in
an unreported opinion, denied appellants' petition to convene a
three-judge court on the-ground that no substantial constitutional
question was 'pYesented, and dismissed the complaint. On appeal,
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit held that
a substantial constitutional claim had beedi presented and therefore remanded the case with diredions to convene a three-judge
court. 448 F. 2d 1247, 1248 (1971).

NEW JERSEY- WELFARE RIGHTS ORG. v. CAHILL
619

621

REHNQuIST, J., dissenting

of action in favor of children for the wrongful death of
a parent and"exclude illegitimate children from the benefit of such a right. And only thi Term, in Gomez v.
'Perez, 409 U. S. 535" (1973), we held that oncd a State
posits a .judicially enforceable right on behalf of children
to needed support from-their natural father, there is no
constitutionally sufficient justification for denying such
an essential right to illegitifiate children. See also Davis
v. Richardson, 342 F. Supp. 588 (Conn.), aff'd, 409 U. S.
1069 (1972)- Griffin v. Richardson, 346 F. "Sipp. 1226
(Md.), aff'd, 409 U. S. 1069 (1972).
Those decisions 'compel the conclusion that appellants'
claim of the denial of equal protection must be sustained, for there can be no doubt that the benefits extended finder the challenged program are as indispensable
to the health and well-being of illegitimate children as to
those who are legitimate. Accordingly, we. grant the
motion fbr leave to proceed in forma-pauperis,reverse the
judgment of the District-Court, and remand for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JusTIcE concurs in the. result.
MR. JUSTICE REiNQUIST, dissenting.
The New'Jersey Legislature has enacted a statute entitled: "Assistance to Families of the, Working -Poor,"
which is designed to. provide grants to supplement the
'income of a discrete class of families with children when
indejendent sources of income are inadequate to support the family urit. The progr=n is completely financed by the State, and therefore need not conform to
any of the strictures of the Social Security Act. The New
'Jersey -program for ,assistance to the Working poor 'does
not provide financial grants to classes of children as such,
as is the case under various federal plans. Instead, it
provides giants to classes of -familiesas units. The Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
REHNQUST,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

holds that because benefits are-limited to families "which
consist of a household composed of two adults of the
opposite sex ceremonially married to each other who have
at least one minor child... of both, 'the natural child of
one and adopted by the other, or a child adopted by both,"
the legislative scheme violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Court relies on Weber v. Aetna Casualty & Surety
Co., 406-U. S. 164 (1972), where a Louisiana statute that
denied workmen's compensation benefits to an illegitimate
*child was invalidated. But the very language that the
Court quotes from Weber shows how different this case is
from that. There a disability was visited solely on an
illegitimate child. Here the statute distinguishes among
types of families. While the classification adopted by the
New Jersey Legislature undoubtedly results in denying
benefits to "families" consisting of a mother and father
not ceremonially married who are living with natural children, whatever denial of benefits the classification makes
is imposed equally on the parents as well as the children.
Here the New Jersey Legislature has determined that
special financial -assistance should be given to family
units that meet the statutory definition of "working
poor." It does not seem to me irrational in establishing
such a, special program to condition the receipt of such
grants on the sort of ceremonial marriage that could quite
reasonably be found to be an essential ingredient of the
family unit that the New Jersey Legislature is trying to
protect from dissolution due to the economic vicissitudes
of modern life. The Constitution does not require that
special financial assistance designed by the legislature to
help poor families be extended to "communes" as well.
In the area of economics and social welfare the Equal
Protection Clause does not prohibit a State from taking one step at a time in attempting to overcome a
social ill, provided only that the classifications made by

NEW JERSEY WELFARE RIGHTS ORG. v. CAHILL 623
619

ThHNQUIST, J., dissenting

the State are rational. Here the classification is based
on a particular type of fainily unit, one of, if not the,
core units of our social system. There being a rational
basis for the legislative classification, the constitutionality
of the law is governed by Dandridge v. Williams, 397
.U. S. 471 (1970), rather than by Weber.
I would affirm the judgment of the District Court.

