OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

GIBSON ET

AL.

v.

BERRYHILL

411 U. S.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA

No. 71-653. Argued January 9-10, 1973--Decided May' 7, 1973
Appellees, licensed optometrists employed by Lee Optical Co., who
were not members of the Alabama Optometric Association (Association), were charged by the Association with unprofessional
conduct within the meaning of the state optometry statute because
of their employment with the company. The complaint was filed
with the Alabama Board of Optometry (Board), all members of
which were Association members. ,The Board deferred proceedings while a suit it had brought against. Lee Optical and optometrists employed by it to enjoin the company from practicing
optometry was litigated in the state triar court. The charges
against the individual defendants were dismissed but the court
enjoined Lee Optical from engaging in the practice" of optometry.
The company appealed. When the Board revived the Association's charges against appellees, they sought an injunction in
the Federal District Court under the Civil Rights Act claiming
that the Board was biased. The court concluded that it was not
barred from acting -by the federal anti-injunction statute since
only administrative proceedings were involved and that exhaustion
of administrative remedies was not mandated where the administrative process was biased in that the Board by its litigation
in the state courts had prejudged the case against appellees and
the Board members had an indirect pecuniary interest in the outcome. The District Court enjoined the Board proceedings but
thereafter and before this appeal was taken, the State's highest
court reversed the judgment against Lee Optical and held that the
optometry law did not prohibit a licensed optometrist from working for a corporation. Held:
1. The anti-injunction statute did not bar the District Court
from issuing the injunction since appellees brought suit under the
Civil Rights Act, 42 U. S. C. § 1983. Pp. 572-575.
2. Nor did the rule of Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, or
principles of comity require the District Court to dismiss appellees'
suit in view of the pending Board proceeding since the appellees

GIBSON v. BERRYHILL
564

Opinion of the Court

alleged and the District Court concluded that the Board's bias
rendered it incompetent to adjudicate the issues. Pp. 575-577.
3. Since the Board was composed solely of private practitioners
and the corporate employees it sought to bar from practice constituted half the optometrists in the State, the District Court was
warranted in concluding that the Board members' pecuniary interest disqualified them from passing on the issues. Pp. 578-579.
4. Though the District Court did not abuse its discretion in not
abstaining until the Lee Optical decision was rendered by the
Alabama Supreme Court, the principles of equity, comity, fnd
federalism warrant reconsideration of this case in the light of that
decision. Pp. 579-581.
331 F. Supp. 122, vacated and remanded.
WHITE, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. BURC.ER,
C. J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 581. MARSHALL, J., filed a
concurring opinion, in which BRENNAN, J., joined, post,. p. 581.

Richard A. Billups, Jr., argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were William Baxley, Attorney
General of Alabama, and J. G. L. Marston III and Donaid George Valeska II, Assistant Attorneys General.
Harry Cole argued the cause for appellees. With him
on the brief were James J. Carter and Douglas E.
Bergman.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Prior to 1965, the laws of Alabama relating to the
practice of optometry permitted any person, including
a business firm or corporation, to maintain a department
in which "eyes are examined or glasses fitted," provided
that such department was in the charge of a duly licensed
optometrist. This permission was expressly conferred by
§ 210 of Title 46 of the Alabama Code of 1940, and also
inferentially by §211 of the Code which regulates the

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

advertising practices of of optometrists, and which, until
1965, appeared to contemplate the existence of commercial stores with optical departments.1 In 1965, § 210 was
repealed in its entirety by the Alabama Legislature, and

§ 211 was amended so as to eliminate any direct reference

' Sections 210 and 211 of c. 11, Tit. 46, of the Code of Alabama,
1940, provided, prior to 1965, as follows:
"§ 210. ,tore where glasses are sold; hoiy department conducted.Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as to prevent any
person, firm, or corporation from owning or operating a store or
business establishment wherein eyes are examined or glasses fitted;
provided, that such store, establishment, or optometric department
shall be in charge of a duly licensed optometrist, whose name must
appear on and in all optometry advertising of whatsoever nature
done by said person, firm or corporation."
"§ 211. False or misleading statements in advertisements or stores
having optometry department.--It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, engaged in the practice of optometry in this
state, to print or cause to be printed, or circulate or cause to be
circulated, or publish, by any means whatsoever, any advertisement
or circular in which appears any untruthful, impossible, or improbable or misleading statement or statements, or anything calculated
or intended to mislead or deceive the public. And it shall be unlawful for any individual, firm or corporation, engaged in the sale
of goods, wares or merchandise who maintains or operates, or who
allows to be maintained and operated in connection with said mercantile business an optometry department; or who rents or subleases to, any person or persons for the purpose of engaging in the
practice of optometry therein, any portion of or space in said
store, premises or establishment in which such person, firm or corporation is engaged in said mercantile business, to publish, or circulate, or print or cause to be printed, by' any means whatsoever,
any advertisement or notice of the optometry department maintained, operated, or conducted in said establishment or place of
business, in which said advertisement or notice appear any untruthful, improbable, impossible, or misleading statement or statements, or anything calculated to mislead or deceive the public."
Sections 190-213, regulating the practice of optometry in Alabama,
were originally adopted in 1919.

GIBSON v. BERRYHILL
564

Opinion of the Court

to optical departments maintained by .corporations or
other business establishments under the direction of
2
employee optometrists.
Soon after these statutory changes, the Alabama Optometric Association, a professional organization whose
membership is limited to independent practitioners of
optometry not employed by others, filed charges against
various named optometrists, all of whom were duly licensed under Alabama law but were the salaried employees of Lee Optical Co. The charges were filed
with the Alabama Board of Optometry, the statutory
body with authority to issue, suspend, and revoke licenses
for the practice of optometry. The gravamen of these
charges was that the named optometrists, by accepting
emplbyment from Lee Optical, a corporation, had engaged
in "unprofessional conduct" within the meaning of § 206
of the Alabama optometry statute, and hence were practicing their profession unlawfully.3 More particularly,
2 Section 211, as amended, reads as follows:

"§ 211. False or misleading statements in advertisements or circulars.-It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the practice
of optometry in this state to print or cause to be printed, or circulate or cause to be circulated, or published, by any means whatsoever, any advertisement or circular in which appears any untruthful, impossible, or improbable or misleading statement or
statements, or anything calculated or intended to mislead or deceive
the public."
3 Section 206, insofar as relevant here, provides as follows:
"§ 206. License may be suspended or revoked.-A license issued
to any person may be suspended for a definite period of time, or
revoked by the state board of optometry for any of the following
reasons; to-wit: .

.

. For unprofessional conduct. 'Unprofessional

conduct' shall be defined to mean any conduct of a character likely
to deceive or defraud the public, lending his license by any licensed
optometrist to any person, the employment of 'cappers,' or 'steerers'
to obtain business, 'splitting' or dividing a fee with any person or
persons, the obtaining of any fee or compensation by fraud or mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

the Association charged the named individuals with,
among other things, aiding and abetting a corporation
in the illegal practice of optometry; practicing optometry
under a false name, that is, Lee Optical Co.; unlawfully
soliciting the sale of glasses; lending their licenses to
Lee Optical Co.; and splitting or dividing fees with
Lee Optical.' It was apparently the Association's position that, following the repeal of § 210 and the amendment of § 211, the practice of optometry by individuals as employees of business corporations was no longer
permissible in Alabama, and that, by accepting such
employment, the named optometrists had violated the
ethics of their profession. It was prayed that the Board
revoke the licenses of the individuals charged following
due notice and a proper hearing.
Two days after these charges were filed by the Association in October 1965, the Board filed a suit of its own
in state court against Lee Optical, seeking to enjoin the
company from engaging in the "unlawful practice of
optometry." The Board's complaint also named 13 optometrists employed by Lee Optical as parties defendant,
representation, employing directly or indirectly any suspended or
unlicensed optometrist to do any optometrical work, by use of any
advertising, carrying the advertising of articles not connected with
the profession, the employment of any drugs or medicines in his
practice unless authorized to do so by the laws covering the practice
of medicine of this state, or the doing or performing of any acts
in his profession declared by the Alabama Optometric Association
to be unethical or contrary to good practice."
The section also provides for a hearing before the Board upon
due notice 'of an accused license holder. At such a hearing the
accused is entitled to be represented by counsel, to cross-examine the
witnesses against him, and to have all testimony taken down by a
stenographer.
4 Some of the charges leveled against the named optometrists are
covered by sections of the Alabama optometry statute other than
§ 206, e. g., "practicing optometry under a false name" (§ 191),
"unlawfully soliciting the sale of glasses" (§ 203), etc.

GIBSON v. BERRYHILL
564

Opinion of the Court

-

charging them with aiding and abetting the company in
its illegal activities, as well as with other improper conduct very similar to that charged by the Association in its
complaint to the Board.
Proceedings on the Association's charges were held in
abeyance by the Board while its own state court suit
progressed. The individual defendants in that suit were
dismissed on grounds that do not adequately appear in
the record before us; and, eventually, on March 17, 1971,
the state trial court rendered judgment for the Board,
and enjoined Lee Optical both from practicing optometry
without a license and from employing licensed optometrists.5 The company appealed this judgment.
Meanwhile, following its victory in the trial court, the
Board reactivated the proceedings pending before it since
1965 against the individual optometrists employed by Lee,
noticing them for hearings to be held on May 26 and 27,
1971. Those individuals countered on May 14, 1971, by
filing a complaint in the United States District Court
naming as defendants the Board of Optometry and its
individual members, as well as the Alabama Optometric
Association and other individuals. The suit, brought
under the Civil Rights Act of 1871, 42"U. S. C. § 1983,
sought an injunction against the scheduled hearings on
the grounds that the statutory scheme regulating the
practice of optometry in Alabama I was unconstitutional
A period of nearly five and one-half years passed between the
filing of the Board's complaint against Lee Optical, and the decision
of the state trial court. Much of this delay appears to be attributable to certain, procedural wranglings in the court concerning
whether the Board had the power to bring an injunctive action
against those it believed to be practicing optometry unlawfully.
During the pendency of the litigation, th9 Alabama Legislature passed
a statute expressly conferring such power, both prospectively and
retroactively, on state licensing boards,'and the suit appears to have
proceeded expeditiously thereafter.
§§ 190-213 of c. 11, Tit. 46, of the Alabama Code of 1940.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

insofar as it permitted the Board to hear the pending
charges against the individual plaintiffs in the federal
suit.7 The thrust of the complaint was that the Board
was biased and could not provide the plaintiffs with a
fair and impartial hearing in conformity with due proceis
of law.
A three-judge court was conyened in August 1971, and
shortly thereafter entered judgment for plaintiffs, enjoining members of the State Boaid and their successors
"from conducting a hearing on the charges heretofore
preferred against the Plaintiffs" and from revoking their
licenses to practice optometry in the State of Alabama.
In its supporting opinion, 331 F. Supp. 122, the District Court first considered whether it should stay its
hand and defer to the then-pending state proceedings-that is, whether the situation presented was one which
would permit of immediate federal intervention to restrain the actions of a state administrative body. That
question was answered in the affirmative, the court holding that 28 U. S. C. §2283, the federal anti-injunction
statute, was not applicable to state administrative proceedings even where those proceedings were adjudicatory
in character. Moreover, the District Court also held that
neither Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971), nor the
doctrine normally requiring exhaustion of administrative
remedies forbade a federal injunction where, as the court
.found to be true here, the administrative process was so
defective and inadequate as to deprive the plaintiffs of
due process of law.
This conclusion with respect to the deficiencies in the
pending proceedings against plaintiffs, although an amalgam of several elements, amounted basically to a sustain7More

specifically, the plaintiffs attacked §§ 206 and 192 of the
statute which provide, respectively, that the Board shall have the
power to entertain delicensing proceedings and that its membership
shall be limited to members of the Alabama Optometric Association.

GIBSON v. BERRYHILL
564

Opinion of the Court

ing of the plaintiffs' allegation of bias. For the District
Court, the inquiry was not whether the Board members
were "actually biased but whether, in the natural course
of events, there is an indication of a possible temptation
to ari average man sitting as a judge to try the case with
bias for or against any issue presented to him." 331 F.
Supp., at 125. Such a possibility of bias was found to
arise in the present case from a number of factors. First,
was the fact that the Board, which acts as both prosecutor
and judge in delicensing proceedings, had previously
brought suit against the plaintiffs on virtually identical
charges in the state courts. This the District Court took
to indicate that members of the Board might have "preconceived opinions" with regard to the cases pending before them. Second, the court found as a fact that Lee
Optical Co. did a large business in Alabama, and that if it
were forced to suspend operations the individual members
of the Board, along with other private practitioners of
optometry, would fall heir to this business. Thus, a serious question of a personal financial stake in the matter
in controversy was raised. Finally, the District Court
appeared to regard the Board as a suspect adjudicative
body in the cases then pending before it, because only
members of the Alabama Optometric Association could
be members of the Board, and because the, Association
excluded from membership optometrists such as the plain-,
tiffs who were employed by other persons or entities.
The result was that 92 of the 192 practicing optometrists
in Alabama were denied participation in the governance
of their own profession.
The court's ultimate conclusion was "that to require
the Plaintiffs to resort to the protection offered by state
law in these cases would effectively deprive them of their
property, that is, their right to practice their professions,
without due process of law and that irreparable injury

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

would follow in the normal course of events." 8 331 F.
Supp., at 126.
Appeal-was taken to this Court and probable jurisdiction noted on June 26, 1972. 408 U. S. 920. Meanwhile, on March 30, 1972, the Supreme Court. of Alabama reversed the judgment of the state trial court in
the Lee Optical Co. case,' holding that nothing in the
Alabama statutes pertaining to optometry evidenced
"a legislative policy that an optometrist duly qualified
and licensed under the laws of this state, may not be employed by another to examine eyes for the purpose of
prescribing eyeglasses." 1o 288 Ala. 338, 346, 261 So. 2d
17, 24.

It is against this procedural background that we turn
to a consideration of the issues presented by this appeal.
I
We agree with the District Court that neither statute
nor case law precluded it from adjudicating the issues
before it and from issuing the injunction if its decision
on the merits was correct.
Title 28 U. S. C. § 2283, the anti-injunction statute,
prohibits federal courts from enjoining state court proceedings, but the statute excepts from its prohibition ins The District Court also dismissed, without prejudice, the Board's
counterclaim in the present suit which sought a judgment bariing the
plaintiffs from practicing optometry in Alabama.
9See Lee Optical Co. of Alabama v. State Board of Optometry,
288 Ala. 338, 261 So. 2d 17, rehearing denied Apr. 27, 1972.
10 In a companion case, House of $8.60 Eyeglasses v. State Board
of Optometry, 288 Ala. 349, 261 So. 2d 27 (1972), the Alabama
Supreme Court reversed the judgment of another lower state court
which had enjoined a corporation from unlawfully practicing optometry through its optometrist*employees. In that case, the individual
optometrists involved were also enjoined from unlawfully practicing
their profession. Both injunctions were dissolved by the Alabama
Supreme Court.

GIBSON v. BERRYEILL
* 564

Opinion of the Court

junctions which are "expressly authorized"; by aniother
Act of Congress. 11 Last Term, aftef the District Court's
decision here, this Court determined that actions brought
under the Civil Rights Act of 1871, 42 U. S. C. § 1983, *ere
within the "expressly authorized'? exception t6 the ban
on federal injunctions. 2 Mitchum y. Foster, 407 U. S.
225 (1972).
Our decision in Mitchuni, however, held only that a
district court was mot absolutely barred by statute froi
enjoining a state court proceeding when called upon to
do so in a § 1983 suit. As we expressly stated in
Mitchum, nothing in that decision purported to call into
question the established principles of equity, coray, and
federalism which must, under appropriate circumstances,
restrain a federal court from issuing such injunctions.
Id., at 243. These principles have been emphasized"by
this Court many times in the past; albeit under a variety
of* different rubrics. First of all,, there is the doctrine,
usually applicable when an injunction is sought, that a
party must exhaust his available administrative remedies
before invoking the equitable jurisdiction of a court.
See, e. g., Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line'Co., 211 U. S.
210 (1908); Illinois Commerce Corhm'n v. Thomson, 318
U. S. 675 (1943). Secondly, there is the basic principle
of federalism, restated as recently as 1971 in Younger
v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, that a federal court may not
" Title 28 U. S. C. § 2283 provides:

"A court of the United States may not grant an injunction to stay
proceedings in a State edurt except as expressly authorized by Act
of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction,, or to

protect or effectuate its judgments."
1 2 The District Court held § 2283 inapplicable in the present case
because the plaintiffs. sought an injunction against a state administrative body and not a state court. Whether this distinction is
tenable in all circumstances-even where the administrative proceeding is adjudicatory or quasi-judicial in character-we need not decide
-here since:the present action was brought under 42 U. S. C. § 1983.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
.Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

enjoin a pending state criminal proceeding in the absence of special circumstances suggesting bad faith, harassment or irreparable injury that is both serious and
immediate. And finally, there is the doctrine, developed
in our cases at least since Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman.
Co., 312 U. S. 496 (1941), that whefi confronted with
issues of constitutional dimension which implicate or
depend. upon unsettled questions of state law, a federal
court ought to abstain and stay its proceedings until
those state law questions are definitively resolved.
In the instant case the matter of exhaustion of administrative remedies need not detain us long. Normally
when a State has instituted administrative proceedings
against an individual who then seeks an injunction in
federal court, the exhaustion doctrine would require the
court to delay action until the administrative phase of
the state proceedings is terminated,' at least where coverage or liability is contested and administrative expertise,
discretion, or factfinding is involved.13 But this Court
has expressly held in recent years that state 'administrative
remedies need not be exhausted where- the federal court
plaintiff states an otherwise good dause of, action under
42 U. S. C. § 1983. McNeese v. Board of Education,373
U. S. 668 (1963); Damico v. Calif rnia, 389 U. S. 416
(1967). Whether ihis is invariably the case even where,
as here, a license revocation proceeding has been brought
by the'State and is pending before one of its own agencies
and where the individual charged is to be deprived of
'UThis exhaustion requirement does not apply generally to state
"judicial," as opposed'to "administrative," remedies. See Bacon v.

Rutland R. Co., 232 U. S. 134 (1914); City Bank Farmers Trust
Co. v. S&hnader, 291 U. S. 24 (1934). The doctrine of exhaustion
of administrative remedies should, however, be kept distinct from
other equitable doctrines such. as those exemplified in Younger v.
Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971), and Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co.,
312 U. S. 496 (1941), which do require a federal court to defer in
appropriate circumstances to state judicial proceedings.

GIBSON v. BERRYHILL
564

Opinion of the Court

nothing until the completion of that proceeding, is a
question we need not now decide; for the clear purport
.of appellees' complaint was that the State Board of Op-,
tometry was unconstitutionally constituted and so did
.not *provide them with an adequate administrAtive remedy requiring exhaustion. Thus, the question of the
adequacy of the administrative remedy, an issue which
under federal law the District Court was required to
decide, was for all practical purposes identical. with the
merits of appellees' lawsuit.14
II
This brings us to the question of whether Younger v.
Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971); Smuels v. Mackell, 401

U. S. 66 (1971), or the principles of equity, comity, and
federalism for which those cases stand, precluded the
District Court from acting, in view of the fact that proceedings against appellees were pending before the Ala'bama Board of Optometry. Those cases and principles
would, under ordinary circumstances, forbid either a declaratory judgment or injunction with respect to the
validity or enforcement of a state statute when a criminal proceeding under the statute has been commenced.
Whether a like rule obtains where state civil proceedings
are pending was left open in Younger and its companion
cases.
14State administrative remedies have been deemed inadequate by
federal courts, and hence not subject to the exhaustion requirement,on a variety of grounds. Most often this has been because of delay
by the agency, Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 270 U. S. 587 (1926),
or because of some doubt as to whether the agency was empowered
to grant effective relief, Union Pac. R. Co. v. Board of Comm'rs of
Weld County, 247 U. S. 282 (1918); McNeese v. Board of Education,
373 U. S. 668 (1963). State administrative remedies have also been
held inadequate, however, where the state administrative body was

found to be biased or to have predetermined the issue before it.
Kelly v. Board of Education, 159 F. Supp. 272 (AD Tenn. 1958).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
.Opinion of the Court

411 U.S.

Appellants now insist, not only that the issue is posed
here by the pendency of prqceedings before the state
board, but also that the issue was actually decided following Younger by our summary affirmance in the case
of Geiger v. Jenkins, 401 U. S. 985 (1971). In that case,
the State Medical Board of Georgia noticed hearings on
charges filed against a medical practitioner who immediately brought suit in federal court 'under § 1983
seeking an injunction on the ground that the underlying
statute the Medical Board sought to enforce was unconstitutional. The District Court dismissed the action
.without reaching the merits, holding that the state proceedings were "in the nature of criminal proceedings,"
sufficiently so in any event to trigger the 28 U. S. C.
§ 2.283 bar to federal intervention. 316 F. Supp. 370, 372
(ND Ga. 1970). The decision was appealed to this Court
and summarily affirmed without opinion but with citation
to
Younger
and Mackel.
IAs
frequently
occurs in the case of summary affirmance,
the decision in Geiger is somewhat opaque. We doubt,
however, that it is controlling here. 'First of all, it appears from the jurisdictional' statement
and motion to
affirm in Geiger that state criminal proceedings were
pending at the time of the challenged dismissal of the
federal case. Moreover, it also appears that subsequent
to that' dismissal the State Medical Board completed its
proceedings and revoked Geiger's license, and that judicial proceedings to re'View that order were already under
way in the state courts. Secondly, there is no judicial
finding here as there was in Geiger that under applicable
state law license revocation proceedings are quasi-criminal
in natir.e; nor is the Alabama case law now cited for
this proposition persuasive. See State v. Keel, 33 Ala.
App. 609, 35 So. 2d 625 (1948). Finally, although it is
apparent from Geiger that administrati-,e proceedings
looking toward the revocation of a license to practice

GIBSON v. BERRY-MLL

564

Opinion of the Court

medicine may in proper circumstances cominahd the'respect due court proceedings, there remains the claim here,
not present in Geiger, that the administrative body itself
was unconstitutionally constitutd, .and so not entitled to
hear the charges filed against the appellees.
Unlike -those situations .where a federal court mer6ly
abstains from decision on federal questions until the
resolution of underlying or related state law issues l--a
subject we shall consider shortly in the context of the
present "case-Younger v. Harris contemplates the Qutright dismissal of the federal suit, and the presentation
of all claims, both state and federal, to thb state courts.
Such -a course naturally presupposes the .pportpnity to
raise and have timely decided by a competent state-tribunal the federal issues involved. Here the predicate for
a Younger v. Harris dismissal was lackin g, for the -appellees alleged, and the District Court concluded, that
the State Board of Optometry was incompetent by reason of bias to .adjudicate the issues pending before it.
If the District Court's conclusion was correct in this regard, it was also correct that it need not defer to the
Board. Nor, in these circumstances, would a different
result-be required simply because judicial.review, de novo

or otherwise, would be forthcoming at the conclisioan
of the administrative proceedings." Cf. Ward v. Village
of Monroeville, 409 U. S. 57 (1972)
25See, e. g., -Railroad Comm'n v. Puimnan Co.; supra; England
v. Louisiana State Bd. of Medical:Exam'rs, 375 U. S. 411 (1964)' .
Lake Carriers'Assn. v. MacMullan, 406 U. S. 498 (1972).
10 This Court jwas assured at oral argument by counsel for both
parties that Alabama law provides for de novo court review of de-

licensing orders issued by the Board. Ti. of Oral Arg. 5, 19. Nonetheless, the District Court expres~ly found that the revocation by
the Board of appellees' licenses to practice their profession, "together
with the attendant publicity which Would inevitably be associated
therewith, would cause irreparable damage" to the appellees for
which no adequate remedy is afforded by state law. 331 F. Supp.
122, 126.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

.Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

III
It is appropriate, therefore, that we consider the District Court's conclusions that the State Board of Optometry was so biased by prejudgment and pecuniary interest that it could not constitutionally conduct hearings
looking toward the revocation of appellees' licenses to
practice optometry. We affirm the District Court in this
respect.
The District Court thought the Board to be impdrmissibly biased for two reasons. First, the Board had
filed a complaint in state court alleging that appellees
had aided and abetted Lee Optical Co. in the unlawful practice of optometry and also that they had
engaged in other forms of "unprofessional conduct" which,
if proved, would justify revocation of their licenses.
These charges were substantially similar to those pending
against appellees before the Board and concerning which
the Board had noticed hearings following its successful
prosecution of Lee Optical in the state trial court.
Secondly, the District Court determined that the aim
of the Board was to revoke the licenses of all optometrists
in the State who were employed by business corporations
such as Lee Optical, and that these optometrists accounted
for nearly half of all the optometrists practicing in Alabama. Because the Board of Optometry was composed
solely of optometrists in private practice for their own
account, the District Court concluded that success in the
Board's efforts would possibly redound to the personal
benefit of members of the Board, sufficiently so that in
the opinion of the District Court the Board was constitutionally disqualified from hearing the charges filed against
the appellees.
The District Court apparently considered either source
of possible bias-prejudgment of the facts or personal interest-sufficient to disqualify the members of the Board.

GIBSON v. BERRYHI=L
564

Opinion of the Court

Arguably, the District Court was right on both scores,
but we need reach, and we affirm, only the latter ground

of possible personal interest. 7
It is sufficiently clear from our cases that those vith

substantial pecuniary interest in legal proceedings should
not adjudicate these disputes. Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S.
510 (1927). And Ward v. Village of Monroeville, 409
U. S. 57 (1972), indicates that the -financial stake need
not be as direct or positive as it appeared to be in Tumey.
It has also come to be the prevailing view that "[m] ost
of the law concerning disqualification because of interest
applies with equal force to . . . administrative adjudicators." K. Davis, Administrative Law Text § 12.04, p. 250
(1972), and cases cited. The District Court proceeded
on this basis and, applying the standards taken from our
cases, concluded that the pecuniary interest of the members of the Board of Optometry had sufficient substance
to disqualify them, given the context in which this case
arose. As remote as we are from the local realities underlying this case and it being very likely that the District
Court has a firmer grasp of the facts and of their significance to the issues presented, we have no good reason
on this record to overturn its conclusion and we affirm it.

iv
Finally, we do not think that the doctrine of abstention, as developed in our cases from Railroad Comm'n v.
17 The extent to which an administrative agency may investigate
and act upon the material facts of a case and then, consistent with
due process, sit 'as an adjudicative body to determine those facts
finally has occasioned some divergence of views among federal courts.
Compare Amos Treat & Co. v. SE.C, 113 U. S. App..D. C. 100, 306 F.
2d'260 (1962), and Trans World Airlines v. CAB, 102 U. S. App.
D. C. 391, 254 F. 2d 90 (1958), with Pangburnv. CAB, 311 F. 2d 349
(CAI 1962), See also Mack v. Florida State Board of Dentistry,
296 F. Supp. 1259 (SD Fla. 1969). We have no occasion to pass
upon this issue here in view of our disposition of the present case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

.Opinion of the Court

411.U. S.

Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496 (1941), to Lake Carriers'Assn.
v. MacMullan,406 U. S. 498 (1972), required the District
Court to stay its proceedings until the appellees had presented unsettled questions of state law to the state courts.
Those questions went to the reach and effect of the stateoptometry law and concerned the merits of the charges
pending against the appellees, at the heart of which was
the issue whether Alabama law permitted licensed optometrists to b6 employed by business corporations and
others: That central question was pending in the Alabama Supreme Court in the Lee Optical Co. case at
the time the District Court entered its order. As was.
noted earlierhowever, appellees here had been dismissed
ffbm that case by the state trial court, and it was only
after this dismissal, and after the Board had reactivated
its charges against them,' that appellees sought relief in
federal court.
Arguably, the District Court should have awaited the
outcome of the Lee Optical Co. appeal, a decision which
might have obviated the need for an injunction in this
case. 8 - But the Board was pressing its charges against
appellees without awaiting that outcome and, in any
event, it appears that at least some of the charges pending against appellees might have survived areversal of
the state trial court's'judgment by the Alabama Supreme
Court. 'Under these circumstances, it was not an abuse
of discretion'for the District Court to proceed as it did.
Nevertheless, the Alabama Supreme Court has since
rendered its decision, not only in the Lee Optical Co. case,
but also in a companion case, House of $8.50 Eyeglasses
v. State Board of Optometry, 288 Ala. 349, 261 So. 2d 27
(1972). See n. 10, supra. Individual optometrists were
parties to that latter case, and the Alabama Supreme
.Court entered judgment in their behalf, holding that noth1

8 See Askew v. Hargrave, 401 U. S. 476 (1971).

GIBSON v. BERiYYILL

. 564

MARSHALL,

. 581

J., concurring

ing in the State's optometry law prohibited a licensed
optometrist from accepting employment from a business
corporation. Whether this judgment substantially devitalizes the position of the Board with respect to the appeltes here, or in any way makes unnecessary or removes
the "equity" from the injunction entered by the District
Court, we are unable to determine. But we do think that
considerations of equity, comity, and federalism warrant
vacating the judgment of the District Court and remanding the case to that court *for reconsideration in light of
-the Alabama Supreme .Court's judgments in" the Lee
Optical Co. and House of $8.50.Eyeglasses cases. We in.
no way intimate whether or not the injunction should be
reinstated by the District Court.
It is so ordered.
"BuRGER, concurring:.
I concur, although in my view the three-judge District
Court would have been bett6r advised, as a matter of
sound judiciail discretion, to have refrained from acting
until the outcome of the Lee Optical"appeal. See my
dissenting opinion in Wisc6nsin v. Constantineau, 400
U. S. 433, 443 (1971).
MR.

CH3IEF JUSTICE

MR. JUsTIcE MARsHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE
BRENNAN joins, concurring.
I join the opipibn of the Court oxcept insofar as it
suggests that the question remains open whether plaintiffs in some suits brought under 42 U. S..C. § 1983 imy
have td exhaust administrative remedies. See ante, at
574-575. In my opinion, the inapplicability of .he exhaustion requirem*eit to any suit brought under § 1983
has been firmly settled by this Court's prior-decisions,
McNeese v. Board .of Education, 373 U. S. 668, 671-672
See also Houghton v. Shafer, 392 U. S. 639
(1963).
(1968); King v.. Smith, 392 U. S. 309,,312 n. 4 (1968);
Damico v. California,389 U. S. 416 (1967) .

-

