OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

411 U. S.

CITY OF BURBANK ET AL. v. LOCKHEED AIR
TERMINAL, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH -CIRCUIT

No. 71-1637.

Argued February 20, 1973-Decided May 14, 1973

Appellees sought an injunction against enforcement of a Burbank
city ordinance placing an 11 p. m. to 7 a. m. curfew on jet flights
from the Hollywood-Burbank Airport. The District Court found
the ordinance unconstitutional on Supremacy Clause and Commerce
Clause grounds, and the Court of Appeals affirmed on the basis
of the Supremacy Clause, with respect to both pre-emption and
conflict. Held: In light of the pervasive nature of the scheme
of federal regulation of aircraft noise, as reaffirmed and reinforced'
by the Noise Control Act of 1972, the Federal Aviation Administration, now in conjunction with the Environmental Protection
Agency, has full control over aircraft noise; pre-empting state and
local control. Pp. 626-640..
457 F. 2d 667, affirmed.
DouGLAs, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and.BRENNAN, BLACKMUN, and POWELL, JJ., joined. REnNQUIST, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which STEWART, WHrrE, and
MARSHALL, JJ., joined, post, p. 640.

Richard L. Sieg, Jr, argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the briefs was Samuel Gorlick.
Warren Christopher argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the briefs was Ralph W. Dau.
Deputy Solicitor General Friedman argued the cause
for the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.
On the brief were Solicitor General Griswold, Assistant
Attorney General Wood, Andrew L. Frey, and John W.
Barnum. Nicholas C. Yost, Deputy Attorney General,

argued the cause for the Attorney General of California

as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the brief
were Evelle J. Younger, Attorney' General, pro se, Jay L.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

625

Opinion of the Court

Shavelson, Assistant Attorriey. General, and Larry C.
King, Deputy Attorney General.*
MR. JusTicE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Court in Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How.
299, first stated the rule of pre-emption which is the
critical issue in the present case. Speaking through.
Mr, Justice Curtis, it said:
"Now the power to regulate conmmerce, embraces
a vast field, containing not only many, but exceedingly various subjects, quite unlike in their nature;
some imperatively demanding a single uniform rule,
operating equally on the commerce of the United
States in every port; and some, like the subject now
in question, as imperatively demanding that diversity, which alone can meet the local necessities *of
navigation.
Whatever subjects of this power are in
'their nature national, or admit only of one uniform
system, or plan of regulation, may justly be said
to be of such a nature as to require exclusive legis'lation by Congress." Id., at 319.
This suit brought by appellees asked for an injunction
against the enforcement of an ordinance adopted by the
City Council of Burbank, California, which made it unlawful for a so-called pure jei aircraft to take off from
the Hollywood-Burbank Airport between 11 p. m. of
one day and 7 a. m. the next day, and makingit unlawful
for the operator of that airport to allow any such air*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by Patrick J.
Falvey, Joseph Lesser, Isobel E. Muirhead, and Vigdor D. Bernstein
for the P~rt Authority of New York and New Jersey; by Robert D.
Powell for the National Business Aircraft Association, Inc.; and by
Samuel J. Cohen for the Air Line Pilots Association, International.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

craft to take off from that airport during such periods.'

The only regularly scheduled flight affected by the
ordinance was an intrastate 'flight of Pacific Southwest
Airlines originating in Oakland, California, and departing

from Hollyw6od-Burbank Airport for San Diego every
Sunday night at 11:30.
The District Court7 found the ordinance to be unconstitutional on both Supremacy Clause and Commerce
Clause grounds. 318 F. Supp. 914.. The Court of Appeals affirmed on the grounds of the Supremacy Clause
both,.as respects pre-emption and as respects conflict.2
457 F. 2d 667. The case is here on appeal. 28 U. S. C.
§ 1254 (2). We noted probable jurisdiction. 409 U. S.
840. We affirm the Court of Appeals.
The-Federal Aviation Act of 1958, 72 Stat. 731, 49
U. S. C. § 1301 et seq., as amended by the Noise Control

Act of 1972, 86 Stat. 1234, and the regulations under it,
14 CFR pts. 71, 73, 75, 77, 91, 93, 95, 97, are central to
the - question of pre-emption.

Section 1108 (a) of the Federal Aviation Act, 49
U. S. C. § 1508 (a), provides in part, "The United States of

America is declared to possess and exercise complete and
'Burbank Municipal Code § 20-32.1. The ordinance provides an
exception for "emergency." flights approved by the City Police
Department.
2 The Court of Appeals held that the Burbank ordinance conflicted
with the runway preference orderi BUR 7100.5B, issued by the FAA
Chief of the Airport Traffic Control Tower at the HollywoodBurbank Airport. The order stated that "[p]rocedures established
for the Hollywood-Burbank airport are designed to reduce community exposure to noise to the lowest practicable minimum ... "
The Court of Appeals concluded that the ordinance "interferes with
the balance.set by the FAA among the interests with which it is
empowered to deal, and frustrates the full accomplishment of the
goals of Congress." 457 F. 2d 667, 676. In view of our disposition
of this appeal under the doctrine of pre7emption, we need not reach
this question.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL 627
624

Opinion of the Court

exclusive national sovereignty in the airspace of the
United Sta;tes ....
" By §§ 307 (a), (c) of the Act,
49 U. k. C. §§ 1348 (a); (c), the Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has been given
broad authority to regulate the use of the navigable airspace, "in order to insure the safety of aircraft and the
efficient utilization of such airspace . . ." and "for the
protection'of persons and property on the ground
I
The Solicitor General, though arguing against preemption, concedes that as respects "airspace management" there is pre-emption. That, however, is a fatal
concession, for as the District Court found: "The .imposition of curfew ordinances on a nationwide basis
would result in a bunching of flights in those hours
immediately preceding the curfew. This bunching of
flights during these hours would have the twofold effect
of increasing an already serious congestion problem and
actually increasing, rather than relieving, the noise problem by -increasing flights in the period of greatest annoyance to surrounding communities. Such a result is totally
'inconsistent with the objectives of the federal statutory.
"3....

3

Section 307 provides in' relevant part as follows:
"(a) The Administrator is authorized and directed to develop plans
for and formulate policy with respect to the use of the navigable
airspace; and assign by rule, regulation, or order the use of the
navigable airspace under such terms, conditions, and limitations as -.
he may deem Aiecessary n order to insure the safety of aircraft and
the efficient utilization of such airspace....
"(c) The Administrator is further authorized and directed to prescribe air traffic rules and regulations governing the flight of aircraft,
-for the navigation, protection, and identification of aircraft, for the
protectionof persons andproperty on the ground, and for the efficient
utilization of the navigable airspace, including rules as to safe altitudes of flight and rules for the prevention of collision between aircraft, between aircraft .and land or water -rehicles, and between
aircraft and airborne objects."

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

and regulatory scheme." It also found "[t]he imposition of curfew ordinances on a nationwide basis would
cause a serious loss of eiiciency in the use of the navigable
airspace."
Curfews such as Burbank has imposed would, according to the testimony at the trial and the District Court's
findings, increase congestiQn, cause a loss of efficiency,
and 'aggravate the noise problem. FAA has occasionally
enforced curfews. See Virginians for Dulies v: Volpe,
344 F. Supp. 573. But- the record shows that FAA has
consist6ntly opposed curfews, unless managed by it, ir,
the interests of its management of the "navigable
airspace."
As stated by Judge Dooling in American Airlines v.
Hempstead, 272 F. Supp. 226, 230, aff'd, 398 F. 2d 369:
"The aircraft and its noise are indivisible; the
noise of the aircraft extends outward from it with
the same inseparability as its wings and tail assembly; to exclude the aircraft noise from the Town
is to exclude the aircraft; to set a ground level decibel
limit for the aircraft, is directly to exclude it from
the lower air that 'itcannot use without exceeding
the decibel limit."
The Noise Control Act of 1972, which was-approved
Otober 27, 1972, provides that the Administrator "after
consultation with appropriate Federal, State, and local
agencies and interested persons" shall conduct a study
of various facets of the' aircraft noise problem's and report to the Congress within nine months,4 i. e., by July
1973. The .1972 Act, by amending § 611 of the Federal
4Section 7 (a) provides:
"The Administrator, after consultation' with appropriate Federal,
State, and local agencies and, interested persons, shall conduct a
study of the (1) adequacy of Federal Aviation Adminitration flight
and operational noise controls; (2) adeqijacy of noise emission stand-

CITY.OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERM1INAL
624

629

Opinion of the Court

-Aviation Act,5 also .involves the Environmental Protec-

tion Agency (EPA) in the comprehensive scheme of
federal control of the aircraft noise. problem.

Under

the amended § 611 (b)(1), 86 Stat. 1239, 49 U. S. C.
§ 1431 (b)(1) (1970 ed., Supp. II), FAA, after consulting
-with EPA, shall provide "for the control and abatement

of aircraft noise and sonic boom, including the application of such standards and regulations in the .issuance, amendment, modification, suspension, or revocation

of any certificate authorized' by this title." . Section 611
ards on new and existing aircraft, together with recommendations on
the retrofitting and phaseout of existing aircraft; (3) implications
of identifying, and achieving levels of cumulative noise exposure
around airports; and (4) additional measures available to airport
operators and local governments to control aircraft noise. He shall
report on such study to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committees on
Commerce and Public Works of the Senate within nine months after
the date of the enactment of this Act."
5Section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act, 49 U. S, C. § 1431, was
added in July 1968. Act of July 21, 1968, Pub. L. 90-411, 82
Stat. 395. Prior to amendment by the 1972 Act, it provided in part
that the Administrator, "[i]n order to afford present' and future
relief and protection to the public from unnecessary aircraft noise
and sonic boom, . . shall prescribe and amend such rules and'
regulations as he may find necessary to provide for the control and
abatement of aircraft noise and sonic boom." 49 U. S, C. § 1431 (a).
6Section 611 (b) (1), as amended, reads:
"In order to afford present and future relief and protection to the
public health and welfare from aircraft noise and sonic boom, the
FAA, after consultation with the, Secretar of Transportation and
with EPA, shall prescribe and amend standards for'the measurement of aircraft noise and sonic boom and shall prescribe and amend
such regulations as the FAA may find necessary to provide for the
control and abatement of aircraft Aioise and sonic boom, including
the application of such standards and regulations in the issuance,
amendment, modification, suspension, or revocation of any certificate
authorized by this title. No exemption with respect to any standard
or regulation under this section may be granfed under any pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

(b) (2), as amended, 86.Stat. 1239, 49 U. S. C. § 1431 (b)
(2) (1970 ed., Supp. II), provides that future certificates
for aircraft operations shall not issue unless the new aircraft noise requirements are met.' Section 611 (c) (1), as
amended, provides that not later than July 1973 EPA
shall submit to FAA proposed regulations to provide such
'.control and abatement of aircraft noise and sonic boom"
as EPA determines is "necessary to protect the public
health and welfare." FAA is directed within 30 days to
publish the proposed regulations in a notice of proposed
rulemaking. Within 60 days after that publication, FAA
is directed to commence a public hearing on the proposed
rules. Section 611 (c) (1). That subsection goes on to
provide that within "a reasonable time after the conclusion of such hearingand after consultation with EPA,"
FAA.is directed.either to prescribe the regulations substantially as submitted by EPA, or prescribe them in
modified ,form, or publish iii the Federal Register a
notice that it is not prescribing any regulation in response
to EPA's submission together with its reasons therefor.
Sectioh 611 (c) (2), as -amended, also provides that
if EPA believes that FAA's action with respect to a
regulation proposed by EPA "does not protect-the public
vision of this Act unless the FAA shall have consulted with EPA
before such exemption is granted, except that if the FAA determines that safety in air commerce or air transportation requires that
such an exemption be granted before EPA can be consulted, the FAA
shall consult with EPA as soon as practicable after the exemption is
granted."
7
Subsection (b) (2) provides:
"The FAA shall -not issue an original type certificate under section
603 (a)-of this Act for any.aircraft for which substantial noise abatement can be achieved by prescribing standards and regulations in.
accordance with this section, unless he shall have prescribed standards and regulr w.ons in accordance with this section which apply to
such aircraft and which protect the public from" aircraft noise and
-sonic boom, consisteilt with the considerations listed in subsection (d)."

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

631

Opinion of the dourt

health and welfare from aircraft noise or sonic boom,"
EPA shall consult with FAA and may request FAA to
review and report to EPA on the advisability of prescribing the regulation originally proposed by EPA.

That request shall be published in the Federal Register;
FAA shall complete the review requested and report to
EPA in the time specified together with a detailed
statement of FAA's findings and the reasons for its conclusion and shall identify any impact statement filed

under § 102 (2) (C) of the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969, 8 83 Stat. 853, 42 U. S. C. §4332 (2) (c),
8

Section 102 reads in part as follows:
"The Congress authorizes and directs that, to the fullest extent possible: (1) the policies, regulations, and public laws of the United
States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the
policies set forth in this chapter, and (2) all agencies of the Federal
Government shall-. . (C) include in every recommendation or
report on proposals for legislation and other major Federal actions,
significantly affecting the quality of the.human environment, a detailed statement by the re4psible official on- (i) the environmental impact of the proposed action, (ii) any adverse environmental
effects which cannbt be avoided should the.proposal be implemented,
(iii) alternatives to the proposed action, (iv) the relationship between local short-term uses of man's environment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity, and (v) any
irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources which would
be involved in the proposed action should it be implemented. Prior
to making any detailed statement, the responsible Federal official shall
coiasult with and obtain the comments of any Federal agency which
has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect to any
environmental impact involved. Copies of such statement and the
comments and views of the appropriate Federal,. State, and local
agencies, which are authorized to develop and enforce environmental
standards, shall be made available to the .President, the Council on
Environmental Quality"and to the public as provided by section 552
of Title 5, and shall accompany the proposal through the existing
agency review processes."
Section 611 (c) (3) of the Federal .Aiiation-Act, as amended, provides that if FAA files no statement under §102:(2) (C) of the National Environmental Policy Act "then EPA may request the FAA to

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

with respect to FAA's action. FAA's action, if adverse to
EPA's proposal, shall be published in the Federal
Register.
.Congress did not leave FAA to act at large but provided in § 611 (d), as amended, particularized standards:
"In prescribing and amending standards and regulations under this section, the FAA shall"(1) consider relevant available data relating to
aircraft noise and sonic boom, including the results
of research, development, testing, and evaluation activities conducted pursuant to this Act and the Department of Transportation Act;
* "(2) consult with such Federal, State, and interstate agencies as lie deems appropriate;
"(3) consider whether. any proposed standard or
regulation is consistent with the highest degree of
safety in air commerce or air transportation in the
public interest;
"(4) consider whether any proposed standard or
regulation is economically reasonable, technologically
practicable, and appropriate for the particular type
of- aircraft, aircraft engine, appliance, or certificate
to which it will apply; and
"(5) consider the extent to which such standard or regulation will contribute to carrying out
the .purposes of this section."
The original complaint was filed on May 14, 1970;
the District Court entered its judgment November 30,
1970; and the Court of Appeals announced its judgment
file a supplemental report, which shall be published in the Federal
Register within such a period as EPA may specify (but such time
specified shall not be less than ninety days from the date the request
was made), and which shall contain a comparison of (A) the environmental effedts (including those 'which cannot be avoided) of the
action actually taken by the FAA in response to EPA's proposed
regulations, and (B) EPA's proposed regulations."

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

633

Opinion of the Court

and opinion March 22, 1972-all before the Noise Control Act of 1972 was approved by the President on October 27, 1972. That Act reaffirms and reinforces the conclusioh that FAA, now in conjunction with EPA, has full
control over aircraft noise, pre-empting state and local
control.
There is, to be sure, no express provision of pre-emption
in the 1972 Act. That, however, is not decisive. As we
stated'in- Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S.
218, 230:
"Congress legislated here in a field which the
States have traditionally occupied...

.

. * So we start

with the assumption that the historic police powers
of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of. Congress. .

.

. Such a purpose may be

evidenced in several ways. The scheme of federal
regulation may be so pervasive as to make reasonable
the inference- that Congress left no room for the
States to supplement it....

Or the Act of Con-"

gress may touch a field in which the federal interest
is so dominant that the federal system will be assumed to preclude enforcement- of state laws on
the. same subject.... Likewise, the object sought
to be obtained by the federal law and the character
of obligations imposed by it may reveal the same
purpose. .

..

Or the state policy may -produce a

result inconsistent with the objective of, the federal
statute."
It is the pervasive nature of the scheme of federal regulation of aircraft noise that leads us to conciude that'
there is pre-emptiofi. As Mr. Justice Jackson stated, concurring in Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Minneso'ta, 322
U. S.292, 303:
'"ederal control is intensive and exclusive. Planes
do not wander about in the"sky like vagrant clouds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

They move only by federal permission, subject to
federal inspection, in the hands of federally certified personnel and under an intricate system of
federal commands. The moment a ship taxis onto
a runway it is caught up in an elaborate and detailed system of controls."
Both the Senate and House Committees included in
their Reports clear statements that the bills would not
change the existing pre-emption rule. The House Report stated: I "No provision of the bill is intended to
alter in any way the relationship between the authority
of the Federal Government and that of the State and
local governments that existed with respect. to matters
covered by section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act of
1958 prior to the enactment of the bill." The Senate
Report stated: 10 "States and local governments are preempted from establishing or enforcing noise emission
standards for aircraft unless such standards are identical
to standards prescribed under this bill. This does not
address responsibilities or powers of airport operators,
and no provision of the bill is intended to alter in any
way the relationship between the authority of the Federal government and that of State and local governments
that existed with respect to matters covered by section
611 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 prior to the enactment of the bill."
These statements do not avail appellants. Prior to
the 1972 Act, § 611 (a) provided that the Administrator
"shall prescribe and amend such rules and regulations
as he may find necessary to provide for the control and
abatement of aircraft noise and sonic boom." 82 Stat.
395. Under § 611 (b) (3) the Administrator was re-,
quired to "consider whether any proposed standard,
9 H. R. 'Rep. No. 92-842, p. 10.
10 S. Rep. No. 92-1160, pp. 10-11.

CITY'OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

635

Opinion of the Court

rule, or regulation is consistent with the highest degree
of safety in air commerce or air tiansportation in the
public interest." 82 Stat. 395. When the legislation
which added this. section to the Federal Aviation Act "
was considered at Senate hearings, Senator Monroney
(the author of the 1958 Act) asked Secretary of Transportation Boyd whether the proposed legislation would
"to any degree preempt State and local government regulation of aircraft noise and sonic boom." 1 The Secretary requested lpave to submit a written opinion, and
in a lejtter dated June 22, 1968, he stated:
"The courts have held that the Federal Government presently preempts the field of noise regulation insofar as it involves controlling the flight of
aircraft. .

.

. H. R. 3400 would merely expand

the Federal Government's role in a field already preempted. It would not change, this preemption.
State and local governments will remain unable to
use their police powers to control aircraft noise by
regulating the flight of aircraft."
Accoiding to the Senate Report,3 it was "not the intent
of the committee in recommending this legislation to
effect any change in the existing apportionment of
powers between the Federal and State and local governments," and the Report concurred in the views set forth
by the Secretary in his letter.14
"See n. 5, supra.
12 Hearing before the Aviation Subcommittee of the Senate Crm-,
mittee on Commerce on S. 707 and H. R. 3400, Aircraft Noise
Abatement Regulation, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 29.
IsS. Rep. No. 1353, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 6.
1 The letter from the Secretary of Transportation also expressed

the view that "the proposed legislation will not affect the rights,
of a State or local public agency, as the proprietor of an airpoit,

from issuing regulations or establishing requirements as to the permissible level of noise which can be created bj aircraft using the

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

The Senate version -of the 1972 Act as it passed the
Senate contained an express pre-emption section. 5 But
the Senate version never was presented to the House.
Instead, the Senate passed, with amendments, .the House
version; 16 the House, also with amendments, then concurred in the Senate amendments.". The Act as passed
combined provisions of both the House and Senate bills
on the subject that each had ealier approved. When
the blended provisions of the present Act were before
the House, Congressman Staggers, Chairman of the
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
in urging the House to accept the amended version, said: 18
"I cannot say what industry's intention may be, but'
I can say to the gentleman what my,intention is in
trying, to get this bill passed. We have evidence
that across America some cities and States are trying
airport. Airport owners acting as proprietors can presently deny
the use of their airports to aircraft on the basis of noise considerations
so long as such exclusion.is nondiscriminatory." (Emphasis added.)
This portion as well was quoted with approval in the Senate Report.
Ibd.
Appellants and the Solicitor General submit that this indicates
that a municipality with jurisdiction over an airport has the power
to impose a curfew on the airport, notwithstanding federal responsibility in the area. But, we are concerned here not with an ordinance imposed by the City of Burbank as "proprietor" of the airport, but with the exercise of police power. While the HollywoodBurbaik Airport may be the only major airport which is privately
owned, many airports are owned by one municipality yet physically
located in another. For example, the principal airport serving
Cincinnati is located in Kentucky. Thus, authority that'a municipality may have as a landlord is not necessarily congruent with its
police power. We do not consider here what limits, if any, apply to
a municipality as a proprietor.
'5

118 Cong. Rec. 35868.

16 Id., at 35886.
7 Id., at 37075.
-8 Id., at 37083.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL 637
-1624

Opinion of the Court

to pass noise regulations. Certainly we do not
want that to happen. It would harass industry and
progress in America. That is the reason why I want
to get this bill passed during this session."
When the House approved the blended provisions of
the bill, Senator Tunney, moved that the Senate concur.
He made clear 1 that the regulations to be considered
* by EPA for recommendation to FAA would include;
"proposed- means of reducing noise in airport environments through the appication of emission controls on aircraft, the regulation of flight patterns
and aircraft and airport operations, and modifications in the 'number, frequency, or scheduling- of
flights [as well as] ... the imposition of curfews.on
noisy airports, the imposition of flight path alterations in areas where noise was a problem, the imposition of noise emission standards on new and
existing aircraft-with the expectation of a retrofit
schedule to abate noise emissions from existing aircraft--the imposition of controls to increasethe load
factor on commercial flights, or other reductions in
the joint use of airports, and such. other procedures
as may be determined useful and necessary to protect public health and welfare." (Emphasis added.)
The statements by Congressman Staggers and Senator
Tunney are weighty ones. For Congressman Staggers
was Chairman of the House Committee on Interstate and.
Foreign Commerce which submitted the. Noise Control
Act and Report; -and Senator Tunney was a member of
the Senate Committee on Public Works, which submitted
the Act and Repoit.
When the" President signed the bill he stated that
"many -of the most significant sources of noise move in
'ld., at 37317.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

411 U. S.

interstate commerce and can be effectively regulated only
at the federal level." 2"
Our prior cases on pre-emption are not precise guidelines in the present controversy, for each case turns on
the peculiarities and special features of the federal regulatory scheme in question. Cf. Hines v. Davidowitz,
312 U. S. 52; HuronPortland Cement Co. v. Detroit,362
U. S.440. Control of noise is of course deep-seated in
the police power of the States. Yet the pervasive control
vested in EPA and in FAA under the 1972 Act seems to
"us to leave no room for local curfews or other local controls. What the ultimate remedy may be for aircraft

noise which plagues many communities and tens of thousands of people is not known. The procedures under the
1972 Act are under way.2 In addition, the Administrator
has imposed a variety of regulations relating to takeoff
and landing procedures and runway preferences. The
Federal Aviation Act requires a delicate balance between
safety and efficiency, 49 U. S. C. § 1348 (a), and the pro20 8 Weekly Comp. Pres. Does. 1582, 1583 (Oct. 28, 1972).
2"The Administrator has adopted regulations prescribing noise
standards which must. be met as a condition to type certification
for all new subsonic turbojet-powered aircraft. 14 CFR pt. 36.
On January 30, 1973, FAA gave advance notice of proposed
rulemaking for.the control of fleet noise levels (FNL) of airplanes
operating in interstate commerce. 38 Fed. Reg. 2769. (The
regulations would not pertain to carriers also operating in foreign
commerce). The propos.ed rules are designed to limit FNL prior
to July 1, 1978, when the covered aircraft become subject to the
requirements of 14 CFR pt. 36.
. The FNL would be determined as a function of the takeoff
and
approach noise levels of each airplane in the fleet and the number of
takeoffs and landings of the fleet. Until July 1, 1976, the cumulative
noise level of any fleet subject to regulation could not exceed the
FNL during the previous 90-dad base period. In 1976 each fleet
would be required to reduce its FNL by 50% of the difference between the 6riginal base-period level and the level ultimately required
by 14 OFR pt. 36. -

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

639

Opinion of the Court

tection of persons on the ground. 49 U. S. C. § 1348 (c).
Any regulations adopted by the 'Administrator to control
*noise pollution must be consistent with the "highest degree of safety." 49 U. S. C. § 1431 (d) (3). The inter. dependence of these factors requires a uniform and exclusive system of federal regulation if the congressional
objectives underlying the Federal Aviation Act"are to be
fulfilled.
If we were to uphold the Burbank ordinance and a
significant number of municipalities followed suit, it is
obvious that fractionalized control of the timing of takeoffs and landings would severely limit the flexibility of
FAA in controlling air traffic flow.22 - The dif~culties
of scheduling flights to avoid congestion and the concomitant decrease in safety would be compounded. In
1960 FAA rejected a proposed restriction on jet operations at the Los Angeles airport between 10 p. m. and
7 a. m. because such restrictions could "create critically
serious problems to all air transportation patterns." 25.
Fed. Reg. 1764-1765. The complete FAA statement
said:
"The proposed restriction on the use of the airport
by jet aircraft between the hours of 10 p. m. and
In order to insure efficient and safe use of the navigable airspace, FAA uses centralized "flow control," regulating the number of ircraft that will be accepted in a given area and restricting
altitudes and routes that may be flown. Flow control has resulted
in the Los Angeles Air Route Traffic Control Center holding aircraft
on the ground at the Hollywood-Burbank Airport.
Prior to April 1970, 21 regional Air Route Traffic Control Centers
exercised independent control over traffic flow in their areas. In
April 1970 FAA established a Central Flow Facility to coordinate
flow control throughout the Air Traffic Control system. This change
was necessitated because no regional center "had enough information
to make a judgment based on the overall condition of the ATC
" Fourth Annual Report of the Secretary of Transsystem ...
portation for Fiscal Year 1970.
22

-OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PRHQuisT, J., dissenting

411 U. S.

7 a. m. under certain surface wind conditions has
also been reevaluated and this provision has been
omitted from the rule. The practice of prohibiting
the use of various airports during certain specific
hours could create critically serious problems to all
air transportation patterns. The network of airports throughout the United States and the constant
availability, of these airports are essential to the
maintenance of a sound air transportation system.
The continuing growth of public acceptance of aviation as a major force in passenger transportation
and the increasingly significant role of commercialaviation in the nation's economy are accomplishments which cannot be inhibited if the best interest
of the public is to be served. It was concluded therefore that the extent of relief from the noise problem
which this provision might have achieved would
not have compensated the degree of restriction it
would have imposed on 'domestic and foreign Air
Commerce."
This decision, announced in 1960, remains peculiarly
within the competenc6 of PAA, supplemented now by
the input of EPA. We are not at liberty to diffuse
the powers given by Congress to FAA and EPA by letting
the States oi municipalities in on the planning. If that
change is to be made, Congress alone must do it.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicE RzHNQuIsT, with whom MR. JusTIcE
STEWART, MR.JUSTICE WEITE, and IR. JUSTICE MARSHiALL join, dik,6nting.

The Court concludes that congressional legislation
dealing with aircraft noise has so "pervaded" that, field
that Congress has impliedy ptre-empted it, and therefore
the ordinance of the city of Burbank here challenged is

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL 641
624

RHNQUIST, J.,

dissenting

invalid under the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution.
The Court says that the 1.972 "Act reaffirms and rein"forces the conclusion that FAA, now in conjunction with
EPA, has full control over aircraft noise, pre-empting
state and local control." Ante, at 633. Yet the House
and Senate committee reports explicitly state that the
1972 Act to which the Court refers was not intended to
alter the balance between state and federal regulation
which had been struck by earlier congressional legislation
in this area. The House Report, H. R. Rep. No. 92-842,
in, discussing the general pre-emptive effect of the entire
bill, stated:
"The authority of State and local government to
regulate use, operation, or moVement of products
is not affected at all by the bill. (The preemption
provision discussed in this paragraph does not alpply
to aircraft. See discussion of aircraft noise below.)"
Id., at 8.
The report went on to state specifically:
"No provision of the bill is intended to alter in ahy
way the relationship between the authority of the
Federal Government and that of State and local
governments that existed with respect to matters
covered by section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act
of 1958 prior to the enactment of the bill." Id.,
at 10.
The report of 'the Senate Public Works Committee,
,S. Rep. No. 92-1160, expressed the identical intent with
respect -to pre-emption: "States and local governments are preempted-from
establishing or enforcing noise emission standards.
for aircraft [see American Airlines v. Hempstead,
272 F. Supp. 226 (EDNY 1967)], anless -such standards are identical to standards prescribedunder this
bill.. This does not address responsibilities oi powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
RzHNQUisT,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

of airport operators, and no provision of the bill is
intended to alter in any way the relationship between
the authority of the Federal government and that of
State and local governments that existed with respect to matters covered by section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 prior to the enactment of
the bill." Id., at 10-11.
In the light of these specific congressional disclaimers
of pre-emption in the 1972 Act, reference must necessarily be had to earlier congressional legislation on the
subject.1 It was on the basis of these earlier enactments that the Court of Appeals concluded that Congress had pre-empted the field from state or local regulation of the type that the city of Burbank enacted.
The Burbank ordinance prohibited jet. takeoffs from
the Hollywood-Burbank Airport during the late evening
and early morning hours. Its purpose was to afford local
resiaents at least partial relief, during normal sleeping
hours, from the noise associated with jet airplanes. The
ordinance in no way dealt with flights over the city, cf.
American Airlines v. Hempstead, 272 F. Supp. 226
(EDNY 1967), aff'd, 398 F. 2d 369 (CA2 1968), cert.
denied, 393 U. S. 1017 (1969), nor did it categorically
prohibit all jet takeoffs during those hours.
Appellees do not contend that the noise produced by
jet engines could not reasonably be deemed to affect
Statements or comments of individual Senators or Representatives on the floor of either House are not to be given great, let alone
controlling, weight in ascertaining the intent of Congress as a whole,
see, e. g., Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.443, 474
(1921); McCaughn v. Hershey Chocolate Co., 283 U. S.488, 494,
(1931); of. Wright v. Vinton Branch of Mountain Trust Bank, 300
U. S.440, 464 (1937). This guidance is particularly appropriate in
this case, as the statements of two individual Congressmen quoted in
the Court's opinion"are at odds with the views expressed in the com-'
mittee reports.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

REHNQUIST,

643

J., dissenting

adversely the health and welfare of persons constantly
exposed to it; control of noise, sufficiently loud to be
classified as a public nuisance at common law, would
be a type of regulation well within the traditional s6ope
of the police power possessed by States and local governing bodies. Because noise regulation has traditionally
been an area of local, not national, concern, in -deterihining whether congressional legislation has, by implication, foreclosed remedial local enactments "we start
with the assumption that the historic police powers of
the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act
unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U.S. q18,
230 (1947). This assumption derives from our basic
constitutional division of legislative competence between
the States and Congress; from "due regard for the presuppositions of our embracing federal system, including
the principle of diffusion of power not as a matter
of. doctrinaire localism but as a promoter of democracy . . ."
San Diego Building Trades Council v.
Garmon, 359 U. S. 236, 243 (1959) (emphasis added).
Unless the requisite pre-emptive intent is/-abundanty
clear, we should hesitate to invalidate state and local
legislation for the added reason that "the state is powerless to remove the ill effects of our decision, while the
national government, which has the .ultimate power,
remains free to remove the burden." Penn Dairies,Inc.
v. Milk Control Comim'n, 318 U. S.261, 2.75 (1943).
Since Congress' intent in enacting the 1972 Act was
clearly to retain the status quo between the federal regulation and local regulation, a holding of implied preemption of the field depends upon whether two earlier
congressional enactments, the Federal Aviation Act of
1958, 72 Stat. 731, 49 U. S. C. § 1301 et seq., and the
1968 noise abatement amendment to that Act, 49

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
IREHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

U. S; C. § 1431, manifested the clear intent to preclude
local regulations, that our prior decisions require.
The 1958 Act was intended to consolidate in one agency
in the Executive Branch the control over aviation that
had previously been diffused within that branch. The
paramount substantive concerns of Congress were to regulate federally all aspects of air safety, see, e. g., 49
U. S. C. § 1422 and, once aircraft were in "flight," airspace management,. see, e. g., 49 U. S. C. § 1348 (a). See
S. Rep. No. 1811, 85th Cong., 2d Sess., 5-6, 13-15.
While the Act might be broad enough to permit the Administrator to promulgate takeoff and landing rules to
avoid excessive noise at certain hours of the day, see
49 U. S. C. § 1348 (c), Congress was not concerned with
the pioblem of noise created by aircraft and did not
intend to pre-empt its regulation. Furthermore, while
Congress clearly intended to pre-empt the States from
regulating aircraft in flight, the author of the bill, Senator Monroney, specifically stated that FAA would not
have control "over the ground space" of airports.2
The development and increasing use of civilian jet aircraft resulted in congressional concern over the noise
associated with those aircraft. Hearings were held over
a period of several years, resulting in a report but no
legislation. The report of the House Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce; H. R. Rep. No. 36,
88th Cong., 1st Sess., shows clearly that the 1958 Act
was thought by at least some in Congress neither to
pre-empt local legislative action to alleviate the growing
noise problem, nor to prohibit local curfews:
"Until Federal action is taken, the local governmental authorities must be deemed to possess the
2 Hearings
before the Subcommittee on Aviation of the Senate
Committe,on InterstAte and Foreign Commerce (hereafter Commerce

Committee), on S. 3880, Federal Aviation Agency Act, 85th Cong.,
2d Sess., 279.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

645

R EHNQUIST, J., dissenting

police power necessary to protect. their citizens and
property from the unreasonable invasion of aircraft
noise. The wisdom of exercising such power or the
manner of the exercise is a problem to be resolved
on the local governmental level.
"Airports in the United States, as a general rule,
are operated by' a local governmental authority,
either a municipality, a county, or some independent
unit. These airport operators are closer, both geographically and politically, to the problem of the
conflict of interests between those citizens who have
been adversely affected by the aircraft noise and
the needs of the community for air commerce. Some
airport operators have exercised the proprietary right
to restrict in a reasonable manner, the use of ahy
runway by limiting either the hours during which it
may be used or the types of civil transport aircraft
that may use it." H. R. Rep. No. 36, 88th Cong.,
1st Sess., 27.
Several years after the conclusion of these hearings,
Congress enacted the. 1968 noise abatement ameiidment, 82 Stat. 395, which added § 611 to the 1958 Act,
49 U. S. C. § 1431, and which was the first congressional
legislation dealing with the problem of aircraft noise.
On its face,3 § 611 as added by the 1968 amendment
neither pre-empted the general field of regulation of
3

"(a) Consultations; standards; rules and regulations.
"In order to afford present and future relief and protection to
the public from unnecessary aircraft noise and sonic boom, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, after consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall prescribe and amend
standards for the measurement of aircraft noise and sonic boom and
shall prescribe and amend such rules and regulations as he may find
necessary to provide for the control'and abatement of aircraft noise
and sonic booni, including the application of such standards, rules,

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

aircraft noise nor dealt specifically with the more limited question of curfews. The House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, after reciting the serious
proportions of the problem, outlined the type of federal
regulation that the Act sought to impose:
"The noise problem is basically a conflict between
two groups or interests. On the one hand, there is
and regulations in the issuance, amendment, modification, suspension,
or revocation of any certificate authorized by this subchapter.
"(b) Considerations determinative of standards, rules, and
regulations.
"In prescribing and amending standards, rules, and regulations
under this section, the Administrator shall"(1) consider relevant available data relating to aircraft noise
and sonic boom, including the results of research, development, testing, and evaluation activities conducted'pnrsuant to this chapter and
chapter 23 of'this title;
"(2) consult with such Federal, State, and interstate agencies as
he deems appropriate;
"(3) consider whether any proposed standard, rule, or regulation
is consistent with the highest, degree of safety in air commerce or
air transportation in the public interest;
"(4) consider whether any proposed standard, rule, or regulation
is economically reasonable, technologically practicable, and appropriate for the particular type of aircraft, aircraft engine, appliance,
or certificate to which it will apply; and
"(5) consider the extent to which such standard, rule, or regulation will contribute to carrying out the purposes of this section.
"(c) Amendment, modification, suspension, or revocation of certificate; notice and appeal rights.
"In any action to amend, modify, suspend, or revoke a certificate
in which violation [of] aircraft noise or sonic boom standards, rules,
or regulations is at issue, the certificate holder shall have the same
notice and appeal rights as are contained in section 1429 of this
title, and in any appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board,
the Board may amend, modify, or reverse the order of the Administrator if it finds that control or abatement of aircraft noise or sonic
boom and the public interest do not. require the affirmation of such
order, or that such order is not consistent with safety in air commerce
or air transportation." 49 U. S. C. § 1431.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

647

RSHNQUIST, J., dissenting

a group who provide various air transportation
services. On the other hand there is a group who
live, work, and go to schools and churches in communities near airports. The latter group is frequently burdened to the point where they can neither
enjoy nor reasonably use their laud because of noise
resulting from aircraft operations. Many of them
derive no direct benefit from the aircraft operations
which create the unwanted noise. Therefore, it is
easy to understand why they complain, and complain
most vehemently. The possible solutions to this demanding and vexing problem which appear to offer
the most promise are (1) new or modified engine and
airframe designs, (2) special flight operating' techniques and procedures, and (3) planning for land use
in areas adjacent to airports so that.such land use
will be most compatible with aircraft operations.
This legislation is directed toward the primary problem; namely, reduction of noise at its source."
(Emphasis added.) H. R. Rep. No. 1463, 90th
Cong., 2d Sess., 4.
Far from indicating -any total pre-emptive intent, the
House Committee observed:
"Rather, the committee expects manufacturers,
air carriers, all other segments of the aviation community, and State and local civic and governmental
entities to continue and increase their contributions
toward the common goal of quiet." Ibid.
The Senate Commerce Committee's view of the House
bill followed a similar vein:
"This investment by the industry is representative
of one of the avenues of approach to aircraft noise
reduction, that is, the development of aircraft which
generate less noise. Another approach to noise reduction is through-the establishment of special flight

OOTdBER TERM, 1972
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

411 U.S.

operating techniques and procedures. The third
principal control technique which merits serious consideration is the planning for land use in areas near
airports so as to make such use compatible with
aircraft operations. This is a matter largely within
the province of State and local governments. While
all of these techniques must be thoroughly studied
and employed, the first order of business is to stop
the escalation of aircraft noise by imposing standards
which require the full application of noise reduction
technology.
"A completely quiet airplane will not be developed
within ,the foreseeable future. However, with the
technological and regulatory means now at hand, it
is possible to reduce both the level and the impact
of aircraft noise. Within the limits of technology
iid economic feasibility, it is the view of the committee that the Federal Government must assure
that the potential reductions are in fact realized."
S. Rep. No. 1353, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 2-3.
With specific emphasis on pre-emption, the Senate Committee observed:
"Relation to Local Government Initiatives
"The bill is an amendment to a statute describing the powers and duties of the Federal Government with respect to air commerce. As indicated
earlier in this report, certain actions by State and
local public agencies, such as zoning to assure compatible land use, are a necessary part of the total'
attack on aircraft noise. In this connection, the
question is raised whether this bill adds or subtracts
anything from the powers of State or local governments. It is not the intent of the committee in
recommending this legislation to effect any change
in the existing apportionment of powers bet'ween the
Federal and State and local governments.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL 649
624

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

"In this regard, we concur in the following views
set forth by the Secretary in his letter to the Committee of June 22, 1968:
"'The courts have held that the-Federal Government presently preempis the field of noise regulation insofar as it involves controlling the flight of
aircraft. Local noise control legislation limiting the
permissible noise, level of all overflying aircraft has
recently been struck down because itconflicted with
Federal regulation of air traffic. Americdn. Airlines
v. Town of Hempstead, 272 F. Supp. 226 (U. S. D. C.,
E. D., N. Y., 1966). The court said, at 231, "The
legislation operates in an area committed to Federal
care, and noise limiting rules operating as do those
of the ordinance must come from a Federal source..
H. R. 3400 would merely expand the Federal Government's role in a field already preempted. It
would not change this preemption. State and local
governments will remain unable to use their police
powers to control aircraft noise by regulating the
flight of aircraft.
"'However, the proposed legislation will not-affect
the rights of a State or local public agency, as the
proprietor of an airport, from issuing regulations or
establishing requirements as to the permissible level
of noise which can be created by aircraft using the
airport. Airport owners acting as proprietors can
presently deny the use of their airports to aircraft
on the basis of noise considerations so long as such
exclusion is nondiscriminatory.
"'Just as an airport owner is responsible for deciding how long the runways will be, so is the owner
responsible for obtaining noise easements necessary
to permit the landing and takeoff of the aircraft.
The Federal Government is in no position to require an airport to accept, service by larger aircraft

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

and, for that purpose, to obtain'longer runways.
Likewise, the Federal Government, is in no position
to require an airport to accept service by noisier
aircraft, and for that purpose to obtain additional
noise easements. The issue is the service desired by
the airport owner and the steps it is willing to take
to obtaihA the service. In dealing with'this issue,
the Federal Government should not substitute its
judgment for that of the States or elements of local
government who, for the most part, own and operateour Nation's airports. The proposed legislation is
not designed to do this and will not prevent airport
proprietors from excluding any aircraft on the basis
of noise considerations.'
"Of course, the authority of units of local government to control the effects of aircraft noise through
the exercise of land use planning and zoning powers
is not diminished by the bill.
"Finally, since the flight of aircraft has been preempted by the Federal Government, State and local
governments can presently exercise no control over
sonic boom. The bill makes no change in this regard." Id., at 6-7.
In terms of pre-emption analysis, the most reasonable
reading of § 611 appears to be that it was enacted to
enable the Federal Government to deal with the noise
problem created by jet aircraft through study and regulation of the "source" of the problem-the mechanical
and structural aspects of jet and turbine aircraft design.
The authority to "prescribe and amend such rules and
regulations as he may find- necessary to provide lor ,the
-ontrol and abatement of aircraft noise and sonic boom,"
49 U. S. C. § 1431'(a), while a broad grant of authority
to the Administrator, cannot fairly be read as prohibiting
the States from enacting every type of measure, which

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

RUHNQUIST,

651

J., dissenting

might have the effect of reducing aircraft noise, in the
Absence of a regulation to that effect under this section.
The statute established exclusive federal control of the
technological methods for reducing the output of noise
by jet aircraft, but that is a far cry from saying that it
prohibited any local regulation of the times at which
the local airport might be available for the use of jet
aircraft.
The Court of Appeals found critical to its decision the
distinction between the local government as an airport
proprietor and the local government as a regulatory
agency, which was reflected in the views of the Secretary
of Transportation outlined in the Senate Report on the
1968 Amendment. Under its reasoning, a local government unit that owned and operated an airport would
not be pre-empted by § 611 from totally, or, as here,
partialiy, excluding noisy aircraft from using its facilities, but a municipality having territorial jurisdiction
over the airport would be pre-empted from enacting an
ordinance having a similar effect. If the statute actually
enacted drew this distinction, I-would of course respect
it. But since we are dealing with "legislative history,"
rather than the words -actually written by Congress into
law, I do not believe it is of the controlling significance
attributed to it by the court below.
The pre-emption question to which the Secretary's
letter was address6d related to "the field of noise rpgulation insofar ag it involves controlling the flight of aircraft" (emphasis added), and thus included types of
regulation quite different from that enacted by the city
of Burbank that would be clearly precluded. See AmerAirlines v. Hempstead, supra. But more important
jica
is the highly practical consideration that the HollywoodBurbank Airport is probably the only nonfederal airport in the. country used by federally certified-air carriers that is not owned and operated by a state or local

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
REiNQUiST,

J., dissenting

411 U. S.

government 4 : There is no indication that this fact was
brought to the attention of the Senate Committee, or
that the Secretary of Transportatioin was aware of it in
framing his letter. It simply strains credulity to believe
that the Secretary, the Senate Committee, or Congress
intended that all airports except the Hollywood-Burbank
Airport could enact curfews.
Considering the language Congress enacted into law,
the available legislhtive history, and the light shed by
these on the congressional purpose, Congress did not
intend either by the 1958 Act or the 1968 Amendment
to oust local governments from the enactment of regulations such as that of the city of Burbank. The 1972
Act quite clearly intended to maintain the status quo
between federal and local authorities. The legislative
history of the 1972 Act, quite apart from its concern with
avoiding additional pre-emption, discloies a primary
focus on the alteration of procedures within the Federal
Government for dealing with problems of aircraft noise
already entrusted by Congress to federal competence.
The 1972. Act set up procedures by which the Administrator .of EPA would have a role to play in the formulation and review of standards promulgated by FAA dealing
with noise emissions of jet aircraft. But because these
agencies have exclusive authority to reduce noise by
promulgating regulations and implementing standards
directed at one or several of the cauges of the level of
noise,\local governmental bodies are not thereby foreclosed from dealing with the noise problem by. every other
conceivable method.
The record is not exactly clear'on this paint, but it does appear
to be the case. Although there are several airports owned by
municipalities or other governmental units that are located outside
"of the boundaries of the units, there does not appear to be any. other
privately owned airpoft, at which certified air carriers operate, in
the country.

CITY OF BURBANK v. LOCKHEED AIR TERMINAL
624

REHNQUIST,

653

J., dissenting

A local governing body that owns and operates an
airport is certainly not, by the Court's opinion, prohibited from permanently closing down its facilities. A
local governing body could likewise use its traditional
polica power to prevent the establishment of a newairport or the expansion of an existing one within its
territorial jurisdiction by declining to grant the necessary
zoning for such a facility. Even though the local government's decision in each case were motivated, entirely
because, of the noise associated with airports, I do not
read the Court's opinion as indicating that such action
would be prohibited by the Supremacy Clause merely
because the Federal Government has undertaken the responsibility for some. aspects of aircraft noise control.
Yet if this may be done, the Court's opinion surely does
not satisfactorily explain why a local governing body
may not enact a far less "intrusive" ordinance such as
that of the city of Burbank.
The history of congressional action in this field demonstrates, I believe, an affirmative congressional intent to
allow local regulation.. But even if it did not go that far,
that history surely does not reflect "the clear and
manifest purpose of Congress" to prohibit the exercise
of "the historic police powers of the States" which our
decisions require before a conclusion of implied preemption is reached. Clearlk Congress could pre-empt
the field to local regulation if it chose, and very, likely
the authority conferred on the Administrator of FAA
by 49 U. S. C. § 1431 is'sufficient to authorize him to promulgate regulations effectively pre-empting local action.
But. neither Congress nor the Administrator has chosen
to go that route. Until one of them does, the ordinance
of the city of Burbank is a valid exercise of its police
power.
The District Court found that the Burbank ordinance
would impose an undue burden on interstate commerce,

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

411 U.S.

and held it invalid under the Commerce Clause for that
reason. Neither the Court of Appeals nor this Court's
opinion, in view of their determination as to pre-emption,
reached that question. The District Court's conclusion
appears to be based, at least in part, on a consideration
of the effect on interstate commerce that would result if
all municipal airports in the country enacted ordinances
such as that of Burbank. Since the proper determination of the question turns on an evaluation of the facts
of each case, see, e. g., Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines,
359 U. S. 520 (1959), and not on a predicted proliferation
of possibilities, the District Court's conclusion is of
doubtful validity. The Burbank ordinance did not affect
emergency flights, and had the total effect of prohibiting
one scheduled commercial flight each week and several
additional private flights by corporate executives; such
a result can hardly be held to be an unreasonable burden
on commerce. Since the Court expresses no opinion on
the question, however, I refrain from any further analysis
of it.,

5Although cited by the Court, this situation is clearly not q (ooley
situation, in which the control of aircraft noise "admit[s] only of one
uniform system, or plan of regulation, [which] may justly be said
to be of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress."
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319 (1852). The court
below also held, but by a divided vote, that the Burbank ordinance
was invalid because it was in conflict with a clearly articulated federal policy, to wit, a non-mandatbry runway preference. order of
the FAA tower chief at Burbank which requested pilots to use
a particular runway at night. The'Court does not decide this case
on that ground; I see no occasion to express in detail my views on
the conflict issue, except to note my d6ubt as to the correctness of
the disposition of that question.

