IOWA v. ROOD.
-1

Syllabus.

The conclusion is, that thejudgment of the Supreme Court
of Illinois did not deny to the plaintiff in error any right secured
by the Constitution of the United States, and is therefore
Affirmed.

IOWA '. ROOD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 9. Argoed October 14,15, 1902.-Decided November 17,1902.
Where the title claimed by the State of Iowa to land formerly the bed of
a lake rested solely upon the proposition that the State became vested,
upon its admission into the Union, with sovereignty over the beds of all
lakes within its borders, and upon the act of the General Government in
meandering such lakes and excluding from its survey of public lands all
such as lay beneath their waters, and the Supreme Court of the State
has decided adversely to the State and in favor of one who claimed
under the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, known as the swamp
land act, there is no question involving the validity of any treaty or statute of the United States or the constitutionality of any state statute or
authority which gives this court jurisdiction.
Neither article III of the treaty with France ceding Louisiana, article IV,
section 3, of the Constitution of the United States, nor the act of Congress of 1846, admitting the State of Iowa into the Union on an equality
with the original States, has even a remote bearing upon the question of
title of the State of Iowa to the land beneath its lakes.
The mere fact that the plaintiff in error asserts title under a clause of the
Constitution or an act of Congress, or that such act or a patent of the
United States appears in the chain of title, does not constitute such a
right, title or immunity as to give the Federal courts jurisdiction, unless
there is either a plausible foundation for such claim, or the title involves
the construction of the act,or the determination of the rights of the
party under it.
The action of the government surveyors in segregating and setting apart
the lakes in question by meander lines from the public lands and the
approval of such survey by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
was not an adjudication by the Government of the United States by its
duly authorized officers and agents, that the lake so segregated and set

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
apart was the property, of the State of Iowa and not a part of the public
domain. It -was beyond the powers of a government surveyor to deter.mine~the title to such lands, or to adjudicate anything whatever upon
the subject.

THis was a controversy over about 800 acres of land lying in
the bed of What is known as Owl Lake, in Humboldt County,
Iowa. The original plaintiffs, the appellees in this case, claimed
under the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, commonly
known as the swamp land grant. Defendants' position was
that the lands were unsurveyed lands belonging to the national
government, subject to entry under the homestead and preemption laws, under which thei had made entry The State of
Iowa intervened and claimed to own the land in virtue'of its
rightof sovereignty over the beds of all lakes meandered by
the general government,
The suit was originally instituted by a petition in equity filed
in the District Court of Humboldt County by Edwin 0. Rood
and others against; George A. Wallace and others, founded upon
allegations (1) that the lands were conveyed to the State under
the swamp land act of September 28, 1850, and thence by interinediate conveyances to the plaintiff; (2) that at the date of
this act the lands were in fact swamp and overflowed lands,
and continued to be,. until Pearsons, plaintiffs' grantor, received
the title, marshy and unfit for cultivation, without artificial
drainage. That m 1884, Pearsons began to reclaim the land
by ditches, building fences around it, and for several years used
and occupied it for pasturage, and spent a large amount of
money in draining, reclaiming it and. making it fit for cultivation, (3) that defendants have taken possession, and'built a cabin
upon the land, and are interfering with the plaintiffs m their
use. and enjoyment of it.
Wherefore'an injunction was prayed.
A demurrer to this bill was overruled and an answer filed in
general denial of the petition.
Thereupon the State of Iowa filed a petition of intervention,
alleging that the land in question was a part of the bed of Owl
Lake, and did not constitute any part of the land which the
United States government was authorized or empowered to-sell.

IOWA v. ROOD.
Statement of the *Case.

That the State was duly admitted into the Union in 1846, and,
as a sovereign State, became the owner of all the lakes within its

borders, subject to the right, of the public to use the same, and
that the title to the soil was-in the State. That in surveying
the public lands adjoining the lake the same was meandered,
and the land up tb the meander lines sold by the United States
to different persons, and after such survey and sale the United
States had no right, title or interest in any part of the lake bed,
and that the same had passed to the State upon its admission
to the Union.
The petition denied that the land described, was within the
swamp land grant, and averred that the act of the plaintiffs and
their vendors in draining the said lake and drawing off the
water was unlawful.
Wherefore the 'State prayed a decree against both plaintiffs
and defendants, quieting its title to-the land, and for a writ of
,possession removing both parties therefrom.
Defendants Wallace and others subsequently amended their
answer to the .effect that the lands were unsurveyed lands,
subject to entry by settlers, and that defendants had entered
the lands as homesteads, built houses thereon, and occupied
the same as homes. That, at 'the date of the swamp land act,
the lands were covered by -water from six, to fifteen feet in
depth, with well-defined shores and high banks upon the
south and east sides, and navigable by ordinary steamboats.
That the lands were never"swampy, and never came within
the meaning of the grant as swamp. and overflowed lands.
And that whatever rights plaintiffs might have in the land
were junior and inferior to those of d~fendants.
Plaintiffs thereupon amended their petition by averring that
since the commencement of the suit the -lands had been patented to the State under the swamp land act of 1850, and
answered the petition of the intervenor, alleging that by the
proper officer of the government the character, quality and
condition of said lands were duly adjudicated in the manner
provided by law, and that the title of the United States passed
through certain patents mentioned in amendments to plaintiffs' petition, and finally inured to the benefit of the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs, and thatsaid patents have never been set aside nor canceled.
Testimony was taken by the-plaintiffs, and a decree entered
dismissing the intervenor's petition, and queting the title in
this and several other cases involving the same facts, in the
plaintiffs. On an appeal taken to the Supreme Court of Iowa,
the judgment of the District Court was confirmed. 109 Iowa,
5. Whereupon the State sued out a writ of-error from this
court.
M' Carles .Aullan, attorney general of the State of Iowa,
for plaintiff in error,
_fr 1R. X. WTFght and .Mr .T P Dolliv'erfor defendants in
error.
:-M.

JusTioE

BiowN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Motioii is made to dismiss this case upon the ground that no
Federal question is involved, or if there be such question, that
there was another non-Federal question, the decision of which
was sufficient to sustaan the judgment, irrespective of what the
decision of the Supreme Court may have been upon such
Federal question.
1. From the foregoing abstract of the pleadings it will be
seen that.the title set up by the State rests solely upon .tle
proposition that it became vested, upon its admission 'into the
Union under the act of Congress of December f28, 1846, 9 Stat.
117, with sovereignty over the beds of all lakes within its borders, and by the act of the general government in meandering
such lakes, and excluding from its survey of public lands all such
as lay beneath their waters. This clearly does not iiivolve the
validity-of any treaty or statute of the United States, or the
constituitionality of any state statute or authority, so that if
jurisdiction exists 'in this court, it must be by reason of the
claim of a.title, right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution, or'an authority exercised under the United States, the

IOWA v. ROOD,
Opinion of the Court.

decision of which was against such title, right, privilege or authority
The real question then is whether the sovereignty of -the
State over the beds of its inland lakes rests upon some statute
or provision of the Constitution, or upon general principles of
the common law which long antedated the Constitution, and
bad their origm in rights conceded to the Crown centuries before the severance of our relations with the mother country
If the latter, then the State must look to the decisions of this
court, recognizing and defining such rights and determining
how far they are inherited, first, by the United States as the
successor of the Crown, and second, by the several States upon
their admission into the Union. This would not involve a construction of the Constitution, nor of' any title derived thereunder, but a determination of the title of the Crown to lands
beneath the beds of inland lakes and. of the respective rights of
the States and the general government as successors thereto.
In support. of our jurisdiction the State relies (1) upon art.
III of the treaty with France for the cessioi of Louisiana, 8
Stat. 200, which mnerely provides that "the inhabitants of the
ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United
States and admitted -as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the
rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United
States;" (2) the provision of the Constitution, art. IV, sec. 3,
which merely declares, with certain immaterial qualifications,
that "new States may bd admitted by the Congress into this
Jnon," and (3) upon the act of Congress of 1846, admitting
the State of Iowa into the Union, with the provision that it
should be admitted on -an equal footing with the orgial States
in all respects whatsoever.
None of these provisions was queftioned by the Supreme
Court of Iowa in its opinion, but neither of them has evena
remote bearing upon the'question of the title of the State to
the land beneath its lakes. Indeed, the argument now made
by the Attorney General, that the title of the State depends
upon the construction given to this act of'Congress, is quite inconsistont with his first assignment of error upon the merits,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opimdn of the Court.

which charges the court with error'" in not holding that the
beds of all the meandered- lakes and streams in the State of
Iowa belong to said State im trust for the public by virtue of
its sovereignty, and that this right does not depend upon any
act pf Congress or any grantfrom the United States" In other
words, the State is put in the dilemma of insisting, for the purpose of sustaining the jurisdiction of this court, that the title
of the State is dependent upon the proper construction of these
three instruments, and, for the purpose of sustaining its case upon
the merits, denying that the title depends upon either of them.
This is an attempt to blow hot and cola upon the same question.
The mere fact that the plaintiff' in error asserts titleunder a
clause of the Constitution, or an act of Congress, is not in itself sufficient, unless there be at least a plausible foundation
for sach claim. A party may assert a right, title, privilege or
immunity without even color for such assertion, and if that
were alone sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, a vast number of cases might be brought-here simply for delay or speculative advantage. _ew Orleans TWaterworkes Co. v Loumsiana,
185 U. S. 336
It is equally clear that the mere fact that an act of Congress
or a patent of the United States appears in a chain of title
does not constitute such a right, title or immunity as gives the
Federal court jurisdiction, unless such title involves the" con"struction of the act or the determination of the rights of the
party under it. De Lamar's .2'evada G .[. Co. v JAesbitt,
177 U. S.523.
The case of the City of _New Orleans v. Armas, ,9 Pet. 224.
is directly in point. Plaintiffs claimed a parcel of land in the
city of New Orleans by incomplete title from the Spanish government, which was, however, confirmed under the laws of the
United States and a patent issued therefor. The city claimed
the land as a part of a quay dedicated to the city in the original plan of the town, and therefore not grantable by the king.
The state court gave judgment for the plaintiffs, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court, and the city sued out a writ of
error. The court held, through Chief Justice Marshall, that to

IOWA v. ROOD.
Opinion of the Court.

sustain its jurisdiction it must be shown that the title set up by
the city was protected by the treaty ceding Louisiana to the
United States (the treaty involved in this case), or by some act
of Congress applicable to that 'title. It was held that the third
article of the treaty, above quoted, did not embrace the case,
and that the act of Congress admitting Louisiana into the
Union, which is identical in language with the act admitting
Iowa, could not be construed to give. appellate jurisdiction to
this court over all questions of title between citizens of Louisiana, that the case involved no principle ipon -which this court
could take jurisdiction which would not apply to all the controversies respecting titles originating before the cession .of
Louisiana to the United States, and that "it would also comprehend all controversies concerning titles in any of the new
States, since they are admitted into the Union by laws expressed in similar language." The writ of error was dismissed..
This case'is conclusive against the existence of a Federal question in the case under consideration.
2. We are also asked to sustain the jurisdiction of this court
upon the ground that the action of .the government surveyors
in segregating and setting apart the lake in question by meander lines from the public land, and the approval of such survey by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, was an
adjudication by the government of the United States, by its
duly auth6rized officers and agents, that the lake so segregated
and set apart was the property of the State of Iowa and not a
part of the public domain.
We do not -so interpret the action of these officers. They
undoubtedly did survey the lands adjoining this lake and meander the lake itself, but they determined nothing as to the title
of the land beneath its waters'-a determination which would
have been wholly beyond their powers; but simply omitted
those lands from the survey, and left their title to be subsequently determined either by state or Congressional action.
It was obviously beyond the powers of a government surveyor,
or of the Land Office, to determine the title to these lands or
to adjudicate anything whatever upon-the subject.
Had the decision of the Supreme Court been adverse to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

plaintiffs, who claimed title under the swamp land act, it is
possible that a writ of error might have lain from this court,
but we have frequently held that to sustain such writ, the decision must be adverse to a right claimed under an act of Congress, or to the exercise of an authority granted by the United
States. Baker v Baldwn, decided this term, ante, p. 61.
The writ of error must be
_Di s.3sed.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v.
McANNULTY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT., OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WiSTERN DISTRICT OF XIISSOURL

No. 27. Argued October 15,19.1902.-Dqcided November 17, 1902.
On demurrer all the material facts averred ma bill of complaint are admitted including averments describing complainant's business and stating
that it is founded "almost exclugively on the physical and practical
proposition that themind of the human race is largely responsible for
its ills, and is a perceptible iactor in the healing, curing, benefiting and.
remedying thereof, and that the human race does possess the innate
power through proper exercise of the faculty of the brain and mind, to
largely control and remedy the ills that humanity is heir to, and they
(complainants) discard and eliminate from their treatment what is commonly known as Christian Science;iand they are confin'ed to practical
scientific treatment emanating from the source aforesaid." The foregoing allegations are not conclusions of law but statements of fact.
Such an allegation having been made in a bill of complaint the business referred to cannot on demurrer be properly pronounced such a fraud within
the statutes of the United States as will justify a postmaster withholding matter sent to complainants through the mail in answer to advertisements on an order issued by the Postmaster General under sections
3929 and 4041 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and section 4
of an act approved March 2, 1875, 28 Stat. 963, 964; but in overruling
the demurrer, this court does not mean to preclude the defendant from
showing on the trial, if lie can, that the business of the complainants, as
in fact conducted, amounts to a violatiot of such statutes.
The statutes referred -to were not intended to cover ahy case which the
Postmaster General might regard as based on false opinions, but onuly
cases Qf actual fraud, in fact, in regard to which opinions formed no basis.
Conceding for the purposes of this case that Congress has full and absolute

