OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Syllabus.

tination, and the difference amounted to 26.05 francs per 100
kil6s (2.28 cents per pound).
"If we are to investigate the reasons which may impel Russian manufacturers to produce more sugar than is needed for
home, consumption, and to bring the surplus for exportation
down to a comparatively much lower price, we shall find the
explanation of this strange phenomenon in the legislative system of Russia. Such is our intimate conviction."
The object of issuing certificates of sugar exported seems to
have been merely to enable the exporting manufacturer to" obtain the best price for the privilege he assigns to the interior
manufacturer of putting an equal amount of free sugar upon
the market by assigning the certificates to the one who would
offer the best price. In this connection the Circuit Court of
Appeals found "That the Russian exporter of sugar obtained
from his government a certificate, solely because of such exportation, which is worth in the open market of that country
from R. 1.25 to R. 1.64 per pood, or from 1.8 to 2.35 cents per
pound. Therefore we hold that the government of Russia
does secure to the exporter of that country, as the inevitable
result of its action, a money reward or gratuity whenever he
exports sugar from Russia." We all concur in this expression
of opinion.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Af kned.

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPA.NY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS FOR TEE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 386. Argued March 18, 19, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

When the owner of a trace mark applies for an injunction to restrain the
defendant from injuring his property by making false representations
to the public it is essential that the plaintiff should not in his trade mark
or m his advertisements and business, be himself guilty of any false or
misleading representation, and if he makes any material false statement

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Statement of the Case.
-n connection with the property which he seeks to protect, he loses his
right to claim the assistance of a iourtof equity; and where any symbol
or label claimed as a trade mark is so constructed or worded as to make
or contain a distinct material assertion which is false, no property can
be claimed on it, or, in other words, the right to the exclusive use of it
jcannot be maintained.

ON June 1, 1897, the-California Fig Syrup Company, created
under the laws of the State of Nevada, and ha'ving its principal
place of business in San Francisco, -California, filed a bill in
equity in the Circuit Conrt of the United States for the Northern Distrit"of California, against Clinton E. Worden & Company, a cbrporation of the State of California, and against J
A. Bright, T. F Bacon, C. J.Schmelz and Lucius Little, citizens of the-State of California.
The bill alleged that, in the year 1879, one Richard E. Queen
invented "a certain medical preparation or remedy for constipation and to act upon the kidneys, liver, stomach and bowels,
which medical compound is a combination in solution of plants
known to be.benfeficial to the humau'system, forming an agreeable and effective laxative to cure habitual constipation and
many ills, de~ending upon a weak and inactive condition of the
liver, kidneys, stomach and bowels," that shoftly after the
said invention- the said Queen sold and transferred all his right,
title and interest in and to said medical compound, and inand
to the trade name, trade -marks.and good will of said company
to the complainant company, which has ever since been engaged in the manufacture and sale- of said medical preparation
-or remedy, that said medical preparabon has always been
marked, named and called by the complainant 11Syrup of Pigs,"
tlar name being printed or otherwise marked upon every bottle,
"and also printed upon. the boxes, packages or wrappers inwhich
the bottles- of The preparation were packed for shipment and
-sale, that the complainant and its sa.d predecessor in interest
were the first to pack and dress or mark a liquid laxative preparation .inthe manner illustrated by Exhibits "A " and "B"
-

attached to the bill-that is to say, ii an oblong, rectangular

box or carfon, with statements of the virtues of the preparation
printed in. different languages upon the back and sides of the

--

Si&,

OOTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

carton, and on the border within which, at the top, is a representation of a branch of a fig tree, bearing fruit and leaves,
surrounded by the words "Fig Syrup Company," or "Califorma
Fig Syrup Company," and below which appear, in large letters,
the words "Syrup of Figs," and below these last-named words
appears a brief statement of the virtues of this preparation, together with the words "Manufactured only by the California
Fig Syrup Company," that the complainant has spent more
than one million dollars in advertising said preparation, always
under the name of "Syrup of Figs," or "Fig Syrup," throughout the United States and other countries, and that millions of
bottles of said preparation have been sold, that, by virtue of
the premises, the complainant has acquired the exclusive right
to the name, "Syrup of Figs," or "Fig Syrup," as it is mdifferently called by the'ublic, or any colorable imitation of
the same, as applied to a liquid laxative medical preparation
irrespective of the form of bottle or package in which it may
I'e sold to the public; that, by virtue of the premises, the complainant has acquired the exclusive right to the manner and
form of packing the same for sale, in connection with the words
"Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup," or any colorable- imitation
of the same, as a part of the business name of a concern making a liquid laxative medical compound.
The bill charges that the defendant company, wishing to trade
to its own profit and advantage upon the reputation of the complainant's preparation, and desiring to ifipose a worthless productiohi upon the public, has caused to be made, put up and sold,
and offered for sale, a liquid lafative medical compound, resembling complainant7s preparation, under the name "Syrup of
Figs" and "Fig Syrup," and marking the boxes and packages
containing the same with the name " .Fig Syrup" or "Syrup of
Figs," and has.put the preparation, under said name, in bottles
and packages or cartons, so closely m imitation of. the complainait's bottles and packages, as to be likely to deceive .Purchaser-, and so as to enable unscrupulous retail dealers to palm
off defendant's preparation on the consumers as and for the
complainant's preparation, and that purchasers frequently
have been deceived and induced to. buy the compound prepared

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA PIG SYRUP CO.
Statement of the Case.

by the defendant, that the complainant has been greatly m:ured in the business in the manufacture of its liquid laxative
preparation "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup," and believes
that it has suffered damage and injury by reason of defendant's
acts to the extent of at least ten thousand dollars, that this is
a continuing wrong, and one which it is impossible to exactly
calculate, and one which, if permitted to continue, will work
irreparable injury to the complainant.
Wherefore the complainant prayed, in its said bill, for an injunction restraining the defendant and its agents, servants, etc.,
from manufacturing, selling or offering for sale, directly or indirectly, any liquid laxative medical preparation, marked with
the words "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup," or marked with
any words which may be a colorable imitation of the name of
"Syrup of Figs" or" Fig Syrup," and from putting up, selling or
dealing m any liquid laxative medical preparation which shall
have a tenden6y to deceive the public and induce buyers to
purchase defendant's preparation, believing the same to be complaiant's preparation, and that defendant be perpetually enjoined from using the words "Fig Syrup Company" as a business name, or from using the words "Fig Syrup" or "Syrup
of Figs" as part of its business name, in connection with the
manufacture and sale of a liquid laxative preparation. The
complainant also prayed for an account for damages to complainant and for gains and profits derived by the defendant
company, and for such other and further relief as may be agreeable to equity and good conscience.
The defendant company and the other defendants filed a joint
and several answer, admitting many of the allegations of the
bill, but denying and putting the complainant on proof of those
which alleged any intentional or actual appropriation by the
defendant company of proprietory or business rights of the
complainant. The answer -proceeded to make the following
allegations:
"And, for a separate and further defence, these defendants
aver, upon their information and belief, that the preparation
made and sold by complainant under the name of 'Syrup of
Figs' does, not and never did contain any syrup of figs or any

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

fig syrup, or any juice offigsor any part or portion or quantity
of figs in any form, and that the name ' Syrup of Figs' and
'Fig Syrup' and the name of the company, 'The California
Fig Company,' and the form and appearance of the labels and
the pictures on the labels, and the statements on the labels
adopted and used by complainant in connection with its liqmd
laxative medicine, were all designed, adopted and used with
the deliberate intent and purpose to deceive the public and the
user of the medicine and to perpetrate a fraud upon them br
inducing them to believe that the preparation contained figs in
some form, and that by reason thereof the said medicine derived
its laxative properties and also a pleasant and agreeable taste;
that the complainant has been successful m perpetrating the
said fraud upon the public and 'for years ast past has perpetrated
said fraud by wholesale and have inducea the public generally
throughout the world to believe the statements aforesaid concermng the said medicine and its connection with fin, and
thereby complainant has made and realized large profits, gains
and advantages from the sale of said medicine, all of which was
caused and which accrued and were made by reason of said
false. fraudulent and deceptive statements, that, as a matter of
fact the said so-called 'Syrup of Figs,' sold by complainant,
consists of the ordinary and well-known laxative called senna
as a basis, together with certain aromatic carminatives added
for the purpose of giving it a pleasant and agreeable taste, as a
cure to the naturally griping' effect of senna when taken alone;
that in order to 'sell such a compound complainant made the
false, fraudulent and fictitious statements heremabove charged
against it, and was enabled to 'sell the same solely by virtue of
said false, fraudulent and fictitious statements, and said complainant has built up its business and its trade upon the strength
of and by virtue of the said- false,. fraudulent and fictitious
statements, for which reason complainant is not entitled to relief in a court of equity."
The cause was put at issue .by- replication filed by-the comPending the trial- an application for a"
plainant company
preliminary injunction was made, which o-was allowed upon the
ground that the complainant had made such a showing by the

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Argument for Petiicaer.

pleadings and affidavits that it was entitled to an injunction
against the sales of "Fig Syrup" by the defendant. 86 Fed.
Rep. 212.
A large amount of evidence was taken, and, on June 7, 1899,
a decree was entered by the Circuit Court perpetually enjoining the defendant company and the other defendants from
making, selling or offering to sell any liquid laxative medicine
or preparation under the name of "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig
Syrup," or under any name in colorable imitation of the name
"Syrup of Figs," and from making, selling or offering to sell.
any medical liquid laxative preparation, put up in bottles, boxes
or packages similar in form or arrangement to the bottles or
packages used by the complainant in the manufacture and sale
of its said liquid laxative preparation, or so closely resembling
the same as to be calculated to deceive the public, and from
using the name" Fig Syrup Company," and from using a name
whereof the words "Fig Syrup," or "Syrup of Figs Company,"
form a part as a business name in connection with the manu
facture of a liquid laxative preparation. 95 Fed. Rep. 132.
There was an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals tor the
Ninth Circuit, where the -decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, Ross, C. J., dissenting. 102 Fed. IRep. 334.
The cause was then brought to this court by a writ of certiorari allowed on November 20, 1900.
.Mr John H. .X7iller and Mr'Purcell Rowe for petitioner.
The words" Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup " as applied to the
medicine in question are either descriptive or decepti've and in
neither event can they be appropriated as a trade mark.
Under ยง 991, Civil Code of California, no words can be adopted
as a trade mark which relate to name, quality or descriptionCoynsk'& v Cohen, 39 California, -501, Burke. v Ca&9sn, 45
California, 467, Schmsdtv Brzeg, 100 California, 673, Canal
Co. v Clark, 13 Wall. 311, followed by a long list of instances
showing the extent to which this rule has been carried.
In this case the words themselves, ex oprzo v gore, .convey
the impression that the medicine is a syrup -made from figs.
.Brown, C]emeal Co. v. 2Thzer 139 U. S. 540.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Petitioner.

If the compound contains no appreciable quantity of figs. and
there is no such thing known to pbarmacy as a syrup made
from figs, then the use of the words "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig
Syrup," as a trade mark for this medicine is fraudulent and will
not be protected in equity Leather clot Go. v Amernean
Leather Cloth Co., 4 De G., J & S. 137, 142, 144, affirmed 11
i. L. Cas. 523, .aitkattaq t Nedicine Co. v Wood, 108 U. S.
218, Hulzajfel's (Jom)o'tzons Co. V.Rahyen's -Am. Composithon Co., 183 U. S. 1, Allan B. 1Fisley Co. v Iowa Soap
Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 548, Clotwortliy v Schepp, 42 Fed. Rep.
62, 63, Alden v. Gross, 25 Mo. App. 123, 128, 130, Connell
v Reed, 128 Massachusetts, 147, Seabury v Grosvenor, 14
Blatchf. 262, 263, S. C. Fed., Cas. 12,576, Etrauss v. Jos. R.
Peebles' Sons, 58 Fed. Rep. 585, 594, .Fetrzdge v 1Wells, 13
Hlow Prac. 385, 390, 393, Sclamdt v Beteg, 100 California,
672, 678, Plzalom v Wfzght, 5 Philadelphia, 464, 467, Pznce
.lIfy. Co. v Prnce .Metallie Pant Co., 135 N. Y 24, 38, 39.
It has more than oncebeen held that courts of equity will not
intervene by injunction in disputes between the owners of quack
medicines, meaning thereby remedies or specifics whose composition is kept secret and which are sold to be used by the purchasers without the advice of regular or licensed physicians.
Kolder .ff-. Co. v Beeshore, 8 C. 0. A. 215, 59 Fed. Rep. 547,
572, 574, Fowle v. 8.pear, 1847, 7 Pa. Law J 176, Bleath v.
TIr2ght, 3 Wall. Jr. 141, lifofe v Burke, 56 N. Y 115,
Smith v Ifoodr'fff, 48 Barb. 438, -Lavdv lrilder, 9 Bush, 132.
The statement that the medicine is a Cal forna liqiadfruit
rem1edy is equally false. It is not a fruit remedy at all. The
quantity of fruLit
it is infiitesnnal. Nor was it a Califorma
fruit remedy at the start, because it was invented, manufactured
and sold in Nevada. Beyond all doubt the public has been
grossly deceived by that statement, purchasing a concoction of
drugs under the belief that they were purchasing a liquid fruit
remedy, (then reciting fortnulo). The medicine is nothing more
than a decoction of senna mixed with sugar, water, flavoring
extracts and a little ginger to prevent griping. CaliornmaBig
8y,.up

Cb.

v Stearns, 73 Fed. Rep. 813.

In the new label there

are several distinct misrepresentations in that the medicine is

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Argument for Respondent.

not made from figs, does not overcome habitual constipation
and the small quantity of juice of figs does not promote a pleasant taste or add anything to the medicine, again citing the
cases already cited under the previous points and Siege;rt v.
Abbott, 61 Maryland, 276.

The lower court erred in holding there had been unfair competition in trade by reason of simulated labels and wrappers.
There is no showing that any one has ever been actually deceived, but even if there were such similarity between the labels
of the appellant and appellee as to entitle the appellee to an
injunction on the score of unfair, competition, the appellee is
disentitled to any such relief by reason of its fraudulent representations and practices regarding its medicine. If there be
fraud on the part of a complainant he is not entitled to protection for his label any more than for his trade mark. Inthis respect both stand on the same footing.
There should in no event be any accounting as there is no
allegation in the bill that the defendants (appellants) have ever
realized any profits from the infringement.
Prior adjudications in other circuits clearly establish the fact
that the appellees are not entitled to any relief.
.X2' Jolo G Ca'lisle and 21ft. Warren Olney for respondent.
The lower court was right upon the doctrine of unfaer corn.etition.
It was proven here that the name was a true and honest
name when applied to the medicine, and the wording on the
cartons, criticized in other cases between the parties, was entirely eliminated long before the appellant flooded the Pacific
coast with its counterfeits. Respondent, plaintiff below, has
a standing in court, and the maxim relied upon by the appellant as to coming into court with clean hands does not apply in
this case.
The inventor used senna as a basis for a liquid cathartic,
overcoming the bitter taste and eliminating the griping quality with figs and named it "Syrup of Figs," and at first figs
were uniformly used.
Among pharmacists and physicians a formula set out in the

OCTOBER TERM; 1902.
Argument for Respondent.

U. S. Pharmacopla, to which a name has been given, becomes
official and a recognized article. This preparation could not
be called "Syrup of Senna," as there was an official formula
for such a preparation, and as this was not made in accordance
with such formula, physicians would have refused it recognition, so it was called "Syrup of Figs," and the record shows
that the medical profession endorsed it and have not objected
to the name. As figs were freely used it was natural to name
the preparation "Syrup of Figs." There was no fraud. The
reduction of figs was after the name had been given in good
faith and after the demand required the manufacture of the
article in large quantities.
Reversing this judgment will result in flooding the market
with all kinds of nostrums under the name of "Syrup of Figs,"
will ruin the complainant and injure the public, and the only
effect will be to enable the appellant to commit a fraud.
Where a man has an established business which he is seeking
to protect from unfair competition, he should be given relief if
he can make any reasonable explanation of statements claimed
to be false,, and he is entitled to the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
The following cases cited and quoted from at length Cockrane v 'Macnwsh, 1896, App. Cas. 225, Ins. Oil Co. v Scott,
33 La. Ann. 946, Siegeirt v Findate'r,7 Ohan. Div 801, Fettrzdge v .Mercliant, 4 Abbott's -Pr.156, Ford v Foster,7 Chan.
App. 611, Bardou v Lacromx, 27 Annales, 214, Brown on
Trade Marks, 83-85, criticizing Siegert v Abbott, 61 Maryland,
276, S.C.,48 Am. Rep. 101, Zllerzden &c. Co. v Parker,39 Connecticut, 450, S. C.,12 Am. Rep. 401, Simons .ediczn Co. v.
.3lansfteld Drug Co., 23 S.W Rep. 169, Srnith v Sixbury, 25
Hun, 232, Tarant Co. v &J2, 76 Fed. Rep. 957, Conradv ITe
Joseph Uhrg Brewing Co., 8 Mo. App. 277, Funke v Drelfus,
34 La. Ann. 80, Hoxibe Nerve -ood v Baumbach, 32 Fed. Rep.
205, Rogers Mfg. Co. v Rogers & Spurr.Affg. Co., 11 Fed. Rep.
495 (in which are cited Levy v Walker, L. R. 10 Ch.D. 436,
and .fassam, v Thurley Co., L. k.14 Oh. D. 748), Price Baksng Powder Co. v FVfe, 45 Fed. Rep. 799, Lawrence .Jfg.
Co. v Tennessee Hfg. Co., 138 U.,S. 537 (March 2, 1891), So-

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Argument for Respondent.

ciety A nonyme &c. v West Dsstilling Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 416,
Selckow v Baker, 93 N. Y 53, overruling Fetrzdge v Wells,
cited by appellants, Cleveland Stone Co. v Wallace, 52 Fed.
Rep. 431, Yletzler v Wood, 8 Oh. Div. 606, Alexander v.
-Yorse, 14 R. I. 153, . C., 51 Am. Rep. 369, Chappal v Sheard,
2 Kay & J 117, Chappal v. Dav dson, 2 Kay & J. 123, Clark
Thread Co. v Armitage, 4 Fed. Rep. 936, Cometock v iWdte,
18 How Pr. 421, Bloch v. Standard, 95 Fed. Rep. 978, Hoxse
v. 'haney, 143 Massachusetts, 592, Curtis v Bryan, 36 How
Pr. 333, Dole v Smsthsen, 12 Abbott's Pr. 237, Dwkson?'8 Crucible Co. v. Guggenheim, 2 Brewster, 321, El-ectro-Silicon Co. v
Hazard, 29 Hun, 369, Edelaten, v Vick, 68 Jr. 7, Feder v
Benkert, 70 Fed. Rep. 613, Holloway v Holloway, 13 Beavan,
Kasby v. Brooklyn Clemscal Works, 142 NS. Y 467,
209, K
Lee v. Haley, L. R. 1 Ch. Div. 155, .Marshallv Ros8, 8 Eq. 651,
Pillsbury v Pillsbury, 64 Fed. Rep. 841; Sen Son v Britton,
1891, Oh. 692, Shaver v. Heller &c. Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 821.
All the authorities are agreed that if complainant can make
anything like a satisfactory explanation of a seemingly false
statement on his labels, and in his advertisements, he will not
be turned out of court. Centawr Co. v Bob-mson, 91 Fed. Rep.
881, Centaur Co. v. 2eathery, 91 Fed. Rep. 893. The following English cases were cited as based on the theory that
the defendant was using a name for a fraudulent purpose, viz.,
to sell his goods as the goods of the plaintiff (the trademark
name of the case is given and not the names of the parties).
"Glenfleld Starch," L. R. 5 H. L. 508, "Stone Ale," 4 Oh.
Div 35, 50, " Guinea, Coat," 5 Ch. App. Cas. 155, "Ano,tolia Licowice," 10 Jr. N. S. 40, De Gex, J. & S. 380, "EthwPan," 10 Jr. 106, "London Conveyance Co.," 2 Keen, 213,
" Camel HZTar Belting," 1896, App. Cas. 199, " Torkskrre
Relish,," L. R. Oh. Div 1895, vol. 3, 449, " Club Soda," 1896,
App. Cas. 225. In Levy v lMalker, 10 Ch. Div 436, the rule
is laid down "You must not use a name, whether fictitious
or real, or a description, whether true or not, which is intended
to represent to the world that your business is my business,
and therefore deprive me, by a fraudulent misstatement of yours
of the profits of the business which would otherwise come to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

me." The following American cases also cited "A kron Cement," 51 N. Y 192, "-Extra Dry," 56 Fed. Rep. 830, "St.
LTous Lager Beer," 24 Fed. Rep. 149, "St. LTouts White Lead,"
25 Fed. Rep. 125, and 39 Fed. Rep. 492, "Neive Food,"
32 Fed. Rep. 205, "Singer Afachtne," 163 U7. S. 169, "Minneapolis Flour," 86 Fed. Rep. 608, " German Sweet Chocolate," 68 California, 68, "Sliced Antnals," 93 N. Y 53,
"Bromo-Caffene," 142 N. Y 467, " 7ongress Springs," 45 N.
Y 291, "Bethesda .Mineral Water," 42 Wisconsin, 118, ".Blue
Lwlks Jfineral Water," 41 S. W Rep. 21, " Chwago Wassts,"
83 Fed. Rep. 213, "Red Cross Plasters," 82 Fed. Rep. 662,
".Baker's Chocolate," 80 Fed. Rep. 889, "Canadian Club
Whiskey," 85 Fed. Rep. 776, "Plymouth Gin," 88 Fed. Rep.
693, "Dyspepsza Tablets," 91 Fed. Rep. 243, " Carrom,"
106 Fed. Rep. 168; " Celery Compound," 106 Fed. Rep. 77,
" Queen Quality," 105 Fed. Rep. 375, "Health Food," 104 Fed.
Rep. 141, "Gold Dust," 102 Fed. Rep. 327, "Oxford Bible,"
101 Fed. Rep. 442, also citing and distinguishing Stuart v. F
G Stewart Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 243, Garrett v Garrett,78 Fed.
Rep. 472, Lawrence ifg. Co. v Tennessee fg. Co., 138 U.
S. 537. As to false representations citing KJoehler v. Sanders,
127 N. Y 74, Thompson v Montgomery, 41 Oh. Div 35,
Coats v Thread Co., 149 U. S. 562, Johnston v. Ewzng, L. R.
7 App. Cas. 219, Manufacturing Co. v Loog, 18 Ch. Div 412,
Wother poon v Currze, L. R. 5 H=.L. 517, Lever v Goodwin,
36 Ch. Div 1, and other cases cited in " J etraDry" case, 56 Fed.
Rep. 830, Collins Co. v Brown, 3 Kay & Johnson, 423, and citing Californta Fig Syrup Co. v Improved Fig Syrup Co., 51
Fed. Rep. 296, Rawlinson v Bratnerd,59 N. Y Supplement,
830, Bass v Feigenspan,96 Fed. Rep. 206, that a manufacturer
may adopt as a trade mark a new combination of words which
up to that time had no significance attached to them in the
although they may be
trade in which they are used
suggestive of the general nature of the article to which they
are applied.
_MR. JUSTICE SHInAS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opinion of the Court

The courts below concluded, upon the evidence, that the defendants sold a medical preparation named, marked and packed,
in imitatlon of the complainant's medicine, for the purpose and
with the design and intent of deceiving purchasers and inducing them to buy defendants' preparation instead of the complainant's. We see no reason to dissent from that conclusion,
and if there were no other questions in the case, we should be
ready to affirm the decree, awarding a perpetual injunction and
an account of the profits and gains derivedfrom such unfair and
dishonest practices.
Another ground, however, is urged against the complainant's
right to invoke the aid of a court of equity, in that the Califorma Fig Syrup Company, the complainant, has so fraudulently
represented to the public the nature of its medical preparation
that.it is not entitled to equitable relief.
Some courts have gone so far as .to hold that courts of equity
will not interfere by injunction in controversies, between rival
manufacturers and dealers inso-called quack medicines. Fowle
v. .pear, Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania Law- Journal, vol. 7,
p. 176, Heath-v WVrzght, 3 Wall. Jr. 141, Fetridgev. Wells, 4
Abb. Pr. 144.
It may be said, in support of such a view, that most, if not
all, the States of, this Union have- enactments forbiddink and
making penal the practice of mediciine by persons who have not
gone through a course of appropriate study, and obtained a
license from a board of examiners, and there is similar legislation 'in respect to pharmacists. And it would seem to be inconsistent, and to tend to defeat such salutary laws, if medical
preparations, often and usually containing powerful aiWdpoisonous drugs, are permitted to be widely advertised and sold to all
who are willing to purchase. Laws might properly be passed
limiting and controlling such traffic by restraining retail dealers
from selling such medical preparations, except when prescribed
by regular medical practitioners.
.iBut we think-that, in the absence of such legislation, courts
cannot declare dealing m such preparations to,be illegal, nor the
articles themselves to be not entitled, as property, to the protection of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

We find, however, more solidity in the contention, on behalf
of the appellants, that when the owner of a trade mark applies
for an injunction to restrain the defendant from injuring his
property by making false representations to the public, it is
essential that the plaintiff should not m his trade mark, or m
his advertisements and business, be himself guilty of any false
or misleading representation, that if the plaintiff makes any
material false statement in connection with the property which
-he seeks.to protect, he loses his right to claim the assistance of
a court of equity, that where any symbol or label claimed as
a trade mark is so constructed or worded as to make or contain
a distiact assertion which is false, no property can be claimed
on it, or, in other words, the right to the exclusive use of it
cannot be maintained.
Among the cases cited to sustain this contention are the following
In Connell v Reed, 128 IMassachusetts, 4'IV, the plaintiff
sought to establish the exclusive right to the words "East Indian," as applied to his remedy and the court, through Gray, 0. J.,
said
that the plain"The conclusive answer to this suit is
and to indito
denote,
words
these
and
used
adopted
tiffs have
cate to the public, that the medicines were used in the East Indies, and that the formula for them was obtained there, neither
of which is the fact. Under these circumstances, to maintain
this bill would be to lend the aid of the court to a scheme to
defraud the public."
In Siegert v Abott, 61 Maryland, 2T6, where the subject
matter of the trade mark was "Angostura Bitters," which purported to have been prepared by Dr. Siegert, at Angostura,
Trinidad, and where it appeared that Dr. Siegert was dead, and
had never lived at Angostura, the' bill was dismissed, the court
saying "It isa general rule of law, in cases of this kind, that
courts of equity will not interfere by injunction where there is
any laelkof truth in the plaintiff's case, that is, where there is
any misrepresentation in his trade mark or labels."
In Aden,v. Gros, 25 Mo. App. 123, a trade mark was claimed
in the words "Fruit Vinegar," and the court said -

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opimon of the Court.

"The vinegar thus branded was not manufactured out of
fruit, in the plain, ordinary, usual sense of that term, but out
of low wines diftiiled from cereals, and fruit enters into its comIt would
position only to a very insignificant extent.
be a novel application of the rule governing the subject of trade
marks, if one who manufactures vinegar out of cereals could
appropriate for the article thus manufactured the word ' Fruit,'
and thereby exclude another from using the word as descriptive
of an article, which is, in point of fact, manufactured out of
But whether. the word 'Fxuit,' in this. connecfruit.
tion, is purely indicative of the character or quality of the article or not, the plaintiffs' exclusive claim to it must fail on the
further ground, that the use of the word, in that connection,
is clearly deceptive."
In Prznce .fanufactuwing Company v Prnce's .1etaZ]c
Pamnt, 135 N. Y 24, an injunction to protect a trade mark was
rdfused, by reason of a false representation as to the place from
which the ore was obtained, and the Court of Appeals used the
following language
"Any material misrepresentation. in a label or trade mark as
to the person by whom the article is manufactured, -or as to the
place where manufactured, or as to the materials composing it,
or any other material false representation, deprives a party of
the right to relief in equity The courts do not, in such cases,
take into consideration the attitude of the defendant.
And, although. the false article is as good as the true one, ' the
privilege of deceiving the public even for their own benefit is
not a legitimate subject of commerce.'"
English cases are to the same effect. Thus in Pidding v.
How, 8 Simons, 477, where it appeared that the plaintiff had
made a new sort of mixed tea, and sold it under the name of
"Howqua's Mixture," but, as he had made false statements to
the public, as to the teas, of which his mixture -was composed,
and as to the mode in which they were procured, the court refused to restrain the defendant from selling tea under the same
name, and said
"As between the plaintiff and the defendant, the course pursued by the defendant has not been a proper one ,. but it is a
VOL. OLXXxvII-34

OCTOBER TERIM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

clear rule, laid down by courts of equity, not to extend their
protection to persons whose case is not founded in truth. And,
as the plaintiff, in this case, has thought lit to mix up that which
may be true with that which is false, in introducing his tea to
the public, my opinion is, that, unless he establish his title at
law, the court cannot interfere on his behalf."
The English case-of Letthe ClCoth (. v Amwmcan Leather
Oloth Co. is a leading one on this subject and in which the nature of false representations that will defeat the right of the
owner of a trade mark to protection in equity was much considered.
A bill, asking for an injunction against defendants who were
charged with using stamps and trade marks, so similar to those
of the complainant as to deceive purchasers, was sustained by
Vice Chancellor Wood, who granted the injunction prayedfor.
1 Hem. & Miller's Reports, 271. On appeal the decree of the
Vice Chancellor was reversed by the Lord Chancellor, and the
complainant's bill was dismissed. 4 De Gex, J & S. 137.
The conclusions reached by Lord Chancellor Westbury were
that there is a right of property in a trade mark, name or symbol in connection with a particular manufacture or vendible commodity, but that where the owner of, such a trade mark applies
for an injunction to restrain the defendant from injuring his
property by making false representations to the public, it is
essential that the plaintiff should not in his trade mark or in
the business connected with it be himself guilty of any false
or misleading representation. In considering what constitutes
a material false representation, the Chancellor observed that
he could not receive it as a rule, either of morality or equity,
that a plaintiff is not answerable for a falsehood, because it
may be so gross and palpable as that no one is likely to be de.
ceived by it, that if there be a wilful false statement, he would
not stop to inquire whether it be too gross to mislead.
This,decision. was affirmed by the House of Lords. 11 H. L.
Cas. 523. In that tribunal, in the several opinions of the lawlords, the views of the Lord Chancellor as to the effect of false
representations were approved, but it was thought that, Mdependently of that question, the plaintiff was not entitled to an

WORDEN ii. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
-

Opinion of the Court.

injunction, because the rival or antagonistic trade mark of the
defendants did not sufficiently resemble that of the plaintiff's
as to be calculated to deceive the public.
In _Fetrzdge v. Welts,. 13 How .Pr. 385, the plaintiff sold a
soap under the name of "Balm of a Thousand Flowers," and
m denying the plaintiff's right to the exclusive use of these
words as a trade mark, Judge Duer said
"I am fully convinced thaj the naihe ' Palm of a Thousand
Flowers ' was invented, anl is now used to convey to the minds
of pur6haser5 the assurance that the highly scented liquid to
which the name- is given is, in truth, ai extract or distillation
from flowers, and therefore not muirely an innocent, but a pleasant and salutary preparation. Not only is this the meaning that
the words used naturdlly'suggest, but in my opinion it is that
which they actually and plainly express, and were designed to
Let it not be-said, that it is of little conseconvey
quence whether this represent-ation be true or false. No representation can be more material than that of the ingredients of
a compound- which is recommended- and sold as a medicine.
There is none that is ao likely to induce confidence in the application and use of the compound, and none that, when false,
will more probably be attended with injurious, and perhaps
Those who come into a court of
fatal consequences.
come
with pure hands and a pure
must
seeking
equity,
equity
conscience. If they claim relief against the fraud of others,
they must be free themselves from the imputation. V the
sales made by the plaintiff and his firm are effected, or sought
to be, by misrepresentation and -falsehood, they cannot be listened to when they complain that by the fraudulent rivalry of
others -their own fraudulent profits are diminished. An exclusive privilege for deceiving the public is assuredly not one that
a court of equity can be required to aid or sanction. To do so
would be to forfeit its name and character."
In -Manhattan ]Jtediome Co. v Wood, 108 U S. 218, the
case, of Fetridge v Wells was- cited with approval, and likewise
the English cases of Ptdding v How, 8 Simons, 477, and The
Leather Cloth Company v The American Leather Company, 4
De Gex, J & S. 137. In -Manhattan XJfedicmne o. v Wood,

-

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

the complainant claimed to be the owner of a patent medicine
and of a trade mark to distinguish it. The medicine was
manufactured by the complainant in New York, the trade
mark declared that it was manufactured by another person in
Massachusetts. The Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Maine, per Mr. Justice Clifford, held that the
complainant, owing to false statements in his trade mark, was
entitled to no relief against a person using the same trade
mark in Maine, and dismissed the bill. On appeal this decree
was affirmed, this court saying "A court of equity will extend
no aid to sustain a claim to a trade mark of an article which is
put forth[ with a misrepresentation to the public as to the
manufacturer of the article, and as to the place where it is
manufactured, both of which particulars were-originally circumstances to guide the purchaser of the medicine."
In Clotworthy v Schepp, 42 Fed. Rep. 62, the right to a
trade mark was claimed in the word "Puddine," in connection
with the Words "Rose" and "Vanilla," but Circuit Judge
Lacombe refused' an injunction, and in his opinion said "The
complainant hi pself is -engaged in deceiving the very public
whom he claims to protect from the deception of others. He
calls his preparation 'fruit' puddine. In nine different places
on his package this word ' fruit' is i 3peated, as descriptive of
the article, and a dish of fruit (pears, grapes, etc.) is most
prominently depicted on one face of each packet. His packages plainly suggest that fruit of some kind enters in some
shape into his compound. A chemical analysis produced by
defendant, the substantial accuracy of which is not disputed,
discloses the fact that his ' puddine' is composed exclusively of
corn starch, a small amount of saccharine matter, and a flavoring extract, with a little carmine added to give it color, it
contains no fruit in any form."
. 'auss v Peebles' Sons Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 585, was a case in
which it was sh6wn that the liquor sold as "Pepper Whisky"
was in fact a mixture of Pepper whisky and other whiskies, and.
an injunction to prevent infringement was refused by Circuit
Judge Taft, who, in his opinion, said "To bottle such a
mixture, and sell it, under the trade label and caution above

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opimon of the Court.

referred to, is a false representation, and a fraud upon the purchasing public. A court of equity cannot protect property in
a trade mark thus fraudulently used."
And this doctrine of the English and American cases above
referred to has been applied in the Federal Circuit Courts and
Circuit Courts of Appeals in cases in winch the California Syrup
Company, the complainant in the present case, was a party
In the Circuit Court of the "United States for the District of
Massachusetts, March.6, 1895, the Califorma Fig Syrup Company; the complainant in the present case, filed a bill against
Kate Gardiner Putnam and others to restrain the infringement
of the plaintiffs trade mark. The facts of the case were thus
stated by Circuit Judge.jColt in'his opinion, reported in 66 Fed.
:Rep. 750"The plaintiff is-the-proprietor and manufacturer of a liquid
laxative compound called 'Syrup of Figs.' The defendants
manufacture hud sell a laxative medicine which they term 'Fig
There is no evidence that the defendants have
Syrup.'
imitated the plaintiffs labels or packages except in this particular. If this preparation is in fact a syrup of figs, the words
are clearly descriptive, and not the proper subject of'a trade
mark. Upon this point the contention of the plaintiff is that
its preparation is not a syrup of figs, since it contains only a
very small percentage of the juice of the fig; that the laxative
ingredient in it is senna, that- while the fig in the form of fruit
may have laxative properties arising from the seeds and skin,
the fig in the. form of a syrup is no more laxative than any other
fruit syrup, that it follows from these facts that these words,
as applied to this compound, are not descriptive, but purely
fanciful, and therefore constitute a valid trade mark. The evi,
dence shows that the compound is not a syrup of figs. It might
more properly be termed a Syrup of'Senna,' if the words were
intended to be descriptive of the article. But, assuming this is
not a syrup of figs, we are met with the inquiry whether these
words, as applied to this preparation are not deceptive. The
label on every bottle reads as follows "Syrup of Figs. The
California Liquid Fruit Remedy Gentle and Effective.' On
the sides of each bottle are blown the words ' Syrup of Figs,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and on the back the words ' California Fig Syrup Co., San Francisco, Cal.' On the face of every package is a picture of a
branch of a fig tree with the hanging fruit, surrounded with the
words ' California Fig Syrup, San Francisco, Cal., ' and beneath
this the words 'Syrup of Figs presents in the most elegant form
the laxative and nutritious juice of the figs of California.'
Thus we see that the leading representation on the labels, packages, and in the advertisements of this preparation is that it is a
laxative fruit syrup made from the juice of the California fig.
The popularity of this medicine arises from the belief
in the mind of the ordinary purchaser that he is buying a laxative compound, the essential ingredient of which is the California fig, wlereas, in fact, he is buying a medicine the active property of which issenna. The ethical principle on which the law
of trade marks is based will not permit-of any such deception.
It may be true, as a scientific fadl known to physicians and
pharmacists, that the syrup of figs has little or no laxative property, but this is not the belief of the general public. They purchase this preparation on the faith that it is a laxative compound
made from the fruit of the fig, which is false. This is not an
immaterial representation the effect of which is harmless, but
it is a representation which goes to the very essence of the plaintiff's right to a trade mark in these words. The cases are nuinerous where the courts have refused to grant relief under these
circumstances."
Accordingly, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill with costs.
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Michigan, April 1, 1895, the California Fig Syrup
Company filed a bill, seeking to restrain Frederick Stearns &
Company from infringing complainant's trade mark. The court
declined to grant an mjunctmon and dismissed the bill with costs,
holding that the words "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup," if
descriptive of a syrup, one of the characteristic ingredients of
which is the juice of the fig, cannot be sustained as a valid trade
mark or trade name, and that, under the facts of the case, the
use of the name "Syrup of Figs, in connection with a descrip-

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the preparation as a fruit remedy, nature's pleasant
laxative," applied to a compound, whose active ingredient is
senna, and containing but a small proportion of fig juice, which
has no considerable laxative properties, is deceptive and deprives one so using it of any claim to equitable relief.
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed. 73 Fed. Rep.
812. In his opinion Circuit Judge Taft, after stating that the
term "Syrup of Figs," if intended to describe the character of
the article concerned, could not be used as a trade mark, proceeded to say
"But the second ground presented, and that upon which the
court below rested its decision, prevents the complainant.from
having any relief at all. That ground is that the complainant
has built up its business and made it valuable by an intentional
deceit of the public. It has intended the public to understand
that the preparation which it sells has, as an important medicinal agent in its composition, the juice of California figs. This
has undoubtedly led the public into the purchase of the preparation. The statembit is wholly untrue. Just a suspicion of fig
juice has been put into the preparation, not for the purpose of
changing its medicinal character, or.even its flavor, but merely
to give a weak support to the statement that the article sold is
syrup of figs. This is a fraud upon the public. It is true, it
may be a harmless humbug to palm off upon the public as syrup
of figs what is syrup of senna, but it is nevertheless of such a
character that a court of equity will not encourage it by extending any relief to the person who seeks to protect a business
which has grown out of and is dependent upon such deceit.
It is well settled that if a person wishes his trade mark property
to be protected by a court of equity, he must come into court
with clean hands, and if it appears that the trade mark for
which he seeks protection is itself a misrepresentation to the
public, and has acquired a value with the public by fraudulent
misrepresentation in advertisements, all relief will be denied
to him. This is the doctrine of the highest court of England,
and no court has laid it down with any greater stringency than
the Supreme Court of the United States. .Aedimne Co. v

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Wood, 108 U. S. 218, Leather Clotk Co. v. Amerwan Leather
Cloth Co., 4 De Gex, 5 &. S. 137.
"The argument for complainant is that, because fig juice or
syrup has no laxative property, everybody ought to understand
that when the term is used to designate a laxative medicine it
must have only a fanciful meaning. But the fact is admitted
that the public believe that fig juice or syrup has laxative
medicinal properties. It is to them that the complainant seeks
to sell its preparation, and it is with respect to their knowledge
and impressions that the character, whether descriptive or
fanciful, of the term used, is to be determined."
The, counsel of the appellee in the present case do not contend
that the- courts of the Second and Sixth Circuits were wrong in
denying the complainant any relief upon the cases as presented
in those courts. They do contend that those cases were argued
upon a wrong theory by the counsel of the complainant. The
language of the brief in this regard is as follows
"Here was where complainant made a mistake. Acting
under advice of able counsel, it claimed the name ' Syrup Figs'
to be a technical trade mark, when all that was necessary to
claim was that it constituted a trade name. Able counsel m
the Second and Sixth Circuits pressed injunction suits against
infringers on the theory that complainant had a trade mark m
the name, and that the statement on the cartons -and bottles
was immaterial. He did not address himself to showing that
the name ' Syrup of Figs ' came to be honestly and properly
applied to the product as largely descriptive of the ingredients
of the medicine. He was so afraid of ruining his case as a case
of trade marks, by showing that it was descriptive, that he did
not prove what was proved in the case now at bar, viz., that figs
were at the time the name was given an important part of the
composition."
We are not much impressed with the force of this attempted
distinction. Even if it were true that, at the time the medicine
in question was first made and put upon the market, the juice
of figs was so largely used as one of the ingredients, as to have
warranted the adoption of the name "Syrup of Figs" as descriptive of the nature of the medicine, that would be no justification

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opimon of the Court.

for continuing the use of the,term after the manufacturers and
vendors of the medicine ceased to use fig juice as a material ingredient. Even if the term was honestly applied in the first
instance, as descriptive, it would none the less be deceptive and
misleading when, as is shown in ihe present case, it ceased to
lor
be a truthful statement of th6 nature of the compound.
are we disposed to concede that, under the evidence in the
present case, the term "Syrup of Figs" or "Fig Syrup" was
properly used as descriptive of the nature of the medicine when
it was first made. Then, as now, the operative laxative element
was senna, and the addition of fig juice was, at the best, experimental, and apparently was intended to attract the patronage
of the public by holding out the name of the medicine as "Syrup
of Figs."
However that may be, it is now admitted that the use of
figs was found to be deleterious, and their use, as a substantial
or material ingredient,,ywas abandoned. The following extracts
are taken from the tefhtiony of the inventor of the medicine
now made and sold by the California Fig Syrup Company
"During the year-1878 Xtmade many experiments with the
idea of producing a pleasant, effective, liquid laxative, having
observed that many people dislike to take pills, oils and other
disagreeable medicines, and, after-many experiments and study
of laxatives in general, came to the conclusion that senna was
the best general laxative known, but that the preparations then
on the market were either weak in effect or griping in their nature, and.I thought thatif I could make a liquid preparation of
senna which would be really pleasant to the taste and free from
griping qualities that it would answer the purpose. And at that
time I also thought that certain other medicilial agents should
be combined with the senna, and some of those medicinal agents
were not very pleasant to the taste. And I thought of figs as
a fruit that would afford me a considerable quantity of sugar
and mucilaginous substance to counteract the unpleasant taste
of the medicinal agents. And I used figs freely in my experiments for that purpose. As I progressed with my experiments
I found or determined as a result of my experiments and studies that a uniformity and stability of product were of great im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

portance, and that the fig substance was not conducive to those
qualities, and that it had a strong tendency to ferment, and
therefore it would be better to use a small quantity I also
found that those medicinal agents which were unpleasant to
the taste were better adapted to special cases than to general
use, and concluded to omit them, and therefore did not need as
large a quantity of fig substance as formerly As finally prepared I had-a new and original compound, of which the fig
syrup formed a very small but pleasant part, although not an
essential part of the combination, that is, I might have used
an equal quantity of honey, or some other substance, instead of
the fig substance, without changing the character and effect of
I desired to give a name which
the combination.
would be new and original to distinguish my product from all
the laxative medicines, and which would be pleasantly suggestive, and, after thinking over a number of names, I decided
to use the name ' Syrup of Figs.' I knew that i was not using
the name generically, because figs did not -give character and
effect to the combination."
On cross examination this witness further stated that "we
still use figs when we might use some other pleasant substance,
because we 'first started to use figs, and the fig substance,
while it is used, is not an essential part of the compound or
what I would call an essential part of the compound. That is,
not a part of the compound which gives to it its distinctive aromatic and medicinal qualities."
That the complainant company, years after it had established a popular demand for its product, issued statements in
medical journals and newspapers and circulars, that the medical properties of their compound were derived from senna,
does not relieve it from the charge of deceit and misrepresentatinto the public. Such publications went only to giving information to wholesale dealers. The company by the use of
the terms of its so-called trade mark on its bottles, wrappers
and cartons continued to appeal to the consumers, out of
whose, credulity came the profits of their business. And, indeed, it was the imitation by the defendants of such false and
misleading representations that led to the present suit.

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.
Opinion of the Court

The bill in the present case contains the following allegations-

"Your orator further states that this laxative medical compound, or preparation, made and put up as aforesaid by your
orator, has always been marked, named and called by your orator 'Syrup of Figs,' being advertised by your orator under
that name, the name 'Syrup of Figs' being printed or otherwise marked upon every bottle of this preparation made and
sold by your orator-this name being also printed upon the
boxes, packages or wrappers in which the bottles of this preparation are packed for shipment and sale, that it has been the
practice of your orator to put the bottles containing this preparation in oblong pasteboard boxes or cartons, so that they
will reach the consumer in that form, that in all instances,
not only the bottle which contains this preparation, but the
box or carton which contains the bottles of this preparation, is
marked with the words 'Syrup of Figs' and also contains
printed matter stating that this preparation is a medical laxative preparation, and also giving a general idea of its uses and
purposes.
Your orator further states that it and its
said predecessor in interest were the first to pack and dress or
mark a liquid laxative preparation or medicine in the manner
illustrated by Exhibits" A" and" B "-that is to say, in an oblong, rectangular box or carton, with statements of the virtues
of this preparation printed in different languages upon the
back and sides of the carton, and having on the front of the
carton and on the border within which, at the top, is a representation of a branch of a fig tree, bearing fruit and leaves,
surrounded by the words ' Fig Syrup Company,' or ' California
Fig Syrup Company,' and below which appear, in larger letters, the words ' Syrup of Figs.'"
Upon such allegations and the admissions of the complainant's principal witness, some of which are hereinbefore quoted,
and upon the entire evidence in the case, and in the light of
the authorities cited -by the counsel of the respective parties,
our conclusions are that the name "Syrup of Figs" does not,
in fact, properly designate or describe the preparation made
and sold by the California Fig Syrup Companv, so as to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

Syllabus.

susceptible of appropriation as a trade mark, and that the
marks and names, used upon the bottles. containing complainant's preparation, and upon the cartons and wrappers containing the bottles, are so plainly deceptive as to deprive the complainant company'of a right to a remedy by way of an injunction
by a court of equity
Aceordingly, the decree of the Circuit Court of Ap.pealszs r.e'versed; t4e decree of the Circutt Court ss alsoreversed, and
the cause ws remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the, bill of complaint.
MR . JusTich MoKENiNA

dissented.

CHADWICK v. KELLEY.
ERROR TO SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 63. Argued November 3, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

The statutes of Louisiana and the ordinances of the city of New Orleans
which provide and regulate the method fbr paving streets at the cost of
the owners. of abutting lots, as such statutes and ordinances have been
construed'by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, are not obnoxious, under
the facts of this case to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
Where an-ordinance of the city of New Orleans and specification for the
paving of a street require the contractor to employ only bonafide resident
citizens of the city of New Orleans as laborers, a resident citizen of New
Orleans, who is not one of the laborers, excluded by the ordinance from
emplQyment and. who does not occupy any representative relation to
them, cannot have a lien on his property for his pro rat% haye of the.improvements invalidated on the ground that citizens of Iouisihna and of
each and every State are deprived of their privileges and immunitibsunder
article IV, section 2, of,,aud the Fourteenth Amendment to, the Constituition of the United States:
If a person owning property affected by the assessment for the work done
under such ordinance wishes to raise such question on the ground that
the ordinance is prejudicial to his property rights because confining the
right to labor to resident citizens increases the cost of the work'.he must
raise the question in time to stay the work mnlimine.

