OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN

CENTRAL RAILWAY
MARYLAND.

COMPANY

v.

ERRO R TO THE COURPT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF IARYLAND.
No. 43. Argued October 16, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
1. When a Maryland corporation, chartered in 1827, and possessing certain
immunities from taxation, which under the then constitution might have
been irrepealable, becomes merged with other corporations in an entirely new corporation possessing new rights and franchises created after
the adoption of the constitution of 1850, under which the legislature has
power to alter and repeal charters of, and laws creating, corporations,
the right of exemption, if it ever passed to the new corporation, is subject to the right of repeal, and hence is not protected from repeal by the
contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
2. An act of the legislature compromising litigation between the State and
such new corporation arising from the claim of the latter that it was
exempt from taxation under the immunities at one time possessed by one
of its constituent corporations, and fixing a rate of taxation to be paid
annually thereafter by the new corporation, cannot be regarded as a
legislative contract granting an irrepealable right forbidden by the then
existing constitution of the State. If, therefore, the legislature subsequently passes another act fixing a higher rate of taxation, and the
highest court of the State decides that such act repeals the former act
and subjects the corporation to the higher rate of taxation, the later act
is not bad as impairing the obligation of contracts within the purview
of the Constitution of the United States as the compromise, when made,
was subject to the right to repeal, reserved by the constitution of the
State at that time.

THE Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company was
chartered by an act of the legislature of Maryland in 1827, with
authority to construct a railroad from the city of Baltimore to
the Susquehanna River. The charter contained a provision declaring that the "shares of the capital stock of the company
should be deemed and considered personal estate, and should be
exempt from the imposition of any tax or burden." It was
conceded by both parties in the discussion at bar that the effect
of this provision, as interpreted by the settled adjudications of
the State of Maryland, was to forever exempt the company and

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY. CO. v.MARYLAND.

259

Statement of the Case.

its property from taxation. It was also conceded that at the
time this act was passed there was no provision m the constitution of the State of Maryland restricting the legislative power
to exempt, and that no reservation of the power to repeal, alter
or amend was found in the constitution of the State, or expressed
or implied inthe charter in question. In 1854 an act was passed
by the Maryland legislature, designated as chapter 250 of the.
laws. of that year. The title of this act was as follows
"An act to authorize the consolidation of the Baltimore and
Susquehanna Railroad Company with the York and Maryland
Line Railroad Company, the York and Cumberland Railroad
Company, and the Susquehanna Railroad Company,-by the name
of the Northern Central Railway Company"
The companies referred to in this title other than the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad were corporations owing their
existence to charters granted by the legislature of Pennsylvania,
and which were operating railroads in that State connecting
with the Baltimore and Susquehanna. The effect of the consolidation was to create one corporation owning and operating
one line of railroad from and across the State of Maryland into
and across the State of Pennsylvania. The act of 1854 authorizing the consolidation, the title of which has just been stated,
by its first section empowered the stockholders of the Baltimore
and Susquehanna Railroad, upon their acceptance of the act,
"to unite and consolidate their company or corporation with
the York and Maryland Line Railroad Company,.the York and
Cumberland Railroad Company and the Susquehanna Railroad
Company in the State of Pennsylvania, so as to form and,con.stitute one company or -corporation, to be- called the Northern
Central Railway Company, on such terms and conditions, and
conformably to such agreements and regulations as the said
sevdral companies shall respectively determine and adopt, subject nevertheless to the following general provisions First, that
all existing contracts, engagements and liabilities of the said
Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Compfny shall continue
to bind said company and its property as fully as before the
consolidation herein above authorized,, or that the said existing
contracts, engagements and liabilities shall be duly adopted and

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

assumed by the consolidated company except as herein expressly
altered or rescinded , second, that all laws heretofore made in
reference to the said Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Coinpany and not repealed or modified by the legislature of Naryland, and all ordinances relating to said company heretofore
made and not repealed by the mayor and city council of Baltimore, shall be binding and operative upon the said consolidated
company, so far as its property or its operations may be within
the jurisdiction of the State of Maryland or the city of Baltimore respectively, and so far as the laws or ordinances may be
applicable to, and consistent with the new organization of the
said consolidated company, third, that the consolidated company shall have power from time to time to establish its capital
stock at an amount not exceeding eight millions of dollars, the
same to be represented by such number of shares as the said
consolidated company may determine, and that the said consolidated company shallhave power to issue their bonds convertible into stock on such terms as the company may prescribe,
and to secure the same by one or more mortgages, for any
such amounts as they may find necessary for paying off any
existing debt or engagement of the company"
After providing for a board of directors and officers of the
new or consolidated company, the act proceeded to say "1That
the company shall make and use a common seal, and possess all
the corporate powers and privileges, and be subject to all the
duties and obligations not inconsistent with this act, and its
general intent, which are expressed in the charter heretofore
granted to the said Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad Company, and its supplements .Prowded, That this clause shall
not be construed to deprive the parties to the said consolidated
company of the right or authority to make such provisions and
regulations, notwithstanding said original charter and its supplements, as may be necessary to create and establish said consolidated company, and bring its organization into agreement and
consistency with the terms and conditions of the charter of the
several companies of which the said consolidated company shall
be composed And provzded also, That the parties to the consolidated company shall be authorized and empowered to adopt

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY CO. v. MARYLAND.

261

Case.
Statement of the

and conform the organization of the said consolidated company
to such provisions or enactments as may be required by the
legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, touching the name of
said corporation, and the construction of the board of president
and directors in. said consolidated company, and the conditions
relating to their appointments."
The second section of the act, among other things, provided
that "This act shall take effect whenever and as soon as the
said parties hereinbefore referred to shall have agreed to consolidate their several companies into one, and shall have settled, determined and agreed upon the terms and conditions of
such consolidation in conformity with the provisions of this
act.
In pursuance of the authority thus conferred upon the M1aryland corporation, and in virtue of power granted by the legislature of Pennsylvania to the three Pennsylvania corporations,
the consolidation was effected, new stock was issued, and a company came into being known as the Northern Central Railway
Company, whose affairs were managed by the new board. of
directors and officers elected or appointed pursuant to the new
charter. The corporation, in availing itself of the provisions
of the law of 1854, executed articles of consolidation. Although
the act of 1854 only provided that the new corporation should
have the corporate "powers and privileges" of the constituent
bodies, it is stated in argument that the articles of consolidation
executed under the law .purported to vest the new corporation
with not only the right to the property rights and privileges
of the old companies but also with their .ranmun-t.es. In 1854,
at the time the act of consolidation was passed, tWe Maryland
constitution of 1850 was in force, and provided in section 47,
article 5, as follows
"That corporations may be formed under general laws, but
shall not be created by special act, except for municipal purposes, and in zases where in the judgment of the legislature the
object of the corporation cannot be attained undergeneral laws.
All laws and special acts pursuant to this section may be altered
from time to time or repealed."
In the yearm 1872 and 1874 the legislature of Maryland passed

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

an act imposing a tax of one half of one per cent upon the gross
receipts of all steam railroad companies incorporated by the
State and doing business therein. Two suits were thereafter
(the one in 1873 and the other in 1874) brought by the State
of Maryland against the Northern Central Railway Company
to recover the one half of one per cent tax upon the gross receipts of that company from that part of its railroad lying in
the State of Maryland. The defence of the company was substantially, first, that it was entitled to the exemption from
taxation granted by the act of 1827 to the Baltimore and Susquehanna Company, that such exemption was existing and had
not been repealed, and if repealed, the repealing act was void
because an impairment of the obligations of the contract resulting from the act of 1827 and the transmission of its immunities

to the new company created by the act of 1854. The causes
were decided in the trial court in favor of the corporation.
The cases were taken to the Court of Appeals of the State of
Maryland. That court (in 18Mh) reversed the judgment of the
court below and remanded the cases for a new trial. The Court
of Appeals in its opinion conceded that when in 1827 the
dharter of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company
was granted there was no restriction in the constitution of the
State on the power of the general assembly to make a contractual exemption from taxation. It also conceded that at that
time there was no general power reserved in the constitution
to repeal, alter or amend charters, and that no such reservation
was found in the charter of 1827. But the court deemed it unnecessary to pass upon the question of whether the consolidation
act of 1854 had endowed the new company with the exemption
from taxation expressed in the act of 1827, because, conceding
arguendo this to have been the case, it was held that as the
consolidation had created a new company with new stock, new
franchises, new rights and new officers, the charter of such
newly created company as to all its provisions, including the
exemption from taxation, if such exemption were found in it
expressly or by implication, was subject to the power to repeal,
alter and amend reserved by the constitution. Construing the
acts imposing the taxes which were sued for in connection with

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY

CO. r' MARYLAND.

263

Statement of the Case.

other laws of the State of Maryland, the court held that- the
exemption from taxation had been repealed. 44 Maryland, 131,
162.
The cause on being remanded to the trial court remained untried in 1880. In that year the legislature of Maryland passed
an act on the subject of the taxation of the Northern Central
'Railway Company The title of that act purported to adjust
and settle finally by agreement all pending controversies on
the subject of taxation between the State of Maryland and the
railroad company The preamble referred to and recapitulated
the organization of the Baltimore and Susquehanna, the consolidation by the act of 1854, and the pending suits on the
subject. The title and preamble are reproduced in the margin.1
'An act to adjust and settle finally, by agreement, all pending controversies
between the State of Maryland and the Northern Central Railway Company, by subjecting the franchises and property of said company within
this State to taxation for state purposes to a certain extent, and by
providing for the payment of a certain indebtedness claimed by the
State of Maryland to exist on the part of said Northern Central Railway Company to said State of Maryland, being an act supplementary
to the act of eighteen hundred and fifty-four, chapter two hundred and
fifty, entitled An act to authorize the consolidation of the Baltimore
and Susquehanna Railroad Company with the York and Maryland Line
Railroad Company, the York and Cumberland Rail Company, and the
Susquehanna Railroad Company, by the name of the Northern Central
Railway Company.
Whereas, a controversy has arisen and exists between the State of Maryland and the Northern Central Railway Company in reference to the rights
of the State of Maryland to subject to taxation the franchises and property
of the Northern Central Railway Company, the said company claiming exemption of the same from taxation upon the grounds that among the
terms and conditions of the union and consolidation of the several companies by which said Northern Central Railway Company was formed is one,
that the latter should have all the rights, privileges and immunities of
each of said companies, wich said terms were entered into under the
authority given by the act of Maryland of eighteen hundred and fifty-four,
chapter two hundred and fifty, which moreover declared that said Northern
Central Railway Company should have all the powers and privileges expressed in the charter granted by the State of Maryland to the Baltimore
and Susquehanna Railroad Company, among which privileges was immunity from taxation.
And whereas, the State of Maryland having, by the act of eighteen hun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

By the first section of the act it was provided that the iNorthern Central Railway Company "shall have and possess all the
powers, rights, privileges and immunities and be subject to all
the duties and obligations which are expressed in the act of assembly of Maryland of 1827, chapter seventy-two, entitled An
act to mcorporate the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad
Company, but all the franchises and property of every description and gross receipts of said Northern Central Railway Company, within the State of Maryland, shall be subject to taxation
for state purposes to the extent of an annual tax of one half of
one per centum upon the gross receipts from its railroad and
franchise lying within the State of Maryland, and from all
other sources within this State, and said franchises, property
and gross receipts shall not be subject to any other tax under
the laws of the State of Maryland;
" The act further
provided for the payment of a designated sum by the railroad
company for past taxes, declared said payment should acquit
such taxes, and directed the discontinuance of all suits pending
against the company for such taxes. It was however provided
that its provisions should not be operative until the payment
which the act required had been made and until.the acceptance
dred and seventy-two, chapter two hundred and thirty-four, and the act of
eighteen hundred and seventy-four, chapter four hundred and eight, imposed an annual tax of one half of one per centum on the gross receipts of
all railroad companies worked by steam incorporated by or under the authority of said State of Maryland, and claiming that under said acts the
gross receipts of said Northern Central Railway Company are liable to said
tax, have instituted suits-to recover the same.
And whereas, the property of said company has been also assessed as
liable to taxation for county and municipal purposes.
And whereas, the said company has the right to have the question at issue between it and the State of Maryland carried to the Supreme Court of
the United States to be there decAded.
And-whereas, it has been represented to this general assembly that what
would-be the ultimate decision of said question is a matter of great doubt,
and it is deemed to.be moreover just and proper that an equitable settlement should be made of the matters so in controversy, and it having been
represented to this general assembly that the said Northern Central Railway Company, for the purpose of making such settlement, is willing to pay
a tax of one half of one per centum on the gross receipts within this State,
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; now, therefore-

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY CO. v. MARYLAND.

265

Statement of the Case.

of the provisions of the act by the stockholders of the company
The act was accepted, the money was paid and the suits were
discontinued. At the tine of the passage of this act of 1880
the constitution of Maryland of 1867 was in force, and therein
it was provided (article 3, section 48) "Corporations may be
formed under general laws, but shall not be created by special
act, except for municipal purposes and except in cases where
no general laws exist providing for the creation of corporations
of the same general character, as the corporation proposed to
be created, and any act of incorporation passed in violation of
All charters granted, or
this section shall be void.
adopted, in pursuance of this section and all charters heretofore
granted and created, subject to repeal or modification, may be
altered, from time to tine, or be repealed." In accordance
with the act of 1880 the company year by year paid the tax on
its gross receipts.
In 1890 the State of 'Maryland passed a general law entitled
"An act to provide for state taxation on the revenues of railroad, telegraph or cable, express or transportation, telephone,
parlor car, sleeping car, safe deposit, trust, guaranty, fidelity,
oil or pipe line, title insurance, electric light or electric construction companies incorporated under any general or special law
of this State and doing business therein." By this act a tax of
one per centum was imposed upon the gross receipts "of all
railroad companies worked by steam incorporated by or under
the authority of this State and doing businesstherein." Under
the asserted authority of this statute a tax of one per cent was
levied by the State in each of the years 1891 to 1895, both inclusive, upon the gross receipts of the Northern Central Railway Company for the year preceding, and these taxes were
paid by the company under protest. Upon demand, however,
being made in 1896 for payment of the tax of one per cent upon
the gross receipts for the year 1895, compliance was refused.
A tender by the company of the taxes, calculated at the rateof
one haMf of one per cent, was refused by the State,, and the
present action was thereupon brought to recover the taxes thus
asserted to be due and payable under the act of 1890. The company defended on the ground that the act of 1880 was a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

tract protecting it from a higher rate of tax on its gross receipts
than in that act specified, that the act had not been repealed,
that if repealed the repealing statute was void, because it impaired the obligations of the contract resulting from the act of
1880. There was judgment in favor of the corporation. The
case was taken to the Court of Appeals of the State of MNaryland and the .judgment was reversed, the court holding that the
provisions of the adt of 1880 had been repealed by state statutes to which it referred, and that the repeal did not violate the
Constitution of the United States by impairing the obligations
of the contract, as asserted by the company, because the corporation held its rights subject to the power to repeal, alter and
amend, as reserved in the constitution at the time both the acts
of 1854 and 1880 were passed. 90 MNaryland, 447. The case
was remanded for a new trial. It was again tried, the Federal
defence of the impairment of the obligation of the contract was
again specially urged, the case was decided against the corporation, was taken again to the Court of Appeals of the State of
Maryland. That court, adhering to its former view, affirmed
the judgment. It is to this judgment that the present writ of
error is .prosecuted.
.Xr Bernard Carter for plaintiff in error.
.Mr George R. Gaither and .Arr -Jou18 E. 1eComa for defendant in error.

Mi. TusTIcE WHITE, after making the .foregomg statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to confine the controversy arising on this record to
the propositions upon which its decision must really rest, to
eliminate the questions discussed at bar, which are either irrelevant or so effectually foreclosed by prior decisions of this court
as to be no longer open to controversy, the following propositions are stated
Where a contract is claimed to arise from a state law and
it is held below that a subsequent statute has repealed the

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY CO. r MARYLAN D.

267

Opinion of the Coult.

alleged contract and effect is thereby given to the subsequent
law, the mere question whether the alleged contract has been
repealed by the subsequent law is a state and not a Federal
question. In such a case this court concerns itself not with
the question whether the state law, from which the contract is
asserted to have arisen, has been repealed, but proceeds to determine whether the repeal was void because it produced an
impairment of the obligations of the contract within the purview of the Constitution of the United States. In other words,
where the state court has given effect to a subsequent law, this
court decides whether such effect, so given by the state court,
violates the Constitution of the United States. Gulf & ShT
7l8and Railway Company v Hfewes, 183 U. S. 66. We therefore put out of view the question whether the acts of 1854 or
of 1880 were repealed by the subsequent state statutes, as held
by the court below, and treatiugsuch repeal as an accomplished
fact, shall determine whether the repealing acts were void because impairing the obligations of the contract relied upon, in
violation of the Constitution of the United States. In considering this question it will be borne in mind that it is elementary that where the constitution of a State reserves the right to
repeal, alter or amend, all charters granted by the legislature
are subject to such.provision, and therefore are wanting in that
attribute of irrevocability which is essential to bring them
within the intendment of the clause of the Constitution of the
United States protecting contracts from impairment. The
cases supporting this doctrine are so numerous that they need not.
be cited. We content ourselves, therefore, by referring to one of
them aitizen8' Savings Bank v Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636,
641. It is, moreover, conclusively determined that where the
constitution of a State reserves the power to repeal, alter or
amend a charter, such provision is applicable to the charter of
a consolidated corporation where as the result of the consolidation a new corporation takes being, new stock is provided for,
new franchises are conferred and new officers appointed. In
other words, that where a legislature is-inhibited by the constitution from making an irrepeaable charter it cannot create a
new contract and bring into being a new corporation, and yet

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

by the charter of sudh corporation give rise to the irrepealable contract which the constitution absolutely prohibits. To
state the doctrine in another form, it is this That where a
new corporation is chartered, subject to a constitution which
forbids the granting of an irrepealable right, such new corporation cannot become endowed by the effect of a legislative contract with an irrepealable right forbidden by the constitution.
If one of the constituent elements of the corporation possessed,
prior to the formation of the new corporation, such right, and
under the assumption that the right itself passed to the new
body, it loses its irrepealable character, because the new corporation is subject by the very law of its being to the provision of
the constitution forbidding irrepealable grants.
The doctrine as just stated has been so frequently declared
by this court that it is no longer open to discussion. The whole
subject has been so recently fully reviewed and restated it is
sufficient to refer to that case Yazoo & Afissi.sso YFa~ley
Railway Company v. Adams, 180 U S. 1, 17 et seq., and authorities there cited.
Coming to apply the principles just stated to the case before
us, it is apparent that unless there is something peculiar in this
case which takes it from under the control of the doctrine referred to, that the court below correctly held that the new
corporation created by the act of 1851 had no irrepealable contract exempting it from taxation either as the result of the act
of 1854 or of the act of 1880. The positive prohibition existing
in the constitution of the State against irrepealable charter
grants both when the act of 1854 and the act of 1880 were
passed, renders any other conclusion impossible. But it is insisted that as the constitution of 1867, which was in force when
the law of 1880 was enacted, reserved the right to repeal, alter
or amend only charters granted or adopted, the act of 1880 did
not come within the right to repeal or amend because it was
not a charter, Put a contract entered into between the State
and the corporation. True, the act of 1880 was put, not in the
form of a charter amendment, but in that of a contract. The
lower court, after quoting from the opinion rendered by it, when
the case was before it under the act of 1854 (44 Maryland) said.

NORTHERN CENTRAL RY. CO. v. MARYLAND.

269

Opimon of the Court.

"It is to be observed that the court did not rest the inability
of the legislature to grant to the corporation an irrepealable
exemption from taxation upon the form or character of the
particular statute then under consideration, but puts it upon
the broad ground of the want of power in the legislature under
the constitution to make such a grant at all. The court certainly in effect determines that any form of law which grants
to a corporation such a corporate privilege as immunity from
taxation is one passed pursuant to the section of the constitution
referred to, and is therefore subject to alteration or repeal by
future legislatures."
Without pausing to consider whether, as contended, the rule
as thus announced may have been in some respects too broadly
stated, we think it clear that the mere form adopted by a legislature m conferring a right on a corporation cannot be controlling, for if it were so the provision of the constitution,
instead of being commanding and prohibitive would merely be
precatory or advisory We are also clearly of the opinion that
the act of 1880, in its essential nature and effect in whatever
form couched, was intended to be and necessarily operated as
an amendment to the charter of the company created by the
act of 1851. Such being its essential nature and necessary effect, we think it plainly came within the provisions of the
constitution of 1867', and was therefore subject to repeal, alteration or amendment.
It is strenuously however insisted that this case should not be
controlled by the reasons previously stated because of the following considerations The decision of the Court of Appeals of
Maryland under the act of 1854 (44 Maryland 131), it is urged,
was not unanimous. There was an elaborate dissent. For this
reason and because the case was open to review in this court
on the question of the impairment of the obligations of the contract, it is -said there was necessarily grave doubt as to. the.
rights of the parties. In view of the foregoing conditions and
of such- doubt; the act of 1880 embodied but an honest effort by
way of contract and compromise to close the doubtful controversy in the interest of both parties, the State on the one hand
and the corporation--on the other, hence the act of 1880 was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
opinion of the Court.

not subject to repeal, alteration or amendment. Conceding,
argundo,the premise upon which the above deduction is based,
the conclusion itself is devoid of foundation. It but reiterates
in another mode of statement the argument that the form in
which a contract is couched, and not its substance and necessary effect, is the criterion by which to ascertain whether it is
controlled by the constitutional provision forbidding irrepealable contracts. Moreover it disregards the elementary principle
that the power to grant an irrepealable right by a compromise
agreement depended on the existence of the authority to make
such grant by original action. The power to compromise on
the subject was as limited as the power to contract originally
Dwtrzt of Columbw v Ba'ily (1897), 171 U. S. 161. Indeed,
the entire argument upon this branch of the case, reiterated in
many forms, amounts but to the contention, when ultimately
considered, that because the act of 1880 is asserted to have been
enacted with the view of settling what was honestly deemed to
be a pending and serious controversy, it was unwise, and it may
be unjust to repeal it. Pretermitting the infirinity in the proposition which naturally is suggested by the fact that shortly
after the decision in 44 Maryland this court decided that the
possession of the rights and privileges of a former corporation
did not endow a new corporation with an exemption from taxation enjoyed by the old, Morgan v Lousiana (1876), 93 U S.
217, and putting out of view the other cases to the same effect,
decided by this court prior to 1880, the proposition is untenable.
It but invokes reasons of expediency or policy Into these considerations we may not enter, we are concerned alone with the
question of power, and on passing on such question cannot hold
that an act which by the very terms of the state constitution
was made repealable, nevertheless engendered an irrepealable
contract protected from impairment by the Constitution of the
United States.
Aflrmed.

