PAM-TO-PEE c. UNITED STATES.
Statement of-the Case.

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 211. Argued October 22, 23, 1902.-Decided December 22, 1902.
Where Congress has passed an act giving the Court of Claims jurisdiction
over the claims of certain Indians against the United States, and in an action brought under such act a fund has been created and the mode of distribution has been prescribed by the court which established the amount
of the fund, and such method has been approved by this court, its disposition in accordance with the course prescribed by the courts must be
held a finality. Where the circumstances are as in the case at bar any
further relief must lie obtained from Congress and cannot be given by
the courts.
The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, as of other courts, extends beyond
the mere entry of a judgment to an inquiry whether the judgment has
been properly executed.

ON March 19, 1890, Congress -passed an act, 26 Stat. 24,
giving to the Court of Claims jurisdiction to try all questions
arising out of treaty stipulations between the United States
.and the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana, unembarrassed by reason of any estoppel supposed to arise from
the joint resolution of Congress, approved April 18, 1866, or a
receipt in full given by certain Pottawatomie Indians under
the provisions of that. resolution. Under the authority of this
act two petitions were filed in the Court of Claims, one on
April 14, 1890, in behalf of "the Pottawatomie Indians of
Michigan and Indiana," no individuals being named, by John
Critcher, .their attorney, his authority being, as stated, an
"agreement between said Critcher and the-business committee
of said Indians, dated September 29, 1887," the other on November 5, 1890, by Phineas Pam-to-pee and thirteen hundred
and seventy-one other Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan
and Indiana, by John B. Shipman, their attorney On January 8, 1891, these two cases were consolidated, and on June 27,
1892, 27 C. C. 403, a judgment was rendered against the United
States for $104,626. The claimants in each of the cases so con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

solidated appealed to this court, which on April 17, 1893, affirmed the judgment. 148 U. S.691. On April 20, 1893, the
mandate was filed in the Court of Claims.
While the judgment determined the amount due from the
United States it did not determine to how many or which of the
various individual plaintiffs, or in what proportion, the amountthus adjudged to be due from the United States should be
paid. The Court of Claims, in its opimon, said (p. 414)
"Congress have recognized by the very title of the act a
claimant designated as the I Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan
and Indiana,' and under that generic: head is to be determined
the aggregate right of such claimant, leaving the question of
distribution to that department of the government, which by
law has incumbent on it the administration of the trust, which
in legal contemplation exists between the United States and
the different tribes of Indians."
-By this court it was stated (p. 703)
"How the moneys so awarded shall be distributed among
the several claimants it is not easy for us to say The findings
of the court below, and the contradictory statements of the
several briefs filed by the appellants, have left this part of this
subject in a very confused condition."
And after quoting the language of the court below we further said
"C
On the other hand, it is contended, with great show of
reason, by the petitioners who are represented in case No. 1125
'(16,842 in, the court below), that the question of what Indians
are entitled to participate in the fund is one of law, to be settled by the -court, and should not be left to clerical functionaries. Our difficulty, in disposing of this part of the subject,
is that we have neither findings nor concessions that enable us
to deal with it intelligently
"It is to be observed that the court below found, as a fact
(see finding 10), that the average proportion between the Indians who removed west and those who-remained was as 2812
of the former to 291 of the latter, and the court used that relative proportion of numbers as a factor in computing the amount
due the petitioners.

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED .STATES.
Statement of.the Case.

"The petitioners, however, number 1371 in case No. 1125,
but the number represented in No. 1133 (16,473 in the court
below) is not precisely stated. It is alleged in the brief filed in
behalf of petitioners m case No. 1125 that only 91 Indians
are actually represented in case No. 1133, and that the other
200 Indians are among those represented in case No. 1125.
"But these facts are not found for us in any authoritative
form. Nor, indeed, would it seem that the court below was
furnished with information sufficient to enable it to define what
Indians or what number of Indians, entitled to distribution, are
represented by the respective attorneys or agents.
"Unable as we are to safely adjudicate this question as between these classes of claimants, we can do no better than acquiesce in the suggestion of the court below, that it is one to
be dealt with by the authorities of the government when they
come to distribute the fund.
"As these petitioners no longer have any tribal organization,
and as the statutes direct a division, of the annuities and other
sums payable, by the head, and as such has been the practice
of the government, perhaps the necessities of the situation demand that the identification of 8ach claimant entitled to share
in the distribution shall be left to the officers who are the
agents of the government m paying out the fund. United
Sates v Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427."
On August 23, 1894, Congress passed an act, 28 Stat. 424,
450, appropriating money for the payment of judgments of the
Court of Claims, including therein the amount of this judgment in favor of the Pottawatomie Indians. On March 2, 1895,
it passed a further act, 28 Stat. 876, 894, directing the Secretary of the Interior to detail or employ an Indian inspector
to take a census and prepare a roll of the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana who were entitled to share in
such judgment, and appropriated the sum of $1000 therefor.
After an inspector had been appointed under this act, and while
he was engaged in taking the census, counsel for the present
petitioners, who was counsel for petitioners in the second of the
original suits, addressed a communication to the Secretary of
the Interior of date July 27, 1895, representing that such cen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

sus by reason of the basis upon which it was ordered would
omit many Indians entitled to share in the judgment. Before
any further instructions could be given, and in August, 1895,
the inspector filed m the Interior Department his report and
census. Acting upon the suggestions made m the letter of
counsel a new inspector was on February 5, 1896, designated to
examine and report upon the claims of any parties other than
those already i pon the census roll, and upon his report, of date
.March 14, 1896, making some slight additions, payment of the
entire amount of the judgment was made, and made per capita,
to all the individuals on the revised list. Thereafter, and on
April 22, 1899, these petitioners filed their petition in the Court
of Claims, alleging in substance that they were entitled to participate in the sam awarded against the United States, and as
they had not received their share of those moneys they prayed
a judgment therefor. Upon a hearing the Court of Claims
decided against them and on May 20, 1901, entered a judgment,
36 C. Cl. 427, dismissing their petition, from which judgment
this appeal was taken.
Mr 7ohn B. Shpman for appellants.
Mr Spectal Attorney W'Riom H. Button for appellees. Ab
As9tant Attorney General Pradt was with him on the brief.
MR. JusTicE BREwE.R, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
There is an apparent hardship in the result of this litigation,
but one which we are constrained to believe the plaintiffs are
chiefly responsible for, and which can be relieved only by the
action of Congress. Two sets of claimants appeared in the
former suits, each represented by separate counsel, and after a
consolidation the litigation proceeded only so far as to determine the fact of the liability of the government and the extent
of that liability, leaving undetermined the individuals entitled
to share in the amount awarded against the government or the
proper basis of distribution between those so entitled. In the

PAM-TO-PEE v UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

first of the suits ninety-one Indians were, it is said, represented,
while the petition in the second suit set forth the names of 1371
persons whose names and residences were given, and who were
alleged to be entitled to share in whatever money should be
awarded against the government. The Court of Claims, after
finding the amount that was due, in terms declared that it left
"the question of distribution to that department of the government, which by law has incumbent on it the adminstration of
the trust, which in legal contemplation exists between the
United States and the different tribes of Indians." This court
affirmed that decision, and in so doing, after saying that there
was nothing in the record which would enable them to-identify
the claimants, added "Perhaps the necessities of the situation
demand that the identification of each claimant entitled to share
iii the distribution shall beleft to'the officers who are the agents
of the government in paying out the fund." Such being the
final orders in the consolidated cases, proceedings for ascertaining the individual beneficiaries were rightfully had in accordance with the directions then made. It is no argument against
upholding that which was done to say that some other and
more satisfactory procedure might have been ordered. Possibly
it would have been better for the court to have appointed a
master and proceeded 'ccording to the rules of equity in identifying the beneficiaries of the fund. However, it was not so
ordered, and both the claimants- and the government were instructed and concluded by the decision in respect to the method
of identification.
The mandate of this court was filed in the Court of Claims
on April 20, 1893, and on August 23, 1894, Congress passed an
act appropriating money for the payment of the judgment.

The fund thereby became available for distribution. No action, so far as appears, was taken in the Court of Claims or
in the Indian department looking to an identification of the
parties entitled to this money until after March 2,1895. Nearly
two years had passed and no effort had been made by the
petitioners to establish to the satisfaction of the court or the
officers of the Indian aepartment their right to be counted
among the distributees of this fund. Obviously these petition-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ers, whose names and places of residence were stated m the
second of the original petitions, could if they had seen fit havw
furnished proofs of identificatiorr.
After the passage of the act of March 2; 1896, appropriating
* $1000 for expenses, an inspector was detailed as agent to take
a census and prepare a list or roll. Then for the first time and
after he 'had commenced his work do we hear of any action on
the part of thpse petitioners, and that action consisted wholly
of a single letter- from- their counsel to the Secretary of the
Interior. This was the scope of that letter, which was of date
July 27, '1895 The instructions given_ to the. agent were that
in taking the census he should be guided by a pay-roll made in
1866, upon which there had been a pro rataz distribution of
money awarded by Congress, and to account for all the Indians
whose names appeared upon that roll, and also to enroll allwho
,,ould furnish proof of being their legal descendants. The letter was a protest against these instructions, calling attention to
the fact that there were prior rolls, particularly those of 1843
and 1844, which should be taken into-account in preparing the
new census or list. The writer also attached a list of the names
of some, who, so fai as ascertained, were,-he stated, heirs of persons named on one or other of these rolls, and of other individuals who were also entitled to enrollment. Apparently
before any action was taken by the department upon this protest the agent had returned a list or census roll of those foumd
by him entitled toshare in the fund.
Nevertheless the contention made in the letter of counsel
having been presented to the.Secretary of the Interior, he rule&
that those persons should be enrolled who were on any of the
rolls made during the years from 1843 to 1866, or descended
from one upon those rolls. Thereupon a new agent was appointed and directed to ascertain what additions to, the list returned by the first agent shoul& be made under the new rulings.
The work of this agent was not fruitful in results, as he only
reported the-names of two persons entitled to be added to the
list or roll. Thereafter one was-added by the department and
upon the list thus completed the money was paid out per capita.
The number to whom distribution was made, being all included

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

in the completed list or roll, was 272. This distribution -was
made during the month of November, 1896, according to the
statement of Chief Justice Nott, in delivering the opinion of
the court, although there is no specific finding to that effect.
The report of the second agent was dated March 14, 1896. No
action appears to have been taken by the petitioners intermediate this report in March, and the distribution m November;
none indeed until the filing of. this petition on April 22, 1899,
more than three years after the report.
The fourth finding m the present suit contains this statement.
"None of the Indians, parties in or represented by the present
suit, were paid as aforesaid. A: large number of them, to wit,
272, whose names are set forth in Schedule A annexed to claimants' request for findings, were descended from Indians whose
names were enrolled on the rolls of Indians in Michigan m the
years 1843, 1844, and 1866."
But in respect to this finding it was stated by Chief Justice
Nott
"The evidence now produced to establish the fact that 272
of the present claimants are direct descendants of the Indians
who were upon the rolls in 1843 and 1844 is not altogether
satisfactory to the -court, but in the absence of countervailing
testimony it may be said to present aprmmfiacze case."
So the case stands thus Congress having referred to the
Court of Claims an inquiry whether anything was due to "the
Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indian.a" by reason of
treaty stipulations, nearly fifteen hundred individuals appeared
in two suits, subsequently consolidated, claiming that there was
a large amount due under those stipulations, and representing
that they were the parties entitled to the benefit thereof. The
result of that litigation was to determine that a certain amount
was due to those Indians, but there being no evidence to identify
the individuals who came within the description and were entitled to share in the.amount found due, the judgment was
simply for a recovery of such amount, and it was spepially
directed that the identification of the individuafs entitled thereto
should be left to the officers of- the Indian department. After
two years had passed withbut any evidence being furnished by

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

mdivduals of their right to -participate in the fund, Congress
directed the -Secretary of -the Interior to appoint an agent to
examine into the matter and prepare a proper roll or list.
While such agent was acting a protest was made by the counsel
in one of those .suits against the basis upon which he was preparing the roll. Although that agent had finished his work
the Secretary of the Interior accepted the suggestion of counsel,
and directed a new agent to examine and report any names
which upon the basis suggested, by counsel should be added to
the roll already prepared. As the result of the reports of these
two agents a roll was prepared containing the names of 272
persons, and the fund was distributed among them.
There is nothing in the record in the way of finding, report
or letter tending to show what efforts the first agent made in
respect to the matter of identification, what course he pursued
or what steps he took, and m respect to the second agent all
that is disclosed is that which appears in his report, which,details at some, length his various efforts to secure evidences of
identification of different individuals. In short, it must be assuned, urf the absence of any showing to the contrary, that the
officers of the goveinment acted reasonably, fairly and with all
needed diligence in discharging the duty imposed upon them.
While from the present. findings it appears that they made a
mistake, -and did not include all who ought to have been included as beneficiaries, yet their instructions conformed to the
suggestions of counsel for petitioners, and there is nothing to
show that they did not make a full and honest-effort to carry
oComplaint, therefore must be upon one
out those instructions.
of two grounds: Either that the proper course to pursue m the
way of identification was not taken, but that objection comes
too late, for it was concluded by the prior decision, or that-a
mistake having been made in the matter of identification the
government must assume all the burden of the mistake and pay
a secQud time that which it has once paid in pursuance of the
directions of the - court. That is really the conteintion of the
petitioners.
They were, petitioners in one of the original suits, and contend that they were entitled to share in the fund, and that as

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the full amount awarded by the court and appropriated by Congress has already been paid to others, they are entitled to a
judgment against the government for that which ought to have
been paid to them out of the prior appropriation. The Court
of Claims finds that of these petitioners 272 ought to have been
placed upon the census roll, and were entitled to a share in the
fund. The failure to receive their share may be a hardship to
these petitioners, but it must be remembered that the method
of ascertaining those entitled was prescribed by the court and
pursued by the government. Having been so pursued that fund
must be considered as properly distributed.
This is not an ordinary judgment at law in which the plaintiff entitled to receive and the defendant bound to pay are both
named, and in which the absolute duty is cast upon the defendant to see that the right party is paid, but a case in which the
amount of a fund for distribution was determined, and directions made for ascertaining the beneficiaries of that fund. The
debtor and the beneficiaries were each interested in the question of identification, and both bound by the conclusion reached
in respect thereto if 'the directions were fully complied with.
To what would any other ruling result? The finding which,
evidently, from the opinion of Chief Justice Kott was not very
clearly established, that 272, in addition to those already paid,
were entitled to a part of the fund, does not conclude other
claimants, and if these petitioners should obtain a judgment
against the United.States, other petitioners might come forward
with like claim, and so the government be compelled to pay
over and over again, although it had made one payment in
compliance with the directions of the court. Further, if there
were really more beneficiaries entitled to share in this fund
than those who actually received payment, those who were
paid received each too much and should- return the overplus;
and the amount of that overplus would be constantly increased
as in successive actions there were added further beneficiaries,
for the distribution was, as stated _per cpita-a mode of dis.tribution contended for by the petitioners. Petitioners seem
to assume that, although the government took the course prescribed by the court in ascertaining the individuals entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

share in that fund, it assumed all the risk of mistake, however
made, and that they could wait until after the government
had acted and made the.,distribution, and that no responsibility
rested upon them to furnish evidences of their title. For
reasons stated we cannot assent to this view Where a fund
has been created and the mode of distrilution prescribed by
the court which established the amount of the fund, its dispqsition in accordance with the course prescribed by the court
must be-held a finality, and in the case at bar any further relief
must be obtained from Congress and cannot be given by the
courts.
It is suggested, though not by counsel, that the Court of
Claims had no jurisdiction to entertain this action, and that
therefore our order should be to reverse the judgment and remand the case with instructions to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. The basis of this suggestion is the contention that the
act of March 19, 1890, simply gave to the Court of Claims jursdiction to determine the sum due the Pottawatomie Indians of
Michigan and Indiana, without the power to identify the particular individuals entitled to share in the amount -found due,
and it is siid that this was so decided in the prior case. We
do not so understand that decision. The act, so far as material,
reads as follows
"Whereas representatives of the Pottawatomie Indians of
Michigan and Indiana, in behalf of all the Pottawatomie Indians of said States, make claim against the United States on
account of -various treaty provisions which, it is alleged, have
not been complied with Therefore,
"Be 'it enacted bj the Senate and House of Representatives
of the Ukited States of America tn Congress assembled, That
the Court of Claims is hereby authorized to take jurisdiction
of and try all questions of difference arising out of treaty stipulations with the said Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and
Indiana, and to render judgment thereon; power is hereby
granted the -said court to review the entire question of difference de novo, and it shall not be estopped by the joint resolution
of Congress approved twenty-eighth July, eighteen hundred
and sixty-six, entitled ' Joint Resolution for the relief of certain

PAM-'TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Chippewa, Ottawa, and Pottawatomie Indians,' nor by the
receipt in full given by said Pottawatomies under the provisions of said resolution, nor shall said receipt be evidence of
any fact except of payment of the amount of money mentioned
in it."
Two suits were commenced in the Court of Claims, as heretofore stated, and by that court consolidated. In one a certain
number of individuals were named as petitioners. In the other
it was admitted that ninety-one persons were represented by
their authorized attorney, as appeared by agreement between
the attorney and their business committee. The court, after
consolidating the two actions, proceeded to determine the
amount due, and made no finding as to the individuals entitled
to share in such amount. But such identification was for want
of sufficient evidence to enable the court to determine the question. This is apparent from the opinion of that court in the
present case, for it is said by Chief Justice Nott, in delivering
that opinion, "It is unfortunate for some of the claimants in
the present suit that the evidence upon which they now rely
The court deemed itwas not before the court then.
self bound by the action of the government in recognizing the
parties represente& by the former suit (that is, one of the two
suits consolidated), and accordingly rendered judgment for
them, but the court did not undertake to determine who the
then existing individual claimants were who were entitled to
participate in the distribution."
Again, after quoting from the opinion of this court, he said
"At this point, if the former case had been a similar suit in
chancery between ordinary litigants, it would have been referred to a master or referee to ascertain and report as to the
individual claimants entitled to recover, and the final decree
would not have been entered until a coming in and confirmation or correction of the master's report. The Secretary of the
Interior, however, seems to have inferred from language in the
opinions of the two courts that he was authorized to proceed
-and ascertain who those Indians were, and to prescribe the
methods fol- so ascertaining and determining the amount to be
distributed -to each individual claimant." And after referring

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

to a plea in behalf of these individual claimants on account of
their ignorance, added, "but the former case, in which the court
might have exercised the discretion of a court of equity and
allowed parties to come in even after the decree and assert their
rights, is closed, the judgment therein has been satisfied; the
claimants stand directly upon their legal rights, and there can
not be one law for the intelligent and another for the ignorant."
And this court, in its opinion, used the language quoted in
the preliminary statement of fact. It is obvious from these
quotations from the opinions that both the Court of Claims and
this court understood that the act gave jurisdiction not only
to ascertain the amount due, but also to identify the individuals
entitled to share therein, and that the failure to find the latter
resulted from a lack of evidence-a lack the plaintiffs endeavor
in this action to supply
But even if the language of the prior opinions of the Court
of Claims and this court can be tortured into a different oQnstruction, still there can be no question of the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims over the present action. The jurisdiction of a
court is iot exhausted by the mere entry of a judgment. It
always has power to inquire whether that judgment has been
executed, and the contention here is-and it is the basis of this
suit-that the judgment which was rendered in the prior suit
has not' been executed. It would be an anomaly to hold that
a court having jurisdiction of a controversy and which renders
a judgment in favor of A against B had no power to inquire
whether that judgment has been rightly executed by a payment from B to 0. If the Court of Claims had no authority to
inquire into the execution of its judgment it was shorn of a part
of the ordinary jurisdiction of a court. The question what is
essential in order to confer jurisdiction in this court over the
judgments -of the Court of Claims was exhaustively examined
by Chief Justice Taney in Gordon v United Statei , reported in
117 U. S. 697, and that judgment has been more than once referred to by this court as conclusive of the questions therein
considered. Dmtet of Oolumbza v E sin, 183 U. S. 62;
,pos. In that opinion
Dwsmct of Columbia v Barnes, p.
he said (p. 702).

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

"The inferior court, therefore, from which the appeal is
taken, must be a judicial tribunal authorized to render a judgment which will bind the rights of the parties litigating before
it, unless appealed from, and upon which the appropriate process of execution may be issued by the court to carry it into
effect. And Congress cannot extend the appellate power of
this court beyond the limits prescribed by the Constitution,
and can neither confer nor impose on.it the authority or duty
of hearing and determining an appeal from a commissioner or
auditor, or any other tribunal exercising only special powers
under an act of Congress, nor can Congress authorize or
require this court to express an opinion on a case where its
judicial power could not be exercised, and where its judginent would not be final and conclusive upon the rights of
the parties, and process of execution awarded to carry it into
effect.
"The award of execution is a part, and an essential part of
every judgment passed by a court exercising judicial power.
It is no judgment, in the legal sense of the term, without it.
Without such an award the judgment would be inoperative
and nugatory, leaving the aggrieved party without a remedy
It would be merely an opinion, which would remain a dead
letter, and without any operation upon the rights of the parties, unless Congress should at some future time sanction it,
and pass a lav authorizing the court to carry its opinion into
effect. Such is not the judicial power confided to this court,
in the exercise of its appellate -jurisdiction yet it is the whole
power that the court is allowed to exercise under this act of
Congress."
It follows from these considerations that the Court of Claims
not only had jurisdiction to find the amount due- from the
United States to the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and
Indiana and render judgment therefor, but also to inquire into
the question whether that judgment had been duly and properly executed.
The judgment is
-Afimed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WhITE and McKENxA, dissenting.

MR. JusTIcE WHITE, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
McKENNA, dissenting.
It results from the findings of the court below that the petitioners in that court who are appellants, apart from the question
of their laches, are entitled to the relief winch they seek. This
was conceded by the court below in the conclusion of law which
it drew from the findings of fact, was not challenged by the
government in the argument at bar, and is, besides, not now
questioned by this court in its opinion. But the lower court
held, and this court now affirms such conclusion, that because
of their laches the petitioners are cut off from obtaining that
judicial relief to which they would otherwise be entitled. In
other words, it is decided that although the power exists in the
court to grant relief, its duty is not to exert its lawful powers
to that end because the petitioners have so neglected their rights
that they are not entitled now to enforce them. From thisconclusion I am constrained to dissent, because, in my opinion,
there is no power in the court to entertain jurisdiction, and
therefore no right in it to decide the question of ]aches. In
other words, I think the plaintiffs in error must be relegated to
Congress for relief, not because they have lost their right to redress in the courts by their neglect, but because the wrong which
they have suffered is one which can only be remedied by Congress, the courts being without jurisdiction over the subject
matter. Whilst both in the opinion of the court and in my view
the plaintiffs in error can only obtain relief at the hands of Congress, there is a serious difference m the grounds upon which
the conclusion proceeds, for manifestly it is one thing to refer
the plaintiffs to Congress because they have ]ost their rights by
neglect, and another to refer them to Congress because that
body alone has power over the subject. Because of the difference between these views and the effect which tls difference
may have on the rights of the parties when their claim for relief is presented to Congress, I deem it my duty to state quite
fully the reasons for my dissent.
The. history of this controversy was stated in the opinion in.
Phneas Pam-t -ee v United States, 148 U. S. 691. For the

PAM-TO-PEE v,- UNITED STATES.
JusTiCEs WHITE and MCKE'N A,

dissenting.

purpose of present clearness, however, the salient facts are again
recapitulated.
On the 26th and 27th of September, 1833, by a treaty and
articles supplementary thereto, the united natioii of Chippewa,
Ottawa and Pottawatomie Indians ceded certain lands in Michigan and Illinois to the United States, and agreed to remove
within three years west of the Mississippi. 7 Stat. 431, 442.
Among other payments to be made on account of the cetsions,
there was to be paid to the Indians under the treaty proper the.
sum of $280,000, and under the articles supplementary $40,000,
in twenty annual installments of fourteen thousand dollars and
two thousand dollars respectively
Appended to the articles supplementary was a provision
wherein it was recited
"As since the signing of the treaty a part of the band resid-.
ing on the reservations in the Territory of -ichigan have requested, on account of their religious creed, permission to
remove to the northern part of the peninsula of Michigan, it
is agreed that in case of such removal the just proportion
of all annuities payable to them under former treaties and
that arising from the sale of the reservation on which they
now reside shall be paid to them at l'Arbre -Croche." 7 Stat.
445.

Only a portion of the Indians embraced by the provision just
quoted removed from their reservations to the northern pait
of Michigan. The others disbursed throughout Michigan and
a few settled in Indiana.
From the year 184:3 to the year 1865, inclusive, payments
were made to the Pottawatomie Indians who had not removed
West, and who were deemed to be entitled to the annuity
benefits stipulated in the articles supplementary signed on
September 27, 1833. These payments were made at the
Mackinac agency, and it would seem that the payments embraced Indians who had not removed to the northern part
of Michigan, but who had located elsewhere in Michigan and
Indiana. A schedule showing the dates of payments, the
names of the agents who made them, and the number of Indians to whom the aggregate sums were paid, is annexed in
voi,. Qvixxxvii-25

386

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and MCKEN'A, dissenting.

the margin.' The amounts which were paid, as stated in the
schedule, embraced sums deemed to be due under an annuity
of sixteen thousand dollars, arising from a treaty made on
July 27, 1829, and the annuity of two tlousand dollars, mentioned in the, articles supplementary of September 27, 1833.
By a- treaty signed in June, 1846, 9 Stat. 833, all the Indians (Ohippewas, Ottawas and Pottawatomes) embraced m
the treaty of 1833, who had removed to the West and retained
their tribal organmzation, were designated as the Pottawatomie
Nation.
In accordance with a joint resolution of July 28, 1866, 14:
Stat. 370, the sum of $39,000 was paid to the 0hippewa, Ottawa
and Pottawatomie Indians in Michigan and Indiana. This sum
was paid to the "chiefs, headmen, heads of families, and individuals without families" of the Indians in question, within
the Mackinac agency, there being 230 persons falling within
the classes above designated, each one of the distributees receivNo. paid. Amount.
1 Year.
Name.
$1587.50
253
1843
Robert Stuart .....................
1587.50
269
...............
...........
do
1844
1587.50
217
1845 Win. A. Richmond ..
1587.50
204
........
do
1846
1587.50
........
244
do
1847
260
1587.50
....
do
..................
1848
260
1587.50
............
.
1849 Chas. P. Babcock.
218
1587.50
do
1850
229
1587.50
151 Win. Sprague.
214
1587.50
.
..
do
....
1852
1587.50
1853 Henry C. Gilbert........... 219
1587.50
............. 236
do
.....
1854
1587.50
.... ..........236
do
....
1855
221
15"87.50
.
......
do
1856
229
1587.50
.............
1857 A. N. Fitch
234
1587.50
......
do
.. .......
1858
1581.50
253
1859
do
...........................
1587.50
236
...........................
1860
do
1587.50
.......
235
1861 De Witt C. Leach. ..
1587.50
247
.......
1862
do
2461
-1587.50
do
1863
242
1237.50
do
1864
1865 Richard M. Smith, principal in currency $1587.50
692.24 232
2279.74
do
gold premium in currency

PAM-TO-PE4 v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES WHITE and MOKENNA, dissenting.

ing an equal share, that is, $169.50. The money thus paid was
receipted for as in fulI and complete satisfaction of all p4yments
of every lnd and nature, past, present or future, m favor of
the persons to whomn the payment was made and those by them
represented, against the United States or the Pottawatomne
Nation of Indians. Despite the receipt in full thus given, the
Indians to whom the payment in question had been made continued to assert a claim against the United -States on account
of what was alleged to be still due to them under treaty stipulations. Finally, by the act of March 19, 1890,-26 Stat. 24, the
Court of Claims was authorized "to take jurisdiction of and
try all questions of difference arising out of treaty stipulations
with the said Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana,
and to render judgment thereon." It was provided that the
payment of $39,000 heretofore referred to should not be given
the finality which its terms imported, and appellate jurisdiction over any judgment which might be rendered was conferred
upon this court. The second section of the act reads as follows
"SFe.

2. That said action shall be commenced by a petition

stating the facts on which said Pottawatomie Indians claim to
recover, and the amount of their claims, and said petition may
be verified by a member of any ' Business Committee' or au-thorized attorney of said Indians as to the existence of such
facts, and no other statements need be contained m said petition
or verification."
Under this act two petitions were filed in the Court of Claims.
The first of these petitions was entitled ]ihe Pottawatome Zlndiane of .Xihzgan and Indianav Tie United-States, the second was entitled PhneasPam-to-pee and 1311 other Pottawatomii Indians of 3ichgan and Indiana v. Te United States.
The right asserted in both of these petitions was based on the
averment that the petitioners were entitled to recover a stated
sum from the United States, because they had not received their
due proportionate share of the annuities or other sums due the
Pottawatomme Nation of Indians. However, although both
the petitions substantially stated the same facts as constituting
the cause of action, the amount claimed in each petition was
widely different. This arose from the fact that in the first pe-

OCTOBER TERM,
JUSTICES WHITE

and

1902.

MCKENNA, dissenting.

tition it was asserted that about 300 of the Indians who had
not removed West were entitled to their proportionate share
of the tribal annuities under the articles supplementary to the
treaty of 1833, it being alleged that those who had removed
West were about 4000 in number. The claim was that the distribution should proceed upon that basis, whilst in the second
petition it was asserted that the Indians who had not removed
West were 1200 in number, and that distribution should be
made in the ratio that 1200 bore to 4000, the latter being the
number of Indians asserted to have gone West. Although,
however, there was a difference in the claims of the two petitions as to the amount of the indebtedness owing by the United
States, in both petitions recovery was only sought of an aggregate sum as due to the Pottawatomie Indians in Michigan and
Indiana entitled to take under the articles supplementary to
the treaty of 1833, and in neither petition was there any allegation as to the proportionate sum of the total amount claimed
to which any particular Indian was entitled, nor did either petition purport to state the representative capacity in which any
particular Indian was entitled to take his share of the whole
fund, if any
The two petitions referred to were consolidated and heard
together. The Court of Claims decided that there was due to
the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana, after deducting payments made, the sum of $104,626, and entered judgment for that sum. 27 C. C1. 403, 421.
The " just proportion" which the court thus found to be due
to the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana, m the
aggregate, entitled to share in the funds 'of the Pottawatomie
Nation, was arrived at first by ascertaining from various reports
the number of the Indians who had moved West under the
treaty of 1833, and then by ascertaining the number of Indians
entitled to share who had Temained in Michigan. This latter
number was arrived at by averaging the number of such Indians
as snown- by various payments made from 1843 to and including 1866, as manifested in the schedule of such payments heretofore excerpted or referred to.
The court was of opinion that under the jurisdictional act of

PAMI-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES WHITE

and

MCKENNA

dissenting.

1890 it could only find and decree the aggregate amount due
all the Indians entitled to participate in the fund found due,
and that it was not incumbent .upon it to determine who were
the particular Indians entitled to take such aggregate amount
and the distributive share to which each particular Indian was
entitled. It said
"Congress have recognized by the very title of the act a claimant designated as the ' Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and
Indiana,' and under that generic head is to be determined the
aggregate right of such claimant, leaving the question of distribution to that department of the government, which by law
has incumbent on it the administration of the trust, which in
legal contemplation exists between the United States and the
different tribes of Indians."
On appeal this court affirmed the judgment of the Court of
Claims. 148 U S. 691. After determining that there was no
error in the judgment under review, in so far as it fixed the,
aggregate amount due, the question was then considered whether
it was the duty of the court to ascertain what particular Indian
was entitled to share fn the fund and the amount of his or her
distributive share. On this subject, after quoting appr~wngly
the reasoning of the Court of Claims, by which that court gustained its action under the jurisdictional act of 1890, in finding
only the aggregate amount due and leaving the distribution of
the'fund, to the executive officers of the government, and after
pointing, out that the suit was brought to recover only such
aggregate amount, and that there was no finding made by the
court below which would justify a decree distributing the fund,
the court said (p. 705)
"Unable as we are to safely adjudicate this question as between these classes of claimants, we can do no better than acquiesce in the suggestion of the court below, that it is one to
be dea tawith by the authorities of the government when they
come to distribute the fund.
- "As these petitioners no longer have any tribal'organization,.
and as the statutes direct a division, of the annuities and other
sums payable, by the head, and as such has been the practice
of the government, perhaps the necessities of the situation de-

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and IMCKENNA, dissenting.

mand that the identification of each claimant entitled to share
in the distribution shall be left to the officers who are the agents
of the government in paying out the fund. United States v.
Old Settlers, ante, 427."
By the deficiencies appropriation act of August 23, 1894, 28
Stat. 424, c. 307, various sums were appropriated, "For payment of judgments of the Court of Claims," one item reading
as follows "To the Pottawatonie Indians of Michigan and
Indiana, $104,626.00." In the Indian Department appropriations act of March 2, 1895, 2S Stat. 816, c. 188, was contained
the following, italics not in the original (p. 894)
"Miscellaneous.
"That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and
directed to detail or employ an Indian inspector to take a census
of the Pottawatomie Indians of Indiana and Michigan who are
entitled to a certain sum of money appropriated by Congress
to satisfy a judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of said
Indians. And for the pupose of mak'ing the payment to the
Pottawatomw Indians, of Indiana and .Iichsgan, of the
$104,626, appropriated by the last Congress to satisfy a judgment of the Court of Clams, thbre is hereby appropriated the
sum of one thousand dollars."
In the Indian Department appropriations act of August 15,
1894, 28 Stat. 286, c. 290, there was appropriated $6243.90 as
the "amount due certain Pottawatomie Indians of Indiana and
Michigan " for their proportion due June 30, 1893, June 30,1894,
and June 30, 1895, "of the perpetual annuities ($22,300.00)
as ascertained by the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the United States pronounced in the case of the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana against the United
States, on April 17, 1893, and which annuities were not embraced in the judgment aforesaid." 28 Stat. 295. An appropriation of $2081.30 for the proportion of the perpetual annuities
due the Pottawatomie Nation for the year ending June 30,
1896, was made by the Indian Department appropriations act
of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 876, 885, c. 188. It was recited, as in
the previous statute, that the amount of the perpetual annuities

PA-M-TO-PEE
JUSTICES WmT

'.

UNITED STATES.

and McKENNA, dissenting.

had been ascertained by the judgment of this court on April 1T,
1893. By a proviso the Commissioner of Indian Affairs was
directed "to withhold from distribution among the said Indians
so much of any moneys due them by the United States as may
be found justly and equitably due for legal services rendered,
and to pay the same on account of the prosecution and recovery of the moneys aforesaid." In the Indian Department appropriations act of June 10, 1896, 29 Stat. 321, c. 398, there
was appropriated to pay the same Indians $2081.30 as their
proportion of the perpetual annuities for the year ending June 30,
1897, and also the sum of $41,626.00, as a "final settlement by
capitalizing their proportion of the perpetual annuities in question." Reference was made to the judgment of this court as
in the prior appropriation acts.
The action of the Secretary of the Interior in respect to the
disbursement of the moneys so appropriated is summarized in
finding of facts numbered III made by the Court of Claims in
this action. It reads as follows
"In June, 1895, the Secretary of the Interior ordered and
directed that a census of the Indians be made under the act
2d March, 1895, 28 Stat. 894. The census roll was prepared
under instructions of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
dated June 8, 1895-approved by the Secretary of the Interior
June 15, 1895-by John W Cadman, and is known as the
'Cadman census roll.' While the agent was so engaged in
taking the census, John B. Shipman, Esq., attorney of record
in the case of Panto-peev 7nited Satev, addressed a communication to the Secretary of the Interior, dated July 27, 1895,
represeiiting that such census, by reason of the manner in
which it was being taken, would omit many Indians entitled
to be paid under the judgment of the court. Before further
instructions were given by the Secretary of the Interior the
agent, Cadman, in August, 1895, made and returned and filed
in the Interior Department the census so made by him.
"After this roll had been prepared many applications for
enrollment were received by the Commissioner-of IDidian Affairs,
based upon the statement that while such applicants were not
on the roll of 1866 they were on prior rolls from 1843 to 1866,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

dissenting.

or were the-descendants of such persons. The question was
then submitted to the Secretary of the Interior for an opimon
as to whether the rolls from 1843 to 1866 should be considered

in connection with-the enrollment.of those who were entitled
to participate in the distribution of the $104,626 awarded by
the Court of Claims.
"On January 10, 1896, the Secretary of the Interior made
his final decision in regard to the Indians who should be enrolled and paid under the judgment of this -court and the appropriation of Congress. Marcus D Shelby, a special Indian
agent, was designated by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
to examine and report upon the claims of the several parties
alleging to be descendants of the Pottawatomie Indians of
Indiana and Michigan who were permitted by supplemental
clause to the treaty of September 27, 1833, to remain east, and
for whom the Court of Claims rendered a decision in their
favor of $104,626, June 27, 1892. The instructions given to
the agent by the Commissioner were dated February 5, 1896.
The agent so designated proceeded to Micngan and reported
the result of his investigation, bearing date of March 14, 1896.
The report so made was accepted by the Secretary of the Interior as substantially correct, and the amount appropriated by
Congress in satisfaction of the judgment of this court, 28 Stat.
450, as well as other funds appropriated to pay the Indians upon
treaties mentioned in the petitions in said suits, (the sum paid
being $118,554.52) paid to the persons upon the roll made by
Cadman, after adding thereto two names on the recommendation of Shelby in closing his report as persons mentioned on
the census roll of 1866. Later one more was -added by the
department. The money was paid to the Indians as communal
owners. That is to say, it was paid pmv rat to every living
member of that portion of the tribe entitled to participate in
the fund and notper stirpes.
"Enclosed in the said letter of John B. Shipman was a list
containing the names of over one hundred and fifty of the
claimants herein, the names of their ancestors and number on
the pay-roll of 1843 and 1844 being given as stated in the letter."

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKElN A, dissenting.

The report of agent Shelby was made a part of the findings
of the court. The manner in which he proceeded to ascertain
who were entitled to be added to the Cadman roll was thus
summarized inthe opinion below
"His report to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, March 14,
1896, shows that he traveled through the country where these
Indians resided, or were supposed to reside, and notified them,
so far as h-e could, to appear and prove their cases. In ls report he said 'I found these people very badly scattered, and
as they do not frequent post offices, the notices prepared for me
to be posted in the various post offices, to give them notice of
my coming, were of but little value. In nearly every instance,
on reaching the vicinity of these Indians, I had to take teams
and drive to their homes. I got, however, the newspapers to
publish the principal points I would visit.' A number appeared,
some of whom claimed because their ancestors' names were
on the rolls of 1843 and 1844, others because they had Pottawatomie blood in their veins. All of these applicants were
rejected for various reasons, some because their proof was insufficient, some because they or their forefathers had allied
themselves with other Indian tribes, some because their fathers'
names had been erroneously placed, in the opinion of Indian
agents, upon the former rolli, and had been dropped from subsequent rolls."
There was no finding that any notice had been given to
Mr. Shipman of the movements of agent Shelby, nor was it
found that any of the Indians whose names were furnished by
Mr. Shipman to the Secretary of the Interior ever had actual
notice of the investigation which the representative of the Secretary of the Interior made intermediate the receipt of the
instructions of February 5, 1896, and the return of Shelby to
Washington in the early part of the following month.
On April 22, 1899, the present action was instituted in the
Court of Claims, the petition being filed on behalf of Phineas
Pam-topee and 362 other named Indians, alleged to be a portion
of the Indians in whose favor the judgment for $104,626-was
rendered. The proceedings in the prior actions were set out
and the. passage of the various appropriating acts to which

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTIOES WizuTE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

allusion has already been made was averred, as also that distribution had been made of the greater part of the funds among
273 Indians, while nothing had been paid to the petitioners.
Judgment was prayed for such proportionate amount of the
various funds as the evidence nght show the petitioners were
entitled to, to be "allotted and awarded to them severally"
After issue joined, the cause was tried and the Court of Claims
filed findings of facts and conclusions of law Finding III has
heretofore been set out. Finding IV reads as follows
"1None of the Indians, parties in or represented by the present
suit, were paid as aforesaid. A large number of them, to wit,
272, whose names are set forth in Schedule A annexed to claimants' requests for findings were descended from Indians whose
names were enrolled on the rolls of Indians in Michigan in -the
years 1843, 1844, and 1866. A portion of the Indians who
remained in Michigan as coming within the exemption of the
treaty of September 27, 1833, were represented in both petitions
in the cases of the Pottawatomw Indians v The United Statea
and the Pam-to-jee Indians v The United States."
The Court of Claims thus expressly found that a large number
of the Indians, claimants in this suit, had received nothing in
the distribution made by the Secretary of the Interior, although
some of these Indians were parties to or represented in the consolidated case, and were also represented by LMr. Shipman before
the Secretary of the Interior, and were entitled to share in such
distribution. In addition, from the facts found concerning the
investigation made by Agent Shelby prior to the distribution
referred to, the court below expressed the opinion that the mvestigation by Agent Shelby "was hurried, and to the judicial
mind is unsatisfactory" Moreover, the court, considering the
judgment rendered in the previous consolidated case and the
acts of Congress making the appropriation to pay the judgment
of $104,626, arrived at the conclusion that "there is not a line
in the judgment of this court or in any, statute of Congress
which empowered or authorized the Secretary to dispose of the
fund." It was decided that the suit must be dismissed, because
the petitioners had been guilty of such laches in pressing their
claims after the appropriation was made and whilst the distribu-

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES WITE

and M

:KENNA, dissenting.

tion was pending, as to debar them from all right to relief at
the hands of the court.
It is difficult for me to determine precisely on what ground
the theory of laches was predicated. In one aspect of the
opinion below it would seem to have been rested upon the
theory that, as the distribution of the money was a judicial act
and not an administrative one, it was incumbent on the petitioners to have invoked the power of the court to control the Secretary of the Interior and compel him to distribute the money
rightfully, on the other, that although the petitioners had formally notified the Secretary of their claims, they were nevertheless guilty of laches because they did not foresee that that officer
would distribute the money without notice to them, and after
an investigation which the court itself finds to have been wholly
unsatisfactory to the judicial mind.
In the argument at bar the error which was committed in the
distribution in question as shown by the facts found by the
court below is not disputed. On the contrary, in addition to
the error m the distribution so shown, it is expressly conceded
that the distribution was besides fundamentally wrong, because
it was made on an illegal basis. Thus it is said in the brief on
behalf of the United States
"It appears from the record in this case that the judgment
was distributed not per sti pes but per capita. That is to say,
all the Indians discovered were allowed to participate equally
in the fund, irrespective of the generation fo which they belonged. The son of an Indian who appeared on one of the pay
rolls was allowed only the same amount which each of, say, five
grandchildren of an Indian on one of the pay rolls was allowed.
They should have taken by representation. The aggregate of
the five shares of the five grandchildren mentioned should have
equaled the share of the son of the original payee. The consequence is that the whole judgment was distributed on a wrong
basis. The payments became due to individuals at various times.
The record discloses no reason why the estate of the individual
to whom such payment was due is not entitled to the whole of
such payment.
"If any one on the pay rolls at the time the annuities became

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

due died without heirs who could inherit, there is no reason
why this share should not escheat. It is perfectly evident that
a mere enumeration of the Indians, and an equal division among
them, does not fulfill the requirements of the situation."
The deduction which the government makes from the admission just quoted being that the petitioners are not entitled to
relief, because relief cannot be administered without maling
parties defendant all those to whom the distribution was made
and securing an entire readjustment and settlement of the rights.
of all parties.
This court now affirms the judgment of the court below In
effect the application of the rule of laches made by the lower
court is approved, and the decisive result of the laches is addi-

tionally sustained by the conclusion that, although it was not
shown that any notce was served upon the petitioners prior to
the distribution made by the Secretary of the Interior, the presumption that the officers of the government discharged their
duty raises the legal itiference that before making the payment
such full and fair investigation had been made by the executive
officers as warranted the paying out of the money in the manner in w.hich it was disbursed. This court now, moreover, holds
that as the judgment in the consolidated case, although it only
found the amount due to the Pottawatomie Indians in Michigan
and Indiana as a body, had remitted the question of what Indians were entitled to such gross sum to the proper executive department of the government, the executive officers who made
the distribution in effect acted under the order of the court.
The jurisdiction to entertain the action can alone be predicated upon the following considerations First, the act of Congress of 1890, by the authority of which the original judgment
in the consolidated case was rendered, or upon the judgment
thus rendered, or, second, the alppropriation made by Congress
to pay such judgment and the acts of Congress in connection
therewith.
By section 1066 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims "shall not extend to any
claim against the government
growing out of or dependent on any treaty stipulation entered into

.

-

with

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
JusTicEs WHITE and MCKENA, dissenting.

the Indian tribes." Clearly, therefore, aside from the jurisdiction conferred by the act of 1890, there was no power in the
courts to consider and determine the question of the proper- distribution of the funas due the Pottawatomie Nation of Indians,
or to fix the just proportion to which the Pottawatomie Indians
of Michigan and Indiana were entitled. Now, the act of 1890,
which conferred jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to determine the sum due the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and
Indiana out of the tribal funds, was susceptible of being construed m one of two ways First, that it alone delegated the
power to determine the aggregate amount of the just proportion
of the tribal funds due to the Indians in question, or that it
conferred such authority, and, in addition, imposed the duty of
ascertaining the particular Indians who were entitled to share
in the distribution when the .total sum for distribution was judicially determined. That the statute embraced only the first
power, that is, of fixing the aggregate amount, seems to me to
conclusively result from the judgment rendered by the Court
of Claims and affirmed by this court. It cannot be doubted
that the Court of Claims expressly decided that the authority
conferred by the act of 1890 related only to determining the
aggregate amount, and not to the ascertainment of the particular persons entitled to share in the same and the amount they
were respectively entitled to take. True, this court, in its opinion, in 148 U. S. 691, referred to the absence of evidence as
to who were entitled to the distributive shares, and the impossibility of rendering a decree on that subject, yet it nevertheless, in affirming the judgment, expressly approved the conclusion of the Court of Claims limiting the judgment to the
determination of the aggregate amount and leaving the distribution of that sum, when Congress should thereafter appropriate
therefor, to the action of the executive officers of the government.
It follows that the jurisdictional power conferred by the act
of 189Q was exhausted by the decree of affirmance, and the
subsequent distribution of the gross sum when the appropriation had been made was solely a matter within the jurisdiction
of Congress and the administrative officers of the government.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

dissenting.

That such was the legislative conception of the effect of the
judgment of affirmance rendered by this court, is conclusively
shown by the appropriation to pay the money and the other
legislative acts concerning that sum and other sunis awarded to
the Indians in question, since such acts treat of the ascertainment of the individuals entitled to the gross amount found due
as a purely administrative question, with no intimation whatever that it was conceived that the administrative discretion
which the acts imposed was subject to be reviewed and controlled by the judicial branch of the government. To repeat,
the jurisdiction, under the act of 1890 having been exhausted
and the judgment fixing the aggregate sum having expressly
remitted the distribution to the administrative branch of the
government, it follows that no support for the jurisdiction over
the present suit, either in the Court of Claims or in this court,
can be founded upon the act of 1890 or the judgment rendered
thereunder Did, then, jurisdiction arise from the act of Congress appropriating the sum necessary to pay the judgment referred to or from the other appropriation acts to which reference has heretofore been made?
From what has already been stated, it would seem that a
negative answer must be given to this question. In view of
the terms of section 1066 of the Revised Statutes, I think it is
clearly requisite that the intention of Congress to commit to
the courts the ultimate regulation and control of a distribution
_pnmmaftcza intended to be made or expressly directed to be
made anmong unascertamned beneficiaries by the executive officers
of the government, should be plainly made to appear before it
should be held that such authority was conferred on the
judiciary Now there had been no claims presented to Congress
on behalf of Pottawatomie Indians seeking individual relief,
but the claims urged were on behalf of the whole body of
Pottawatomie Indians in Michigan and Indiana, who asserted
the non-payment of their just proportion of the tribal annuities.
On twenty-four different occasions, during as many years, Congress, through the Interior Department, had ascertained and
determined who were the individuals constituting the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana, entitled to a just

PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
JusTICEs WHITE and MCKENA, dissenting.

proportion of tribal annuities, and neither in the jurisdictional
act of 1890 nor in any of the appropriating acts was language
used importing that it was deemed that a necessity existed for
a judicial ascertainment of the particular individuals who might
possess a right to share in the "just proportion" referred to.
The various acts in which the appropriations in question were
embodied made provision for numerous other appropriations,
in compliance with stipulations embodied in treaties made with
sundry Indian tribes, and as in the particular appropriating
paragraphs in question payments were merely directed to be
made to unascertained individuals constituting a body of Indians,
there was certainly no clearly implied or expressed intention
that the payments should be subject to the ultimate control of
the courts or that the disbursement of the funds should be underany other direction or control than that of the Secretary of the
Interior, who had made prior payments of a similar character
upon his own ascertainment of the individual beneficiaries.
As a matter of fact, also, a contrary intent is clearly manifested
in several of the appropriating paragraphs. Thus, in the act of
March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 894, the duty is expressly ,nposed on
the Secretary of the Interior to take a census of the Indians
who were entitled to the fund appropriated by the previous
Congress to pay the judgment of $101,626, thus implying that
there had'not been any provision in the judgment of the Court
of Claims or of this court for the ascertainment of such individual beneficiaries, and one thousand dollars was appropriated
"for the purpose of mak?,ng, thep
p yment," obviously to those
who, by, a proper performance of the duty imposed on the
Secretary of the Interior, should be found to be embraced within
the class. So, also, in the same act, 28 Stat. 885, the absolute
control which Congress deemed it was exercising for the distribution of the sums found due .to the Indians as a body was
evinced in the direction to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
"to withhold from distribution among the said Indians so much
of any-moneys due them by the United States as may be found
justly and equitably due for legal services rendered, and to pay
the same on account of the prosecution and recovery of the
moneys aforesaid." Bearing in mind that the appropriated

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

sums in question, though a "just proportion," were in fact
tribal funds, and that the expenditure of tribal funds is peculiarly
regulated by Congress and. committed to the Indian Department,. Rev Stat. sec.' 2086, et seq., it seems to me beyond reasonable controversy that Congress intended that the ascertainment
of the particular beneficiaries entitled to the funds and the distribution among them should be performed solely by its own
agencies.
The decision in United States v. Weld, 127 U. S. 51, is not an
authority opposed to the views just expressed. In that case a
judgment had been rendered by the Court of Commissioners of
Alabama Claims, in favor of certain claimants, and they had
received a portion of such judgment. The amount of the gross
fund due all claimants had been fixed in the statute, what should
be deducted had been specifically declared, and it had also been
explicitly provided that the balance which would necessarily
result should be distributed to the judgment creditors. The
holding of this court -was simply that creditors, whose claims
against the fund had been adjudicated by the commission provided for in the statute, possessed a right to sue in the Court of
Claims to recover their share of a portion of the fund which
had been improperly retained by the Treasury Department.
Being of opinion that the judgment below should be reversed
for want of jurisdiction, and that the sole remedy of the petitioners lies in an appeal to the fairness and sense of justice of
the legislative branch of the government, it would, of course,
be out of place for me to discuss the grounds upon which
It is manifest, however, that
the laches is held to apply
the reasoning by which I have been led to the conclusion
that the court was without jurisdiction, if sound, is in absolute conflict with the theory that laches can be imputed to
the petitioners because they did not invoke the aid of the court
below to contrgl the discretion to distribute the money vested
in the Secretary of the Interior by'the acts of Congress making
the appropriations. This ground of laches being put out of view,
the only other theory' upon which it can be rested is, that although the petitioners formally presented their claim to the
Secretary of the' Interior and called his attention to their rights,

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME u. FRENCH. 401
Syllabus.

they yet lost them because they did not foresee that that officer
would, without notice, proceed to -distribute the money to the
wrong persons and upon a basis which the government now,
whether advisedly or not I need not consider, declares to have
been absolutely unjust and illegal.
I am authorized by MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA to say that he
jois in ths dissent.

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH.
FAUL v. FRENCH.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 73, 74. Argued November 5, 6,1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

By her last will and testament Mrs. Sophia Rhodes provided for her husband by securing to him the income from one half her estate, subject to
which the whole was devised and bequeathed to her only son,, in the
event of her son's predecease, the entire estate to trustees in trust for
the husband for life, and on his death to the Young Women's Christian
Hbme, in the event testatrix survived husband and son, thenrto the
Home. The mother and son survived the husband, and perished in a
shipwreck, going down together. The estate was claimed by the next.
of kin of Mrs. Rhodes; by the next of kIn of the son; and by the Young
Women's Christian Home. Reld
"(1) That there is no presumption of survivorship in the case of those
who perish by a common disaster, in the absence of proof tending
to show the order in which dissolution took place, and, actual
survivorship being unascertainable, descent and distribution take
the same course as'if the deaths had been simultaneous.
(2) Whether by a particular will a condition precedent, a condition subsequent, or a conditional limitation iSimposed, is, in the absence
of unmistakable language, matter of construction, arrived at in
view of the familiar rules that the intention of the testator must.
prevail, and that intestacy should be prevented, if legally possible.
(3)As the state of facts at the time of Mrs. Rhodes' death did not substantially differ from what the will showed she contemplated when
VOL. OLXXXvII-26

