MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY CO. v. ECKMAN.

-129

Statement of the Case.

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY
v.ECKMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 124. Submitted December 17, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

1. The jurisdiction referred to in the first subdivision of the fifth section
of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, is the jurisdiction of the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States as such; and when a case comes
directly to this court under that subdivision, the question of jurisdiction
alone is open to examination.
2. The general rule is that the jurisdiction of tie Federal courts depends
not on the relative situation of the parties concerned in interest, but on
the relative situation of the parties named in the record.
3. It appears from the statutes of Texas and the decisions of the highest
court of that State that a general guardian has the legal right to bring a
suit in the state courts of Texas in his own name; it follows that a
citizen and resident of the Western District of Texas, who has been duly
appointed by the proper court of Texas the guardian of the person and
estate of a minor, whose father and mother are residents, citizens and
inhabitants of another State, and are not and never have been residents,
citizens or inhabitants of Texas, may bring an action in his own name
in the United States Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas
against a corporation of another State, as the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is dependent on the citizenship of the guardian and not on the
citizenship of the ward.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas by J. W
Eckman, a citizen and resident of that district, as guardian ofAlfonso Huesselmann, a minor, against the Mexican Central
Railway Company, a corporation of Massachusetts, to recover
damages for injuries sustained by him in the Republic of
Mexico through the negligence of the company, i whose

employment he then was. The complaint set out certain sections of the constitution, of the penal and civil codes, and acts
of Congress and regulations thereunder, of Mexico, and averred
that, "by virtue of the general principles of right and justice,
and by virtue of the laws of Mexico herembefore set forth,"

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff had a right of action in Mexico, and that the same
existed in the United States, and also that the acts of negligence complained of were wrongful and actionable in the
United States and in the State of Texas, as well as in the
Republic of Mexico. Defendant filed a plea in abatement to
the effect that Huesselmann was not then, or at the time of the
infliction of the injuries, a citizen or resident of the State of
Texas, but that he and his parents were citizens and residents
of the State of Illinois, and that defendant was a resident
and citizen of Massachusetts, and had not waived its right to
be sued there, which ight it pleaded, and asked that the
action be dismissed. The plea was overruled, and defendant
filed an answer containing seven exceptions or pleas to the
jurisdiction, an exception to-the complaint for insufficiency,
and a general denial. All of the pleas were overruled, and the
case was tried before a jury, a verdict rendered in plaintiff's
favor, and judgment entered thereon. Thereupon a writ of
error was allowed from this court on a certificate that the following questions of jurisdiction arose
"First. That Alfonso Huesselmaun, at the time of the filing
of this quit, and now being a minor under twenty-one years of
age, and his fathe" and mother both being now alive, and at
the time of the filing of this suit and now being residents,
citizens and inhabitants of the State of Illinois, and never
having been residents, citizens and inhabitants of the State of
Texas, nor the Western District of Texas, and the defendant,
The Mexican Central Railway Company, Limited, being incorporated under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and at the time of the filing of this suit, and now,
being a resident, inhabitant and citizen of said State of Massachusetts, and never having been incorporated under the laws
of the State of Texas, and was not at the tine of the filing
of this suit a resident, inhabitant or citizen of the State of
Texas or of the Western District of Texas, that said J. W
Eckman, being guardian of the person and estate of said Alfonso Eluesselmann at the time of the filing of this suit, and
being such now, and being a resident, inhabitant and citizen of
the State of Texas and of the Western District of Texas, now,

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY CO. v. ECKMAN. 431
Counsel for Parties.

and at the time of the filing of this suit, has this court jurisdiction to try said cause, and does the citizenship of said guardian, J W. Eckman, confer jurisdiction on this court, or does
the citizenship of the minor and his parents control so as to defeat the jurisdiction of this court 2
"Second. Whether or not this court has jurisdictioI to try
and determine said suit, where the minor, Alfonso Huesselmann, and defendant, Mexican Central Railway Company,
Limited, are not citizens of this State and district, and where
the cause of action arose in .the Republic of Mexico, in which
republic the contract of service was made and the services
thereby contemplated were to be performed 2
"Third. Whether or not this court has jurisdiction to try
and determine this suit under the laws of Mexico as pleaded
and proved in this case, in so far as such laws give rights that
are to be determined by successive suits, give the right to extraordinary indemnity, considering the social position of the injured party, and in so far as the same are vague, indefinite and
dissimilar to the laws of our county and contrary to our policy 2
"Fourth. Where plaintiff's cause of action arose in the Republic of Mexico, and the rights are to be determined by the
laws of said republic, and where defendant has continuously
kept its property and operated its Toad in said republic, has
this court jurisdiction to hear and determine this cause in the
absence of any reason shown in. the pleading or proof why
plaintiff did not bring his suit in the Republic of Mexico?
"Fifth. Where, according to the laws of the Republic of
Mexico, no civil liability exists unless the acts that give rise to
the civil liability must be found to be a violation of the criminal laws of Mexico, is the enforcement of such liability penal
in its nature, and can this court determine the guilt of defendant thereunder, and adjudicate the rights of the parties based
upon the criminal laws of said republic? "
.fT E3en RUwkards, -Mr Addis B. Brmomn and .r Aexander Biitton for plaintiff in error.

Mr M-/iard PattMmron for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHnEF TUSTicE FuLLEB, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Tins case is brought directly from the Circuit Court to this
court under the first subdivision of the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3,1891, providing that that may be done"In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, in
such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to
.the Supreme Court from the court below for decision." It must
be regarded as settled that the jurisdiction here referred to is the
jurisdiction of the Circuit or District Courts of the United States
as such, ,Sgzth v XcKay, 161 U. S. 355, Blythev Hinckley, 173
U. S. 501, that the whole case is not open to us, but only the
question of jurisdiction, Hornerv Un'ded States, 143 U. S. 570,
576, United States v TJahn, 155 U. S. 109, 112, and that review by certificate is limited to the certificates by the Circuit
or District Courts, made after final judgmaent, of questions made
as to their own jurisdiction, and to the certificates by the Circuit Courts of Appeals of questions of law in relation to which
the advice of this court is sought as therein provided. United
States v Rider, 163 U. S. 132.
Counsel for plaintiff in error condenses the propositions relied
on into these (1) That "the citizenship of the ward, the actual
plaintiff, not that of the guardian, the nominal plaintiff, controls;" (2) that "the laws of Mexico as pleaded and proved
and which are relied on to support this case are so vague and
indefinite and so dissimilar to the laws of Texas as to be incapable of enforcement in our courts, and ate inconsistent with the
statutes and public policy of Texas," and (3) that these laws
"are penal in their character and such as should be given no
extraterritorial effect."
But apart from the question of jurisdiction in respect of citizenship, it is apparent that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
as a court of the United States was not put m issue, for the
other contentions were matters on the merits, and this judgment
to the contrary is not void but is only open to be attacked for
error, while, in any aspect, the objections applied to all courts
of this country and~not particularly to the Federal courts.

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY CO. v. ECKMAN. 433
Opinion of the Court.

And if the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked
solely on the ground of diverse citizenship, the case should have
been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, to which court previous similar cases have been carried,
and by which the questions suggested here have been dealt with.
Evey v. .ewam National Railway Company, 52 U. S. App.
118, .Afexzean National Railway Company v .Marshall,-34 0.
C. A. 133.
These matters, however, are not properly before us in this
case, and we intimate no opinion upon them.
The question for us to determine is whether the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court can be sustained through the citizenship of
the guardian.
It is admitted that Eckman was duly appointed guardian of
both the person and estate of Huesselmann by the proper court
of Texas thereto empowered, and that he was a citizen and
resident of the Western District of Texas.
Under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by that
of August 13, 1888, c; 866, actions may be brought in any districtin which either the plaintiff or the defendant resides. We
have held that a corporation incorporated in one State only
cannot be compelled to answer in a Circuit Court of the United
States held in another State, to a civil suit, at law or in equity,
brought by a citizen of a different State." Shaw v. Qusiy
.insng Company, 145 U. S.444. But that is not this case, as
here the action was brought by a citizen of Texas in the district
of his residence.
The question is whether under the laws of Texas a guardian
can sue in his own name to recover, damages for injuries sustained by the ward, and it is unaffected by the permanent
domicil of the ward. HZoyt v Sprague, 103 U. S.613, New
Orleans v Gaines' Admnzstrato)-, 138 U. S. 595, 606, Delaware"County v Dwebold Safe Company, 133 U S.473, 488.
It is true that where a State 6r one of its officials is a mere
figurehead, a nominal party, to a suit on a sheriff's or administrator's bond, or an action is instituted in th6 name of a United
States marshal on an attachment bond, the real party in interest is taken into account on the question of citizenship, notVOL. cLxxxvii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

withstanding the general rule that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts depends, not on the relative situation of the parties
concerned in interest, but on the relative situation of the parties
named in the record. But those are instances of merely formal
parties, whose names are used from necessity, and, as said in
1 ew Orleans v Gannee'
Admbnsstrator, by Mr. Justice Bradley, "we have repeatedly held that representatives may stand
upon their own citizenship in the Federal courts irrespectively
.of the citizenship of the persons whom they represent,-such
as executors, administrators, guardians, trustees, receivers, etc.
The evil which the law was intended to obviate was the voluntary creation of Federal jurisdiction by simulated assignments.
But assignments by operation of law, creating legal representatives, are not within the mischief or reason of the law"'
If in the State of the forum the general guardian has the
right to bring suit in his own name as such guardian, and does
so, *heis to be treated as the party plaintiff so far as Federal
jurisdiction is concerned, even though suit might have been la-stituted in the name of the ward by guardian ad litein or next
friend. .fe is liable for costs in the event of failure to recover
and for attorneys' fees to those he employs to bring the suit,
and in the event of success, the amount recovered must be held
for disposal according to law, and "if
he does not pay the same
over to the parties entitled, he would be liable therefor on his
official bond.
The Revised Statutes of Texas provide, Sayles' Oiv -Stat. of
1897
"ART. 2623. The guardian of the estate is entitled to the
possession and management of all property belonging to the
ward, to collect all debts, rents, or claims due such ward, to
enforce' all obligations in his favor, to bring and defend suits
by or against him, but in the management of the estate the
guardian shall be. governed by the provisions of this title.
"ART. 262-1. The guardian of both person and estate has all
the 'rights and powers, and shall perform all the duties of the
guardian of the person and of 'the guardian of the estate."
"AnT. 2627. The guardian of the estate shall use due diligence to collect-.all claims or debts owing to the ward, and to

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY CO. v.ECK]AN. 435
Opinion of the Court.

recover possession of all property to which the ward has a title
or claim, provided, there s a reasonable prospect of collecting
such claims or debts, or of recovering such property, and if he
neglects to use such diligence he and his sureties shall be liable
for all damages occasioned by such neglect."
In Roberts v. Sacra, Guardian, 38 Texas, 580, it was ruled
that the guardian for minor heirs might sue in his own name on
a promissory note payable to the ancestor of his wards on showing that they were the only heirs of the payee, and that there
was no administration on-the estate.
In Houston & Texas Central Railway Company v Bradley,
Guardian,45 Texas, 171, 176, it was'held that under a law authorizing suit for death by wrongful act, which provided that
actions thereunder should be "for the sole and exclusive benefit
of the surviving husband,. wife, child, or children, and parents
of the person whose death shall have been so caused, and may
be brought by such entitled parties, or any one of them," the
suit nght properly be brought in his own name by the guardian of the estate of minor children of the person whose death
was caused by such.act, and the court said "It is not regarded
as material whether the suit is brought in the name of the
guardian for his ward or in the name of the ward by his guardian. By the laws of Texas, the guardian of the person is entitled to the charge and control of the person of the ward, and
the guardian of the estate is entitled to the possession and
management of the property belonging to the ward, and to
collect all claims and debts due hin, to enforce all obligations
in his favor, and to bring and defend suits by or against
him."
And see .March v. Walker, Guardian,48 Texas, 372, where
Walker sued as guardian of one of three children, and as next
friend of the two others, and attention was called in respect of
the two to the then statute, subsequently repealed, providing
for the appointment of a special guardian to prosecute suits,
and Gulf &c. Railway Company v Styron, ffewt 1rend,66
Texas, 421, inwhich the action had been brought "by W W
Styron, as next friend of Millie Styron, a minor," and it was
-decided that it was not necessary "that the pleadings must

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

show, in so many words, that the action is brought by the minor
by next friend," although cases so ruling could be found.
We are unable to hold that the Circuit Court erred in assuming that this guardian had the legal right to bring the action
in his own name, and it is on his citizenship and not on the
citizenship of the ward that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended.
Judgment afirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SATMPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
No.273. Petition for new parties submitted December 29, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

Where a rear admiral of the United States Navy who has filed a libel in
prize in his own behalf and also in behalf of all the officers and enlisted
men in the Navy taking part in the engagement, dies, and his death has
been suggested on the record, it is not necessary that the personal representatives of the deceased should come in or that any person should
be designated ex officio, but the court may substitute any one interested
in the prosecution of the litigation, who has personally appeared in
the case.

THE case is stated

in the opinion of the court.

.Afr James H. Hayden, for petitioners on this motion, ap-

pellees.
THE CHIEF JUsTICE. This libel in prize was filed by-Rear
Admiral Sampson in his own behalf and also in behalf of all
of the officers and, enlisted men of the United States Navy, who
took part in the engagement off Santiago de Cuba on July 3,
1898, in ttie Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and
went to a decree of condemnation from which this appeal was
prosecuted.
On May 19, 1902, the death of Rear Admiral Sampson was
suggested by the Attorney General, and a motion made that

