EVANS v. NELLIS..
Statement of the .Case.

EVANS v. NELLIS.
CERTIIATE FROM THE CIRCUT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 66. Argued November 4,1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
The statutory liability of stockholders of corporations (other than railway,
religious or charitable) equal to the amount of their stock under sections 32 and 34 of the General Statutes of Kansas of 1868, as decided by
the highest court of that State, could not be collected by the receiver of
an insolvent corporation, but was an asset which a creditor of the corporation alone could recover for his individual benefit to the extent required to pay his judgment obtained against the corporation.
The highest court of the State havifig decided that sections 14 and 15 of the
laws of Kansas enacted in 1899, (Laws of 1898, c. 10,) repealed sections 32
and 84 of the statutes of 1868, and that the statutory liability of stockholders can be collected only by the receiver for the benefit of'all creditors, and that the receiver must, under the system for collecting the
assets and paying the debts of an insolvent corporation as provided in
the statute, bring an action against the corporation and all the resident
stockholders, it follows that the receiver of 'an insolvent corporation of
Kansas (other than railway, religious or charitable) appointed in 1898,
who has not brought an action against,the corporation and all the stockholders resident in Kansas, cannot maintain an action either under the
statute of 1868 or the law of 1899, in a Circuit Court of the United States,
against an individual stockholder for the amount of the statutory liability.

THE questions to be answered and the case on which they
arise are shown in the statement of facts and resulting questions
of law constituting the certificate of the court below, which is
as follows -

"1&atement offa~cts.
"That the Inter-State Loan and Trust Company is a corporation created and organized under and by virtue of the general
laws of the State of. Kansas, July 22, 1885, and as such was
authorized to transact business as a land mortgage company,
that in or about the month of lNovember, 1897,.E. B. Crissey
commenced an action against the said The Inter-State Loan

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

and Trust Company in the United States Circuit Court for the
District of Kansas, first division, to which court jurisdiction m
that behalf duly appertained, that said action was duly commenced by the issue of a summons to said company, that said
summons was duly served upon the said company, and that
said company duly appeared in said suit by attorney and defended the same, and that such proceedings were afterwards
had in said action that on the 31st day of December, 1897, a
judgment was duly given and made in and by said court m
said action in favor of the said plaintiff and against the said
company, in and by which judgment it was decided, adjudged
and decreed that there was due and owing to the plaintiff
therein from and by the said company the sum of $6792.20
and $56.45 costs, and that the plaintiff therein have and recover
said sum froni the said company, with- interest thereon from
said date atthe rate of six per cent per annum, and that the
said plaintiff have execution therefor against the said company;
that thereafter an execution against the property of the said
The Inter-State Loan and Trust Company was duly issued out
of the said court upon said judgment for the said sum of
$6792.20 and the costs as aforesaid, directed to the United
States marshal for the District of Kansas, and that thereafter
the said marshal duly returned said execution wholly unsatisfied for the reason that no property, real or personal, belonging
to said company could be found whereon to levy the same,
that thereafter and on or about the 9th day of June, 1898, upon
the application of the said E. B. Crissey, the plaintiff herein was.
duly appointed receiver of the said The Inter-State Loan and
Trust Company by the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Kansas, first division, to which said court jurisdiction therein duly appertained, and has duly qualified, and
acted as such, that thereafter and on or about the 9th day of
February, 1899, an order was duly given and made in and by
said Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, first division, by which order it was considered, adjudged,
ordered and decreed that the said John II. Evans, as receiver,
proceed against all or any of the stockholders of the Inter-State
Loan and Trust-Company, from whom, in his judgment, a re-

EVANS v. NELLIS.
Statement of the Case.

covery can lie had to collect all of their liability as stockholders
in said company, a copy of which order is hereto annexed and
marked Exhibit A, and which copy 'the plaintiff herein prays
may be considered as part of -his complaint as if herein set
forth in full, that the defendant is a citizen of the State of
New York, and prior to the month of November, 1897, became
a stockholder of said corporation and the owner of 602 shares
of the capital stock thereof of the par value of $100 a share,
and has ever. remained a stockholder and the owner of said
shares. At the time when the defendant became a stockholder
of said corporation, and from -that time ever since, it was provided by the constitution of the State of Kansas (see. 2, article XII) as follows 'Dues from corporations' (organized
and existing under the laws of the State of Kansas) ' shall be
seared by individual liability of the stockholders to an addition-i amount equal to the stock owned by each stockholder,
and such other means as shall be provided by law, but such
individual liabilities shall not apply to railroad corporations
nor corporations for religious or charitable purposes.' At the
time the defendant became a stockholder of said corporation it
was provided by the General Statutes of Kansas of 1868 (sections 32 and 44) as follows
"'SEc. 32. If any execution shall have been issued against
the property or effects of a corporation, except a railway or a
religious or charitable corporation, and there cannot be found
any property whereon to levy such execution, then execution
may be issued against any of the stockholders, to an extent
equal m amount to the amount of stock by him or her owned,
together with any amount unpaid thereon, but no execution
shall issue against any stockholder, except upon an order of the
court in which the action, suit or proceeding shall have been
brought or instituted, made upon motion in open court, after
reasonable notice in writing to the person or persons sought to
be charged, and2 upon such motion, such court may order execution to issue accordingly, or the plaintiff in the execution
may proceed by action to charge the stockholders with the
amount of his judgment.'
"'SEc. 44. If any corporation, created under this or any genVOL. CLXXXVW-18

OCTOBER TER31, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

eral statute of this State, except railway, or charitable or religious corporations, be dissolved, leaving debts unpaid, suits
may be brought against any person or persons who were stockholders at the time of such dissolution, without joining the corporation in such suit, and if judgment be rendered, and execution satisfied, the defendant or defendants may sue all who were
stockholders at the time of dissolution, for the recovery of the
portion of such debt for which they were liable, and the execution upon the judgment shall direct the collection to be made
from property of each stockholder, respectively, and if any
number of stockholders (defendants in the case) shall not have
property enough to satisfy his or their portion of the execution,
then the amount of deficiency shall be divided equally among
all the remaining stockholders, and collections made accordingly, deducting from the amount a sum in proportion to the
amount of stock owned by the plaintiff at the time the company
dissolved.'
"By a law of Kansas enacted January 11, 1899, sections 32
and 44 aforesaid were repealed, and by sections 14 and 15 it
was provided as follows
"' SEo. 14. That section 32, chapter 23, of the General Statutes of 1868, be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows See. 32. If any execution shall have been issued against
the property or effects of a corporation, except a railway or a
religious or charitable corporation, and there cannot be found
any property upon which to levy such execution, such corportion shall be deemed to be insolvent, and upon application to
the court from which such execution wag issued, or to the judge
thereof, a receiver shall be appointed to close up the affairs of
said corporation. Such receiver shall immediately institute proceedings against all stockholders to collect unpaid subscriptions
to the stock of such corporation, together with the additional.
liability of such stockholders equal to the par value of the stock
held by each. All collections made by the receiver shall be
held for the benefit of all creditors, and shall be disbursed in
such manner and at such times as the court may direct. Should
the collections made by the receiver exceed the amount necessary to pay all claims against such corporation, together with all

EVANS v. NELLIS.
Statement of the Case.

costs and expenses of the receivership, the remainder shall be distributed among the stockholders from whom collections have
been made, as the court may direct, and in the event any stockholder has not paid the amount due from him the stockholders
making payment shall be entitled to an assignment of any judgment or 3udgments obtained by the receiver against such stockholder, and may enforce the same to the extent of his proportion of claims paid by them.
"1SEc. 15. That section 46, chapter 23, of the General Statutes of 1868, be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows Sec. 46. The stockholders of every corporation, except
railroad corporations or corporations for religious or charitable
purposes, shall be liable to the creditors thereof for any unpaid
subscriptions, and in addition thereto for an amount equal to
the par value of the stock owfied by them, such liability to be
considered an asset of the corporation in the event of insolvency,
and to be collected by a receiver for the benefit of all creditors.'
"The present action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York by the
receiver of the said The Inter-State Loan and Trust Company,
appointed as aforesaid, against the defendant to recover the
sum of $60,200, alleging his liability as a stockholder and the
owner of the said 602 shares of the said corporation.
"1Upon the foregoing'facts this court desires instructions upon
the following questions.
" Questions of Law.
"1st. Are sections 14 and 15 of the laws of Kansas of 1899
valid legislation in view of the provision of the constitution of
the State of Kansas respecting the individual liability .of the
stockholders of corporations, or are they invalid as subjecting
such stockholders to liabilities other than ' dues from corporations '
"2d. Do~sections 14 and 15 aforesaid contravene the Constitution of the United States by impairing the contractual liability of the defendant previously existing as a stockholder of a
corporation of the State of Kansas 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"3d. Is the plaintiff, as a receiver appointed as aforesaid,
entitled to maintain an action in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York?
"In accordance with the provisions of section 6 of the act of
March 3, 1891, establishing Courts of Appeal, etc., the foregoing questions of law are by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit hereby certified to the Supreme Court."
X9, 1. A. Ste3bins, .M" C. J Evans, XP"P Tecumseh Sherman and Mbfr .B. Stanm for plaintiff in error.
.Afr Andlrew J Wellis, defendant in error, _pro so.
MR. JusTioE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The third question lies at the threshold, and reqires to be
answered before approaching the consideration of the first and
second questions. Tins becomes apparent when it is seen that
if the first and second be answered in such a manner as to sustam the cause of action, the question would yet remain whether
the receiver, appointed as stated, had authority to prosecute the
suit, whilst, on the other hand, if the conclusion be reached that
the receiver was without power to bring the suit-irrespective
of what might be the reply to the two first questions-these
questions become irrelevant and the case is disposed of.
The judgment against the corporation in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Kansas was rendered on
December 31, 1897, prior, therefore, to the enactment of the
Kansas statute of 1899. So, also, the execution was issued and
the receiver appointed prior to the passage of that act. After
the receiver had been appointed, however, and subsequent to
the passage of the act of 1899, the court entered an order, directing the receiver to proceed against "all or any of the stockholders of the Inter-State Loan and Trust Company, from whom,
in his judgment, a recovery can be had to collect all of their
liability as stockholders in said company" Now the authority
to so direct the -receiver must rest upon either the statute of

EVANS v. NELLTS.
Opniou of the Court.

Kansas of 1868, referred to in the certificate, or upon the statute
of 1899. But the right of the receiver of the assets of the corporation to sue under the Kansas law to recover the liability of
a stockholder, cannot be evolved from the act of 1868, since
that act made the liability of the stockholder not an asset of
the corporation, but an asset which the creditor of the corporation alone could recover for his individual benefit, to the extent
required to pay his judgment obtained against the corporation.
In Abbey v Dry Goods Company, 44 Kansas, 415, 418, it was
said, referring to the liability under the act of 1868
"The niture of this liability is peculiar, it seems to have been
created for the exclusive benefit of corporate creditors; the liability rests upon the stockholders of the corporation to respond
to the creditors, for an amount equal to the stock held by each,
and it has been held that the action to enforce this liability can
only be maintained by the creditors themselves, m their own
right and for their own benefit."
The nature and extent of the liability under the Kansas statute of 1868 was so fully reviewed and stated in. Whstman, v 0x
.Bank, 176 U. S. 559, that we content ourselves
ford Tational
with referring to that case as conclusively demonstrating the
proposition previously stated. Tested, then, by the Kansas act
of 1868, it is manifest that the receiver had no authority to bring
this suit even in the courts of the State of Kansas, and he clearly,
therefore, bad no power to prosecute such action in the courts
of another jurisdiction. Indeed, it is manifest that the suit
brought by the receiver which is now under consideration was
not deemed by him to be a suit under the Kansas act of 1868,
since the recovery which he seeks was not the amount of the
judgment rendered in favor of the creditor in the particular suit
wherein the receiver was appointed, but the whole sum of the
stockholder's double liability, which could only be upon the
theory that the receiver was entitled to take such liability as
the receiver of the corporation and as a corporate asset to pay
the debts generally In fact, the foregoing propositions might
have been taken as conceded, sincein the argument at bar the
right of the receiver to sue was upheld, not on the ground that
he was acting under the act of 1868, but that he was proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

in furtherance of and m supposed conformity to the act of 1899.
This contention being in effect rested on the proposition that
although the judgment was rendered and the receiver appointed
before the passage of the act of 1999, the order of the court empowering him to enforce the liability of stockholders was entered
after the enactment of the act of 1899, and therefore conferred
upon the receiver the authority which it is in the argument assumed, he would have had a right to exercise if appointed under
that act.
The question then is, conceding arguendo the proposition that
the receiver was appointed under the act of 1899 and in supposed
conformity to it, was he authorized to prosecute this suit by
virtue of the act of 1899 2 The import of the Kansas act of
1899 and the extent of the powers which it called into being,
were decided by the Supreme Court of Kansas in Wailer v.
Haner,(June 7,1902,) not yet reported in the official reports
but found in the advanced sheets of the 69th Pacific Reporter,
p. 185. In that case two creditors obtained judgment in a
Kansas court against a corporation. Execution having been
issued and returned no property found, one of the creditors
moved for the appointment of a receiver to close up the affairs
of the corporation, which motion was allowed. The receiver
thus appointed brought suit against a stockholder to recover
his unpaid subscription and statutory liability The defendant
filed an answer and a plea in abatement, which, among other
things, we quote from the opinion of the Kansas court, asserted "that the receiver should not be permitted 4o further
prosecute the action against him until all the stockholders were
brought into court, to the end that a final ascertainment of the
debts of the corporation and an adjustment and settlement
of the liabilities of the stockholders to the corporation and as
between themselves might be had. To this plea in abatement
the plaintiff demurred, which demurrer was sustained. Thereafter, upon leave of court, the defendant demurred to the
.petition for the reasons (1) That the plaintiff had no legal
capacity to institute and maintain the present action, (2) that
the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against the defendant, (3) that there is a defect of

EVANS v. NELLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

parties plaintiff, (4) that there is a defect of parties defendant.
This demurrer was overruled, and thereafter the defendant answered." In reviewing the action of the trial court the Supreme Court of Kansas said
"Prior to the enactment of chapter 10, Laws of 1898, the
creditor of a business corporation, other than a railway or bank,
might proceed against the individual stockholders only (1) by
motion after judgment and execution against the corporation
returned nulla bona; (2) by action after dissolution, either by
expiration of time, judgment of dissolution, or suspension of
business for more than one year, as provided in sections 32,46,
Corp. Act, 1868. Chapter 10 of the Laws of 1898 repealed said
sections 32 and 46, and substituted therefor sections 14 and 15."
The sections of the act of 1899 referred to are those set out
in the certificate of the court below The court then further
said that it was obvious that the act of 1899 created an "entirely different remedy from that provided by the act of 1868,"
and declared, referring to the act of 1899, that "there exists
no other statute by which the creditor of an insolvent or dissolved corporation may proceed against its stockholders. It
follows, therefore} that if a creditor desires to make a stockholder respond for, tbe debts of the corporation he must proceed against him in the mode prescribed and no other." Proceeding, then, to test the right of the receiver to sue, by the
act of 1899, the court held that, as he had not brought a suit
against the corporation and all the resident stockholders, in
order in such suit to -fix the sum required to pay the corporate
debts, he, the receiver, was wholly without authority under
the statute to make any demand whatever against a stockholder,
as the previous suit to fix the sum required to pay the debts
was an essential prerequisite under the statute to any action by
a receiver appointed under the act of 1899 against a stockholder.
Summing up its view of the act of 1899, the court said
"This act provides a complete system for collecting the assets
and paying the debts of an- insolvent corporation, and of adjusting the liabilities of the stockholders between themselves.
To do this the receiver must bring in all stockholders that are
within the jurisdiction of the court, that in one proceeding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

court may ascertain and determine the indebtedness of the corporation, the amount each stockholder should pay, and, if one
has paid more than his proportion, award him such relief against
the other stockholders as may appear just. The receiver having failed to comply with this plain statutory requirement, the
demurrer to the plea in abatement should have been overruled."
It therefore follows that there was no authority conferred
by the act of 1899 of Kansas, from which the right of th" receiver to bring the suit which is now before us, can be deduced.
It having been heretofore demonstrated that there was no such
right under the 'act of 1868, and as there is no such power under the act of 1899, it follows necessarily that the receiver was
without -any authority whatever, and the third question must
be answered no. Of course, in answering this question we express no opinion whatever as to how far, if at all, the act of
1899 could validly operate to repeal the right of action in favor
of creditors given by the Kansas statute of 1868, so far, as
creditors are concerned, whose debts accrued prior to the repeal. We of course also express no opinion whatever upon the
question of how far the rights and remedies conferred by the
act of 1899, could lawfully be enforced against stockholders in
corporations who became such stockholders prior to the passage
of that act. And this of course excludes the intimation of any
opinion as to how far a judgment rendered in a court of Kansas in a suit brought by a receiver against the corporation and
the resident stockholders, to fix the sum required to pay the
corporate debts, would be binding upon non-resident stockholders not directly a party to such action especially where
their subscription to stock had been made prior to the enactment of the act of 1899.
The thwd question will be answered no, agzd it w unnecessary
to answer the other questiow.

