KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RY CO. v. HERMAN.

63

Statement of the Case.

As our jurisdiction over the judgments and decrees of state
courts in suits in which the validity of statutes of the United
States is drawn in question can only be exercised, under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, when the decision is against
their validity the writ of error cannot be maintained. Xssou
v. Andrzano, 138 U. S. 496, Rae v Homestead .oan and Cuaranty Company, 176 U. S. 121.
Writ of error dismmssed.

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RAILWAY COMPANY ,. HERMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 321. Submitted October 20, 1902.-iDecided November 3,19lg.
While an action commenced in a state court against two defendants, one of
whom is a resident and the other a non-resident, may be removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States by the non-resident defendant if it can
be shown that the cause of action is separable and the resident defendant is joined fraudulently for the purpose of preventing the removal of
the cause to the Federal court, such removal cannot be had if it doesnot
appear that the resident defendant, is fraudulently joined for such purpose.
This rule will be adhered to even if on the trial of the action the lower
court holds that no evidence was given by the plaintiff tending to show
liability of the resident defendant, and a second application for removal
from the state to the Federal court has been mcde and denied after a trial.
and the trial court has sustained a demurrer to the evidence as to the
resident defendant, andwhere it appears that the ruling was on the merits
and zn vnvititm.
Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, 169 U. S. 02, distinguished,
and Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635, followed.
Where a fraudulent joinder of defendants is averred by the party petitioning for removal and is specifically denied, the petitioner has the affirmative of the issue.

Tis was an action brought by Andrew Herman, a minor,
by his next friend, in the Court of Common Pleas of Wyandotte County, Kansas, September 18, 1897, against the Union

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Terminal Railway Company, a corporation of Kansas, and the
Kansas City Suburban Belt Railway Company, a corporation
of Missouri, to recover damages for injuries inflicted through
their joint or concurrent negligence.
The Belt Railway Compaliy, October 18, 1897, filed a verified
petition and bond for removal in proper form on the ground of
a separable controversy, which petition alleged the controversy between plaintiff and petitioner to be distinct and separable from that between plaintiff and the Union Terminal Railway Company, on these grounds
"1. Defendant, The Union Terminal Railway Company,
owns, repairs and maintains the railroad mentioned in plaintiff's petition. Your petitioner has no interest therein, except
that it has leased same and pays certain yearly rental for the
use of said tracks. All of the locomoti'es, engines and cars
running over said railroad are the property of your petitioner,
or subject to its control. Defendant Terminal Company has
no control over the operation. of trains and has no employes
in train service. Defendant The Union Terminal Railway Company is responsible for the condition of the track and your petitioner, and none other, for the acts and doings of all persons
operalig trains.
"2. The plaintiff herein has declared upon two distinct causes
of action First for maintaining a defective switch, and second for negligent operation of a train of cars, the first of
which, if true, is negligence chargeable against defendant The
Union Terminal Railway Company, and the second, if true, is
negligence chargeable against your petitioner.
"3. The train of cars mentioned in the petition was operated
by your' petitioner as averred. All of the parties in charge
thereof were in your petitioner's employ and none other.
"4. By reason of the foregoing your petitionersays that whatever cause- of action plaintiff has for negligent operation of said
railroad train lies against your petitioner exclusively"
The application for removal was heard February 5, 1898,
and upon argument denied. The Belt Company thereupon
filed a transcript of the record in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, and plaintiff made a

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RY. CO..v. HERMAN'. 65;
Statement
of the Case.
I

motion to remand, which was sustained by the Circuit Court,
day
and the cause remanded to the state court "on^ the of May, 1898." Each of the two railroad companies defendant
then filed its separate demurrer, May 28, 1898, assigning as
causes, misjoinder of parties,'and that plaintiff had not stated
a cause of action or facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against it. These demurrers, were severally overriled,
and the'defendants severally answered. The cause came on
for trial October 18, 1898, and on October 20, at the plose of
the evidence for plaintiff,,each company filed its separate demurrer to the evidence on the ground that the same was not
sufficient to establish a cause of action against it. Tle court
sustained the demurrer of the-Terminal Company, the Kansascorporation, and entered j udgment in its favor, to which ruling
of the court plaintiff at the time excepted, and the court
overruled the demurrer of the Belt Company, the Missouri
corporation, to which ruling the Belt Company excepted.
Thereupon the Belt Company filed a second verified petition
for removal, which, after rehearsing the prior proceedings,
thus continued"
"And the defendant further says that no evidence was
offered or introduced by plaintiff or attempt made to show a
-cause of action against said Union Terminal Railway Company,
that said Union Terminal Railway Company was joined with
this defendant fraudulently and for the sole purpose of preventing a removal of this cause to the Circuit, Court of the
United States, and with no purpose or intent of attempting to
show any cause of action against it.
"This defendant now here shows to the court that there' is
a separable controversy and that the plaintiff's cause of action
exists against the defendant alone and in nowise against the
said defendant, The Union Terminal Railway Company That
no cause of action ever existed against. the defendant, The
Union Terminal Railway Company, as plaintiff at all times
well knew"
In response to this petition plaintiff filed without objection
an affidavit, which stated, among other things, that it was not
true "that plaintiff joined the Union Terminal Railway ComVOL. OLXXXVII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

pany as defendant therein fraudulently or for the purpose of
giving this court jurisdiction of the petitioner, but on the contrary, plaintiff avers that said action was brought in good
faith against both defendants as joint tort feasors, and that
plaintiff believed in good faith that he has a joint cause of
action against both defendants, and had subpoenas issued for
witnesses to prove directly the responsibilities of the Union
Terminal Railway Company for the injuries sustained by
plaintiff, but that on account of the removal of a witness from
the State, plaintiff was at the last moment unable to obtain
certain testimony, which, if introduced, would have tended to
prove the joint liability of said defendants. That plaintiff has
excepted to the ruling of the court sustaining a demurrer to
the evidence on the part of the Union Terminal Railway Company in the trial of this case, for the purpose of preserving his
rights in this action against both of said defendants jointly"
And it was further stated that counsel had relied on the production, on notice which had been given, of "writings showing
the relations existing between the two defendant companies in
the operation and maintenance of their lines of railroad where
the injuries were received," and on an agreement with counsel
for both of the defendants to admit the facts as to the relations between said confipanies, which, when it was too late to
adduce other testimony, was not fulfilled.
The application for removal was overruled, and the Belt
Company excepted, but took no bill of exceptions embodying
the evidence to which the demurrers had been directed. The
trial then proceeded, and resulted in a disagreement of the
jury
Plaintiff subsequently filed an amended petition reducing the
damages claimed to less than $2000, and the cause was again
tried, and resulted in a verdict and judgment iifavor of plaintiff for $1500. The cause was carried to the Kansas Court of
Appeals and the judgment affirmed, and thence to the Supreme
Court of Kansas with like result. Eansas City Suburban Belt
1adlway Company v Herman et al., 68 Pac. Rep. 46.
A writ of error from this court was then allowed by the
Chief Justice of Kansas, and citation issued to and acknowledged

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RY. CO. u. HERMAN.

67

Opinion of the Court.

on behalf of Herman, and the Union Terminal Railway Company The case was submitted ojn motions to dismiss, or
affirm.
.AtY. Gardiner ZathrTp, .Y" Thomas R. . AYrrow and .r.
Samuel W .Afoo re for plaintiff in error. .Mf- John W Box
was with them on the brief.
.r Silas Porter for defendant in error.
was with him on the brief.

_-2' W B.B Sutton

making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
31R. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after

The question is whether the state court erred in denying the
second application for removal, and in view of our previous
ruling in respect of such applications we think there was color
for the motion to dismiss. And reference to two recent decisions of this court will indicate the reasons for our conclusion
that the motion to affirm must be sustained.
In Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohzo Railway C(omvan y, 169
U. S. 92, the railroad company filed its petition for removal on
the groands of separable controversy, and that its co-defendants
were fraudulently and improperly joined in order to defeat the
company's right of removal. The transcript of the record of
the state court was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and a motion to remand was sustained for want of separable controversy Thereafter, when the case was called for
trial in the state court, plaintiff discontinued his action against
the co-defendants, and the company filed a second petition for
removal, which was denied. The company then, again filed a
transcript of the record of the proceedings in the Circuit Court,
and plaintiff again moved to remand, and the Circuit, Court,
being of opinion that plaintiff had fraudulently joined the codefendants in order to defeat the removal and was estopped to
deny that the second petition for removal was filed in time,
denied the motion to remand. 65 Fed. Rep. 129. Final judgment was afterwards rendered in the company's favor, and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error was sued out from this court on the sole ground
that the cause had not been properly removed into the Circuit
Court. The judgment was affirmed, and it was held that
"when this plaintiff discontinued his action as against the mdividual defendants, the case for the first time became such a one
as, by the express terms of the statute, the defendant railway
company was entitled to remove, and therefore its petition
for removal, filed immediately upon such discontinuance, was
filed in due time." But we did not pass upon the questions of
fraudulent joinder and estoppel because the application was
seasonably made, and stated sufficient ground for removal
apart from fraud.
In TFAtcomb v Smithson, 175 U S. 635, the action had been
brought by Smithson, in a Minnesota court, against the.Chicago
Great Western Railway Company and H. F Whitcomb and
Howard Morris, receivers of the Wisconsin Central Railroad
Company, to recover for personal injuries inflicted, while he
was serving the Chicago company as a locomotive fireman, in
the collision of the locomotive on which he was at work, 4nd
another locomotive -operated by Whitcomb and 'Morris as receivers. The Chicago company answered the complaint and
the receivers filed a petitin for the removal of the cause into
the Circuit Court of the United States for Minnesota, alleging
diverse citizenship, that they were officers of the United States
court, that the controversy was separable, and that the railway company was fraudulently made a party to prevent removal. Plaintiff answered the petition and asserted that the
company was made party defendant in-good faith, and not for
that purpose. An order of removal was entered and the cause
sent to the Circuit Court, whiQh and thereafter remanded it to
the state court. Trial was had, and after the testimony was
closed counsel for the Chicago company moved that the jury-be
instructed to return a verdict in behalf of. that defendant, which
motion was granted. The )receivers then presented a petition
for removal, but the court denied the application, and exception
was taken. The court thereupon instructed the jury to return
a verdict in favor of the Chicago company, which was done,
and ,the cause went to the jury, which returned a verdict against

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RY CO. tf. HE9RAN.

69

Opinion of the Court.

the receivers and assessed plaintiff's damages. Judgment was
entered on th0 verdict, and subsequently affirmed by,the -Supreme Court of Minnesota on appeal, and a writf of erroi was
sued out from this court. Motions to dismiss or affirm were
submitted, and we held that there was color for the motion to
dismiss, and affirmed the judgment. We .there said.. "The
contention here is that when the trial court determined to direct
a verdict in favor of the Chicago Great Western Railway Company, the result was that the case stood as if the receivers had
been sole defendants, and that they then acquired a right of
removal which was not concluded by the previous action of the
Circuit Court. This might have been so if when the cause
was called for trial in the state court-plaintiff had discontinued
his action against the railway company, and thereby elected
to prosecute it against the receiers solely, instead of prosecuting it on the joint cause of action set up in the complaint
against all the defendants. Powers v. Okesapeaoe- & Ohio
Railway, 169 U. S. 92. But that is not this case. The joint
liability was insisted on here to the close of the trial, and the
non-liability of the railway compahy was ruled M snvitum."
It vas pointed out' that the ruling of the trial court "was a
ruling on the merits and not a ruling on the question of jurisdiction. It was adverse to plaintiff, and without his assent,"
and the trial court rightly held that it did not operate to make
the cause then removable and thereby to enable the other defendants to prevent plaintiff from taking a verdict against
them. The right to remove-was not.contingenit on the aspect
the case may have assumed on the facts developed on the merits
of the issues tried." We held also that the judgment of the
Circuit Court in remanding the cause, when removed on the
first application, covered the question of fact as to good faith
in the joinder, and added that "assuming, without deciding,
that that contention could have been properly renew~d under
the circumstances, it is sufficient to say that the record before
usdoes not sustain it."
It will be perceived that In Powers v- Railway Company,
two applications for removal were made, they were severally
denied, and the record was filed in the Circuit Court of the

OCTOBER rERMi, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

United States in each instance. Remand was granted on the
first removal and denied as to the second. Plaintiff voluntarily
discontinued his action against the company's co-defendants before trial, thereby leaving the case pending between citizens of
different States, and no necessity to dispose of the issue as to
fraudulent joinder arose.
In Smithson v WTktcomb two applications for removal were
made and they were severally denied, but the record was filed
in the Circuit Court of the United States only on denial of the
first application, and the case was only once remanded. Plaintiff did not discontinue his action against either of the defendants and went to trial against both, and the trial court directed
a verdict i'favor of one of them. The ruling was on the merits
and in &nvitum.
In the case at bar, two applications for removal were made,
and they were severally denied, but the record was filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States only on the demal of the
first application, and the case was only once remanded. Plaintiff did not discontinue as to either of the defendants and went
to trial against both, and the trial court sustained in favor of
one of them a demurrer to the evidence. Here again the ruling
was on the merits and sn snvitum.
The first petition in' terms raised no issue of fraudulent joinder, but the second petition did. Was that issue seasonably
raised, and, if so, ought the case to have been removed? The
second petition did not state when petitioner was-first informed
of the alleged fraud, but left it to inference that it was not until
after plaintiff had introduced his evidence, notwithstanding the
averments m the first petition.
But apart from this, the averments of fraud were specifically
denied, and, so far as this record discloses, the petitioner, who
had the affirmative of the issue, failed to make out its case.
.Plymouth _Mintng Company v Ainado' Cdnal Company, 118
U S. 26&, 270.
Doubtless the general rule is that issues of fact raised on
petitions for removal should be tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States, but petitioner did not file the record in the Circuit Court, and as the issue was correctly disposed of, it would

DREYER r -ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

be absurd to send the case back to be removed for the purpose
of being remanded, and we are obliged to deal with the record
as it is. Nor was the evidence introduced on plaintiff's behalf,
and demurred to, made part of the record, and the bare fact
that the trial court held it insufficient to justify a verdict
against the Terminal Company was not conclusive of bad faith.
The trial court may have erred in its ruling, or there may haye
been evidence which, though insufficient to sust.in a verdict,
would have shown that plaintiff had reasonable ground for a
bona ide belief in the liability of both defendants. In these
circumstances, the case comes within Smithson v WF/zcomb,
and the judgment must be
4ffir ned.

DREYER v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 37. Argued and submitted April 18, 1902.-Decided, November 10, 1902.
Dreyer was convicted in a state court of Illinois for having failed to turn
over, as required by statute, to his successor in office, certain revenues,
bonds, funds, warrants and personal property, that came into his hands
as Treasurer of aBoard of Public Park Cmmissioners. The judgment of
conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the accused
was sentenced to the penitentiary.
By a statute of Illinois it was provided: "When the jury retire-to consider
of their verdict, in any criminal case, a constable or other officer shall
be sworn or affirmed to attend the jury to some private and convenient
place, and to the best of his ability keep them together without meat or
drink (water excepted) unless by leave of court, until they shall have
agreed upon their verdict, nor suffer others to speak to, them, and that
when they shall have agreed upon their verdict he will return them into
court." In this case the statute was not complied with, but objection
on that ground was first made on a motion for new trial.
The accused in this case was sentenced to the penitentiary, and the warden
was commanded to confine him in safe and secure custody, from and
after the delivery thereof, " until discharged by the State Board of, Pardons, as authorized and directed by law, provided such term of impris-

