MOBILE TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.
Sylabus.

and an agreement to hold the policy until the performance of
those conditions, or a failure to perform, cannot, as we think,
result in any serious inconvenience to the company But
whether that is so or not-cannot alter the right of an individual
to refuse to be bound by a policy of insurance until he has absolutely received and accepted it.".
For these reasons we are of opinion that the facts found show
that there was no final and absolute delivery of the policies,
that the condition upon which they were deposited with the
agent of the insured failed, and, therefore, that at the timie of
the fire there was no subsisting contract of indemnity between
the company and the insured.
The judgment qf the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to that court with instructions to set aside
stsudgment and enter one affirmzng the judgment of the
trial court.
MR. JusTiCE BROwN

concurred in the result.

MOBILE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v. MOBILE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 62. Argued November 3, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

1. A motion to dismiss for want of a Federal question cannot be sustained
when the title involved depends upon a Spanish grant claimed to have
been perfected under the treaty of 1819 with Spain, and a patent of the
United States in alleged confirmation of such claim.
2. It has been conclusively settled by this court that the State of Alabama,
when admitted to the Union, became entitled to the soil under the navigable waters below high water mark within the limits of the State, not
previously granted. Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212.
The act of the legislature of Alabama of January 31,1867, conveying to- the
city of Mobile the shore and soil under Mobile River is not unconstitutional
as impairing vested rights of owners of grants bordering on Mobile River,
as the rule in Alabama that agrant by the United States of lands bordering on a navigable river includes the shore or bank of such river and ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
tends to the water line at low water, does not relate to land bordering
on tidal streams.
As the State held the-lands under water below high water mark as trustee
for the public it had the right to devolve the trust upon the city of Mobile.
3. All the land below high water mark having passed to Alabama on her
admission to the Union in 1819, there was nothing left upon which a
patent of the United States dated in 1836, could operate, and the person
claiming to hold land below high water mark under said patent has no
vested interest in such laud, which would require compensation or proceedings in eminent domain on the part of the State to take such lands.
There is a difference between the legislature of a State granting land beneath navigable waters of the State, and below high water mark, to a
private railroad corporation and granting it. to a municipal corporation
whose mayor, aldermen and common council are created and declared
trustees to hold, possess, direct, control and manage the shore and soil
granted in such manner as they may deem best for the public good.
Illinois Central i. 1. Co. v. Illinots, 146 U. S. 387, distinguished.

While this court can decide as an original question the power of a State to
convey property to a corporation, when the case comes from the Circuit
Court of the United States, if the case comes up on writ of error to a
state court, and the highest court of the State has itself put a construction upon an act of its own legislature, and upon its conformity to the
constitution of the State, the decision of such court upon those questions
is obligatory on this court.
Defences appearing on the record in this case, which are of a local nature,
present no Federal question.

THis was an action in ejectment brought in the state Circuit

Court by the city of Mobile against the Mobile Transportation
Company, to recover a portion of the shore and bed of the Mobile River in the city of Mobile, between high water mark and
the channel line or point of practical navigability
In support of its title the city relied upon the following acts
1. An act of Congress approved March 2, 1819, entitled "An
act to enable the people of Alabama Territory to form a con-stitution and state. government, and for the admission of such
State into the Union on an equal footing with the original
States." 3 Stat. 489.
2. An ordinance-of the convention of Alabama adopted August 2, 1819, accepting the proposition offered by Congress.
Code of Alabama, 1876, p. 68.
3. A resolution of Congress of December 14, 1819, declaring

MOBILE. TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.

481

Counsel for Parties.

the admission of the State into the Umon, with a cQnstitution
which had been adopted by.the State. 3 Stat. 608.
4. An act of the general assembly of Alabama, approved
January 31., 1867, entitled "An act granting the city of Mobile
the riparian rights in the river front." Acts of 1866-1867., p. 307.
5. An act of the assembly, approved February 18, 1895, entitled "An act to fix the right of the city of Mobile to certain
real estate." Acts of -1894-1895, p. 815.
6. An act approved December 5, 1896, Acts of 1896-1897,
p. 49, amending the last act.
Several acts respecting the incorporation of the city of Mobile, unnecessary to be considered, were also offered in evidence.
It was admitted that defendant was in possession of the lands.
Defendant pleaded the statute of limitations, and offered in
evidence certain "Documents, legislative and executive, of the
Congress of the United States, in relation to the public lands,
from the first session of the First Congress to the first session
of the Twenty-third Congress," and particularly that relating
to the claim of one Regis Bernoudy, who claimed under a Spanish grant made March 3, 1792, to Joseph M unora, together with
evidence of the report of the-land commissioner in favor of-his
claim, and a patent of the United States dated December 28,
1836, to the assignees of Bernoudy, wherein it was recited that
the claim of Bernoudy (entered as No. 11) was affirmed, had
been surveyed, and was by such title granted unto his assignees.
The defendant also offered an unbroken chain of deeds from
these assignees to the Transportation Company, as well as proof
of an adverse possession of the lands described in the complaint,
under a color of right, for twenty years before bringing suit.
All this evidence was excluded by the Circuit Court, whose
action in that particular was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 128 Alabama, 335.
A, .Bredemck G Bromburg for plaintiff in error.
gene H. Lewzs was with him on the brief.

2r Eu-

.Mf Harry T. Smith for defendant in error. .Arb Gregory
L. Smith was with him on the brief.
VOL. oLxxxvii-31

OCTOBER TERfI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
31R. JfsvsTi
delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Motion was made to dismiss this writ of error for the want
of a Federal question, but in view of the fact that defendanL's
title depends upon a Spanish grant claimed to have been perfected under the treaty of 1819 between the United States and
the King of Spain, 8 Stat. 252, and a patent of the United
States dated December 28, 1836, m alleged confirmation of
such claim, we do not see how such motion can be sustained,
unless upon the theory that the Federal questions so raised are
frivolous and undeserving of further notice. We are of opmion that they cannot be so considered, and the motion to dismiss
must therefore be denied.
There are fifty-eight assignments of error, none of which require separate consideration, since all turn upon the respective
titles of the parties to the land m question. As the plaintiff in
an action of ejectment is bound to recover upon the strength
of his own title, we shall first consider the several objections
made to the title of the city
2. That the State of Alabama, when admitted into the Union, became entitled to the soil under the navigable waters,
below high water markc within the limits of the State, not previously granted, was so conclusively settled by this court in
Po~llrd's Lessee v tfagan, 3 How 212, as to need no further
consideration. This was also an action of ejectment for lands
below high water mark in the city of M[obile. The plaintiffs insisted that, by the compact between the United States
and Alabama, on her admission into the Union, it was agreed
that the people of Alabama forever disclaimed all right or title
to the waste or unappropriated lands lying within the State,
that the same should remain at the sole disposal of the United
States, and that all the navigable waters within the State
should forever remain public highways, and hence, that the
lands under the navigable waters, and the public domain above
high water, were alike reserved to the United States, and alike
subject to be sold by them;' and that, to give any other construction to these compacts, would- be to yield up to Alabama,

MOBILE TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.

483

Opinion of the Court.

and the other new States, all the public land within their limits.
This court, however, held that, when Alabama was admitted
into the Union, on an equal footing with the original States,
she succeeded to all the rights of sovereignty, jurisdiction and
eminent domain which Georgia possessed at the time she ceded
the Territory of Alabama to the United States, and that nothing remained to the latter, according to the terms of the' agreement, but the public lands. In summing up its conclusions the
court held "First, the shores of navigable waters, and the soils
under them, were not granted by the Constitution to the Uiited
States, but were reserved to the States respectively Secondly,
the neiv States have the same rights, sovereignty, and jurisdiction over this subject as the original States. Thirdly, the right
of the United States to the public lands, and the power of Congress to make all' needful rules and regulations for the sale and
disposition thereof, conferred no power to grant to the plaintiffs the land in controversy in this case."
The Supreme Court of Alabama having approved a charge
to the jury that "if they believed the premises sued for were
below the usual high water mark, at the time Alabama was
admitted into the Union, then the act of Congress" (passed
in July, 1836, confirming the title of the plaintiff) "and the
patent in.pursuance thereof, could give the plaintiffs no title,"
its judgment was affirmed. The opinion of the court was pro.
nounced in 1844.
Prior to this time, however, and in 1839, the Supreme Court
of Alabama in the case of 3fayor &c. of .Moile v &Zlava,
9 Porter; 577, had also held that the navigable waters within
that State, having been dedicated to the use of the citizens of
the United States, it was not competent for Congress to grant
a right of property in the same, and that the navigable waters
extended not only to low water, but embraced all the soil
within the limits of high water mark. This case was also
affirmed by this court, 16 Pet. 234, though the case as here
presented did not turn upon the rights of -the State to land beneath its navigable waters below high water mark.
This was also declared to be the doctrine of the Supreme
Court of Alabama as late as 1853, when in XMagee v. Yalleft,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinon of the Court.

22 Alabama, 699, it was held that, if the Mobile River were
the eastern boundary of the grants in question, the lines could
not under the decisions of that court, as well, as those of the
Supreme Court of the United States, extend beyond high water
mark at that time, citing Pollar'esJHRws v Tor2 , 3 Alabama,
291, affirmed as above stated in 3 How 212, Abbot'8 E lr' v.
.Kennedy, 5 Alabama, 393, and Goodtitle v E-bbe, 9 How. 471.
Tins last case was little more than an affirmance of Pollard v.
.Zaga.
On January 31, 1867, the general assembly of Alabama
passed "An act granting the city of Mobile the riparian rights
in the river front," the first section of which enacted that " the
shore and the soil under Mobile River, situated within the
boundary lines of the city of Mobile, as defined and set forth
in section two of 'An act to incorporate the city of Mobile,'
approved February 2, 1866, be, and the same is hereby granted
and delivered to the city of Mobile."
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That the mayor, aldermen
and common council of the city of Mobile be, and are hereby
created and declared trustees to hold, possess, direct, control
and manage the shore and soil herein granted, in such manneras they may deem best for the public good."
In Boulo v NYew Orleans &c. R. R. Co., 55 Alabama, 480,
decided in 1875, it was also held that the title to the shore of
all tide-water streams resides in the State, for thebenefit of the
public, and its use by the public for the purpose of commerce
was not only permissible, but in accordance with the trust annexed to the title. The place in contro.versy was a slip beneath
two wharves, but whether it was covered at high tide by the
water of the river was a fact about which the evidence conflicted, though the court inclined to the opinion that land had
been-formed which was not usually covered by water at high
tide. It was held the title was in the State.
In Williams v Glover, 66 Alabama, 189, part of the land in
controversy was an island in the Tennessee River. Some
twelve acres of the tract lay between high and low water
marks, and was covered with water in high floods. The court
held that the ownership of the plaintiff extended to the margin

MOBILE TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.
Opimon of the Court.

of the water at its ordinary stage, and hence embraced the land
between high and low water marks. As the Tennessee River
is not a tidal stream, but empties into the Mississippi far to the
north of Alabama, the court in using the words " between high
and low water marks" must have had reference to the difference between the river at floods and at its ordinary stage. INo
reference was made to the prior authorities xespecting tide
waters.
In City of Demopo~s v. Webb, 87 Alabama, 659, the case did
not turn upon the ownership of land below high water mark,
although the court, in delivering the opinion, said "Under our
decisions, when a person own lands on a navigable river his
ownership is held to extend so far as to embrace the land between high and low water marks," citing Williams v. Glover,.
66 Alabama, 189, which, as before stated, related to land upon
an island in the Tennessee River and not upon a tidal stream.
The land in question was in the city of Demopolis, on the Tombigbee River, a navigable stream emptying into the Bay of
Mobile, and at this point apparently far above the tidal effect.
In the same case afterwards before the court on its merits,
Webb v. gemnopoli8, 95 Alabama, 116, the court held that
whether a grant of the Untdd States to land lying on a navigable stream within the limits of a State extends to high or to
low water mark or to the middle thread of the stream, was not
a Federal but a local question, citing Barney v Zeoku, 94 U
S. 324, Packer v Bird, 137 U" S. 661, St. Louws v Rutz, 138
U. S. 226, Hardin v. Jrdan,140 U. S. 371, and K¢akauna
Co. v Green, Bay &c. Canal Co., 142 U S. 255, and also held
that "the rule which this State has adopted and declared
through tbhis court is that a grant by the United States to land
bordering on a navigable river includes the shore or bank of
such river, and extends to the water line thereof at low water."
In none of the-above cases cited from our reports were the
lands situated within tide waters.
Relying upon these cases from the Supreme Court of Alabama,
the Transportation Company attacks the constitutionality of theact of January 31, 1867, conveying to the city of Mobile the
shore and soil under Mobile River, "because the- act impairs

OCTOBER TERINL 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

vested rights, because riparian rights are property, and because
the rule in Alabama is that a grant by the United States of
lands bordering on a navigable river includes the shore or bank
of such river and extends to the water line at low water."
In this connection the company insists that the decisions above
cited constitute a rule of property in the nature of a contract
with the owners of land adjacent to the Mobile River,
which have been impaired by the construction given to the act
of January 31, 1867, but, as we have already noticed, none of
the cases related to tidal streams.
In its opinion in this case the Supreme Court of Alabama
seems to admit that in Webb v Demopolis, and one or two
other cases relating to the shore line of streams above the ebb
andj ow of tide waters, the-defendant was correct in supposing
that the title of the riparian proprietor extended to low water
mark, but, said the court, "these cases in nowise conflict with
the common law rule so often approved by this court and
other jurisdictions that on streams where the tide ebbs and
flows grants of adjoining lands only extends to the ordinary
high tide line along the shore. The law is definitely settled as
to this point, and it could hardly have been the purpose of the
decision in Webb v Demopolis to disturb this rule of property
supported by a vast array of authorities without making reference to them."
But we are of opinion that there is no conflict between the
cases in Alabama, inasmuch as the cases which hold that the
rights of the riparian proprietor extend only to high water
mark are cases arising upon navigable. tide waters, where the
rise and fall are of daily occurrence, and not usually subject to
much variation in height. In regard to thins class of cases the
rule laid down by the Supreme Court of Alabama m Mayor
&c.of .Mobile v Eslava, 9 Porter, 577, that private ownership
extends only to high water mark, has been consistently adhered
t.o
ever since, and notably so in _enzedy v. Bebee, 8 Alabama,
909, 914, Pollard's lev's v. Greit, 8 Alabama, 930, 94:1,
.Magee v. H-allett, 22 Alabama, 699, -19, Abbot v Kennedy,
5 Alabama, 393, Boulo v Y.ew Orleans &c. R. P2. Co., 55
Alabama, 480, while, upon the other hand, in the cases which

MOBILE TiANSPOIrATION CO. v MOBILE.

487

Opinion of the Court.

hold that private ownership extends to low water mark,
Bullock v. Wilson, 2 Porter, 436, Williarns v. Glover, 66
Alabama, 189, Demopolis v. Web, 87 Alabama, 659, and
Webb v Deemoolis, 95 Alabama, 116, the lands were situated
upon a navigable river far above the tidal influence, an& high
and low water marks were determined, not by the action of
the tfdes, but by the actual rise and fall of the river at different seasons of the year. With regard to this latter class of
cases there is a great conflict of authority in the state courts,
some holding that the rights of the riparian proprietor are
bounded by high water mark, others by low water mark, and
still others by the thread of the stream. Some of these cases
are mentioned in the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley in -ardin
v. Jor'dan, 140 U. S. 371, 382, and a large number of them are
reviewed in part I, chap. 3, of Gould on Waters, where nearly
all the casesseem to be collected.
But even if it were conceded that there had been a change of
opinion in Alabama with respect to riparian rights upon tide
waters, such change by no means raises a case under the contract clause of the Constitution. The status of real estate
within a particular jurisdiction is not so much one of contract
as of policy, which may be changed at any time by the legislature, provided no vested rights are disturbed. Of course,
if riparian proprietors have acquired the title to the property
below high water mark by a grant or prior possesion, good
against the State, they could only be dispossessed by 'proceed:
ings in eminent domain. The act of 1867 declared no more
than that the rights possessed by~the State in the shore and
soil under Mobile River were granted to the city We see
nothing objectionable in this act. What the State held it
held as trustee for the public, and it had a right to devolve
this trust upon the city of Mobile. What it had not it could
not grant, and the rights of the riparian proprietors were
neither enlarged nor restricted by the act. If subsequent cases
have given any construction at all to that act, of which there
seems to be some doubt, such construction would not present
a Federal question, and if the Supreme Court of Alabama had
changed its views with respect to the limit of private owner-

OCTOBER TER f, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ship upon tide waters, its decision in that regard cannot be
reviewed by this court.

Central Land Co. v Lawdy, 159

U. S. '103, Hanford v. Dawes, 163 U. S. 273. Upon the
whole, we are of opinion that there is no defect upon the face
of the title of the city of which the Transportation Company
was entitled to avail itself of.
3. We are next to consider whether the -defendant has a
vested right in these lands which could not be taken from it
without compensation or proceedings in eminent domain.
By the eighth article of the treaty between the United States
and Spain of February 22, 1819, 8 Stat. 252, "all the grants of
land made before the 24th of January, 1818, by His Catholic
Majesty, or by his lawful authorities, in the said territories
ceded by His Majesty to the United States, shall be ratified
and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to the
same extent. that the same grants would be valid if the territories had remained under the dominion of His Catholic AfajIn support of this alleged grant from the King of
esty"
Spain, defendant offered in evidence volume 3 of the American
State Papers, entitled "Documents, legislative and executive,
of the Congress of the United States in relation to the public
lands, from the first session of the First Congress to the first
session of the Twenty-third Congress, March 4, 1789, to June 15,
18342." That part of it relating to the clam of Regis Bernoudy
of the land in quest-ion is printed in the margin.' The difficulty
'Register of claims to land in the district east of Pearl River, in Louisiana,
founded on private conveyances, which have passed through the office of
the commandant, but founded, as the claimant supposes, on grants lost
by time or accident.
(Page 30.)'
Number, 11.
By whom claimed, Regis Bernody.
Original claimant, Joseph Munora.
Where situated, Mobile River.

Quantity claimed, area in arpens, 600.
Cultivation and inhabitation, from 1809 to 1813.
(Page 31.)
(Signed)

WILLIAM CRAWFORD,

Commisszoner

MOBILE -TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.

489

Opinion of the-Court.

with this report is that it contains no grant, but merely a supposition of the claimant that a grant once existed, and had been
lost by time or accident. It is needless to say that this is no
evidence of an actual grant, but a further and even more serious objection to the document is, that it contains no other description of the land granted than that it was 600 arpents in
area, and was situated on the Mobile River, but that no survey
of the land existed.
RimAnis.-Though the original grants upon which the preceding claims
are founded, have been lost, yet it is conceived that the claims to such lands,
not exceeding a reasonable quantity, as were inhabited and cultivated under
the Spanish government, ought to be confirmed.
WILLIAM CRAWFOBD,
(Signed)
Commissioner.
(Page 400.)
No. 9.
Report on the conflicting claims of Joseph McCandless and Regis Bernody,
both of whom claim the same tract of land, and in relation to whose
claims the former commissioner reported favorably.
FormerCommni's Beport.
No. of report, 10.
No. of claim, 11.
By whom claimed, Regis Bernody.
-Original claimant, Joseph S. Munora.
Nature of claim, and from what authority derived, grant lost by time or
accident.
Date of claim, 3 March, 1792.
Quantity claimed, area in arpens, 000.
Where situated, iobile River.
By whom issued, Carondelet.
Surveyed, no survey.
Cultivation and inhabitation, from 1809 to 1813.
Report 10, claim 11.-The claim of Regis Bernody is'founded on a conveyance made to him by Joseph Gaspar Munora, at Pensacola, which
passed through the office of the commandant, as all authentic conveyances
must have done in the Spanish posts of the intendancy, and recognizes the
original grant or concession of the same made by the Baron de Carondelet
in favor of said Munora,on the 3d March, 1792, which grant was produced by
Munora on the day of the execution of the conveyance to Bernody. The
proof of the inhabitation and cultivation by Bernody (until forcibly expelled by McCandless) is complete, and the inference is strong that Munora,

OCTOBER TERM, '1902.
Opmion of the Court.

Apparently in confirmation of this claim defendant also
offered m evidence a patent of the United States, dated December 28, 1836, wherein it was recited that this claim bad
been confirmed by acts of Congress passed in 1819 and 1822,
and that it had been surveyed. Referring to these acts of
Congress we find that both contain a proviso that the confirmations and-grants provided to be made by the acts "shall
amount only to a relinquishment forever, on the part of the
United States, of any claim whatever to the tract of land so
confirmed or granted." Had this patent been issued before
the admission of Alabama into the Umon, it would be difficult
to see why it did not convey a perfect title, but it was fully
settled by this court with respect to these titles in Pollard'8
Lessee v ffaganz, 3 How 212-; Goodtitle v. Zibe, 9 How 471,
and Doe v Beebe, 13 How 25, that, inasmuch as all lands below high water mark had passed to the State of Alabama upon
her admission into the Union in 1819, there was nothing left
upon which a subsequent patent of the United States could
operate.
There are other defences presented by the record in this
case, such as that of estoppel, by reason of improvements made
upon -this land with the acquiescence of the city, license to
build a wharf, and payment of taxes, the unconstitutionality
of the apt of 1867, because the title of the act does not describe
its subject, want of power in the State to convey its title to
the grantee, did comply with the essential conditions of the grant, inasmuch as the instructions of Morales expressly charge the notaries and
commandants not to pass any conveyances of lands, where the conditions
of the grant were not previously proven to have been complied with; and,
independently of this consideration, the declaration of Munora, in the conveyance to Bernody, that it was "the same land that Antoio Espejo
worked with his permission," made, too, at a time when it could not be
imagined that any rival claim would arise, furnishes a violent presumption
that the lapd was inhabited or cultivated by or for Munora agreeably to
the Spanish regulations. A-full report of all the evidence presented by
the conflicting claimants is herewith preseitted.
Upon the best view we have been able to take of the relative merits of
these claims, we are decidedly of opinion that the claim of Joseph MCCandless ought to be rejected, and that 6f Regis Bernody confirmed.
N
W. BA TON, Register.

JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIME INS. CO.
Syllabus.

the city, and the statute of limitations. These, however, are
ill of a local nature and present no Federal question.
In connection with the power of -the State to convey its interest in these lands to the city, as it attempted to do by the
act of 1867, much reliance is placed by the Transportation
Company upon the case of the Ilnow Central 1B. 1. Co. v.
illinois, 146 UT. S. 387. This case, however, is inapplicable for
two reasons, first, it turns upon the power of the State to convey its right to the soil beneath the iawigable waters of the
State, and of course below low water mark, not to a municipal
corporation whose officers were "created and declared trustees
to holds possess, direct, control and manage the shore and- soil
herein granted-in such manner as they may deem best for the
public good," but to a private railroad corporation to hold and
control for its own purposes, second, that case came to this court
from the Circuit Court of the United States, which was called
upon to declare as an original question what power the State of
Illinois had to convey the property in question to the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, while this case comes up by writ
of error to the Supreme Court of a State, which has itself put
a construction upon an act of its own legislature and upon its
conformity to the constitution of the State. The decision of
that court upon these questions is obligatory upon us.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is
Affirmed.

JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COM-

PANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No.87. Argued November 12, 902.L-Decided January5,1903.

1. A party claiming a title, privilege or immunity under the Constitution
of the United States within the third clause of § 709 of the Revised Statutes, which must be specially set up and claimed by the party seeking to
take advantage of it, but which cannot be set up in any pleading anterior

