DIAMOND GLUE CO. v. UNITED STATES GLUE CO. 611
Opinion of the Court.
of corporations as a class subject to special restrictions was unjust discrimination or the demal of the-equal protection of the
laws..
Judgment afflrmed.
MR. JuSTICE BREw- and MR. TusTcE PEOKA3x dissented.

DIAMOND GLUE COMPANY v. UMITED STATES GLUE

COMPANY
ERROR TO, THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 119. Argued December 16, 17,1902.-Decided January5, 1903.
A statute of Wisconsin enacted prior to June-25, 189, but which was to go
into operation on September 1, 1898, requiring foreign corporations to
file a copy of thcir charter with the Secretary of State and to pay a small
fee as a condition for doing business there does not impair the obligation
of a contract made on June 25, 1808, by a foreign corporation to do business in Wisconsin after September 1, 1898.
The statute as applied to this case does not interfere unlawfully with interstate commerce, notwithstanding the fact that the business was the production of glue which naturally would be sold outside the State.
The statute originally included foreign partnerships as well as corporations.
Held that the provision as to partnerships was separable and if invalid
for any reason did not affect the remainder of the act.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

MrP EdgarA. Baancroft for pla.intiff in error. I& Samuel
Adams, .Xr Franklin D -Locke and .Ar George H. Noyes were
with him on the brief.
Charle Quarles for defendant in error. 2Ak J. V.
Quarles and Mr George LInes were with him on the brief.
Mr

MR. JusT CE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action upon a written contract alleging a breach

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

and claiming damages. It was brought in the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin by an Illinois corporation against a Wisconsin corporation. On June 25,
1898, the date when the contract was made, a law had been
enacted in Wisconsin, to go into operation later, on September 1, 1898, requiring corporations incorporated elsewhere to
file a copy of their charter with the Secretary of State, and to
pay a small fee as a condition of doing business there. Wisconsin Stat. 1898, §§ 1770b, 4978. This it was admitted that the
plaintiff had not done, and the defendant set up that the contract was a contract to do business in Wisconsin after the statute took effect, and that the defendant was justified by the
statute in declining to go on. The judge sustained this defence,
and the plaintiff excepted, contending that the statute did not
and could not constitutionally affect its rights under the contract in question. 103 Fed. Rep. 838. It brings the case here
by a writ of error.
The contract was one by which it was agreed that the plaintiff should supervise the plans for a glue factory to be built by
the defendant on a site to be selected within sixty days, that it
should have the management of the manufacturing in the same
and should operate it for the defendant, that its officers should
give the factory such personal supervision as might be necessary, and give the defendant in the management and operation
of the factory the benefit of their experience and of the plaintiff's, that the plaintiff should furnish and keep the defendant
supplied with a superintendent, that it should control, handle
and sell the entire output of the factory, that it should refrain
from manufacturing hide or calf glues at any of its own factories, and that it should guarantee payment on all sales made by
it and should receive certain commissions for its services. The
contract was to run for five years from the time that the plant
was finished and began work. It was understood that the .proposed factory was to be in Wisconsin. A site was selected near
Milwaukee, and in a little over a year from the date of the contract, on July 25 or 26, 1899, the plant was built and put in
operation.
The section of the Wisconsin statutes relied on by the de-

DIAMOND .GLUE CO. v. UNJTAI) STATES GLUE CO. 613
dpinon of the Court.

fendant, stated more at' length, forbade corpbratlons organizea
otherwise than under the laws of that State to transact business in the State until they should have filed a copy of their
-charter .with the Secretary of State, which act, by the same
statute, constituted the Secretary of :State the attorney of the
corporation for the service of process. A failure to comply
with any of the provisions of the section subjected the- corporation to a fine. It was provided further that 'every contract
made by such corporation affecting the personal liability thereof or relating to property within the State befor6 compliance
with the section should be wholly void on its b9 half, but should
be enforceable against it. A fee of twenty-five" dollars was to
be paid for filing the charter. See Ashland L4'mber Company
v. Detroit'Salt Co.,' 9 N. W Rep. 904.
According to the undisputed testimony of the plaintiff's vice
president, who executed the contract, the instrument was signed
in Wisconsin, and at all events, if it was executed with a view
to the carrying on of business in that State by the plaintif, the
law of Wisconsin must be applied. Zondon Asr&ncev Cornpanfi& de JXoagens do Bareiro,167 U. S. 149,160,.161, Graves
v. Johnson, 156 Massachusetts, 211. There is no controversy
on this point. But it is said that the contract did not contem'plate the carrying on of business by the plaintiff in Wisconkiu,
that at most it is ambiguous, and that practically it was construed in accordance with the plaintiff's contention. The declaration is on the contract, and by that the plaintiff must stand
or fall. We see no ambiguity in its terms. The plaintiff was
to have the management of the nanufacturnig, was to operate
the factory, or at leaAt to assist in operating it, and to keep it
supplied with a superintendent. It did assist iu operating by its
officers and (lid supply a superintendent, and whether in his
superintendence lie in fact acted as agent for the plaintiff or the
defendant, what the contract required is plain. It called for a
carrying on of business in Wisconsin by the plaintiff at a time
when to carry it on without filing a copy of the plaintiff's charter
was forbidden by the laws of the State. See .M'attual Life lnsurwnce Co. v. S pratky, 172 (1 S. 602, 611. The only complaint of the plaintiff -isthat the defendant refused to perform

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opmon of the Court.

that contract when the plaintiff had filed no copy of its charter
and when the performance was forbidden by the law It is
said, to be sure, that the part refused by the defendant was a
different and lawful portion. But the contract was an entire
contract, as both parties agree, and therefore whatever the defendant had in mind, if it was justified by the law, in refusing
to perform a material part, it was justified in refusing to perform any portion. See .Xc.iullen v Hofman, 174 U S. 639.
It is alleged to have declared the contract at an end. We may
add that it is not a question of election but of the legality of
performance, and therefore the justification could not be waived.
It hardly could be contended that the contract was illegal, on
the ground just stated, when it was made. If indeed it bad
contemplated the plaintiff's going on without complying with
the statute, it would have raised a question which we need not
discuss. But it must be taken to have contemplated legal action,
and if filing a copy of its charter was a conditon precedent of
the plaintiff's right to carry out its undertakings, then a promise
might be implied on its part to take the necessary steps. But
if, when the time came, the plaintiff did not take those steps,
the defendant had the legal right to refuse to go on, whether
its right be put on the ground of the plaintiff's breach of its
implied undertaking or of the illegality of the proposed continuance of the work. The plaintiff contends, however, as we
have said, that the statute did not and could not apply to the
performance of the contract in suit. It will be remembered
that while enacted before the contract was made, it did not go
into effect until afterwards, although before the time when the
factory was or could have been built in the ordinary course of
business. It is said that if the statute is taken to govern the
present contract it impairs the obligation of that contract, and
encounters the United States Constitution, Article I, section 10.
it is assumed that to allow the statute any operation upon the
contract is to give it a retroactive effect, and it is said that for
that reason also plaintiff is not barred.
A prohibition of the doing of business after a statute goes
into effect is not rtroactive with regard to that business, even
thoughthe business be done in pursuance of an earlier contract.

DIAMOND GLUE CO. v.UNITED STATES GLUE CO,615
Opimon of the Court.

The suggestion needing discussion is whether the statute'impairs
the obligation of the contract. We are of opinion that it is not
open to that objection. We leave on one side the question how
the obligation of a contract can be impaired by a law enacted
before the contract was made. Pm-ney v NTelson, 183 IT S. 14-4,
147. Again, we need not consider in its full breadth whether
or how far, notwithstanding Security Savings & Loan Associbtion v. flbert, 153 Indiana, 198, a corporation, by making&a
contract reaching years into the future, can exonerate itself
from all police or license laws, on the ground that by indirection
they make performance of the contract more difficult to an
infinitesimal degree. Compare Curtts v Whitney, 13 Wall.
68, 71, Bedford v Eastern Building & Zoan Assoczatton, 181
U. S.227, 241. We shall advert to parallel considerations in
connection with the alleged interference with commerce between the States. The prohibition in this case is not absolute
but is only conditional on the failure to deposit a copy of the
plaintiff's charter and to pay a small fee. It is merely incident
to a regulation which, but for the contract, unquestionably
would be proper, and which is familiar in the laws of the States.
It can be avoided by compliance with the regulation. We are
not prepared to say that the regulation would be unreasonable
or invalid as to such a contract as this, even if enacted after the
contract was made. But we rest our decision upon the narrower
ground of the foregoing considerations taken m connection with
what we are about to say
The suspension clause of § 4978 was of immediate operation,
and therefore was notice to the plaintiff and defendant of itself
and of what was suspended and for how long.. If with that
notice they contracted for the transaction of business within
the jurisdiction of the statute and after the statute should have
gone into effect, they did so with notice that, if nothing
changed, the contemplated business would be unlawful by force
merely of present conditions and the lapse of time, unless the
plaintiff should comply with the regulation. In such circumstances, at least, it seems to us impossible to say that the obligation of the contract is impaired within the meaning of the
Constitution by the Wisconsin law Statements made with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court:

different intent in some decisions, to the effect that suspended
statutes are to be read as if passed on the day when they go
into operation, do not apply to a case like this. Such statutes
are,to b5e read m that way for the purposes of the operation
which is suspended, but not for all. Stine v. Bennett, 13
Minnesota, 153, 157, Smith v. .orrison, 22 Pick. 430,432,
Ford v Ch'cago -Milk Shipers'Assoczaturn, 155 Illinois, 166,
181.

It is said that the contract in suit, as carried out, was concerned in part with interstate commerce, and therefore was
free from the operation of the Wisconsin statute. The portion
of the contract that called for the carrying on of business m
Wisconsin was not so concerned, and the inseparable provisions
as to selling left it to chance or extrinsic business considerations
whether the contemplated traffic should go outside the State
or not. The foundation of the commerce outside the.State
was doing business with~in it. The superintendence and manufacture had. to come before the sale. The small requirements
of this act before allowing the plaintiff to do business in the
State, if good as to that business taken by itself, are not made
bad by the presence in the contract of an ulterior term which
'the plaintiff might or did intend to carry out by transporting
the products of the business elsewhere. United States v. E. C.
KYnzght Co., 156 U. S. 1, 13, Hokns v United States, 171 U.
S. 578, 592, 594. The interference with the regulation of commerce between the States is more eemote than when a bridge
between two States, or the franchise of a domestic corporation
created with the intent to carry on such commerce, is taxed.
See Jfenderso, B2-tdge Co. v Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592,
622, 623, Central Pacftic Railroad Co. v Californsa,162 U.
S. 91, 119, 125, 126. In modern societies every part is related
so organically to every other, that what affects any portion
must be felt more or less by all the rest. Therefore, unless
everything is to be forbidden and legislation is to come to a
stop, it is not enough to show that, in the working of a statute,
there is some tendency, logically discernible, to interfere with
commerce or existing contracts. Practical lines have to be
drawn and distinctions of degree must be made. See further

IIANLEY r KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY CO.

617

Syllabus.

Kidd v. Pear8on, 128 U S. 1, 21, Coe v .-&rol, 116 U. S. 517,
525, 527, Tredway v Riley, 32 Nebraska, 495.
Yet another objection to the statute remains to be mentioned. At the date of the contract the section applied to
partnerships as well as to corporations. It is argued that the
act, so far as it applied to the former, was contrary to art. 2,
section 4, of the Constitution of the United States, and to the
Fourteenth Amendment, and therefore was invalid throughout.
We shall not consider the validity of the law as applied to unincorporated associations, because, in our opinion, the application of the provision to corporations was severable from and
independent of its application to partnerships, so that even if
in the latter aspect the section was bad, it remained unaffected
and valid so far as this case is concerned. The independence
seems to us obvious on reading the statute, and is emphasized
by the fact that the next year after the enactment, before the
completion of the factory, partnerships were struck out of the
act. Laws of 1899, c. 351, § 27. We are of opinion that the
ruling of the Circuit Court was right, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.
Judgment afirmed.

HANLEY v.KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRIrT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 131.Argued December 18, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

The transportation of goods on a througr bill of lading from Fort Smith,
Arkansas, to GranniskKansas, over respondent's railroad by way"of
Spiro in the Indian Territory, a total distance of one hundred and sixteen miles, of which fifty-two miles is in Arkansas and sixty-four in' the
Indian Territory, is interstate commerce, and is under the regulation of
Congress, free from interference by the State of Arkansas; a railway
company operating such a line can maintaiii an action for equitable relief restraining the state railroad commissioners from fixing and enforc-

