METCALF v. BARKER.

165

Statement of the Case..

METCALF v. BARKER.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT .COURt. OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 57. Argued October 30, 1902.-Decided December 1,1902.

The question in this case was whether under section 67f of the bankruptcy
act of 1898 where a final decree recovered within four months of the petition, but which was based on a judgment creditors' bill in equity filed long
prior thereto, the creditor had a lien on the assets involved in the action
which was superior to the title of the trustee in bankruptcy, or whether (as
was held by the District Court) section 67f prevented the con)plainant from
acquiring any benefit from the lien, or the fund attached except through
the trustee in bankruptcy pro rata with other creditors. Held,that while
the lien created by a judgment creditors' bill is contingent in the sense
that it may possibly be defeated by the event of the stilt, it is in itself,
and so long as it exists, a charge, a specific lien, on the assets,.not subject
to being divested save by paymentof the judgment sought to becollected,
and a judgment or decree in enforcement of an otherwise valid preexisting lien is not the judgment denounced by the bankruptcy statute
which is plainly confined to judgments creating liens.
When therefore a judgment creditor files his bill in equity long prior to the
bankruptcy of the defendant, thereby obtaining a lien on specific assets,
and diligently prosecutes it to a final judgment, lie acquires a lien on the
property of the bankrupts which is superior to the title of the trustee,
and a District Court of the United States does not have jurisdiction to
make an order in bankruptcy proceedings against the defendants enjoining him from enforcing sitch lien..
See also Pickelis v. Boy, decided this term, p. 177, post.

THE certificate in this case is as follows'
"This matter came before this court upon a petition of Metcalf Brothers & Co. to superintend and remse in matter of law
certain proceedings of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, wherein an order was
made by said District Court enjoming the petitioners, Metcalf
Brothers & Co., from taking any further proceedings under any
judgment obtained by them in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York in a judgment creditors' action wherein certain
transfers made by the bankrupts had been set aside as-to them

OCTOBER TFRM:, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

as fraudulent and void, and wherein receivers of the property
-of the bankrupts appointed by the said Supreme Court had
been directed to pay to them the amount of their judgments
at law upon which their said judgment creditors' action was
founded.
"For its proper decision of the matter this court desires the
instruction of the Supreme Court upon the questions of-law hereinafter stated, and hereby certifies the same to the Supreme
Court of the United States for that purpose."
"Statement of Faet.
"On the 2d of October, 1896, Lesser Brothers, subsequently
adjudged bankrupts. who were copartners, being then insolvent,
transferred all their property, copartnership and individual, to
certain favored creditors. All their outstanding accounts, being copartnership property, they transferred by instruments of
assignment to Marcus A. Adler and others. They confessed
various judgments in the Supreme Court bf the State of New
York in favor of Bernhard Moses and others, upon which executions were at once issued to the sheriff of the-county of New
York, who levied thereunder on all their tangible personal property, consisting of clothing material and stock in trade. This
also was copartnership property, and, with the book accounts,
comprised all their property except a piece of real estate owned
by Israel Lesser individually aird a ground lease of another piece
of real estate owned by Tobias Lesser individuflly These two
pieces of, real estate the individuals owning them conveyed to
Joseph Lilianthal'
"After making these transfers and after the levy by the
sheriff under the executions issued upon the confessed judgments
and on the same day, by -a fraud upon the court, in a collusive
action in the Supreme Co.urt of New York to dissolve the partnership, they procured the appointment of a receiver of the
partnership property, Morris Moses, who -was nominated by and
in collusion with them. Subsequently a receiver nominated by
certain creditors, James T. Franklin, was vssociated with Mr.
Moses by the same court.
"'Various creditors of the bankrupts immediately commenced

METCALF r BARKER.
Statement of the Case.

actions of replevin to recover portions of the goods in the haids
of the sheriff. Their claims were conflicting with each other
and with those of the confessed-judgment creditors, and in an
action brought in the Supreme Court of New York by the receivers an order was made restraaning the sale by the sheriff
under the executions, directing a sale by receivers. (Mr. Moses
and Mr. Franklin being also appointed such receivers in that
action), and that the latter should hold the proceeds of the sale
subject to the claims of all parties, such claims to be determined
in that action. Pursuant to this order, the goods were sold,
and the receivers so appointed now hold the proceeds thereof.
This order was made November 23, 1896. The action is still
pending, undetermined.
"On the 22d day of October, 1896, and the 29th day of
October, 1896, Metcalf Brothers & Co. procured judgments in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York against the Lessers for $930.21 and $2541.80 respectively, upon which executions were issued and returned unsatisfied.
"On the 11th day of December, 1896, Metcalf Brothers & Co.
commenced a judgment creditors' action in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, which came to trial on the 17th.day
of December, 1891, and as a result of which the transfers to
which reference has been made and the proceedings for the
appointment of the receivers were adjudged fraudulent and
void as to them. The court, however, set aside the transfers
of the copartnership property, not only in-favor of Metcalf
Brothers & Co., but also in favor of the receivers. It set aside
the transfer of the real estate in favor of Metcalf Brothers &
Co. alone. Judgnent was entered on this decision April 6,
1898.
"This judgment determined that the proceeds of the sale of
the tangible property then in the hands of the receivers and
the outstanding accounts or their proceeds in the hands of the
transferees (to be accounted for under the judgment to the
receivers) were to be administered by the receivers for the
benefit of all the creditors of the copartnerhip equally, including Metcalf Brothers & Co., while the real estate transferred

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

became pubject to the lien of the judgments of Metcalf Brothers
& Co. on October 22d and 29th, 1896.
"All parties except the receivers appealed from-this judgment to the appellate division of the Supreme Court of New
York, that court affirmed the judgment of the trial court as
to the fraud, but reversed it in so far as it granted relief in
favor of the receivers. It directed the payment by the receivers to Metcalf Brothers & Co. of the amount of their judgments out of the money in -the receivers' hands, and, since
Metcalf Brothers &'Co. were to be so paid, it reversed the
judgments in their favor against Adler, one of the transferees
of the accounts. Upon the ground that there was no proof of
fraud, it also reversed it against the transferee of the real estate.
"This decision was embodied in an instrument made the 30th
day of December, 1898, entitled an 'order,' but which, after
reciting the necessary facts, 'ordered and adjudged' that the
.judgment of the triaf term be modified as stated, and also
' ordered and adjudged' that the transfers in question, except
the transfer of the real estate, were fraudulent and void as to
Metcalf Brothers &-Co., that the receivers be, and they were
thereby, directed to pay to Metcalf Brothers & Co. the amount
of their judgments, with costs, and that final judgment should
be entered in accordance therewith, This instrument was filed
in the office of the clerk of the appellate division of the Supreme Court of New York, and was the only paper signed by
that court or kept in its records. A certified copy of it was
transmitted to the clerk of the Supreme Court, upon which,
after the costs had been taxed, a final judgment was entered by
the latter clerk on the 31st. day of January, 1899, following m
all essential respects its verbiage. The delay in the entry of
final judgreent was caused by various motions before the appellate division for reargument.
"On the 12thddy. of May, 1899, Lesser Brothers filed in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York a petition to be adjudged bankrupts, and they
were adjudicated bankrupts on that day Subsequently, and4

METCALF v. BARKER.
Statement of the Case.

on the th day- of June, 1899, Benjamin Barker, Esq., was appointed their trustee in bankruptcy
"Fromn the judgment of the appellate division in the action
brought by Metcalf Brothers &-Co. all parties except Lilianthal,
the transferee-of the real estate, appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York. That court affirmed thdjudgment of the appellate. division in favor of Metcalf Brothers &
Co., and also restored to them the rights awarded-them by the
judgment of the trial court, of which they had been deprived
by the appellate division. The final result of the litigation was
that the transfers in question were declared fraudulent and, set
aside in favor of Metcalf Brothers & Co., only, that as to all
other persons they were (until impeached in a proper action)
valid, that the receivers were directed to pay out of the funds
in their hands to Metcalf Brothers & Co. the amount of their
judgments, and that those creditors could also proceed for the
collection of their judgments, if necessary, against the transferees of the accounts and real estate.
"The decision of the Court of Appeals was made on tho-6th
of February, 1900. The remittitur from that court to the Supreme Court was received and filed on the 12th day of March,
1900. On the 8th day of March, 1900, the bankrupts' trustee,
upon affidavits of himself and his counsel, procured from the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York an order, entitled in the bankruptcy proceeding, requiring Metcalf Brothers & Co. to show caus on the.18th day
of March, 1900, why a writ of injunction should not issue-enjoining them from taking any further proceedings under any
judgment in their creditors' action and so enjoining them in the
interim. This order provided for its service upon the members
of the firm of Metcalf Brothers & Co., but it was not in fact
served upon any one but their attorneys in their judgment
creditors' action. Metcalf Brothers & Co. appeared specially
upon the return day of the order to show cause and filed a
written objection that the District Court was without jurisdiction, power, or auth'ority over them- in the premises, that no
action or other proceeding was pending or had ever been begun
against them in any way relating to the subject matter of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case..

proposed injunction, that they had not appeared in or been
made a party to any proceeding founded upon the petition of
Lesser Brothers to be adjudged, bankrupts and that they had
not been brought into court on any process or been given any
notice of the order to show cause except that their attorneys in
their creditors' action had received a copy thereof, and especially that no statute conferred upon the District Court jurisdiction, power, or authority to issue any writ of injunction in
the premises.
"Their objection was overruled, and after an argument of
the merits of the application the injunction was continued.
"Subsequently Metcalf Brothers & Co. presented a petition
to this court to superintend and revise in matter of law the
said proceedings of the District Court.
" Questions Certiied.

"Upon the facts above set forth, the questions of law concerning which this court desires the instruction of the Supreme
Court for its proper decision are-"1. Had the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York jurisdiction to make the in-junction order in question?
" 2. If said court had jurisdiction to restrain Metcalf Brothers
& Co. from receiving the fund in question, could such jurisdiction be exercised by summary proceedings 2
"3. Did Metcalf Brothers & Co. by the commencement of
their creditors' action acquire a lien on the property of the
bankrupts superior to the title of the trustee thereto?
"4. If the lien acquired by the commencement of the creditors' action was inchoate merely, was it perfected by a judgment obtained more than four months ptior to the filing of the
petition of-the Lessers in bankruptcy within the meaning of the
provisions of the act of Congress of July 1, 1898, known as
the bankruptcy act?
"5. If the lien acquired by the commencement of the creditors' action was inchoate merely, was the judgment mn the
creditors' action, whenever obtained, one which is avoided by

METCALF v. )BARKEIL
Opinion of the Court.

any of the provisions of the act of Congress of July 1, 1898,
known as the bankruptcy act 2"
Xfr -2Yelon S. Spencer for petitioners.
Xi, Otto T Hess and 3& Xoiready Sykes for respondent.
MR. C.EIxv JUsTIcE FULLER, after makingthe foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Metcalf Brothers & Company, judgment creditors of Lesser
Brothers, commenced their creditors' suit in the Supreme Court
of New York, December 17, 1896. The case came to trial
December 17, 189, and decree was rendered April 6, 1898.
22 Misc. Rep. 664. On appeal the appellate division affirmed
the judgment of the trial court in part, and reversed it in
part, and directed the payment by the receivers to Metcalf
Brothers & Company of the amount of their judgments out of
the money in the receivers' hands. 35 App. Div 596. This
decree' or judgment was embodied in an order dated December 30, 1898, but the clerk of the Supreme Court appears not
to have entered it until January 31, 1899. The decision of the
Court of Appeals, 161 N. Y 587, was made February 6, 1900,
and the remittitur was received and filed in the court below
March 12, 1900.
The bankruptcy law was approved July 1, 1 89 8 . May12,1899,
Lesser Brothers filed their petition in bankruptcy and were
adjudicated bankrupts, andBarker was appointed trustee June 7,
1899. March 8, 1900, the bankrupts' trustee procured from
the District Court an order entitled in the bankruptcy proceedings requiring Metcalf Brothers & Company to show cause on
March 13 why a writ of injunction should not-issue enjoining
them 'from taking any further proceedings under any judgment
in their creditors' action, and so enjoining them in the interim,
which injunction, after argument on the merits, was continued.
No question -arises here in respect of real estate, and on
the case stated in the certificate the property affected was
equitable assets. There had -been tangible personal property,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to levy and sale under execution, but this had been
previously sold by an order of the Supreme Court of New York
and the proceeds were held by receivers.
The. general rule is that the filing of a judgment creditors'
bill and service of process creates a lien m equity on the judgment debtor's equitable assets. Xiller v Sherry, 2 Wall. 237,
.Freedma'8Samng8 & Truet Company v Earle, 110 U. S. 710.
And such is the rule in New York. Storr v TVaddell, 2
1yn0h v. ohnson, 48 N. Y 27, -Pirst-National
Sandf. Ch. 494,
Bank v Shuler, 153 N. Y 163. This was conceded by the
District Court,'but the court held that the lien so created was
"contingent upon the recovery of a valid judgment, and liable
to be defeated by anything that defeats the judgment, or the
right of the complainants to appropriate the fund," that" such
a contingent or equitable lien, it is evident, cannot be superior
to the judgment on which it depends to make it effectual, but
must stand or fall with the judgment itself ," and that "section 67f, therefore, in declaring that a judgment recovered
within four months 'shall be deemed null and void,' etc., necessarily prevents the complainants from acquiring any benefit
from the lien, or the fund attached, except through the trustee
in bankruptcy ln'o rata with other creditors," it being also
held that, although the judgment at special term was rendered
more than four months before the filing of the petition, yet
that the judgment of the appellate division, as affirmed by the
Court of Appeals, was within the four months. 100 Fed. Rep.
433.
Assuming that the judgment at special term is to be disregarded, and that the judgment of the appellate division was
entered within the four months, it will be perceived that if the
views of the District Court were correct, the third question
propounded should be answered in the negative, while if incorrect, that question should be answered in the affirmative.
Doubtless the lien created by a judgment creditors' bill is
contingent in the sense that it might possibly be defeated by
the event of the suit, but in itself, and so long as it exists, it is
a charge, a specific lien, on the assets, not subject to being divested save by payment of the judgment sought to be collected.

METCALF c. BARKER.
Opinion of the Court

The subject was fully discussed and the effect of bankruptcy
proceedings considered. by Vice Chancellor Sandford in Storm
v. Taddell, 2 Sandf. Oh. 494:, which has been so repeatedly recognized with approval as to have become a leading case.
As Mr. Justice Swayne remarked in 3 iler v Sherry, the
commencement of the suit amounts to an equitable levy, 2 Wall.
249, or, .in the language of Mr. Justice Matthews, in Freedman?8 Samngs & TPuat Company v. Eare, "It is the execution
first begun to be executed, unless otherwise regulated by statute, which is entitled to priority The filing of the bill, in cases
of equitable execution, is the beginning of executing it." 110
U. S. '717. And the right to payment out of the fund so vested.
cannot be affected by a subsequent transfer by the debtor, MehDermult v Strong, 4 Johns. Oh. 681, or taken away by a subsequent discharge in bankruptcy HW'-v. Harding,130 U S.
699, Doe v Childrees, 21 Wall. 642, .Eysterv Gaff, 91 U. S.
521, Peck v. Jehness, 7 How 612.
.Kittredge v lTarren,, 14: N. I. 509, was relied on as to the
effect of attachments on mesne process in lTew Hampshire in
Peck v Jenmges. And it may be remarked that Chief Justice
Parker's vigorous discussion in that case of the point that the
attachment lien was not contingent on a subsequent judgment
is afortiorm applicable in cases where the prior establishment
of the creditor's claim is the foundation of the creditor's suit.
Granting that possession of the power "to establish uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies" enables Congress to displace these well-settled principles and to divest rights so aequired, we do not think that Congress has attempted to do so.
Section 67f provides "That all levies, judgments, attachments, or other liens, obtained through legal proceedings against
a person who is insolvent, at any time within four months prior
to the filing of a petition, in bankruptcy against him, shall be
deemed n,,ill and void in case he is adjudged a bankrupt, and
the property affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or
other lien shall be deemed wholly discharged and released from
the same, and shall pass to the trustee as a part of the estate of
the bankrupt, unless the court shall, on due notice, order that
the right under such levy, judgment, attachment, or otherlien

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be preserved for the benefit of the estate, and thereupon
the same may pass to and shall be preserved by the trustee for
the benefit of the estate as aforesaid. And the court may order
such conveyance as shall be necessary to carry the purposes of
this section into effect."
In our opinion the conclusion to be drawn from this language
is that it is the lien created by a levy, or a judgment, or an attachment, or otherwise, that is invalidated, and -that where the
lien is obtained more than four months prior to the filing of the
petition, it is not only not to be deemed to be null and void on
adjudication, but its validity is recognized. When it is obtained
within four months the property is discharged therefrom, but
not otherwise. A judgment or decree in enforcemedt of an
otherwise valid prexisting lien is not the judgment denounced
by the statute, which is plainly confined to judgments creating
liens. If this were not so the date of the acqmsition of a lien
by attachment or creditor's bill would be entirely immaterial.
Moreover other proVisions of the act render it unreasonable
to impute the intention to annul all judgments recovered within
four months.
By section 63a, fixed liabilities evidenced by judgments absolutely owing at the time of the filing of the petition, or founded
upon provable debts reduced to judgments after the filing of the
petition and before the consideration of application for discharge,
may be proved and allowed, while under section 17 judgments
in actions of fraud are not released by a discharge, and other
parts of the act would be wholly unnecessary if section 67f
must be taken literally
Many of the District Courts have reached and announced a
similar conclusion In re Blasr, 108 Fed. Rep. 529, In re Beaver Coal Company, 110 Fed. Rep. 6-30, In Pe Havanaugh, 99
Fed. Rep. 928, In re Pease,4 Amer. Bank. Rep. 547, as have
also the Supreme Court of Rhode Island and the Chancery
Court of NTew Jersey in well-considered decisions. -Doyle v.
H1eath,, 22 R. I. 213, Taylor v Taylor, 59 N. J Eq. 86. And see
Takeman v Throckmorton, 51 Atl. Rep. 554.
As under section 70a, e, and section 67e, the trustee is vested
with the bankrupt's title as of the date of the adjudication, and

METCALF v. BARKER.
Opinion of the Courb.

subrogated to the rights 6f creditors, the foregoing considerations
require an affirinative answer to the third question, but in answering the first question some further observations must be
made. This creditors' action was commenced.' December. 17,
1896,.more than. eighteen months before the passage of the bankruptcy act, and was prosecuted with exemplary diligence to final
and complete -success in the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
At this point the bankruptcy court intervened and on summary
proceedings enjoined Metcalf Brothers & Company from receiving,the fruits of their victory The state -courts had jurisdiction over the parties and the-subject matter, and possession of
the property And it is well settled -that where property is in
the, actual possession of the court, this draws to it the right to
decide upon conflicting claims to its ultimate possession and control.
In Peck v Jennes, 7 How 612, the District Court had decided
that the lien of an attachment issued out of a court of New IaImpshire was defeasible and invalid as against an assignee in bankruptcy But this court held that thi$ was not so, and that-the
District Cqurt had no supervisory power over the state courts,
and Mr. Justice Grier said "It is a doctrine of law too long established to require a citation of authorities, that, where a court
has jurisdiction, it has a right to de'cide every question which occurs in the cause, and whether its decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment, till reversed, is regarded as binding in every
other court, and that, wvhere the jurisdiction of a court; and theright of aplamtiff to prosecute his suit in it, have once attached,.
that right cannot be arrested or taken away. by,proceedings in.
anotheT court. These rules have their foundation, not merely
in comity, but on necessity For if one may enjoin, the other
may, retort by injunction, and. thius -the parties be without rem-i
edy; being -liable to a process for contempt in one, if they dare:
The fact, therefore, that an into proceed in the other.
junction issues only .to the parties before the court, and. hot to
.the.court, is no evasion of the difficulties-that are the necessary
3resuilt of an attempt to exercise that power over a party whos
a litigant 1n'anotber 'and independent forum." Therule.djr
cated was applied under the act of 1841 in Clarke v R-is, 3

OCTOBER TER31, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

McLean, 494, under the act of 1867, by Mr. Justice Miller in
JoAnson v Bishcp, Woolworth, 324, and by Mr. Justice Nelson,
m Sedgwzo v Menck, 21 Fed. Cases, 084, and under thd act of
1898, among other cases, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit in Flazzer v &uutkernLoan and Tiust Cornpany, 99 Fed. Rep. 707, and P'wkens v. Dent,106 Fed. Rep. 653.1
TvWite v. Sckloer, 178 U. S. 542, proceeded on the familiar
do.ctrme that property in the custody of a court of the United
States cannot be taken out of that custody by any process from
a state court, and the jurisdiction of the District Court sitting
in bankruptcy by summary proceedings to maintain such custody-was upheld., Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court,
said "By section, 720 of the Revised Statutes, 'The writ of
'injunction shall not be granted by any court of the United
States to stay proceedings 'in any court of a State, except in
cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy ' Among the powers specifically conferred upon the court of bankruptcy by section 2 of
the bankrupt act of 1898 areto '(15) in~ke such orders, issue
such process, and enter such judgments, in addition to those
specifically provided for, as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act.' 30 Stat. 546. And by
clause 3 of the Twelfth General Order in Bankruptcy applications to the court of bankruptcy 'for an injunction to stay proceedings.of a codrt or officer of the United States, or of a State,
shall be heard and decided by the judge, but he may refer such
an application, or any specified issue arising thereon, to the referee to ascertain and report the facts." 172 U. S. 657. I ot
going beyond what the decision of the case before us requires,
we are of opinion that the judge'of the court of bankruptby was
authorized to compel'persons, who had forcibly and unlawfully
seized and taken out of the judicial custody of that court property which had lawfully come into its possession as part of thebankrupt's property, -to restore that property to its. custody"
This -cautious utterance-and courts must be cautious when
dealing with a conflict of jurisdiction-sustains'as far as it goes
IAffirmed by-this court sub nomme Pickens v. loy, p. 177, post.

PICKENS v. ROY.
Counsel for Appellant.

the converse of the proposition -when presented by a different
state of fact8.
We are of opinion that the jurisdiction of the.District Court.
to make the injunction order in question cannot.be maintained.
Loumville Trust Compay v. Comzn or, 184 U. S., 18, 26..
The first question will be answered in the negative, and the
third question in the affirmative, and it is unnecessary to answer the other questions.
Certif te acrdiigZy.

PIOKEIS '. ROY.
APPERAL FROM THE COCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Submitted November 10, 1902.-Decided December 1,1902.
Where a judgment creditor filed abill in a stab court to set aside a conveyance made'by a person, who during the pendency of the action and
years after its commencement is adjudged a bankrupi,,and to apply the
proceeds of the.property affected'towards the payment of the debt, the
state court acquires such complete jurisdiction and control over the bankrupt and his.property that jurisdiction is not divested iy proceedings in
bankruptcy, and it is the duty of the state court to proceed to final
decree notwithstanding the adjudication in bankruptcy, under the rule
that the court which first acquires rightful jurisdiction over the subject
matter should not be. interfered'with; aud the District Court of the
United States in which the bankruptcy proceedings are pending has
no jurisdiction to restrain the complainants in.the state court from
executing their decree obtained in that court.
Nor does the mere fact that the complainant ihi such an action in a state
court proved up her judgment as a preferred debt in bankruptcy "without waiving her preference," operate to deprive the State court of jursdicion oramount to a consent to the exercise of jurisdiction by the District Court to restrain her from executing the judgment.
See also Metcalf ,Brothers C
Co. v. Barker, decided thrs term, p 1651 ante.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court,
.M'r. John TF .Davo for appellant.
were with him on-the brief'
VOL. cLxxxvii-12

_Less'r_ -Davfis & Dam

