CARY MFG. CO. v.ACME FLHXIBLE CLASP CO. 427
Opinion of the Court.

This license- fee was not a tax on the property of the company, or on its transmission of messages, or on its receipts from
such transmission, or on its occupation or business, but was a
charge in the enforbenient of local governmental supervision,
and as such not in itself obnoxious to the clause of the Constitution relied on. St. Louz v. Telkgraph Com_pany, 148 U. S.
92, 149 U. S. 465.
Judgment affirned.
MR. JusTiCE WjrrE, MR.
MoR1EiA dissented.

JUSTICE. PECKHA2L

and MR.

JUSTICE

CARY MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. ACME FLEXIBLE CLASP COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 122. Submitted December 17,1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

Judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in all cases arising
under the patent laws and under the criminal laws are made final by section six of the judiciary act of Iarch 3, 1891, and cannot be brought
from that court to this by appeal or writ of error. And even if a constitutional question so arises in the Circuit Court that a party may bring
his case directly to tins court under section five .of that act, yet if lie
does not do so, but carries his case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, he
must abide by the judgment of that court.

THEc case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. A. G N

Vermily for plaintiffin error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

The Acme "Flexible Clasp Company brought suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

New York against the Cary Manufacturing Company for alleged infringement of letters patent No. 314,204, granted to W.
0 Swett, March 17, 1885, for a staple fastener for wooden
vessels, which went to a decree sustaining the validity of the
patent and adjudging the Cary Manufacturmg Company to
have infringed it. 96 Fed. Rep. 344. Defendant appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the
decree was affirmed. 101 Fed. Rep. 269. Proceedings in contempt were subsequently commenced by the Acme Company
to punish the alleged violation of the injunction issued under
the decree, and the Circuit Court imposed a fine of $2000 for
contempt, to be paid to the clerk of the court, one half of the
sum to be paid to the Acme Company and one half to be paid
to the United States. The Cary Company sued out a writ of
error from the Circuit Court of Appeals to review this judgment, and the judgment was affirmed. 108 Fed. Rep. 873.
Thereupon this writ of error was allowed.
It is apparent that the writ of error cannot be maintained,
as the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final.
Judgments and decrees of those courts in all cases arising under the patent laws and under the criminal laws are made final
by section six of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891. Although
it is insisted that the judgment imposing the fine was a final
judgment in a criminal matter, it is argued that it involved the
denial of constitutional rights, and hence that this court has
jurisd;ction under section five of that act, but it is settled that
even if a party might be entitled to come directly to this court
under that section, yet if he does not do so, and carries his
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, he must abide by the
judgment of that court. Robznson v Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359,
An .rwan Sugar Refin-rng Company v .New Orleans, 181 U.
S. 277, Ifuquley iJ[anqfactumng Company v Galeton Cotton
.Mills, 184: U S. 290, Ayres v Polsdorfer,p. 585, post.
Wt of errordi.3mased.

