HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

467

Statement of the Case.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. WILSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMhBIA.
No. 79. Argued November 10, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.
Where a policy of insurance is written at the request of a broker, and delivered to lim by the agent of the company on his promise not to regard
it as binding until the company shall have inspected and accepted the
risk, the policy being subject to immediate cancellation, and the company thereafter promptly inspects and rejects the risk, and the agent of
the company so notifies the broker who thereupon agrees to return the
policy, and no premium is charged or paid as between the brokemind
agent, there is no final and absohite delivery of the policy, but the delivery is conditional only; and, as no completed contract of insurance is
eve actually entered into, the fact that the policy, by inadvertence on the
part of the broker, is not returned as promised to the agent, but is sent to
the person named therein as insured, will not render the insurance company liable in case the building insured is destroyed by fire, even though
the policy came into the hands of the insured prior to the fire and without any knowledge on his part of the action of the company or the mistake made by the broker in delivering the policy.

THIS case was commenced in the Supreme Court of the Dis-

trict of Columbia by Albert A. Wilson and John B. Larner,
trustees, against the Hartford Fire Insurance Company to re-.
cover upon two policies of insurance, charged to have been
executed and delivered by the company to the ilaintiffs on
April 17, 1895, and insuring certain property of the Ivy City
Brick Company, for the benefit of the trustees, the plaintiffs.
The declaration alleged the destruction by fire of the property
on-May 17, 1895, notice of the loss to the company, and its refusal to pay After the pleadings had been completed the case
was submitted to the court upon an agreed statement of facts.
The facts agreed upon, so far as they are pertinent to the questions presented, are as follows
"1. Prior to April 17, 1895, C. C. Duncanson, treasurer of
the Ivy City Brick Company of the city of Washington, I). C.,
authorized the firm of Tyler & Rutherford, of saidicity, at their

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

request, to place insurance for the company, loss, if any, payable
to Albert A. Wilson et al., trustees under a deed of trust given
by said company, as interest might appear, said Duncanson
averring the amount to be placed to be the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), and Tyler & Rutherford averring a much
larger sum.
"On said April 17, 1895, said Tyler & Rutherford, under the
aforesaid authority, proposed to one Barrett, an agent, at said
.city of Washington, of the Hartford Fire Insurance Company,
of Hartford, Connecticut, for insurance on properties of the
said Ivy City Brick Company
"2. Said Barrett stated to said Tyler & Rutherford that the
proposed risk was a special hazard, and that he doubted Ins
authority to accept it before reference to his principal, but that
he would issue policies amounting to $2000, equally divided on
the buildings and machinery, upon the condition that the same
sh old be held by said Tyler & Rutherford, and not delivered
to their principals until the decision of the Hartford Fire Insurance Company on the acceptance of the risk was duly had,
and should be subject to immediate cancellation (the 5 days'
notice in the policy conditions being waived) by notice that
said company rejected the risk.
"3. This condition was accepted by said Tyler & Rutherford, and the two policies of insurance in the declaration set
forth were thereupon written and placed in their hands.
"4. A short time thereafter, to wit, on the 27th day of April
ensuing, on the first inspection visit to Washington after the
issue of said policies, William R. Royce, the special agent of
the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, known by said Tyler
& Rutherford to be the representative of the company, having
authority to inspect, confirm or cancel risks for and in behalf
of said company, went to the office of said Tyler & Rutherford
and informed them that the Hartford Fire Insurance Company
refused to carry the risk and ordered the cancellation of the
said policies, and on the same day the said Barrett, being on
Ins .way to the office of Tyler & Rutherford, met R. K. Tyler,
a member of that firm, who had made the negotiation for the
policies, had the same in his custody, and had exclusive charge

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

469

Statement of the Case.

of the matter, and announced to him that the company ordered
their cancellation, to which the said Tyler responded, 'All
right, send up and get them.'
"5. The said Barrett sent three times to the office of Tyler
& Rutherford for the policies. Each time his employ6 was informed by one of the clerks of Tyler & Rutherford that Mr.
R. K. Tyler, who had charge of the policies, was absent from
the office, and they would have to see him.
"6. Said Barrett was taken sick and did not appear at his office for some days, but had immediately ordered the entry clerk
to make the customary entry in such cases on the register where
the policies were noted, ' Canceled by order of the company,'
which was accordingly done.
"'7. On the first day of May ensuing the customary mutual
accounts of business between the offices of said Barrett and said
Tyler & Rutherford were settled, and the two policies were
treated as dead, no charge for their premiums being presented
on the one hand or asked for on the other.
"8. The existence of the two policies was never reported to
the said Duncanson- nor to any one connected with said Ivy
City Brick Company by mortgage or otherwise, nor did he or
they have any knowledge of or connection with said policies
until they cameanto the hands of said Duncanson on May 16,
1895, and at no time prior to the fire had any party connected
with or interested, by mortgage or otherwise, in the Ivy City
Brick Company any knowledge of the transaction between said
Barrett and said Tyler & Rutherford hereinbefore set forth.
"9. The two policies had been overlooked by Tyler & Rutherford and fay in the drawer along with a.-iumber of other policies issued by other insurance companies which had beeix secured by said Tyler &.Rutherford for the purpose of filling the
above order. Of this fact no one connected with the Ivy City
Brick Company in any interest whatever was informed until
after the fire.
"10. Tyler & Rutherford had found great difficulty in procuring the desired insurance, and aver that the entire amount
proposed was never secured. Some of the agencies insis.ted on
the same conditions as to cancellations as those fixed between

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

said Barrett and said Tyler & Rutherford, and cancellations by
orders of the different companies were so frequent that said
Tyler & Rutherford could not at any time before Mlay 16 know
how much of binding insurance was in hand. Of all these facts
the said R. K. Tyler avers that he informed the said Duncanson in the progress of the effort to secure insurance and some
time prior to the fire. The said Duncanson denies that he had
information as to any of these facts at any time prior to the
.fire, except the fact that there was difficulty in procuring the
desired insurance. No specific mention, however, of the two
policies of the defendant was made to said Duncanson or any
one connected in any interest with the Ivy City Brick Company
"11. On the 16th of May, 1895, a clerk of Tyler & Rutherford was directed to make up. the account of the policies on
hand and put them in a package for delivery The two policies
of the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, which had been overlooked and were then lying in the same drawer with the other
policies, taken in fulfilment of this order, were included in the
account and placed in the package with said other policies by
said clerk of Tyler & Rutherford without the personal knowledge of said Tyler & Rutherford, and both were handed to said
Duncanson by said R. K. Tyler, said Tyler not examining the
same. Said Duncanson took the package and engaged to paythe account on the Monday week following, to wit, May 27,1895.
"12.On the morning of May 11, after the fire, which occurred
about one o'clock A. Y., on that day, said R. K. Tyler came to
said Duncanson and asked for the return of the two policies,
stating that they had been handed him by mistake and the fact
of their previous cancellation, said Tyler averring that he did
not know that the property described as insured had been destroyed. Later, on that day, when the fact was known that
the property described in the policies was destroyed, Tyler &
Rutherford, by telephone, informed the Washington Loan and
Trust Company, the beneficiary of the trust held by Wilson et
al., trustees, that the Hartford policies had been delivered by
mistake and requested it to send back the two policies, and
were answered that they were locked up, but would be returned
the next morning.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

471

Statement of the Case.

"Of tins request and answer by the telephone it is agreed
that the Ivy City Brick Company knew nothing at the tume,
and when informed of said request directed that the policies be
not returned. The policies were not returned, and sundry correspondence followed between said Tyler & Rutherford, said
Duncanson, and the Washington Loan and Trust Company, in
the course of which said Duncanson sent a check to Tyler &
Rutherford.for the settlement .of the account above referred to.
Tyler & Rutherford refused said settlement, stating that the
two policies of the Hartford were void and had been sent in by
mista'ke,.and returned the check, with a corrected account, excluding these policies. The correspondence between said Duncanson, said Tyler & Rutherford, and said Washington Loan
and Trust Company and the policies sued on may be filed with
thiis statement and considered as part of this agreed case."
The policies, which are alike, contained the following provisions
Underwritem' Policy.
"No. 20,229.
$1000.
"By this policy 6f insurance the Hartford Fire Insurance
Company, of the city of Hartford, in the State of Connecticut, in
consideration of the stipulations herein named and of seventeen
and 50-100 dollars premium, does insure Ivy City Brick Company for the term of one year from the 17th day of April, 1895, at
noon, to the 17th day of April, 1896, at noon, against all direct
loss or damage by fire, except as hereinafter provided, to an
amount not exceeding one thousand dollars, to the followingdescribed property, while located and contained as described
herein, and not elsewhere, to wit Ivy City lBrick Company
$1000. On machinery of every description, dryers, cars, apparatus, equipments and tools, contained in their one-story
brick and frame structure with metal roof (about 118 X 165 feet)
and one-story frame and brick addition with metal roof. Situate on their tract known as ' Ivy City,' about one mile northeast of Washington, D. C. Other concurrent insurance
permitted without notice until required. Loss, if any, payable
as interest may appear to Albert A. Wilson and John B. Lamer,
trustees. (Mortgagees' clause wvith full contribution attached.)

OCTOBER 'TE-RM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Attached to and made a part of policy No. 20,229 of the N. Y.
Underwriters' agency

"T~os. F BARRETT, Agent.

"This policy shall be canceled at any time at the request of
the insured, or by the company, by giving five days' notice of
such cancellation. If this policy shall be canceled as hereinbefore provided, or become void or cease, the premium having
been Actually paid, the unearned portion shall be returned on
surrender of this policy or last renewal, this company retaining
the customary short rate, except that when this policy is canceled by this company by giving notice it shall retain only the
pro rata.premium.
"This policy is made and accepted subject to the foregoing
stipulations and conditions, together with such other provisions,
agreements or conditions as may be indorsed hereon or added
hereto, and no officer, agent or other representative of this company shall have the power to waive any provision or condition
of this policy except such as by the terms of this policy may be
subject of agreemedit indorsed hereon or added hereto, and as
to such provisions and conditions no officer, agent or representative shall have such power or be deemed or held to have
waived such provisions or conditions unless such waiver, if any,
shall be written upon or attached hereto, nor shall any privilege
or permission affecting the insurance under this policy exist or
be claimed Iby the insured unless so written or attached.
"In witness whereof, this company has executed and attested
these presents this seventeenth day of April, 1895.
"This policy shall not be valid until countersigned by the
duly authorized agent of the company at Washington, D. 0.
"GEo L. OHASE, P2'estdent.
"P 0. RoYcE, Secretary.
"'THos. TURN'BULL,

"Asst Secretary.
"

"Countersigned by-"THos. F BARRE=T, Agent."

CHAS. E. CHASE,

"2d Ass't Secretary.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

4'73

Opimon of the Court.

Upon these facts judgment was on December 13, 1899, entered in favor of the defendant. This judgment was taken on
appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District and by that court
on June 19, 1900, reversed and the case remanded with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs. 17 D C. App. 14.
Thereupon the case was brought here upon certiorari. 181
U. S. 617.
Mr. Samnuel B. Paul for petitioner.

.A& Alexandor Wo'

and Xr. XAau'rce D Ro8enberg were with him on the briefs.
Mr. llenry P Blair for respondent.
MR. JusTiOE BRwER, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The question is whether t the timb of the fire there was a
valid and subsisting contract of insurance. The negotiations
in respect to the policies were not between the insurer and the
insured directly, but between agents of each. As shown by
paragraphs 2 and 3 of the agreed statement of facts, the agentof the insurer delivered the policies to the agent of the insured
upon a condition, winch was agreed to by both. That condition failed, notice of which was given by the former to the latter, acceptedby the latter as putting an end to the policies, and
the former notified to come and get the policies. Several times
the former went to the office of the latter to receive the policies, but failed to obtain them owing to the absence of the latter
from his office. Both agents treated the policies as dead, and
no charge for premiums was presented on the one hand or asked
for on.the other. Unintentionally the policies were on the day
before the fire handed in a package with other papers to the
treasurer of the Ivy City Brick Company
In view of these facts thus agreed upon the question broadly
stated above narrows itself to one whether there can be A conditional delivery of a policy of insurance 2 If there can be,
then (asithere is no question of estoppel and as there was a
failure of the condition) these policies had no binding force at

OCTOBER TE]m, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

the time of the fire.' That as to contracts generally there can
be a conditional delivery, and that the failure of the condition
prevents the contract from taking effect is not doubted. In
tins court the question is at rest. Burke v. Dulaney, 153 U. S.
228, 238. That.was an action brought on a promissory note
executed and delivered by the defendant to the plaintiff, and
it was held, reversing the trial court, competent to show a
parol agreement between the parties made at the time of the
delivery of the note that it should not become operative as a
note until the maker could examine the property for winch itwas given and determine whether he would purchase it.
Mr.'Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion, reviewed several
authorities and summed up by stating that "according to the
evidence so offered and excluded the writing ii question never
became, as between Burke and Dulaney, the absolute obligation of, the former, but was delivered- and accepted only as a
memorandum of what Burke was to pay m the event of -his
electing to become interested in the- property, and from the
time he so elected, or could be deemed to have so elected, it
was to take effect as ins promissory note, payable according to
its terms. His.election, within a reasonable time, to take such
interest, was made a condition precedent to his liability to pay
the stipulated price. Thfe minds of the parties never met upon
any other basis, and a refusal to give effect to their oral agreement wotild make for them a .contract which they did not
choose to make for themselves." See also Quebec Bank of
Toronto v Hellnan, 110 U. S. 178
If an instrument containing an absolute promise to pay may
be conditionally delivered, it is difficult to perceive any good
reason why an instrument containing a promise to pay- upon a
contingency may not likewise be conditionally delivered. If
the failure of- the condition in the one case prevents the instrument from becoming definitely operative, why not in the other?
The rule as to conditional delivery and the effect of a failure
of the condition has not been limited to promissory notes, but
has often bden applied to other instruments, as, for instance, a
deed of land. .Leppoc et al. v NTatonal Unton Bank of .Maryland, 32 Maryland, 136,'Olark v Gifford, 10 Wend. 310; a

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

475

Opinion of the Court.

sight draft, Benton v Martin, 52 N. Y 570, a guaranty,
Belleville Savn s -Bank v Bornman, 124 Illinois, 200, Merchants' Exehange Bank v Luokow, 37 Minnesota, 542.
But, coming closer to the case at, bar, let us see what has
been decided in respect to insurance policies. In Brown v. The
Amercan CentraZ Insurance Company, 70 Iowa, 390, the plaintiff applied to an agent of the defendant for a policy of fire
insurance. The agent doubted his authority to insure the particular property but executed a policy therefor, and, with the
consent of the plaintiff, placed it, after receiving the premium,
in the hands of a third party to hold until he could communicate with his principal and ascertain whether the risk would be
accepted. The defendant refused to accept the risk. The property was destroyed by fire before the notice of its refusal had
been received. The court held that there was no delivery of
the policy save upon the condition that-the insurance company
accepted the risk, and that, as it did not. accept it, the policy
never became operative.
In fillville Jlutual Aarwe & Fe Inwsurance Company v
Collerd, 38 N. 5 Law, 480, Perrin, the lessee of Collerd, the
owner of a mill, applied for fire insurance, as required by his
lease. Three policies, each in a different company, were sent
him by the insurance agent to whom he had applied. He retained the policies, paying the premium on two, and sent word
to the agent to the effect that he would look into the standing
of the other company, and if satisfied about that would pay
the premium on its policy The property having been destroyed by fire before any notice or other action by him, he
went to the agent and offered to pay the premium, which the
latter declined to accept. In an action on the policy it was
held that ihe company was not liable. In the course of the
opinion the court said (p. 483) that Perrin "merely held the
policy in his possession until he could examine it, or, to use his
own expression, Ilook.into the standing of the company' He
distinctly refused to accept the policy and settle for it, until he
was satisfied. This was; in effect, postponing the delivery, the
acceptance, and the payment of the premium until a future
time, and to this the company, by their agent, Buckley, assented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court

The condition-for prepayment remained, and the company was
entitled to notice of acceptance and prepayment of the premium
before the. contract for insurance was complete. After Perrin
had rejected the policy it remained in his hands, not as an executed contract of insurance, but as a proposal to insure which
he must accept by-payment of the premium, before the company would be bound."
In .arnckell v New York Life Aisurance Company, il
N. Y. 390, the plaintiff, who was the owner of several policies
of life insurapnce issued by different compailies, was applied to
by the agent of the defendant to take out policies in his company The result of the negotiations between the plaintiff and
the agent was an agreement to take out policies in the defendant
company, providing he could surrender the policies he already
had to the companies issuing them and obtain satisfactory surrender values thereof. In pursuance of an application duly
prepared by the agent and signed by the plaintiff, the-defendant company issued two policies, and sent them to its agent.
The latter, under the agreement, delivered them to the plaintiff,
who gave two notes and a check in payment therefor, which
-were returned by the agent to the company The plaintiff,
having after some effoit failed to make any satisfactory arrangement with the other companies, returned the policies to the defendant and demanded a surrender of his notes and the check.
The, company declining to make such surrender, this action was
brought, and it was held that the-policies w6re delivered only
conditionally, that the condition had failed, and that, therefore,
the plaintiff could rightfully surrender the policies and obtain a
return of his notes and check. The opinion of the court in that
case was delivered by Judge Peckham, now &justice of this court,
and in it, after referring to the agreement,.it was said (p. '398)
"This, we. think, was clearly a condition precedent to the
full delivery and acceptance of these policies issued by the defendant, and until such condition precedent was complied with
or waived, no fully executed and valid contract of insurance
existed between these parties."
See also Nutting v -Minnesota Fire Insurance Co., 98 Wisconsin, 26.

HAIrTFORD FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. WILSON.

477

Opinion of the Court.

In the case at bar the learned justice of the Court of Appeals,
who delivered the opinion of the majority, after referring to
other cases of conditional delivery, (some of which we have
noticed in this opinion,) stated as a reason for distinguishing
this case
"The contracts and instruments involved in those cases are
very different from the policies of insurance sued upon. These
are elaborate instruments and abound in stipulations and conditions. Among these, note the following, that is embraced
in the general clause recited in the preliminary statement
'This policy is made and accepted subject to the foregoing
stipulations and conditions, together with such other provisions,
agreements or conditions as may be endorsed hereon or added
hereto.'
"This and other clauses limiting the powers of agents and
requiring all additional terms and contitions to be endorsed in
writing upon the policies, were devised by the insurance company, itself, to prevent. questions concerning the conditions upon
which its policies shall be ' made and accepted' from being left
to the vagueness and uncertaifity of oral proof.
"The condition in this case was one in addition to those contained in the policies and upon which they were 'made and accepted,' and was not in writing endorsed upon them or executed
simultaneously therevitb.
"Our conclusion is, that by reason of the nature and terms
of the policies, it is not competent to show their delivery to
the insured upon a verbal condition, making their existence as
contracts depend upon the subsequent ratification of another
agent."
The argument is that because the policies contained various
stipulations restricting the power of the agent, it is incoinpeteit to prove that the contract never came into operative
force by a final unconditional delivery But these stipulations
apply only to a contract which has become executed and do
not apply where the contract has not been completed by an
absolute delivery of the instrument. No instrument could be
more absolute than a promissory note, yet it is clear from the

OCTOBER TERI, 1902..
Opmion of the Court.

authorities that parol evidence is admissible to explain its possession by the payee, and -show that that possession was not
the result of a final delivery, but only of one upon condition,
and also that the condition failed. PossesSion cannot be conclusive upon the question of delivery Otherwise, a possession
wrongfully, even feloniously, obtained would bind a party to a
contract when, perchance, much remained to be done before
the maker was ready to assume the obligations of the contract.
There is no stipulation.n this policy which either in terms or
by implication forbids such a transaction as was in fact had
between these two agents. There is no attempt, by parol testimony, to contradict any stipulations of the policy, something
which we have recently- held cannot be done. NSorthern A88urance Comxny v. G'and ' Tiew Building As8socation, 183
U. S. 308. With reference to this question we quote approvingly from Harnsekell v Nhew York Lzfe Insurance Comnpaty ,
111 N. Y sztpra, (pp. 398, 399, 400)
"The provisions cont'aned in the policies, which are above
quoted, relate to the policies themselves after they should become executed instruments between the parties. All negotiations had before such event, and all parol agreements between
the assured and the agent of the defendant, would have been
merged in the contract evidenced by-the policies themselves,
had the negotiations been carried out as intended, and such
policies been absolutely delivered to and accepted by the plaintiff. iHence any oral representation or statements made by
the agent of the company, and not contained in the contract
of insurance, would have formed no part thereof, and could not
have been insisted upon by the plaintiff as against the defendant company
Insurance companes may, with entire
propriety, provide in the same manner as the defendant provided in the-policies in question, in cases where the contract of
insurance becomes executed. There it is highly necessary and
important for the company to know exactly how far they are
bound and the entire nature of the contract which has been
made between them and the assured. But an agreement between an individual and the agent of a company, by which the
policy is accepted only upon conditions relating to the same,

MOBILE TRANSPORTATION CO. v. MOBILE.
Sylabus.

and an agreement to hold the policy until the performance of
those conditions, or a failure to perform, cannot, as we think,
result in any serious inconvenience to the company But
whether that is so or not-cannot alter the right of an individual
to refuse to be bound by a policy of insurance until he has absolutely received and accepted it.".
For these reasons we are of opinion that the facts found show
that there was no final and absolute delivery of the policies,
that the condition upon which they were deposited with the
agent of the insured failed, and, therefore, that at the timie of
the fire there was no subsisting contract of indemnity between
the company and the insured.
The judgment qf the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to that court with instructions to set aside
stsudgment and enter one affirmzng the judgment of the
trial court.
MR. JusTiCE BROwN

concurred in the result.

MOBILE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v. MOBILE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 62. Argued November 3, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

1. A motion to dismiss for want of a Federal question cannot be sustained
when the title involved depends upon a Spanish grant claimed to have
been perfected under the treaty of 1819 with Spain, and a patent of the
United States in alleged confirmation of such claim.
2. It has been conclusively settled by this court that the State of Alabama,
when admitted to the Union, became entitled to the soil under the navigable waters below high water mark within the limits of the State, not
previously granted. Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212.
The act of the legislature of Alabama of January 31,1867, conveying to- the
city of Mobile the shore and soil under Mobile River is not unconstitutional
as impairing vested rights of owners of grants bordering on Mobile River,
as the rule in Alabama that agrant by the United States of lands bordering on a navigable river includes the shore or bank of such river and ex-

