REID v.. COLORADO.
Syllabus.

REID v. COLORADO.
ERROR TO THE SUPEIEME COURT *OFTHE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 269. Argued October 24,1902.-Decided December 1,1902.
The transportation of live stock from State to State is a branch of interstate
commerce and any specified rule or regulation in respect of such transportation, which Congress may lawfully prescribe or authorize and which
may properly be deemed a regulation of such commerce, is paramount
throughout the Union.
When the entire subject of the transportation of live stock from one State
to another is taken under direct national supervision and a system devised
by which diseased stock may be excluded from interstate 'commerce, all
local- or State regulations in respect of such matters and covering the
same ground will cease to have any force, whether formally abrogated or
not; and such rules and regulations as Congress may lawfully prescribe
or authorize will alone control. The power which the States might thus
exercise may in this way be suspended until national control is abandoned
and the subject be thereby left under the-power of the States.
The act of Congress of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, c. 60, known as the
Animal Industry Act, does not cover the whole subject of the transportation of live stock from one State to another.
The statute of Colorado of March 21, 1885, relating to the introduction of
infectious or contagious diseases among the cattle and horses of that
State, relates to matters not covered by the Animal Industry Act of Congress, and is not in violation of the Constitution-of the United States.
No one is given by the Constitution of the United States the rzght to introduce into a State, against its will, live stockaffected by a contagious, infectious or communicable disease, and whose presence in the State
will or may be injurious to its domestic animals. The State-Congress
not having assumed charge of the matter as involved in interstate commerce-may protect its people and their property against such dangers,
taking care always that the means employed to that end do not go beyond the necessities of the case or unreasonably burden the exercise of
privileges secured by the Constitution of the United States.
The Colorado statute is not inconsistent with the clause of the Constitution
declanng that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States; for it is applicable alike
to the Zitizens of all the States.
The principle is universal that legislation, whetIer by Congress or by a
State, must be taken to -be valid, unless the, contrary is made clearly to
4ppear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.A& John H. Denl8on and Xr William 21. Sprnger for
plaintiff in error.
.Ar IFredero D -MoKenney for defendant in error.
i.
Ckarle8 C. Po8t, attorney general of the State of Colorado, was
with him on the brief.
M . JusTicE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was convicted in the District Court of
Arapahoe County, Colorado, and sentenced to confinement for
six months in the county jail for a violation of the second section of a statute enacted March 21,1885, to prevent the introduction of infectious or contagious diseases among the cattle
and horses of that State. Sessions Laws, Col. 1885, p. 335.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State, and the case having been brought here, it is insisted
that by the final judgment the accused has been denied a
right specially claimed by him under the Constitution of the
United States.
This position depends upon the inquiry whether a certain
act of Congress, to be presently referred to, has the scope and
effect attributed to it by the accused, and, that contention
failing, whether the statute under which he was convicted is
repugnant to that instrument.
After reciting that certain infectious and contagious diseases,
known as the Texas or splenetic fever, Spanish itch and other
diseases of a dangerous and contagious nature, were prevalent
among cattle and horse stock in the States and Territories
south of the 36th parallel of north latitude, and that it was
essential for the protection of the cattle and horses of Colorado
to prevent the introduction and spread of all such diseases
within that State, the above statute provided
"§ 1. It shall be unlawful for any person, association or corporation, to bring or drive, or cause to be brought or driven.
into this State any cattle or horses, having an infectious -or

REID v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

contagious disease, or which have been herded, or brought
into contact, with any other cattle or horses laboring under
such disease, at any time within ninety days prior to their
importation into this State.
"§ 2. It shall be unlawful for any person, association or
corporation, to bring or drive, or cause to be brought or driven,
into this State, between the first day of April and the first day
of November, any cattle or horses from a State, Territory or
county south of the 36th-parallel of north latitude, unless said
cattle or horses have been held at some place north of the said
parallel of latitude for a period of at least ninety days prior
to their importation into this State, or unless the person, association or corporation, owning or having charge of such cattle
or horses, shall procure from the State Veterinary Sanitary
Board a certificate, or bill of health, to the effect that said
cattle or horses are free from all infectious or contagious
diseases and have not been exposed, at any time within ninety
days prior thereto, to any of said diseases. The expense of
any inspection connected herewith to be paid by the owner or
owners of such cattle or horses.
"§ 3. Any person violating the provision of this act shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction, be
punished by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500),
nor more than five thousand dollars ($5000), or by imprisonment
in the county jail for a term of not less than six months, and not
exceeding three years, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
"§ 4. If any person, association or corporation shall bring,
or cause to be brought, into this State, any cattle or horses, in
violation of the provisions of sections one or two of this act, or
shall, by false representation, procure a certificate of health,
as -provided for in section two of this act, he or they shall be
liable, in all cases, for ,all damages sustained on account of
disease communicated by or from said cattle or horses, judgment for damages in any such case, together with the costs of
action, shall be a lien upon all such cattle and horses, and a
writ of attachment may issue in the first instance without the
giving of a bond, and the court rendering such judgment may
order the sale of said'cattle or horses, or so many thereof as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

may be necessary -to satisfy said judgments and costs. Such
sale shall be conducted as other sales under execution." Session Laws, Cl. 1885, p. 335.
There was no proof in the case that the particular cattle in
question had any dangerous, infectious or contagious disease.
But it did appear that after being kept a long while in Lubbock and Cochran Counties, Texas, south of the 36th parallel
of north latitude, these cattle were slipped on the 20th day of
June, 1901, to Denver, Colorado, on their way to their ultimate
destination in Wyoming, without being first -inspected as required by the statute of the former State. The provjsions of
the Colorado statute were ignored altogether as invalid legislation. Being asked by one of the witnesses whether he had or
not allowed the State Board of Sanitary Inspection to inspect
the cattle, or whether or not he had procured from the State
Veterinary Sanitary Board a certificate or bill of health to the
effect that the cattle were free from all infectious or contagious
diseases, the defendant said "That the State Board of Sanitary Inspection, through one of -their inspectors, had inspected
the cattle against his will and desire, but that he had not obtained from the board any certificate or bill of health whatsoever. But 'he said that he immediately theretofore had had the
cattle inspected by a duly authorized inspector of the Bureau
of Animal Industry of the United States, at Hereford, in the
State of Texas, and had obtained a certificate from him to the
effect that the same were free from any infectious or contagious disease, that the reason he could not get a certificate or
bill of health from the State Board of Colorado was because he
would not pay the expense of such inspection, and because he
had opposed such inspection as unnecessary and without any
warrant in law"
When refusing his assent to the State inspection Reid showed
to the State authorities what he called a "United States certificate."
The certificate was signed by "Arthur C.Hart, Ass't Inspector, Bureau of Animal Industry" That officer certified that
he had carefully inspected the cattle inquestion at Hereford,
Texas, and found them "free from Texas or slilenetic fever in-

REID v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

fection (Boophilu8 bovu), or any other infectious or contagious
disease," and that "no Texas fever infection is known to exist.
where they have been kept or on the trail over which they have
passed." Below the signature of the Assistant Inspector was
the following unsigned printed memorandum "Animals which
have been inspected and certified by an inspector of the U S.
Bureau of Animal Industry, and are free from disease, have the
right to go into any State and be sold for any purpose, without
further inspection or the exaction of fees."
The above, together with certain published regulations prepared and issued by the Bureau of Animal Industry, was all
the evidence in the case.
The defendant asked the court to instruct -the jury
That it was unnecessary for the defendant to procure from
the Colorado Veterinary Sanitary Board a certificate or bill of
health to the effect that his cattle were free from infectious or
contagious diseases, and had not been exposed at any time within
ninety days prior thereto, to any of said diseases, for the reason
that the cattle had previously been inspected, "according to
the statute of the United States in such case made and provided,
and according to the rules and regulations pursuant to said statute, promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, by a duly
authorized inspector of the Bureau of Animal Industry of the
United States, stationed at Hereford, in the State of Texas, and
had been duly certified by such United States inspector to be
free from any infectious or contagious disease, and for the
further reason that he, the said defendant, then and there exhibited and showed to the said State inspector of Colorado the
said inspection certificate of the United States to said cattle,"
and,
That the Colorado statute, approved March 21, 1885, and under -vichdefendant was .prosecuted, was repugnant to the provision of the Constitution of the United States giving Congress
power to regulate commerce among the States, as well as to
the provision declaring that-the citizens of each State shall be
entitled toall the privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States, and was null and void, as imposing unnecessary
and unlawful burdens and restrictions, upon interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM1,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

The court refused to so instruct the jury, but instructed them
that if they believed from the evidence, beyond a reasonable
doubt, that the defendant did, on or about the 20th day of June,
1901, that is, between the first day of April and the first day
of November of that year, "unlawfully bring or drive or cause
to be brought or driven into the State of Colorado, and into
the county of Arapahoe, the cattle as mentioned in the information or any part thereof, from certain counties south of the 36th
parallel, north latitude, and that said cattle had not been held
theretofore at some place north of said parallel of latitude, for
a period of at least ninety days prior to the importation of said
cattle into said State of Colorado, and that the said defendant
had not procured'from the State Veterinary Sanitary Board of
Colorado a certificate or bill of health, to the effect that said
cattle were free from infectious or contagious diseases, and to
the effect that the same had not been exposed at any time
within ninety days prior thereto to any of said diseases, and
that then and there the said defendant did refuse and decline
to procure or permit any one for him to procure such certificate or bill of health, and did refuse and decline to pay or
allow, or suffer or permit any one for him to pay the expense
of any inspection so as by the act prescribed, then and in that
event it is your duty to find the defendant guilty as charged
in this information."
The contention here of the defendant is substantially that
the subject of the transportation of cattle from one State to
another has been so far covered by the act of Congress known
as the Animal Industry Act of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, c. 60,
that, after its passage, no enactment by the State upon the
same subject was permissible, and that even in the absence of
legislation by Congress the Colorado statute is invalid, in that,
by its natural or necessary operation, it unreasonably obstructs
that freedom of commerce among the States which the Constitution established. These questions are recognized by the
court as of great importance and have received its most careful consideration.
Taking up the first branch of the defendant's contention, let
us look at the controlling provisions of the above act of Con-

REID v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

gress and ascertain whether that statute has the scope and
effect claimed for it.
The statute is entitled '"An act for the establishment of a
Bureau of Animal Industry, to prevent the exportati6n of
diseased cattle, and to provide means for the suppression and
extirpation of pleuro-pneumonia and other contagious diseases
among domestic animals."
By the first section the Commissioner of Agriculture is directed to organize in his Department a Bureau of Animal Industry, to appoint a chief thereof, who shall be a competent
veterinary surgeon, and whose duty it shall be "to investigate
and report upon the condition of the domestic animals of the
United States, their protection and use, and also inquire into
and report the causes of contagious, infectious, and communicable diseases among them, and the means for the prevention
and cure of the same, and to collect such information on these
subjects as. shall be valuable to the agricultural and commercial
interests of the country" § 1.
By the second section the Commissioner ,is authorized to
appoint two competent agents, practical stock raisers or experienced business men familiar with questions pertaining to coinmercial transactions in live stock; whose duty it shall be, under
the instructions of the Commissioner, "to examine and report
upon the best methods of treating, transporting, and caring for
animals, and the-means to be adopted for the suppression and
extirpation of contagious pleuro-pneumonia, and to provide
against the spread of other dangerous contagious, infectious,
and communicable diseases." § 2.
The third section makes it "the duty of the Commissioner of
Agriculture to prepare such rules and regulations as he may
deem necessary for the speedy and effectual suppression and
extirpation of said diseases, and to certify such rules and regulations to the executive authority of each State and Territory,
and invite said authorities to coperate in the execution and enforcement of this act." And " w heever the plans and methods
of the Commissioner of Agriculture shall be- accepted by any
State or Territory in which pleuro-pneumoma or other contagious, infectious, or communicable disease is declared to exist,

OCTOBER TEHM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court

or such State or Territory shall have adopted plans and methods
for the suppression and extirpation of said diseases, and such
plans and methods shall be accepted by the Commissioner of
Agriculture, and whenever the governor of a State or other
properly constituted authorities signify their readiness to cooperate for the extinction of any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease in conformity with the provisions of this act,
the Commissioner of Agriculture is hereby authorized to expend
so much of the money appropriated by this act as may be necessary in such investigations, and in such disinfection and quarantine measures as may be necessary to prevent the'spread of
the disease from one State or Territory into another." § 3.
In order "to promote the exportation of live stock from
the United States," the Commissioner was directed to " m ake
special'investigation as to the existence of pleuro-pneumonma, or
any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease, along the
dividing lines between the United States and foreign countries,
and along the lines of transportation from all parts of the United
States to ports from which live stock are exported, and make
report of the results of such investigation to the Secretary
.of the Treasury, who shall, from time to time, establish- such
regulations concerning the exportation and transportation of
live stock as the results of- said investigations may require,"
§ 4, and that "to prevent the exportation from any port of the
United States to any port in a foreign country of live stock
affected with any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease, and especially pleuro-pneumonia," the Secretary of the
Treasury was authorized to take such steps and :adopt such
measures, not inconsistent with the provisions of the act, as he
might deem necessary § 5.
By another section of the act all railroad companies within
the United-States, or the owners or masters, of -any steam or
sailing vessel or other vessel or boat, were, forbidden to receive
for transportation or transport from one State or Territory to
another, or from any State into the District of Columbia, or
from the iDstiict into any State, "any live stock affected with
any contagipus, infectious, or bommunicable disease, and especially the'disease known as pleuro-pneumonia, nor shall

REID v. COLORADO.
Opimon of the Court.

any person, company, or corporation deliver for suoil transportation to any railroad company, or master or owner of any
boat or vessel, any live stock, knowmtg them to be -affected
with any contagious, infectious, or communicable. disease; nor
shall any person, company, or corporation drive on foot or
transport in private conveyance from one State or Territory to
another, or. from any State into the District of Columbia, or
from the District into any State, any live stock, knowzng them
to be affected with any contagious, infectious, or communicable
disease, and especially the .disease known as pleuro-pneumoma.
Provded, That the so-called splenetic or Texas fever shall not
be considered a cQntagious, infectious, or communicable disease
within the meaning of sections four, five, six and seven of this
act, as to cattle being transported by rail to market for slaughter,
when the same are unloaded only to be fed and watered in lots
on the way thereto." § 6.
Other provisions of the act are as follows
"§ 7. That it shall, be the duty of the Commissioner of

Agriculture to notify, in writing, the proper officials or agents
of any railroad, steamboat, or other. transportation company
doing business in or through any infected locality, and by
publidation in such newspapers as he may-select, of the existence of said contagion, and any person or persons operating
any such railroad, or master or owner of any .boat or vessel, or
owner or custodian of or person having control over such
cattle or other live stock within such infected district,"who
shall knowingly violate .the provisions of section -six of this
act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be punished.by a fine of not less ,than one hundred nor
more than live -thousand dollars, or by'imprisonment for' not
more than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment
"§ 8. That whenever any contagious, infectious; or commu-nicable disease, affecting domestic animals, and especially the
disease. known as pleuro-pneumonia, shall be brouight into or,
shall -break out in, the District of Columbia, it shall be the
duty of the Commissibners of said Distribt to take measures to
suppress the same promptly and to prevent the same from
spreading, and for this pupbse the said, Commissioners are
VOL. OLxxxVI-10

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

hereby empowered to order and require that any premises,
farm, or farms where such disease exists, or has existed, be put
, quarantine, to order all or any animals coming into the
District to be detained at any place or places for the purpose
of inspection and examination, to prescribe regulations for
and to require the destruction of animals affected with contagious, infectious, or communicable disease, and for the
proper disposition of their hides and carcasses, to prescribe
regulations for disinfection, and such other regulations as they
may deem necessary to prevent infection or contagion being
communicated, and shall report to the Commissioner of Agriculture whatever they may do in pursuance of the provisions
of this section.
"1§9. That it shall be the duty of the several United States
district attorneys to prosecute all violations of this act which
shall be brought to their notice or knowledge by any person
making the complaint under oath, and the same shall be heard
before any District or Circuit Court of the United States or
territorial court holden within the district in which'the violation of this act has been committed." 23 Stat. 31, c. 60.
It may be here. stated 'that by the act of February 9, 1889,
the Department of Agriculture was made one of the Executive
Departments of the Government, and placed under the supervision and control of a Secretary of Agriculture, 25 Stat. 659,
c. 122, and that bythe act of July 14, 1890, the Secretary was
vested with all the authority which by the above act of May 29,
1884, was conferred upon the Commissioner of Agriculture,
26 Stat. 282, 2 88 c. 707.
It is quite true, as urged on behalf of the defendant, that
the transportation of live stock from State to State is a branch
of interstate commerce and that any specified rule or regulation in respect of such transportation, which Congress may
lawfully prescribe of authorize and which may properly bo
deemed a regulation of suQh commerce, is paramount throughout the Umon. So that when the entire subject of the transportation of live stock from one State to another is taken under direct national supervision and a system deviwed by which
diseased stock may be excluded from interstate commerce, all

REID v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

local or State regulations in respect of such matters and covermg the same ground will cease to have any force, whether
formally allrogated or not,. and such rules and regulations as
Congress may lawfully prescribe or authorize will alone control. Gib3on8 v. Ogden,, 9 Wheat. 1, 210, -Yorgan v. Louisenmngton v. Georgta,163 U S.
sani, 118 U. S. 456, 464,
299, 3 17 ; N Y., N H & H. A.R. Co. v New York, 165
fi88ourz, Kansa & Texa Rcilivay co. v.
U. S. 628, 631,
613,
626, Rasmussen v Idaho, 181 U S. 198,
U.
S.
169
Haber,
the States might thus exercise may
which
power
The
200.
until national control is abandoned
suspended
in this .way be
and the subject be thereby left under the police power ofthe
States.
But the difficulty with the defendant's case is that Congress
has not by any statute covered. the whole subject of the- transportation of live stock among the several States, and, except in
certain particulars not involving the present issue, has left a
wide field for the exercise by the States of theirpower, by appropriate regulations,.to protect their domestic animals against
contagious, infectious and commupicablediseases.
An examination:of the Animal Industry Act will make this
entirely clear. Three distinct subjects are embraced by that
,act. One is the ascertainment through the Agricultural Departmentof thd'conditioh of the domestic animals of the United
States, the causes'of contagious, infectious or comi-iunicable dis-eases affecting them, the best methods for treating, transporting and caring for animals, the means to be adopted for the,
suppression and extirpation of such diseases, particulaiky that
of contagious pleuro-pneumoma, and to collect such information
on those.subjects as will be valuable to:the agricultural-and commercidl interests of the country Congress did not assume todeclare that "the rules and regulations "-which that Department
might adopt as necessary "for the speedyand effectual.suppression.and extirpation of said diseases" should have in themselves,
or apart.from the action of a State,, any binding force upon the
States. They were-to be certified to the executiveP authority
of each State, and the cooperation of such authorities hi 6xecuting the act of Congress invited. If the authorities of -any.State

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
- Opinion of the Court.

adopted the plans and methods devised by the Department, or
if the State authorities -adopted measures of their own which
the Department. approved, then the money appropriated by
Congress could be used in conducting the required investigations and in such disinfection and quarantine measures as might
be necessary to prevent the spread of the diseases in question
from one State or Territory into another. Congress did not
intend to override the power of the States to care for the safety
.of the property of their pe 6 ples by such legislation as., they
deemed appropriate. It did not undertake to invest any officeror agent of the Department with authority to go into a State
and without its assent take charge of the work of suppressing
or extirpating contagious, infectious or communicable diseases
there prevailing and which endangered the health of domestic
animals. Nor did Congress give the Department authority by
its officers or agents to inspect cattle within the limits of a State
and give a certificate that should be of superior authority in
that or other States, or which should entitle the owner to carry
his cattle into or through another State without reference to
the reasonable and valid regulations which the latter State may
have adopted for the protection of its own domestic anmals.
It should never be held that Congress intends to supersede or
by its legislation suspend the, exercise of the police powers of
the States, even when it may do so, unless its purpose to effect
that resultas clearly manifested. This court has said-and the
principle has been often reaffirmed-that "m the application
of this principle of supremacy of an act of Congress in a case
where the State law is but the -exercise of a reserved power, the
repugnance- or conflict should be direct andpositive, so that the
two aets could not be reconciled or consistently stand together."
Sinnot. v Davenport, 22 How 227, 243. The certificate given
to the defendant by Assistant Inspector Hart of the Bureau of
Animal .Industry was in itself without legal weight in Colorado.
As. said in JMissou??, Kama8 & Texas Railway Company v
Haber, above cited. "While the States were invited to cobperate with the General Government in the execution and enforcement of the act, whatever power they had to protect their domestic cattle against such diseases was left untouched and un-

REID v. COLORADO.
Opuiion of the Courv.

impaired by the act-of Congress." Hence, it was decided in
that case that, the Animal Industry Act did not stand,m the
way of, the State of Kansas enacting a statute declaring that
aiy person driving, shipping or transporting, or causing to be
shipped, driven or transported into or through that State, any
cattle liable or capable of communicating Texas or splenetic
fever to domestic cattle should be liable to the person -injured
thereby for all damages sustained by reason of the communication of -said disease or fever, to be recovered fn a civil action.
We there held that the Kansas statute did nothing-more than
establish a rule of civil liability, in that State, affected no regulation of interstate commerce that Congress had prescribed or
authorized, and impaired no right secured by the National Constitution.
Another subject embraced by the act of Congress related to
the exportation from ports of the United States to ports in
foreign countries of live stock affected with contagious, infectious
or commumcable'diseases,. especially pleuro-pneumoma, and in
relation to that matter the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to take such steps and adopt such measures not inconsistent with the act of Congress, as he deemed necessary " As
the present case is not one of the exportation of live stock to
a foreign country, it is- unnecessary to consider what power,
if any,, remained with the States, after the passage of the Animal Industry Act, to suppress or extirpate diseases that in fact
affected live stock, ,which it was the purpose of the owners to
export.
Still another subject covered by the act is the driving on
fbot oi transporting from one State or Territory into another
State or Territory, or from any.State- into th6 District of Co-,
lumbia, or from thf" District into any State, of any live stock
known to be affected with any .contagious, infectious or communicable disease. But this provision does not cover the entire
subject of the transporting or shipping of diseased live stock
from one "State to another. The owner of such stock, when
bringing them, info another State, may not know them to be
diseased-, but they may, in fact, be diseased, or the circumstances may-be such as fairy to authorize the State into which

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

they are about to be brought to take such precautionary measures as will reasonably guard its own domestic animals against
danger from contagious, infectious or communicable diseases.
The act of Congress left the State free to cover that field by
such regulations as it deemed appropriate, and which only incidentally affected the freedom of interstate commerce. Congress went no falfther than to make it an offence against the
United States for any one known/ly to take or send from one
State or Territory to another State or Territory, or into the District of Columbia, or from the District into any State, live stock
affected with infectious or communicable disease. The Animal
Industry Act did not make it an offence against the United
States to send from one State into another live stock which the
shipper did not know were diseased. The offence charged upon
the defendant in the State court was not the introduction into
Colorado of cattle that he knew to be diseased. He was charged
with having brought -his cattle into Colorado from certain
counties in Texas, south of the 36th parallel of north latitude,
without said cattle having been held at some place north of
said parallel of latidude for at least the time required prior to
their being brought into Colorado, and without having procured from the State Veterinary Sanitary Board a certificate or
bill of health to the effect that his cattle-in fact-were free
from all infectious or contagious diseases, and had not been
exposed at any time within ninety days prior thereto to any
such diseases. lut had declined to procure such certificate or
have the inspectio required by the -statute. His knowledge
as to the actual condition of the cattle was of no consequence
under the State enactment or under the charge made.
Our conclusion is that the statute of Colorado as here involved
does not cover the same ground as the act of Congress and
therefore i§ not inconsistent with that act, and its constitutionality 1§"not to be questioned unless it be in violation of the Constitutioii of the United States, independently of any-legislation
by Congres. The latter question we now proceed to examine.
Cdrtain principles are well settled by the former decisions of
this court. One is that the purpose of a statute, in whatever
language it may be framed, must be determined by its natural

REID v. COLORADO.
Opnon of the Court.

and reasonable effect. Henderson v JMayor of New York, 92
U. S. 259, 268. Another is, that a State may not, by its police
regulations, whatever their object, unnecessarily burden foreign
or interstate commerce. Railroad Company v. Husen, 95 U. S.
465, 472. Again, the acknowledged police powers of a State
cannot legitimately be exerted so as to defeat or impair a right
secured by the National Constitution, any more than to defeat
or impair a statute passed by Congress in pursuance of the powers
granted to it. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210, .Missours,.
_Yansas & Texas Railway Co. v Haber,169 U. S. 613, 625, 626,
and authorities cited.
Now, it is said that the defendant has a right under the Constitutiofi of the United States to ship live stock from one State
to another State. This will be- conceded on all hands. But
the defendant is not given by that instrument the 'zght to introduce into a State, aganst its will, liver stock affected by a
contagious, infectious or. oommunicable disease, and whose presence in the State will-.or may be injurious to its domestic
animals. The State--Cbngress not having assumed charge of
the matter as involved in interstate commerce-may protect its
people and their property against such dangers, taking care always that the means employed tothat end do not go beyond
the necessities of the case or unreasonably burden the exercise
of.privileges secured by the Constitution of the United States.
Is the statute of Colorado liable to the objection just stated 2
Can the courts hold that upon its face itunreasonably obstructs
the exercise of the general right secured by the Constitution to
ship or send- recognized articles of commerce from one State to
another without interference by local authority 2 Those questions must be answered in the-negative. The Colorado statute,
in effect, declares that live stock coming, between the dates and
from the >territory !pecified, are, ordinarily, in such condition
that their presence in the. State may be dangerous to its domestic animals- 7aid hence the requirement that before being
brought or sent into the State they shall either be kept at some
plac7 north of the 86th parallel of north 'latitude for at least
ninety days prior to their importation into the State, or the
owner must procure from the State Veterinary Sanitary Board

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

a certificate or bill of health that the cattle are free from all
infectious or contagious diseases, and have not been exposed to
any of said diseases at any tine within ninety days prior
thereto. As there is no evidence in the case as to the practical
operation of this regulation upon shippers of cattle, as it does
not appear otherwise than that the statute can be obeyed. without serious embarrassment or unreasonable cost, the court cannot assume arbitrarily that the State acted wholly without
authority or that it unduly burdened the exercise of the prvilege of engaging in interstate commerce. The accused seems
to have been content to rest hi defence upon such grounds as
arose upon the face of the local statute, without reference to
any evidence bearing upon the reasonableness or unreasonableness of. the particular methods adopted by the State to protect
its domestic animals. He seems to have been willing to risk
the case upon the simple proposition-based upon the words of
the State enactment and upon the actof Congress, reinforcedby
certain regulations made by the Agricultural Departmentthat the local statute was inconsistent with that act, and with
the general power of Congress toregulate interstate commerce.As, therefore, the statute does not forbid the introduction
into the State of all live stock coming. from the defined territory-that diseased as well as that not diseased-but only prescribes certain methods to protect the domestic animals of
Colorado from contact with live .stock coming from that territory between certdin dates, and as those methods have been
devised by-the State under the power to protect the property
of its people from injury, and do not appear upon their face to
,be unreasonable, we mustj in the absence of evidence showing
the contrary, assume that they are appropriate to the object
which the State is entitled to accomplish.
One other objection to the Colorado statute must be noticed,
namely, that it is inconsistent with the clause of the Constitution declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
This -position is untenable. The statute is equally applicable to
citizens of all the States. No discrimination is shown. No
privileges are granted to citizens of Colorado that are denied

REID v. JONES.
Counsel for Parties.

to citizens of. other States. Kimmh v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217,
222.
The principle is universal that legislation, whether by Congress or by a State, must be taken to'be valid, unless the contrary is made clearly to appear, and as the contrary does not
so appear, the statute of Colorado-is to 'be taken as a constitutional exercise of the-power of the State.
Perceiving no error in the judgment to the prejudice of the
plaintiff under the Constitution of the United States, the judgment is

Afrmed.
MR. JlxsTIoE BREwR dissented from the opinion and judgment of the court.

RED) v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
iNo. 147. Argued October 24, 1902.-Decided December 1,1902.-

One convicted in a State court for an alleged violation of the criminal
statutes of the State, and who contends that he is held in violation of
the Constitution of.the United States, must ordinarily first take his case
"
to the highest court of the State, in which the 5udgment could be rewrit
of
by
viewed, and thence bring it, if-unsuccessful there,to tins court
error.

.THE case isstated in the opinion of the court.
HDenwon and Mr William M. S'pwwger for ap.M' Johnff.
pellant,
Charles C.
.M" .Federic . .a.cenney for appellee. .r
with him
was
of
Colorado,
State
of.
the
Post,attorney general
on the brief.

