TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANI)E &c. RY. 569
Statement of the Case.

TELLURIDE POWER TRANSMISSION COMPANY v.
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ERROR TO THE. SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 72. ArguedNovember 10, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.
It is sufficient answer to a claim that a statute of Utah amounts to a deprivation of the rights under the Fourteenth Amendment that it appears
for the first time in the petition for a writ of error from this court and
that the claim of invalidity was not raised in the District Court, nor
assigned as a ground of error on 'the appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State, and that that court did not pass upon the action of the District
Court in view of the unconstitutionality of the statute.
Where the Supreme Court of Utah has construed the statutes and- constitution of Utah to the-effect that a foreign corporation had no existence as
, corporation in the State, and could acquire, therefore, no rights as such,
and that an -individual connected with the corporation had no independent rights in the premises, these conclusions do not involve the
decision of Federahlquestions, but only the meaning and effect of local
statutes and a findhig'of fact, neither of which is reviewable by this
court.
Whatever rights the plaintiff in error in this action may have had under
ยง 2339, Revised Statutes of the United States, depended upon questions
of fact and of local law, which are not reviewable by'this court.
Where the state court refuss to remove a cause to the Circuit Court and
afterwards on filing the record in the Circuit Court that court remands
the cause to the state court, if there was any error in the ruling of the
state court it becomes wholly immaterial. Missourz Pacific Railway v.
itzgerald, 160 U. S 556.

THis is a suit to condenm land in the exercise, of the right
of eminent domain, under the laws of Utah, and was brought
in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District of that
State. The complainant m the suit, defendant in error here,
was a corporation of Utah. The plaintiff in error was a Colorado- corporation. Ferguson and Holbrook were citizens of
Utah, Nunn was a citizen of Colorado. The bill alleged the
corporate character of the complainant, and the necessity of
the land for the use of the railroad. The route of the road
was set out, and that it would pass over a tract of unsurveyed

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

lands of the United States which could not be accurately described, but which, when surveyed, would proximately be
parts of the S.W , of section 27, W I of S.W I of 26,
K.E. I of the S.W 4 section 26, a-Ad N.W I of the S.E. I of
section 26, T. 51 S. R. 3, east Salt Lake meridian, and lying in
Provo Cafion, and along and near Provo River. That prior
to plaintiff's survey Ferguson had'or claimed some possessory
right by occupation of said land or some part thereof, but on
account of the land being unsurveyed the number of acres
claimed by.Ferguson could not be given, but the lands he
claimed to occupy, it was alleged on information and belief,
commenced at a fence between them 'and lands below and
southeasterly, occupied by A. L. Murphy, and extends northeasterly up the caion and river, a distance of about 4800 feet,
to a point which by estimation would be the northeast corner
of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section
twenty-six, when the land should be surveyed. It was alleged
that the line of the railroad was on and over aid lands, and
that plaintiff had appropriated for railroad purposes a strip of
land two'hundred feet wide, containing twenty-two acres, more
or less that such strip was necessary for the construction and
operation of the road. A map of the line of road was attached
to the bill.
The following were the allegations of the bill-as to the other
defendants
"And on information and belief the plaintiff alleges that
the defendants The Telluride Power Transmission Company,
L. L. Nunn and L. Holbrook assert and claim some interest in
or to said land appropriated by the plaintiff, or in the possessory right to the same'or to some easement therein.
"That the -defendants -are the only persons and parties in
possession of -said land or any part thereto, or claiming any
right or title therein or thereto, so far as is known to the plain'tiff.I
"And the plaintiff alleges that it cannot contract for the
purchase of said tract of land required for its railroad as aforesaid. That the defendant W W Ferguson refuses to sell, alleging that he has contracted to sell to-the other defendants

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY. 571
Statement of the Case.
or some of them, that the other defendants refuse to sell the
same or any easement therein or possessory right thereto on
the pretence that they want said land and propose to flow the
same for power purposes. And on information and belief the
plaintiff alleges that the claimed interest of the defendant Holbrook, if any, is held by him as trustee for the defendants,
The Telluride Power Transmission Company and L. L. Nunn."
The prayer was for the ascertainment of the extent of occupation by defendants and their damages and the condemnation
of a right of way of one hundred feet wide on each side of the
center line of plaintiff's survey, on and over the land occupied
by defendants, or any of them, and for general relief.
The Telluride Power Transmission Company and the defendant Nunn petitioned for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Utah on
the ground of separable controversy
The petition alleged
that they were citizens and residents of Colorado, and the plaintiff was a resident and citizen of Utah, that Holbrook had no
interest in the controversy, and that Ferguson had contracted
to sell to them the lands involved. The petition was denied.
Subsequently said corporation and N'unn filed a certified transpript of the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Utah, but on motion of plaintiff's attorney the cause wg remanded to the District Court of the
State. The order r~manding .was made on the 29th of March,
1897; and a copy thereof filed in ,the Dfitrict Court, April 29,
1898, the day the trial -ommenced.
In that court the defendants answered-Ferguson separately,
the other defendants uniting. The answers need not be quoted.
It is enough to say that they put in issue the allegations of the
bill as to the organization and existence of the plaintiff corporation, its authority to build a railroad up Provo Cafion, the
survey of its line in March, 1896, and its location. It was alleged "that certain persons claiming to be the agents of said
alleged plaintiff had, during the summer and fall of 1896, run
uncertain and irregular lines up said Provo Cafion, cut brush
and made slight and unimportant excavations, which, from their
character, gave no evidence of any purpose or design upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.'

part of any person to survey or construct any line of railroad ;"
and that such line "passed over and into certain tracts of un-

surveyed land." Ferguson's location upon certain unsurveyed
lands was alleged, with the view of, obtaining title. thereto as
soon,aa the lands could be entered, and that he had erected
improvements thereon and had contracted to sell the same to
the Power Company and Nunn for the purpose of enabling
them to "use the same for a reservoir upon which to store water
for electrical power, manufacture and agricultural purposes."
It was alleged that the Power Company was a 'Colorado
corporation and its stockholders citizens of the United States,
and that it was organized among other things" for the purpose
of acquiring by purchase, or otherwise, water rights, ways and
power and to work, develop and utilize water rights, power,
ways, mills, etc., for such business and enterprises as appertain
to the same."
The adaptability of Provo Caion for supplying and storing
water-was alleged, and the utility of furnishing light and electrical power and heat to neighboring industries. That said
defendants have been engaged for years in acquiring water
rights, and in the year 1894 entered Pro o Caion, and had extensive surveys made, and prosecuted the same with diligence,
that the greater part of the lands in the caion were unoccupied and unsurveyed, and of little or no value except for the
purposes designed by the defendants, "that defendants began the construction of a flume and made the necessary excavations therefor in order to obtain power with which to aid in.
the construction Gf'a large dam by which to reservoir and
hold bacIL the waters 6f said -river for power and irrigation
purposes, that, said defendants made the necessary surveys for
cgnals for the purposes aforesaid and surveyed a reservoir, and
showed upon-.the surveys the contour of the line thereof, and
prosecuted with due diligence the wqrk necessary for the consummation of the enterprise entered upon, that in the winter
and early spring of 1896 the said defendants vigorously prosecuted said work and expended large sums of money in the
execution of said desmgn, and purpose ,-that long prior to 18M6
in good faith they entered upon said public unsurveyed lands

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY 573
Statement of the Case.

of the United States with the design and specific. purpose of
constructing in said cafton at a point at or near what will be,
when surveyed, as nearly as defendants can determine, the
southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 27, township 5 south, range 3 'east. a dam by which to reservoir and
store said surplus waters of Provo River, that they surveyed
said reservoir, extending the lines, of survey up said river from
said point to a point at or near the northeast corner of the
northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 7, township 5 south, range 4 east, in Wasatch County, Utah, and said
defendants have further located and surveyed the necessary
canals connected with said reservoir for the purpose of carrying into effect the enterprise and business entered upon by
them, that since the year 1894 as aforesaid, the said defendants have been in the actual possession and occupation of the
land in said cafion between said points, and which is intended
by them as a reservoir, and also other portions of the public
domain lying west of said reservoir and in said cafion, except
that the claim of defendant Feyguson, lying within said reservoir, has been occupied by said Ferguson as a residence, but defendants allege having paid said Ferguson alarge sum of money
and to have obtained a contract from him by which he covenants and agrees.to convey all his interest in the premises so
occupied by him to the said defendants."
Thegood faith of the defendants was alleged, and that their
possession was open and notorious, and that they with like faith
prosecuted their enterprise, and expended therein $50,000, and
by reason of their dam they would be able to obtain more than
8000 horse power, Which -would be sufficient to supply said
Utah County and the towns' and cities therein with power for
heating, lighting and manufacturing purposes, and would also
be able to supply water for irrigation purposes.
The acts of 'the plaintiff were averred as follows
"Defendants further aver that said plaintiff some time in the
summer of 1896 wrongfully, and for the purpose of annoying
the said defendants and interfering with their project and enterprise, came into Provo Cafion and ran irregular, indefinite
and devious lines through a portion of said caion, pretending

OCTOBER TERM', 1902.
Statement of the Case.

that it was the purpbse to establish a railroad therein, and def~ndants allege that said lines so run were so irregular and uncertain, so shifting and changing, as to indicate no such purpose,
that in two or three points in said cafion various persons claiming to represent plaintiff made slight excavations, but the character of the same was such as to indicate no purpose to construct
a railroad or to perform intelligently and with a fixed or settled
purpose any work or enterprise.
"Defendants allege upon information and -belief that said
plaintiff has no purpose or design to construct any railroad, but
that what has been done has been with a view to annoy defendants and to prevent said defendants from constructing their
reservoir and canals and obtaimng electrical power for the purpose aforesaid, and for the purpose of preventing any legitimate
railroad undertaking from being consummated, if the operation
of a line through said cafion was essential.
"Defendants allege that the construction of a railroad along
the bottom of said cafion would be destructive of their enterprise and reservoir and power, and would prevent them from
carrying out the work in which they have been engaged long
prior to the spasmodic, uncertain and mala tdes entry of said
plaintiff into said caion, and in which they are still engaged."
It was alleged that plaintiff knew of the intention and character of defendants' work, and to permit it to condemn the land
and to deprive defendants of its possession would be a "gievous
wrong and fraud upon their rights."
It was averred that Holbrook had no interest in the controversy
The allegations -of defendants were not only, set up m their
answers but were also made the subject of cross bills.
A jury was em paneled, and under the instructions of the court
they were confined to the consideration of compensation and
-damages. They returned a verdict assessing the value of the
strip of land taken bv the railroad at $575, damages to the reinaining land, $500, cost of fencing, $525.30, and cost of cattle
guards, $42.53. Benefits were assessed at nothing.
There were many instructions asked by defendants which
the court refused. They also objected to the instructions which

TELLURIDE POWER CO. V. RIO GRANDE &c. RY. 575
,

Statement of the Case.

the court gave. Subsequently the court rendered its judgment,
in which it found and adjudged as follows
"This action having come on for hearing before the court,
and a jury empaneled to assess compensation and damages, on
the 18th day of April, 1898, and having been heard on that and
the succeeding day, it is now found and determined that the
plaintiff is a railroad corporation as alleged in the complaint
and with a franchise to construct and operate lines of railway
and telegraph as alleged, including a franchise to construct a
line of railroad and telegraph on and over lands described in
the complaint and sought to be condemned.
"That the plaintiff filed a copy of its articles of incorporation and due proof of its organization with the Secretary of the
Interior and the-same were duly approved by the Secretary on
the 27th day of M-lay, 1890, under the act of Congress of March 3,
1875, granting the righ, of way to railroad companies.
"That the lands sought to be condemned and 'the adjoining.
lands are unsurveyed public lands of the United States, and at
the time of the beginning of the suit were occupied by William
W Ferguson, who has since died.
"That the plaintiff on the 8th day of July, 1896, comp'leted
the survey and location of its line of railroad on and over the
lands sought to be condemned and hereinafter described.
"That- the said defendant L. Holbrook has disclaimed any
interest in the lands.
"That neither on or before, or since the 8th day of July, 1896,
has the defendants The Telluride Power Transmission Company and L. L. Nunn or either of them had -any possession of
the lands sought to be condemned, or by appropriation or otherwise any right to raise the waters of Provo River so as to flow
the same or any part thereof, or any right to the said lands or
possession thereof as part of a reservoir site, and to raise the
waters of said river so as to flow the same would be an unreasonable use of said waters and the public lands and easements
in the cation adjacent to said river.
"1And it is now adjudged by the court
"That the use to which the land sought to be acquired.by
plaintiff is to be applied in the construction and operation of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

line of railroad and telegraph for which the lands are to be
used for a right of way, and that it is. a public use authorized
by law, and that the taking and condemnation thereof is necessary to such use. That said lands have not already been appropriated to any other public use.
"That none of the defendants by pleadings or otherwise is
seeking condemnation of said lands for a reservoir or other
public use, and the lands cannot be used for both as a reservoir
site as claimed and a railroad, and there is no common use either
public or private to be adjusted."
The judgment then recited the findings of the jury and directed the money to be paid into court for subsequent distribution among those.who should be entitled thereto. This judgment
was afterwards set aside, at the request of defendants, to enable
them to present findings, which they subsequently did. The
court, however, refused to find as requested, and reinstated its
former judgment and findings. The findings requested presented the allegations of the answers as established by the
evidence, and also presented, as established, the feasibility of
building the railroad upon lines which would not interfere with
the projected works of the defendants.
The plaintiff paid lilto- court the award of the jury, and a
final order of condemniiation was made. The case was taken
to the Supreme Court of the'State, and the judgment of condemnation was there af~rmed. 23 Utah,22. The Chief Justice
of the State allowed this writ of error.
IOn appeal to the Supreme Court of the State there were
eighty-three assignments of error, two of which were based on
'rulings m regard to the jury and forty-five of which were based
upon instructions to the jury or refusals to instruct the jury
The rest of the assignments except three were based on the
findings, and refusals to find, as requested by defendants. The
last three assignments were as follows
"81. The court erred in denying defendants' petition to remove said cause to the Federal court.
"82. The court erred in assuming to retain jurisdiction over
saad cause and proceeding to try the-same after the filing of the
petition on the part of the defendants to remove said cause

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY 577'
Statement of the Case.

-to the Circuit Court of the United States fol' the Distict of
Utah.
"83. The court erred in holding and deciding that- it had
jurisdiction to hear, try and determine said cause."
In the petition for writ-of error it was allegedthat errors were
committed by the Supreme Court of Utah, in that in "the
final judgment and decision of the Supreme Court of the State
of Utah .the said court erred in holding and deciding and determining that these defendants, both citizens of the State of
Colorado, one a corporation existing under the laws of the said
State of Colorado and the other a natural person, did not have
the authority or the right to locate and appropriate public lands
of the United States upon the Provo River flowing through
said public lands of the United' States for the purpose of maintaming a-dam with which to generate power to create electricity, and such decision was contrary to the protection afforded
these defendants by the Fourteenth. Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The decision likewise violated
the rights of the said defendants under section 2, article 1, of
the Constitution of the United States. 'Th-i citizens of each.
State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.'
"And the petitioners further say that in the final judgment
and decree of the said Supreme Court of the State of Utah and
of the District Cofift of the Fourth Judicial District in and for
the county of Utah, State of Utah, a decision was had against
a right and privilege of these defendants claimed under a statute
of the United States, which right and privilege was specially
set up and claimed by these said defendants xn said cause.
That by the answer in said cause the defendants allege that they
had the right and authority from the United States and were
exercising it to erect a dam in Provo Caiion for the purpose of
creating power to transmit electricity That said right and authority existed under the -mining laws of the United States
origgnally enacted in 1868 and amended in 1872, Revised Statutes, section 2339, and the said right was denied by the said.
plaintiff and .the said District Court. of the Fourth Judicial
District, and the said Supreme Court of Utah on appeal held
vOL. CLXXXVI-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

that these defendants had no right to erect such dam on the
public unsurveyed lands of the United States.
"And the petitioners further say that the said Fourth Judicial District Court in and for the county of Utah, State of
Utah, and the said Supreme Court of the State of Utah in affirming the said decision on appeal, have decided against the right
of these defendants existing under the statute of the United
States to remove the said cause from the said state court above
named to the United States court, which claimn was exercised
duly by the petition and bond filed in due time by these defeudants in the Fourth Judicial District Court before the
time expired for these said defendants to appear and answer
to the suit brought against them by the said plaintiff in this
cause."
In the assignments of error those grounds are repeated and
errors are assigned upon the rulings on instructions by the
District Court and the action of the Supreme Court in sustaining those rulings.
Section 2339, referred to in the assignments of error, is as
follows
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agriultural, manufacturing, or other purposes,
have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and
acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the decisions of
courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be
maintained and protected in the same, and the right of-way
for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes
herein specified is acknowledged and confirmed , but whenever
ary -person, in the construction of any ditch or canal, injures or
damages the possession of any settler on the public domain, the
party committing such injury or damage shall be liable to
the .party injured for such injury or damage."
,Mr Henry P )Tenderson for plaintiffs in error. _r S. A.
Bailey and .Mr A'thur Brown were with him on the brief.
MAr Joel F JFaile for defendant in error. .rf R. Hakness
and XPr E. 0 Wolcott were with him on the brief.

TELLUMIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY. 579Opinion of the Couit.

:MR. JusricE MCKENwA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered-the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error has moved to dismiss the case for
want of jurisdiction in this court. The essential issues of fact
were decided against the plaintiffs in error, and the case, therefore, seems to be brought within the ruling in Tellurms Power
Co. v. Rio Gr'ande lfetern Railway Co., 175 U. S. 639. The
corporations in this case were parties in that case and so were
Nunn and Holbrook. The same public interests were in opposition, and the Power Company relied for rights in'Provo
Caiou on section 2339 of 'the Revised Statutes of the United
States, as the company does in this case, and the rulings on
those interests and rights constituted the vital questions in that
case as they do in this. It was pointed out there that" in order to
establish any rights under the statute it was incumbent upon
the defendants to prove their priority of possession, or at least
to disprove priority on the part of the -plaintiff." And it was
observed "The question who had acquired this priority of
possession was not a Federal question, but a pure question of
fact, upon which the decision of the state court was conclusive.
No construction was put upon the statute, no question arose
under it, but a preliminary question was to be decided before
the statute became material, and that was whether defendanfts
were first in possession of the land. Even if priority of possession had been shown, it would still have been necessary to prove
that defendants' right to the use of the water was recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and decisions, all
of which were questions of state law"
After discussion it was also 6bserved "But the difficulty in
this case is that, before it could be said that any right or title
under a statute of the United States had been denied,. it was
necessary to establish as a question of' fact priority of possession on the part of the Tellunride Company, as well as conformity to local customs, laws -and decisions. These were
local and not Federal questions. The jurisdiction of this court
in this class of cases does not extend to questions of fact or of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

local law, which are merely preliminary to, or the possible
basis of, a Federal question."
Manifestly if the plaintiffs in error obtained no rights under
section 2339 none could be taken from them. But a violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States is clained by both the Power Company and by
Nunn, and the latter claims besides that he was denied the
privileges to which he was entitled as a citizen of the United
States.
The deprivation of the rights of the plaintiffs in error under
the Fourteenth Amendment was accomplished, it is said, by
the court's assuming to try without the assistance of the jury
the questions of fact upon which those rights depended. In
other words, that the District Court -assumed to determine, and
did determine, all conflicting or adverse claims to the property,
and submitted only to the jury the questions of compensation
and damages. This action, it is asserted, was contrary to the
meaning of the statute of the State, or if not so, the statute is
void.
With the latter objection only we are concerned, and it is
enough to say in answer to it that the invalidity of the statute
was not raised in the District Court, nor assigned as a ground
of error on the appeal ,taken to'the Supreme Court of the State.
It appears for the first time in the petition for the writ of
error from this court. Nor did the Supreme Court of the State
pass upon the action of the District Court in view of-its unconstitutionality Indeed, it found it unnecessary to pass upon
that action except in the most general .way The court said.
"The appellants assign many errors upon the refusal of the
court toinstruct the jury as requested, upon the instructions
given to ihe jury, and upon the facts found by the court.
Under the view taken these questions become. unimportant as
neither of the appellants were injured in their rights, nor
were either entitled to any damages under the facts shown in
this case. The instructions were, at least, as favorable to the
appellants as they had a right to expect."
It is further urged that the decision of the Supreme Court
deprived plaintiffs in error of their rights under the Constitu-

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY. 581
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the United States, and under section 2339 of the Revised Statutes, in holding, as .it 'is claimed, that neither the
Power Company nor lNunn had any authority or right to locate
and appropriate public land of the United States upon the
Provo.River for the purpose of maintaining a dam to store
water with which to generate power to create electriity
The Supreme Court in its opinion referred to-its decision in
the former case between the parties, 16 Utah, 125, i75 U. S.
639, not, however, as conclusive, but "as authority, and as d termining the law in this case, in so far as it decided the same
questions involved in the present case," and the court stated
that it had been decided in that case, among other things,
"that the defendants (plaintiffs in error here) had not appropriated the land in dispute, and that neither of the defendants
was in actual possession of the land when the plaintiff located
his right of way, took possession and engged in grading it."
Then passing upon the rights of the Power 'Company and
N unn, the court said
"The record shows that the San Miguel Gold Mining Company was organized in -Colorado, February 7, 1891. with a
capital of $15,000,000, and was authorized to acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise, mining property, together with water
rights, power, ways, mills and mill sites, to develop, mine
work and utilize the same, and to carry on a general mining
business. Its principal office is in Telluride, Colorado, and its
principal business is to be done in Colorado, and its articles
provide that part of its business may be done in Boston, Mass.,
and its principal office kept here. The stock is non-assessable,
and no requi'ements for payments of subscription are incorporated in it. In February, 1896, an amendment of its articles
was made and filed with the Secretary of State in Colorado
changing the name of the company to the Telluride Power
Transmission Company Appellant Nunn was'its manager.
"Section 427, p. 614, 1 Col. Stan. 1893,- among other matters
provides that, '-When said corporation shall be~created under
the laws of this State for the purpose of carrying on part of
its business beyond the limits thereof, sucli certificate shall
state that fact.' Subdivision 2 of this section provides that

OCTOBER TERAI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

the, object for which the company is created shall be stated.
Section 498 authorizes Colorado corporations authorized to do
business out of the State, to accept the laws of the other
States and there exercise its franchise.
"So it appears that the appellant company is a mining corporation organized in Colorado, without complying with the
statute and with no other powers to do business as such in
this State. Without complying with the constitution and
laws of this State with respect to foreign corporations, it unlawfully assumes to appropriate both land and water within
this State. This must be so, because under section 2, article 12,
of the constitution of this State, no corporation in existence in
this State when the constitution is adopted shall have the benefit of its laws, without filing with the Secretary of State an
acceptance of the provisions of the constitution, and under section 6, no corporation organized out of the State shall be allowed to transact business in this State on conditions more
favorable than those prescribed by law for similar corporations
organized under the laws of the State. Under section 9, no
corporation is allowed to do business in this State without having one or more places of business therein, with an agent upon
whom process may be served, nor without first filing a certified
copy of its articles of incorporation with-the Secretary of State.
Section 10 providesthat no corporation shall engage in any business other than that expressly. authorized in'its charter or articles of incorporation.
"Section 2293, Comp. Laws, Utah, 1888, as amended in 1896,
and sections 351 and 352, Revised Statutes 1898, expressly enbody these provisions of the constitution, and .prohibit foreign
corporations from doing business in this State, unless they have
complied with these requirements of the law, and any corporation failing to so conply with the provisions of the law is not
entitled to the benefits of the law of this State relating to corporations.
"The appellant corporation did not comply with the laws of
this State, and has no power to engage in its business of mining, or to acquire any water rights under the laws of this State.
A corporation of Colorado. coming into this State cannot bring

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY 583
Opinion of the Court.

with it powers with which it is not endowed in Colorado. It
can only have an existence under the express laws of the State
where it is created, and can exercise no power which is not
granted by its charter or some legislative act. The appellant
corporation never filed with the Secretary of-State of the State
of Utah, a copy of its articles of incorporation, by either name
under which it was incorporated, and never accepted the laws
or constitution of Utah, nor has it appointed any agent or fixed
any place of business within the State as required by law The
defendant corporation, therefore, is not entitled to. the benefit
of the laws of this State, with reference to corporations. State
v. So. Pac. Co., 28 So. Rep. 372, Oregon Railway v Oregontan
Railway Co., 130 U. S.1, Barse Live Stock Co. v Range Val,
ley Cattle Co., 50 Pac. Rep. 630 (Utah).
"Under section 2339, Revised Statutes, even if priority of
possession of the property in question was shown in the defendant corporation, still its right to locate and use the water
or land is not recognized or acknowledged by the laws of this
State, and it was not in a position to question the right of the
plaintiff in the premises.
"5. Appellant Nunn was a resident of Colorado, the general}
manager, and in charge of the business of the defendant-corporation, both in Colorado and Utah. The chief engineer, hydraulic engineer, and officers of the def6ndant corporation,
including the president and attorneys, coisulted with and acted
with him with respect to the acts performed-with yeference to
the appropriation of water .and in making the improvements
discussed by them at Hanging Rock, but no plan for a dam at
Hanging Rock was ever actually made, and no dam was. constructed there. Throughout the whole procedure the board of
the defendant corporation was the controlling authority for,
and with whom Nunn acted. If Nunn had any right, it -was
with reference to the smaller power located below The dam
at Hanging Rock was to be a larger power, and was talked
about-in the project, but it was not constructed, and the ownership, if in any one, was in the defendant company, which was
incapable of acquiring such ownership.
"While 'the testimony is very uncertain, it sufficiently ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

pears that whatever was done by Nunn in the appropriation of
water, was done for the use and benefit of the defendant company, and he cannot be treated as a personal claimant and
owner of the easement and right of way in controversy as against
the right of way as acquired by respondent."
From this excerpt it appears that the Supreme Court construed the statutes and constitution of Utah, deciding that the
Power Company had no existence as a corporation in the State,
'and could acquire, therefore, no rights as such, and "was not
in a position to question the right of the plaintiff (defendant m
error) in the premises." And no independent right was found
in Nunn. What was done by him the court said was done
"for the use and benefit of the defendant company" And it
was decided that he was not "a personal claimant and owner
of the right of way in controversy as against the right of way
acquired by respondent (plaintiff in error)." These conclusions
did not involve the decision of Federal questions. The first
expressed the meaning and effect of local statutes. The second
depended upon a finding of fact. Neither, therefore, is reviewable by us.
The whole controversy was and is as to the right to occupy
Provo Caion, the defendant in error claiming that right for a
railroad, the plaintiffs in error claiming that right for a reservoir site, and this latter right plaintiffs in error claimed and
claim under section 2339 of the iRevised Statutes of the
United States. That section was and is their reliance. They
say in their brief, that they "do not claim to hold the land m
controversy" under the alleged contract with Ferguson.
"They claim to have obtained title to it under section 2339
of the Revised Statutes of the United States by entering upon
it and appropriating it as a reservoir site, and this contract (the
contract with Ferguson) only amounted to a waiver of Ferguson's rights as a-squatter in favor of plaintiffs in error."
But their rights under that section depended upon questions
of fact and questions of local law The questions of fact were
found against plaintiff in error, and the questions of local law
we cannot, review
A Federal question is asserted because of the ruling of the

AYRES v POLSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

District Court-refusing to remove the case to the United States
Circuit Court upon the petition of plaintiffs in error. But upon
the denial of.the application to remove they filed the record in
the Circuit Court of the United States, and that court reinmanded
the cause, and a copy of its order was filed in the District Court
before the commencement of the trial. In substantially similar
circumstances we held in MZissou Paosftc Railway v Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, that if error there had been in the ruling
of the state court it became wholly immaterial.
W 'rt of error disms's-ed.

AYRES v. POLSDORFER.
ERROR TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE-SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 89. Argued November 13,1902.-Decided January 5,1903.
When the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States is invoked
solely on the ground of diversity of citizenship, two classes of cases can
arise, one in which the questions expressed in section 5 of the Judiciary
Act of 1891 appear in the course of the proceedings and one in which
other Federal questions appear. Cases of the first class may be brought

to this court directly or may be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals;
but if they are taken to the latter court they cannot then be brought
here. Cases of the second class must be taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and its judgment- will be final. Loeb v. Columbia Township
Trustees, 179 U. S. 47, followed, and Northern Pacoc Railway Co. v.
Amato, f44 U. S. 471, distinguished.
EJEOmENT and trespass brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States, Western Division of the Westeriv District of
Tennessee, for the recovery of lands and damages. Part of
the land is an island in the Mississippi River. The declaration
was in the usual form, and the ground of jurisdiction -in the
Circuit Court was diversity of citizenship, expressed as follows"
"The plaintiffs, who are citizens of the State of Indiana, residing in Evansville, therein, complain 6f the defendants, Joe

