OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

plaintiffs, who claimed title under the swamp land act, it is
possible that a writ of error might have lain from this court,
but we have frequently held that to sustain such writ, the decision must be adverse to a right claimed under an act of Congress, or to the exercise of an authority granted by the United
States. Baker v Baldwn, decided this term, ante, p. 61.
The writ of error must be
_Di s.3sed.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v.
McANNULTY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT., OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WiSTERN DISTRICT OF XIISSOURL

No. 27. Argued October 15,19.1902.-Dqcided November 17, 1902.
On demurrer all the material facts averred ma bill of complaint are admitted including averments describing complainant's business and stating
that it is founded "almost exclugively on the physical and practical
proposition that themind of the human race is largely responsible for
its ills, and is a perceptible iactor in the healing, curing, benefiting and.
remedying thereof, and that the human race does possess the innate
power through proper exercise of the faculty of the brain and mind, to
largely control and remedy the ills that humanity is heir to, and they
(complainants) discard and eliminate from their treatment what is commonly known as Christian Science;iand they are confin'ed to practical
scientific treatment emanating from the source aforesaid." The foregoing allegations are not conclusions of law but statements of fact.
Such an allegation having been made in a bill of complaint the business referred to cannot on demurrer be properly pronounced such a fraud within
the statutes of the United States as will justify a postmaster withholding matter sent to complainants through the mail in answer to advertisements on an order issued by the Postmaster General under sections
3929 and 4041 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and section 4
of an act approved March 2, 1875, 28 Stat. 963, 964; but in overruling
the demurrer, this court does not mean to preclude the defendant from
showing on the trial, if lie can, that the business of the complainants, as
in fact conducted, amounts to a violatiot of such statutes.
The statutes referred -to were not intended to cover ahy case which the
Postmaster General might regard as based on false opinions, but onuly
cases Qf actual fraud, in fact, in regard to which opinions formed no basis.
Conceding for the purposes of this case that Congress has full and absolute

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING -v. McANNULTY

95

Statement of the Case.
jurisdiction over the mails, still where the Postmaster General, ih a case
not covered by the acts of Congress, has assumed to act under the authority granted by the said statutes and made an order withholding
mail and interfering wi~h carrying on the- business above described,
even if such order be made after a hearing, the matter is subject to be',
reviewed by the courts; and while the conduct of the post office is apart of the administrative department of the Government; that fact does
not always oust the courts of jurisdiction to grant relief to a party
aggrieved by any action, by the head, or one of the subordinate officials
of that department, which is unauthorized by the statute under which
he assumes to act..
Where the action of such an officer is unauthorize.d he thereby violates the
property rights of the person whose letters are withheld.
In this case it not appeanug that the complainants have violated-'any law
they have the legal right under the general acts of Congress relating to
the mails to have their letters delivered at the post office as directed,
and as those letters contain checks, drafts, money orders and money
itself, alr of which became their property as soon as deposited in the
various post offices for transmissionby mail, if the same are not delivered
to them they will sustain irreparable injury, and there being no adequate
remedy at law, they are entitled to equitable relief and dn injunction
preventing the local postmaster withholding their mail under the order
so issued by the Postmaster General.

THis is an appeal under section 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals act of 1891, to review directly the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri,
dismissing the bill of complainants (appellants) onthe merits.
The bill, as amended by leave of the court, averred in substance
that the complainants are, the one a business corporation incorporated under the laws of and doing business in the State of
Missouri, and the other a resident, and citizen-of the State of
Missouri, that the defendant was at the time of the filing of the
bill and at the times therein stated postmaster in charge of the
United States post office in the city of Nevada, State of Missouri, and a resident and a citizen of that State, that as such
postmaster he has the exclusive management of the post office
in the city of Nevada, and of the receipt and distribution of mail
received at that city.through the United States mails.
It was further averred that The American School of Magnetic Healing is locatd and has its chief office and place of business at the city of Nevada, and the complainant Kelly was at
the time of the filing of the bill, and at all the dates and times

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

mentioned therein secretary, treasurer and general manager of
the corporation. In November, 1897; he located at Nevada and
engaged in the business of healing diseases and aihnents of the
human family and the business of teaching the science of healing of human ills, and that in April, 1898, he procured the incorporation of the business under the laws of the fntate of
Missouri, under the name of The American School of Magnetic
Healing, and among the stockholders of the company the complainant Kelly was one, that large buildings were erected for
such business and large amounts expended in advertising the
same. The bill further averred as follows
"That in and about their business they carried on and conducted, not only the treating- of people afflicted with ills at
their establishment at said city, but also engaged in the business of teaching and educating others in the practical science
of healing, and that a large amount of their business consists
of treatment by letter and advice to people throughout the
United States and foreign countries, and in the treatment
under said circumstances they have built up a large and extensive business in the way of receipts of such treatment received through the United States mail, by letter, registered
package and otherwise, in the nature of checks, drafts and
United States moneys, that said business has grown to such
an extent that, immediately and for a long time prior, to the
grievances hereinafter complained of the-receipts through the
United States mails, in the manner aforesaid, for -the treatment
of persons throughout the United States and foreign countries,
have reached and averaged about from one thousand dollars to
sixteen hundred dollars per day
"And your orators state that said business is a legal and
legitimate business, conducted according to business and legal
methods, and is founded largely and almost exclusively on the
physical and practical proposition that the mind of the.human
race is largely responsible for its ills, and is a perceptible factor
in the treating, curing, benefiting and remedying thereof.
"And that the human race does possess the innate power,
through proper exercise of the faculty of the brain and mind,
to largely control and remedy the ills that humanity is heir to,

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v. McANNULTY.

97

Statement of the Case.

and complainants discard and eliminate from .their treatmen
what is commonly known as divine healing and Christian
science, and complainants are confined, to practical scientific
treatment emanating from the source aforesaid.
"That for a long time previous, and prior to, the grievances
hereinafter mentioned, said corporation has been sending out a
large amount of advertising matter through the United States
post office at said city of Nevada, and that all of its receipts,
by checks, drafts or money orders aforesaid, have been received by and delivered to them through the United States
post office at the city of Nevada, of which the respondent
herein has exclusive charge as postmastef aforesaid, and had,
during the time aforesaid, been receiving a large number of
letters addressed to said institution and to its office, regarding
its treatment and manner of treatment, and business letters
pertaining to, and inquiring into, the manner of treatment.
"That all such mail, letters and communications are generally addressed and directed to the American School of Magnetic
Healing at said city, and that in many cases said letters are
and may be addressed to said J H. ]Kelly, secretary or treasurer
or manager, or to T. Hi. Kelly, individually, or to Prof. J H.
Kelly, or to J H. Kelly or Prof. J Hf. Kelly, secretary, treasurer or manager of the American School of Magnetic Healing.
"That said Kelly is also receiving and for a long time past
has been receiving letters addressed to him individually upon
social matters from friends and acquaintances and concerning
business not pertaimng to or connected with the business
hereinafter stated.
"That prior to the grievances hereinafter mentioned said
institute was receiving in the way of letters addressed to it or
to its officers in the manner aforesaid an average of about the
sum of 3000 letters per day, and ever since the happening of
the grievances hereinafter mentioned there have been accumulating in said post office letters belonging to your orator,
addressed in the manner before stated, probably to- the total
I
number of 25,000 letters.
"That all of said letters, as your orators are informed. and
believe, are duly stamped and ready for delivery to them but,"
VOL. CLXXXVi---7

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

for the action of the postmaster and postal department hereinafter. mentioned."
It was then averred that persons who were prompted by assumed competitive interference with their business complained
to the United States Post Office Department at Washington
that complainants were not engaged in legitimate business, and
therefore, on May '15, 1890, the Post Office Department made
the following order
"POST OFFICE DEPART.ENT,
"WASHINGTON, D. C., May 15, 1900.

"It having been made to appear to the Postmaster General,
upon evidence satisfactory to him, that the American School of
Magnetic Healing, S. A. Weltmer, president, J H. Kelly, secretary, and J H. Kelly, at Nevada, Missouri, are engaged in
conducting a scheme or device for obtaining money through
the mails by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, representations and promises, in violation of the act of Congress entitled
'An act to amend certain sections of the Revised Statutes relating to lotteries, and for other purposes approved Septeniber 19, 1900.,
"cNow, therefore, by authority vested in him by said act and
by the act of Congress entitled ' An act for the suppression of
lottery traffic through international and interstate commernce
and the postal service, subject to the jurisdiction and laws of
the United States, approved March 2, 1895,' the Postmaster
General hereby forbids you to pay any postal -money order
drawn to the order of said concern and persons, and you are
hereby directed to inform the remitter of any such postal money
order that payment thereof has been forbidden, and that the
amount thereof will be returned upon the-presentation of a duplicate money order applied for and obtained under the regulations of the department.
"And you are hereby instructed to return all letters, whether
registered or not, and, other mail matter which shall arrive at
your office directed to the said concern and persons, to the postmasters at the offices at which they were originally mailed, to
be delivered to the senders thereof, with the word ' fraudulent'
plainly .written or stamped upon the outside of such letters or

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v. McANNULTY

99

Statement of the Case.

matter. Provided, however, that where there is -nothing to
indicate who are the senders of letters not registered or
other matter you are directed m that case to send such letters
and matter to the dead letter office, with the word IfraudulentJ plainly written or stamped thereon, to be disposed of as
other dead matter, under the laws and regulations applicable
thereto.
"OH. Emony Smrri,

&CPodtmaterGetieraZ.
"To the Postmaster, Nevada, Missouri."
Since such order the defendant has refused to deliver any
mail whatever to the complainants, and there had, when the bill
was filed, as complainants aver on information and belief, accumulated at the post office at Nevada letters addressed to them
containing checks, drafts, money orders or money to an aggregate of at least $10,000 in value, that these checks, drafts, etc.,
came from various customers and clients throughout the United
States and foreign countries, who had all been treated and for
whom the complainants had performed services under contracts
with such parties, and that the sums were so sent inthe respective letters in payment for services performed and rendered to
the senders respectively, all of the senders being willing and
at all times having been: willing that their letters containing
the remittances should be turned over to the complainants,
they making no objection or complaint thereto.
The complainants further averred that they had been informed by the defendant that on Monday, the 28th day of
May, then coming, he intended to stamp on each andevery
one of the letters addressed to the complainantsj under any of
the designations theretofore mentioned in the bill, the word
"fraudulent" across the face of each letter, without opening it
and without knowing what such letter contained or the nature
or character of the contents, and that the defendant would
then return the letter to the sender thereof inall cases where
from the outside of the letter or envelope he was able to determine frbm whom the same was received, and as to all other
letters addressed to the complainants, where he was unable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

determine from the outside from whom the letters were sent,
the defendant would stamp with the word "fraudulent" and
send to the dead letter office of the United States Post Office
Department all such letters, and the defendant stated that lie
would refuse to deliver any further mail or letters to the complainants or either of them that might be received at his said
post office addressed to them or either of them.
Complainants then averred that if the respondent were permitted to do these things and to return the letters, and refused
in the future to deliver or allow complainants to receive any
letters or mail matter at the post office at Nevada, it would
work irreparable injury, loss and damage to the complainants,
and would result in eventually embarrassing, crippling, breaking up and destroying complainants' legitimate business, and
that the complainants had no other legal or adequate remedy
by which they could prevent the committing of the acts and
grievances complained of than by writ of injunction.
The bill then averred that the action of the defendant was
based upon the order of thePostmaster General, above set forth,
who assumea to act under sections 3929 and 4041 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and section 4 of an act approved March 2, 1895. 28 Stat. 963, 964.
Section 3929 of the Revised Statutes is set forth in the margin.'
Section 4041 is of the same purport as section 3929, except1 SEc. 3929. The Postmaster General may, upon evidence satisfactory to
him that any person is engaged in conducting any fraudulent lottery, giftenterprise, or scheme for the distribution of money or of any real or personal property, by lot, chance, or drawing of any kind, or m conducting
any other scheme or device for obtaining money through the mails by
means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, instruct postmasters at any post offices at which registered letters arrive
directed to.any such person, to return all such registered letters to the
postmasters at the offices at which they were originally mailed, with the
word "fraudulent" plainly written or stamped upon the outside of such
letters; and all such letters so returned to such postmasters shall be by
them returned to the writers thereof, under such regulations as the Postmaster General may prescribe. But nothing contained in this title shall
be so construed as to authorize any postmaster or other person to open
-any letter not addressed to himself.

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v. McANNULTY.

101

Statement of the Case.

ing that instead of providing for the retention o -egistered
letters, it forbids the payment by any postmaster to the person
or company described of any postal money orders drawn to his
or its order or to his or its favor or to any agent of any such
person or company, and it providesfor the. return to the remitters of the sums of money named in those money orders.
Section 4 of the act (chap. 191, Laws df 1895, 28 Stat.-supra)
amended section 3929 of the Revised Statutes so as to provide"
for the retention of all letters instead of merely registered letters as in the original section.
Before the issuing of the written order by the Postmaster
General prohibiting the delivery of mail matter to the complainants and pursuant to notice from the Postmaster General, the
complainants went before that official at Washington and had
a hearing before him, and gave their reasons why what is termed
a "fraud order" should not be issued, and that'tbe Postmaster
General, after hearing evidence such as in his judgment was
contemplated by the sections of the statutes above mentioned,
issued the order above referred to, and thereupon the defendant has refused to permit the delivery of the mail, and assigns
as his only reason for so doing that it would be in violation of
the order of the Postmaster General founded upon the provisions of*the statute already set forth.
The bill then averred that the statutes have no applicatibn
whatever to the conduct or carrying on of complainants' business, which is a legitimate one, and that no fraud, deceit, deception or misrepresentation of any kind has ever been practised
gy them, and that their customers or clients do not claim or
assert that the complainants have in any manner practised any
fraud; deceit or misrepresentation at any time in procuring-the
business from them or in curing their ills or diseases. Cbmplainants further averred that the provisions of the statutes
above mentioned are in violation of the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
in that they undertake to deprive persons of their property and
property rights without due process of law, and if the statutes
were enforced they would place in the power of the postmaster
and the Post Office Department of the United States the sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Appellants.

and exclusive right to pass upon the rights of the complainants,
as between themselves and other parties with whom they deal
and transact business through the mails, without a hearng,.and
that the provisions of the statute are void for the reason that
they provide for no tribunal, court or authority to hear or determine any violation of the statute or claimed violation of
the statutes, but place. the same absolutely in the power and
control of the postmasters and the Post Office Department,
and that the statutes vest an arbitrary discretion in the postmasters and the Post Office Department or the Postmaster
General to determine as he may see fit, whether right or wrong,
the question as to who shall or who shall not have and receive mail from the United States Post Office Department,
and who shall and who shall not use the United States mails,
and vests in the department or the Postmaster General, if
enforced, the power to interdict and absolutely prohibit the
carrying on of all commercial and business transactions of the
country done through the mailing system, if they see fit so to
do, and make the postmasters and the Post Office Department
the sole judges in their own case.
The complainants then asked for an injunction to restrain the
postmaster from carrying out the order of the Postmaster General, and that a decree' might be entered perpetually enjoining
the defendant as prayed for.
The defendant demurred to the complainants' amended bill,
(1) on the ground that the complainants had not stated any such
case as entitled them to any relief, (2) because the complainants had not stated any ground for equitable relief against the
defendant, and had not shown any reason why an injunction
should be granted.
The court sustained the demurrer, and the complainants
declining to plead futher, it was decreed by the court that
the amended bill of the complainants was insufficient in law
and equity, and it was thereupon dismissed at complainants'
cost.
fr John O'Grady
_Mr James H Harkless for appellants.
and 3& Charles S. Crysler were with him on the brief.

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v MoANNULTY 103
Opinion of the Court.

Mr Solictor- General Rihards and JIlf
Robert A. Howard for appellee.

Speazaz Attornj

MR. J-uSTIOE PEOKEAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of the complainants as amended raises some grave
questions of constitutional law which, in the view the court
takes of the case, it is unnecessary to decide. We may assume,
without deciding or expressing any opinion thereon, the constitutionality in all particulars of the statutes above referred to,
and therefore the questions arising in the case will be limited,
(1) to the inquiry as to whether the action of the Postmaster
General under the circumstances set forth in the conplainants?.
bill is justified by the statutes; and (5) if not, whether the
complainants have any remedy in the courts.
First. As the case arises on demurrer, all material facts
averred in the bill are of course admitted. It is, therefore, admitted that the business of the complainants is founded " almost
exclusively on the physical and practical proposition that the
mind of the human race is largely responsible for its ills, and is
a perceptible factor in the treating, curig, benefiting and remedying thereof, and that the human race does possess the innate power, through proper exercise of the faculty of the brain
and mind, to largely control and remedy the ills that humanity
is heir to, and (complainants) discard and elihuinate from their
treatment what is commonly known as divine healing and
Christian science, and they are confined to- practical scientific
treatment emanating from the source aforesaid."
These allegations are not conclusions of law, but are statements of fact upon which, as averred, the business of the complainants is based, and the question is whether the complainants who are conducting the business upon the basis stated
therebyobtamn money and'property through the mails by means
of fals.e or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises.
Can such a business be properly pronounced a fraud within the
statutes of the United States?
There can be no doubt that the influence of the mind upon

OCTOBER TERI", 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the physical condition of the body is very powerful, and that
a hopeful mental state goes far in many cases, not only to alleviate, but even to aid very largely in the cure of an illness
from which the body may suffer. And it is said that nature
may itself, frequently if not generally, heal the ills of the body
without recourse to medicine, and that it cannot be doubted
that in numerous cases nature when left to itself does succeed
in curing many bodily ills. How far these claims are borne
out by actual experience may be matter of opinion. Just exactly to what extent the mental condition affects the body, no
one can accurately and definitely say One person may believe it of far greater efficacy than another, but surely it cannot
be said that it is a fraud for one person to contend that the mind
has an effect upon the body and its physical condition greater
than even a vast majority of intelligent people might be willing
to admit or believe. Even intelligent people may and indeed do
differ among themselves as to the extent of this mental effect.
Because the complainants might or did claim to be able to effect
cures by reason of working upon and affecting the mental
powers of the individual, and directing them towards the accomplishment of a cure of the disease under which he might be
suffering, who can say that it is a fraud or a false pretense or
promise within the meaning of these statutes 2 How can any
one lay down the limit and say beyond that there are fraud and
false pretenses 2 The claim of the ability to cure may be vastly
greatei than most men would be ready to admit, and yet those
who might deny the existence or virtue of the remedy would
only differ in opinion from those who assert it. There is no
exact standard of absolute truth by which to prove the assertion
false and a fraud. We mean by that to say that the claim of
complainants cannot be the subject of proof as of an ordinary
fact, it cannot be proved as a fact to be a fraud or false pretense or promise, nor can it properly be said that those who
assume to heal bodily ills or infirmities by a resort to this
method of cure are guilty of obtaining money under false pretenses, such as are intended in the statutes, which evidently do
not assume to deal with mere matters of opinion upon subjects
which are not capable of proof as to their falsity We may not

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING v. MOAN-NULTY. 105
Opinion of the Court.

believe in the efficacy of the treatment to the extent claimed by
complainants, and we may have no -sympathy with them in
such claims, and yet their effectiveness is but matter of opinion
in any court. The bill in this case avers that those who have
business with complainants are satisfied with their method of
treatment and are entirely willing that the money they sent
should be delivered to the complainants. In other words, they
seem to have faith in the efficacy of the complainants' treatment and in their ability to heal as claimed by them. If they
fail, the answer might be that all human means of treatment
are also liable to fail, and will necessarily fail when the appointed
time arrives. There is no claim that the treatment by the complainants will always succeed.
Suppose a person should assert that, by the use of electricity
alone, he could treat diseases as efficaciously and successfully as
the same have heretofore been treated by "1regular" physicians.
Would these statutes justify the Postmaster General, upon evidence satisfactory to him, to adjudge such claim to be without
foundation and then to pronounce the person so claiming, to be
giiiltyof procuring, by false or fraudulent pretenses, the moneys
of people sending him money through the mails, and then to prohibit the delivery of any letters to him 2 The moderate application of electricity, it is strongly maintained, has great effect upon
the human system, and just how far it may cure or mitigate diseases no one can tell with certainty It is still in an empirical
stage, and enthusiastic believers in it may regard it as entitled
to a veiy high position in therapeutics, while many others may
think it ab§olutely without value or potency in the cure of
disease. Was this kind of question intended to be submitted
for decision to a Postmaster Gendral, and was it intended that
he might decide the claim to be a fraud and enjoin the delivery of
letters through the mail addressed to the person practising such
treatment of disease 2 As the effectiveness of almost any particular method of treatment of disease is, to a more or less extent, a.fruitful source of difference of opinion, even though the
great majority may be of one way of thinking, the efficacy of
any special method is certainly not a matter for the decisiofli of
the Postmaster General within these statutes relative to fraud.

OCTOBER TERM'. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Unless the question may be reduced to one of fact as distinguished from mere opinion, we think these statutes cannot be
invoked for the purpose of stopping the delivery of mail matter.
Vaccination is believed by many to be a preventive of smallpox, while others regard it as unavailing for that purpose.
Under these statutes could the Postmaster General, upon evidence satisfactory to hin, decide that it was not a preventive,
and exclude f rom the mails all letters to one who practised it
and advertised it as a method of prevention, on the ground that
the moneys he received through the mails were procured by
false pretenses 2.
Again, there are many persons who do not believe m the
homeopathic school of medicine, and who think that such doctrine, if practised precisely upon the lines set forth by its originator, is absolutely inefficacious in the treatment of diseases.
Are homeopathic physicians subject to be proceeded against
under these statutes and liable at th.e discretion of the Postmaster General, upon evidence satisfactory to him, to be found
guilty of obtaining money under false pretenses and their letters
stamped as fraudulent and the money contained therein as
payment for their professional services sent back to the writers
of the letters 2 And, turning the question around, can physicians
of what is called the "old school" be thus proceeded against 9
Both of these different schools of medicine have their followers,
and many who believe in the one will pronounce the other
wholly devoid of merit. But there is no precise standard by
which to measure the claims 6f either, for people do recover
who are treated according to the one or the other school. And.
so, it is said, do people recover who are treated under this mental
theory By reason of it 2 That cannot be averred as matter
of fact. Many think they do. Others are of the contrary
opinion. Is the Postmaster General to decide the question
under these statutes 2
Other instances might be adduced to illustrate the proposition
that these statutes were not intended to cover any case of what
the Postmaster General might think to be false opinions, but
only cases of actual fraud in. fact, in regard to which opinion
formed no basis.

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC' HEALING r McANNULTY 107
Opinion of the Court.

It may perhaps be -urged that the instances above cited by
way of illustration do-not fairly represent the case now before
us, but the difference is one of degree only It is a question of
opinion in all the cases, and although we may thilik the opinion
may be better founded and based upon a more intelligent and a
longer experience in some cases than in others, yet after all it is
in each case opinion only, and not existing facts with which these
cases deal. There are, as the bill herein shows, many believers
in the truth of the claims set forth -by complainants, and it is
not possible to determine as a fact that those claims are so far
unfounded as to justify a determination that those who maintam them and practice upon that basis obtain their money by
false pretenses within the meaning of these statutes. The opinions entertained cannot, like allegations of fact, be proved to be
false, and therefore it cannot be proved as matter of fact that
those who maintain them obtain their money by false pretenses
.or promises, as that phrase is generally understood, and, as in
our opinion, it is used in these statutes.
That the complainants had a hearing before the Postmaster
General, and that his decision was made after such hearing,
cannot atfect the case. The allegation in the bill as to the nature of the claim of complainants and upon what it is founded,
is admitted by the demurrer, and we therefore have undisputed
and admitted facts, which show upon what basis the treatment
by complainants rests, and what-is the nature and character of
their business. From these admitted facts it is obvious that
complainants in conducting their business, so far as this record
shows, do not violate the laws of Congress. The statutes do
not as matter of law cover the facts herein.
Second. Conceding for the purpose of this case, that Congress
has full and absolute jurisdiction over the mails, and that it may
provide who may and who may not use them, and that its action
is not subject to review by the courts, and also conceding the
conclusive character of the determination by the Postmaster
General of any material and relevant questions of fact arising
in the administration of the statutes of Congress relating to his
department, the question still remains as to the power of the
court to grant relief where the Postmaster General has assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and exercised jurisdiction in a case not covered by the statutes,
and where he has ordered the detention of mail matter when the
statutes have not granted him power so to order. Has Congress
entrusted the administration of these statutes wholly to the
discretion of the Postmaster General, and to such an extent
that his determination is conclusive upon all questions arising
under those statutes, even though the evidence which is adduced
before him is wholly uncontradicted, and shows beyond any
room for dispute or doubt that the case in any view is beyond
the statutes, and not covered or provided for by them ?
That the conduct of the Post Office is a part of the administrative department of the government is entirely true, but that
does not necessarily and always oust the courts of jurisdiction to
grant relief to a party aggrieved by any action by the head or
one of the subordinate officials of that department which is unauthorized by the statute under which he assumes to act. The
acts of all its officers must be justified by some law, and in case
an official violates the'law to the injury of an individual the
courts generally have jurisdiction to grant relief.
The Land Department of the United States is administrative
in its character, and it has been frequently held by this court
that, in the administration of the public land system of the
United States, questions of fact are for the consideration and
judgment of the Land Department, and its judgment thereon
is final. Burfenninmy v Chtcago &c.,Railway -Company, 163
U S. 321, Johnson v. D)rew, 171 U S. 93, 99, Gardnerv. Bonestell, 180 U S. 362.
While the aialogy between the above cited cases and the one
now before us is not perfect, yet even in them it is held that
the decisions of the officers of the department upon questions
of law do not conclude the courts, and they have power to
grant relief to an individual aggrieved by an erroneous decision
of a legal question by department officers.
Thus in the Buifennsng case, supra, a tract of land had
been reserved from homestead and pre~mption, and had been
included within the limits of an incorporated town, notwithstanding which the Land Department had decided that the land
was open to entry and had granted a patent under the statute

SCHOOL OF MAGNETIC HEALING o McANNULTY

109

Opinion of the Court.

relating to homesteads. The court said that "When by act of
Congress a tract of land has been reserved from homestead and
preemption, or dedicated to any special purpose, proceedings in
the Land Department in defiance of such reservation or dedication, although culminating in a patent, transfer no title, and may
be challenged in an action at law In other words, the action of
the Land Department cannot override the expressed will of Congress, or convey away public lands in disregard or defiance
thereof."
Rere it is contended that the Postmaster General has, ii a
case not covered by the acts of Congress, excluded from the
mails letters addressed to the complainants. His right to exclude letters, or'to refuse to permit their delivery to persons addressed, must depend upon some law of Congress, and if no such
law exist, then he cannot exclude or refuse to deliver them.
Conceding, arguendo,that when a.
question of fact arises, which,
if found in one way, would show a violation of the statutes in
question in some particular, the dedision of the Postmaster General that such violation had occurred, based upon some evidence
to that effect, would be conclusve and final, and not the subject of review by any court, yet to that assumption must be
added'the statement that if the evidence before the Postmaster General, in any view of the facts, failed to show a violation of
any Federal law, the determination of that official that such
violation existed would not be the determination of a question
of fact, but a pure mistake of law on his part, because the facts
being conceded, whether they amounted to a violation of the
statutes, woulh be a legal question and not a question of fact.
Being a question of law simply, and the case stated in the bill
being outside of the statutes, the result -is that. the Postmaster
General has ordered the retention of letters directed to complainants in a case not authorized by those statutes. To authorize the interference of the Postmaster General, the facts stated
must in some aspect be sufficient to permit him under the statutes to.make the order.
The facts, which are here admitted of record, show that the
case is not one which by any construction of those facts is covered or provided for by the statutes under which the Postmaster

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

General has assumed'to act, and his determination that those
admitted facts do authorize his action is a clear mistake of law
as applied to the admitted facts, and the courts, therefore, must
have power in a proper proceeding to grant relief. Otherwise,
the individual is left to the absolutely uncontrolled and arbitrary action of a public and administrative officer, whose action
is unauthorized by any law and is in violation of the rights of
the individual. Where the action of such an officer is thus unauthorized he thereby violates the property rights of the person
whose letters are withheld.
In our view of these statutes the complainants had the legal
right under the general acts of Congress relating to the mails
to have their letters delivered at the post office as directed.
They had violated no law which Congress had passed, and their
letters contained checks, drafts, money orders and money itself, all of which were their property as so~n as they were deposited in the various post offices for transmission by mail.
They allege, and it is not difficult to see that the allegation is
true, that, if such action be persisted in, these complainants
will be entirely cut off from all mail facilities, and their business will necessarily be greatly injured if not wholly destroyed,
such business being, so far as the laws of Congress are concerned, legitimate and lawful. In other words, irreparable injury will be done to these complainants by the mistaken act of
the Postmaster General in directing the defendant to retain and
refuse to deliver letters addressed to them. The Postmaster
General's order being the result of a mistaken view of the law
could not operate as a defence to this action on the part of the
defendant, though it might justify his obedience thereto until
some action of the court. In such a case, as the one before us,
there is no adequate remedy at law, the injunction to prohibit
the further withholding of the mail from complainants being
the only remedy at all adequate to the full relief to which the
complainants are entitled. Although the Postmaster General
had jurisdiction over the subject-matter (assuming the validity
of the acts) and therefore it was his duty upon complaint being
made to decide the question of law whether the case stated was

ROMIG v. GILLETT.

ill

Syllabus.

within the statute, yet such decision being a legal error does
not bind the courts.
Without deciding, therefore, or expressing any opinion upon
the various constitutional objections set out in the bill of complainants, but simply holding that the admitted facts show no
violation of the statutes cited above, but. an erroneous order
given by the Postmaster General to defendant, which the courts
have the p6wer to grant relief against, we are constrained to
reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, with instructions to
overrule the defendant's demurrer to the amended bill, with
leave to answer, and to grant a temporary injunction as applied
for by complainants, and to take such further proceedings as
may be proper and not inconsistent with this opinion. In overruling the demurrer we do not mean to preclude the defendant
from showing on the trial, if he can, that the business of complainants as in fact conducted amounts to a violation of the
statutes as herein construed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. TUSTICE M0KNNA, believing the
judgment should be affirmed, dissented from the foregoing
opinion.

ROMIG v. GILLETT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 52. Arged October 20, 21, 1902.-

Decided November 17,1902.

Under §§ 3950, 3951 and 3955 of the statutes of Oklahoma where a judgment of foreclosure and sale of land in Oklahoma Territory is based upon
service of the summons by publication, the facts tending to show'tbe exercise of due diligence in attempting to serve the defendant within the
Territory must be disclosed in the affidavit on which the order for service
by publication is based.
But where a publication has been made, approved by the court and a decree entered thereon, and the mortgagee put in possession thereunder.
the mortgage not having been paid, and the mortgagee has improved the

