HOME 'FOR INCURABLES v. CITY OF NEW YORK. 155
Statement of the Case.

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME 1OOURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 86. Argued and submitted November 12, 1902-Decided December 1, 1902.
If the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States is invoked on
the ground that the judgment of the State court has denied a right, title,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States,.
it should appear that such right, title, privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed in the State court.
,This court cannot acquire jurisdiction toreview the final judgment of the
highest court of the State by reason of a certificate of the Chief Justice
of the-State court, not made while the case was before it or under its con-trol, stating that the party seeking the intervention of this court raised
Federal questions before the State court. While it has been said in some
cases that such a certificate is entitled to great respect, and in other cases
that its office is to make that more certain and specific which is too general and indefinitein the record, the certificate is insufficient in itself to
give jurisdiction or to authorize this court to determine Federal questions
that do not appear in any form from the record to have been brought to
the attention of the State court.

T.HE plaintiff in error, the Home for Incurablep, filed its petition in the Supreme Court for the city and county of New
York, alleging that at the date of the confirmation of a certain
assessment for a sewer in East 181th Street from Vanderbilt
Avenue west to Washington Avenue, etc., it was the owner of
certain lots affected thereby in ward number one, block number
3064, the twenty-fourth ward of the city of New York,
That on the 22d of January, 1900, that assessment was con.firmed by operation of law and the title thereof duly .entered,
with date of -entry and of confirmation, -in the record of titles
of assessments confirmed, whereby such assessment became a
lien upon such lots, and,
Thalf the assessment, together with an interest certificate certified by the Comptroller of the city of New York to the Board
of Assessors, was irregular, excessive and voidable, for reasons
set forth in the petition.

OCTOBER TERI,

190-2.

Statement of the Case.

The petition alleged. among other things that "so much of
the act of the Legislature of the State of New York, known as
section 868 of the New York City Consolidation Act of 1882,
as purports to authorize and direct the making of such interest
certificate and the assessment of the amount thereof herein, is
in violation of the Constitution of the State of New York in
that said portion of said act authorizes the taking of privata
property withput just compensation, and said portion of said
act purports to authorize an unlawful exercise of the power of
taxation."
The petitioner prayed that the assessment be vacated or.reduced, and that the lien or liens created thereby or by any subsequent proceeding be cancelled and discharged or reduced so
far as the same affected the above lots;
The case'was heard upon the stipulation of facts in the Supreme Court-and the relief asked by the petitioner was denied.
Upon appeal to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court
the action of the court 6f original jurisdiction was confirmed.
The case was then carried to the .Court of Appeals of the State,
and the jlidgment of the lower court was affirmed.
Upon writ of error to this court, it has been assigned'for error that the judgment of the state court was in violation of the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States., also, that*the judgment deprived the Home
of the equal protection of the law and of its property-without
due process of law
The record contains a certificate by the Chief Judge of the
Court of Appeals of New York to the effect that in tus proceeding the Home for Incurables claimed in the courts of the
State that " the imposition of all or a part of the assessment on
its 'land as set forth in the record herein -was in violation of the
statultes and Constitution of the State of INew York -and of the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States, and constituted a taking of property without due process of law, that the respondent in this proceeding
contended 'that the said assessment was neitlier in whole nor in
part in violatibn of the statutes and Constitution of the State of
New York or of the Constitution of. the United States, and also

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. CITY OF NEW YORK.

157

Opinion of the Court.

that the said Home for Incurables had no remedy by petition to
correct any errors in the said'assessment, that this courtdecided
that the said Home for Incurables did have a remedy by petition
in the manner and form of the proceeding adopted by it to correct
any errors in the said assessment, but that the assessment complained of was valid and without error as to each and every
part thereof."
.Mr John X. Perry for plaintiff in error.
.r George L.&erling for defendant in error. XAr George
L.Rives and Mfr Theodore Connoly were with him on the brief.
Mr. JusTicE AERLAw, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered- the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff insists here that the State court, by its final
judgment, refused to recogmze certain rights belonging to it
under the Constitution of the United States. But it does not
appear on the face of the record that he set up or claimed-any
such right until the case reached this court. [n Parmeleev
Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36, 38, this court--following the previous
cases of -Lawlerv Walker, 14 How 149, 152, and Railroad
Company v Rock; 4 Wall. IT7-said it was essential to our
jurisdiction in reexamining thejudgment of the State court that
the alleged conflict between the Statelaw and the Constitution
of the United States "appear-in the pleadings of the suit, or
from the .evidence in the course of the trial, in' the instructions
asked for, or from exceptions taken to the rulings of the court,"
or "it must be that such a question whs necessarily involved in
the dedision, and that the State court would not have given a
' Later cases in this court have
judgment -without deciding it.
expressed the additional thought that .ifthe highest court of
the State assumes that the record suffiiently presents a question of Federal right aild decides against the party claiming
such right, we will look nto further, and will proceed to a consideration of that question, unless the decision is made to rest,
in part, upon some ground of local law, sufficient enough in it-

OCTOBER TERM, '1902.
Opinion-of the Court

self to sustain the judgment, independently of any question of
Federal right.
In the case before us, the Home for Incurables has not brought
upon the record the fact that it asserted, in: the State court, any
Federal right whatever. It is entirely consistent -with the record that the Rome did not, at any time peiding the case in
the State court, set up or claim any such right. If our jurisdiction is mvojed on the ground that the judgment of the State
court has,demed a right, title, privilege or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, it is essential, under
existing statutes, that such right, title, privilege or. immunity
shall have been spedially set up or claimed in the State court.
Rev Stat. .ยง 709, Armstrong v Treasurer of Athens Co.,
16 Pet. 281, 285 ; Railroad Company v Rock, 4 Wall. 177,
180, Powell v Bzrunswwsk Co., 150 U. S. 433, 439, Roby V.
Colehour, 146 U S. 153, 159, Oxley .Stave Co. v Butler Co.,
166 II. S. 648, 654:,, Levy y Supersor Court of San Francpco,
167 U. S. 175, 177.
It is true that the transcript contains the certificate of the
Chief Jucge 'of the Court of Appeals of New York, not appearing to have l6een by 6rder of that court while the case was before
it or under. its control, which states that -the U~ome did make
in that court, the Federal questions now pressed. upon our con;
sideration. But that certificate is-'not properly a part of the
record. IWhile we have said in some cases that such a certificate is entitled to' great respect, and, in other case-, that its
office is to .,make that more certain'. and specific- which is too
general and indefinite in the record, it is insufficient in'itself
to give us juridiction, or to authorize us to 'determine Federal
questions that do not appear, in any form, from the record, to
have been brought to the attention of the-State court.. Powel
v Brunswzc Co., 150 U S. 433, 439, Newport Light Co. v
Railroad
Newport, 151 U. S. 527, 537, Yazoo & .fisstappmT
Co. v. Adams(180 U. S. 41, 47, -Felix v. Scharnweber, 125
U S. 54, 59.
Having no jurisdibtion to reexamine'the juagment.below, the
writ of error must be
XkDsmissed;

