RAUB v. CARPENTER.
Counsel for Parties.

RAUB v. CARPENTER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT. OF COLMBIA,
iNo. 64. Argued November 3, 4,1902-Decided December 1,1902.
At a special term for orphans' court business the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia admitted a will and codicil to probate, to which the
plaintiffs in error (caveators below) filed their caveat; issues as tb mental
capacity, fraud, coercion and undue influence were framed for trial by
jury; on the trial a witness, who was a physician and a relative of deceased, after testifying in regard to certain facts as to health, actions of
deceased, canse.of death and results of an autopsy, was asked, "Doctor,
have you formed any opinion from your uncle's general. andition of
health. and the conditions disclosed by his brain at this investigation,
and from all you know about him yourse, what his condition of mind
was ?" The trial court sustained the objection takeh by the caveators
to the woras in italics on. the ground that no sufficient basis had been
laid for that portion of the evidence, and that the facts relied upon In
this particular should be first adduced. Held, that the exclusion was
not error.

After the decree caveators moved to vacate on the ground that one of the
jurors was incompetent propter delictum for service, but the trial court
denied the motion, the record stating that the court was of the opinion
that at the trial there was no evidence of menl incompetency, fraud or
undue influence. Held, that the verdict and judgment were not absolutely void, and that it was within the discretion of the trial court to grant
or deny the motion, and as no other verdict could have been rendered
consistently with the facts, the presence of the juror objected to could
not have operated to the prejudice of the plaintiffs in error, and as'there
was nothing to show that injustice was done to them, the trial court did
not abuse its discretion.
Wassuin v. Feeney, 121 Massachusetts, 93, cited in Kohl v. lehlback, 160
U. S. 293, 301, followed and Garrett v. Weinberg, 54 S. C. 127, distin-

guished.
I

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

M, Charles Poe and .M, Victor H. Wallace for plaintiffs in

error.
.A" Joseph. A. Burkhart'and .M J J Darlington for de'
fendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

MR. CHIzF JuSTICe FuLinR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, affirming certain orders of
the Supreme Court of the District, holding a special term for
orphans' court business, admitting a will and codicil to probate
and granting letters testamentary thereon, and denying a motion to vacate that decree.
Plaintiffs in error filed a caveat to the probate and record of
the writings purporting to be the will and codicil, and issues,
addressed to both, as to mental capacity, fraud or coercion, and
undue influence, were framed for trial by jury
Trial was had, and on the conclusion of the evidence the
court, at the request of the caveatees, instructed the jury that
there was no evidence tending to show fraud, undue influence
or coercion, and that on these issues the jury should render its
verdict for the caveatees. To which the caveators made no objection, and preserved no exception. Three instructions in respect of the mental capacity of the deceased to make a valid
will or codicil were given on behalf of the caveators as requested by them..
The jury returned a verdict June 15,. 1900, in favor of the
caveatees. No motioli for a new trial was made within four
days as required by rule 53 of the court, or prior to June 26,
when the court entered an order and decree admitting the
will and codicil to probate, and granting letters. testamentary
thereon, from which an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals.
Several exceptions were preserved to the rulings of the court
in the progress of the trial, which were disposed of by the
Court of Appeals satisfactorily as we think. But one of them
has been pressed on our attention.
Dr. George B. Hemecke, a practicing physician m Washington, and a grandnephew of deceased, testified that he had known
deceased ever., since he could recollect, and was accustomed to
seeing him frequently, that he had seen-him when recovering
from attacks of epilepsy-subsequently to the execution of the
will and codicil, "that testator had stated to him that he was

RAUB v. CARPENTER.
Opinion of the Court.

a sufferer from urethal calculus., that on the .13th of March,
1896, he had seen the testator have a fainting spell," "that
he had on one occasion seen testator laughing to himself, that
on or about the 13th of February, 1899, during the blizzard,
the testator acted peculiarly about the snow in his yard ;-did
not know how it got in there, all of it, and went out there and
tried to get it removed;" and witness stated the result of the-autopsy and the cause of death. He was then asked the following
question: "Doctor, have you formed any opinion, from your
uncle's general condition of health and the conditions disclosed
by his brain at this investigation, and froraaZI you know about
hzAm your8eZf, what his condition of mind was?"
To that portion of the question whch called for an opinion
from the witness from "all that you know about him yourself,"
the caveatees objected on the ground that no suffi6ient basis had
been laid for that portion of -the question, and that the facts
relied upon in this particular should be 'first adduced. The
court sustained the objection and caveators preserved an exception.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the trial court did
not err in holding that portion of the question objectionable,
and, if so, the question as framed could not properly have been
allowed- to be propounded, though caveators were left free to
put it with the objectionable words omitted. Clearly the opinion of the witness from facts he did not disclose was inadmissible. If heknew anything about the deceased other than what
he had stated, which aided him in arriving at a conclusion, that
knowledge should have been developed. 'Inthat particular the
question assumed the existence of facts for which there was no
foundation in the evidence.
So far as the conduct of the trial was concerned we find no
reversible error.
On July 16, 1900, twenty days after the decree was entered,
caveators moved 'that that decree be vacated on the ground that
one of the jurors was disqualified for service on the jury by the
fact that he was under the age of twenty-one years, and by the
fact that he had several times been convicted of the crime of
petty larceny in the police court of the District. The motion
VOL. CLXXXVI-11

OCTOBER TERI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

was- supported by transcripts from the records of the police.
court, and by. affidavits, sustaining both disqualifications, the
affidavits also showing that at the beginning of the trial term
of the court at which they had been summoned, the jurors had
all been examined on their vow- dire by the presiding justice as
to their qualifications to serve on the jury, that the juror now
charged to -be disqualified had then and there falsely-answered
that he was over the age of twenty-one years, and -had never
been convicted of crime, that one of the counsel for the caveators was present in court at the time of such examination, and
that the falsehood of the statements of the juror in question
was not known to the caveators or' their counsel until after the
entry of the order now sought to be vacated. The motion to
vacate was denied, the record stating "the court further being
of opinion that at the trial theie was no evidence of mental mcompetency, fraud, or undue influence."
From this order the caveators took their second appeal.
Viewed as an ordinary motion for a new trial, the motion
was not seasonably made under the rules, nor is it contended
that the judgment came within the Maryland act of 1787, ch. 9,
see. 6, 2 Kilty, Spalding v Crawford, 3 App. D. 0. 361, as
having been obtained by fraud, deceit, surprise or irregularity
in the sense of that s'tatute. But it rests on the power of the
court to set aside a judgment at the term at which it is rendered under circumstances calling for the exercise of its discretion in that regard, or on the assumption that the trial and verdict were absolutely void because of the incompetency of the
juror.
By section 872 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District
of Columbia, as amended by the act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat.
749,it is provided, "No person shall be competent to act as a
juror unless he be a citizen of the United States, a resident of
the District of Columbia, over twenty-one and under sixty-five
years of age, and a good and lawful man, who has never been
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpi"tude."

Treating the application as open to consideration by reason,
of the discovery of the existence of the alleged objection after,

RAUB v. CARPENTER.

'

163

Opinion of the Court.

verdict and judgment, but 'as amounting to no more than a
motion for new trial made in apt time, it was within the discretion of the trial court to grant or deny it, andd the Court-of
Appeals held that the order denying it was not appealable.
But the court also held that the discretion of the trial court was
properly exercised; that there was not only noevidence in sup.
port of the charges of "fraud, undue influence, circumvention
or coercion," which was conceded, but that "the charge of mental unsoundness is wholly unsustained and without any support
whatever in the testimony;" and that the trial court would have
been fully justified in peremptorily directmg a verdict-on this
issue as well- as on the others, as that court in the order appealed
from intimated it would have done if requested. In short, the
two courts agreed that the facts were with the caveatees, and,
unless clearly erroneous, which does not-appear, we should accept their finding. T]owmon v .Xoore, 173 U. S.11, 25.
And as the verdict was the only vefdict that could be rendered consistently with the facts, the presence of this juror in
the box could not have operated to the prejudice of plaintiffs
in error.
In 'Was8um v. Feeney, 121 Massachusetts, 93, the rule that
"when a party has had an opportunity.of challenge, no disqualification of a juror entitles him.'to a new trial after verdict,"
was applied, and it was held that "a verdict will not be set. aside
because one of the jurors was an infant, where his name was
on the list of jurors returned'and empaneled., though the losing
party did not known of the infancy until after the. verdict."
And Mr. Justice Gray, then Chief Justice of Massachusetts, delivering the opinion, cited, among other cases, Hill v Yas, 12
East, 229, where the son 6f a juryman unlawfully served in his
father's place, and pointed out that Lord Ellenborough there
"said that he had mentioned the case to all the,judges, and they
were all of opinion that it was a matter within their discretion
to grant or refuse a new trial on such a ground, that if no injustice had been done, they would not interfere in this mode."
Wamum v. Feeney was cited with approval and quoted from
in Koh2 v. LekhAack, 160 U. S. 293, 301, as in accordance with
the great weight of authority This case involved.the disquali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of theCourt.

fication of alienage, but did not require the determination of the
question, "whether, where the defendant is without fault and
may have been prejudiced, a mew trial may not be granted on
such a ground," though it was referred to.
Garrett v Weinberg, 54: S. C. 127, is relied on by plaintiffs in
error as ruling in a civil case that a new trial should be granted
when a disqualified juror sat, the parties or their attorneys not
knowing of the disqualification until after verdict. But that
was a case of a motion for, new trial made in the ordinary way,
and the juror was held disqualified under the express provisions
of the constitution of the State,. which in that respect were held
to be mandatory, so that the jury was not a ".constitutional
jury," but the court did not intimate that the incompetency
rendered the verdict and judgment void, and, on the contrary,
treated ignorance of the fact until after trial as material.
In Zohl v Lehlback, we held that "the disqualification of
alienage is cause of challenge propte' defectum, on account of
personal objection, and if, voluntarily, or through negligence,
or ivant of knowledge, such objection fails to be insisted on, the
conclusion that the judgment is thereby invalidated is wholly
inadmissible. The defect is not fundamental as affecting the
substantial rights of the accused, and the verdict is not void for
want of power to render it." Hollingsworth v. Duane, Wall.
0. 0. 147, was referred to, where the court placed alienage, infancy, infamy, and affinity, in the same category See Goad v
State, 106 Tennessee,. 175, State v. Powers, 10 Oregon, 145,
where disqualification lyropter delictum was held not to be in
itself fatal after verdict.
No reason is perceived why this particular objection could
not be waived by the parties and even where a party by reason of excusable want of knowledge might be entitled to claim
that he, had not waived it, that would go to the merits on application for new tria 1 and not to the want of power. The
verdict and judgment not being absolutely void, it is unnecessary to pursue the subject further, as there is nothing to show
that injustice was done to caveators, and the trial court did not
abuse its discretion in the premises.
Judgment afmwed.

