OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

show, in so many words, that the action is brought by the minor
by next friend," although cases so ruling could be found.
We are unable to hold that the Circuit Court erred in assuming that this guardian had the legal right to bring the action
in his own name, and it is on his citizenship and not on the
citizenship of the ward that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended.
Judgment afirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SATMPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
No.273. Petition for new parties submitted December 29, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

Where a rear admiral of the United States Navy who has filed a libel in
prize in his own behalf and also in behalf of all the officers and enlisted
men in the Navy taking part in the engagement, dies, and his death has
been suggested on the record, it is not necessary that the personal representatives of the deceased should come in or that any person should
be designated ex officio, but the court may substitute any one interested
in the prosecution of the litigation, who has personally appeared in
the case.

THE case is stated

in the opinion of the court.

.Afr James H. Hayden, for petitioners on this motion, ap-

pellees.
THE CHIEF JUsTICE. This libel in prize was filed by-Rear
Admiral Sampson in his own behalf and also in behalf of all
of the officers and, enlisted men of the United States Navy, who
took part in the engagement off Santiago de Cuba on July 3,
1898, in ttie Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and
went to a decree of condemnation from which this appeal was
prosecuted.
On May 19, 1902, the death of Rear Admiral Sampson was
suggested by the Attorney General, and a motion made that

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS CO. v. OSHKOSH.

437

Syllabus.

the cause proceed under its then caption and without the substitution of any other individual as a party, which was postponed to the hearing of the case on its merits.
That hearing has been had, and counsel, in aid of the court,
have made application for the substitution of the admimstratrix of Admiral Sampson, and submitted considerations in
respect of the substitution also of one or more officers, as, and
if, deemed necessary,..
We think some one to carry on the proceedings in the interest of all should be substituted, but that it is not necessary
that the personal representatives of those who may have deceased should come in, or that any person should ex officio be
designated. The matter is merely one of convenience and
without significance in itself.
Rear Admiral Evans, Rear Admiral Taylor, Captain French
E. Chadwick, and others are represented in the litigation by
counsel; but Rear Admiral Schley and others are not. Of
those so represented, Rear Admiral Evans is absent on a foreign station, while Rear Admiral Taylor is within the jurisdiction. It seems to us that the substitution of Rear Admiral
Taylor will satisfactorily meet the exigency, and it will be
Ordered accordingly.

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS'COMPAINY v. OSHKOSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 74. Argued November 6, 1902.-fDecided January 5, 1903.

1. While, in a general sense, the laws in force at the time a contract is made
enter into its obligation, parties have no vested right in the paiticular
remedies or modes of procedure then existing.
2. The Legislature may ifot withdraw all remedies, and thus, in effect, destroy the contract;.nor impose such new restrictions or conditions as
would materially delay or embarrass the enforcement of rights under the
contract, according to the course of justice as established when the contract wvas mude. Neither could be done without impairing the obligation

