PACIFIC WHALING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

447

Statement of the Case.

then what has been said as to the application of the revised
charter to the contract of 1883 applies, in all respects, to that
of 1891. The obligation of neither contract was Impaired by
the charter of 1891.
We have noticed all the points that require consideration, and
adjudge, therefore, that the changes made by the revised charter
of Oshkosh in respect of remedies for the enforcement of claims
against that city provided for its creditors a substantial and
adequate remedy, and therefore did pot impair the obligation
of contracts with that municipal corporation.
The .judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin must be
Affirmed.

PACIFIC STEAM WHALING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 26. Argued December 8, 1902.-Decided January 5, 903.

Where an applicant files with the District Court of Alaska a petition for a
license for vessels and salmon canneries under section 460 of the act of
1899 providing a criminal code for Alaska, 30 Stat. 1253, 1336, and with it
a protest against being required to take out or pay for such license on
various grounds stated therein, to which petition and protest the clerk
of the District Court is not made a party-although the papers -may have
been served on the district attorney-and the District Court thereafter
makes an order granting the license, stating therein that so far as the
protestant seeks relief against the payment of the licenses "the.same is
over'uled, denied and ignored," an appeal to this court will not lie as
there is no action, suit, or case, within the constitutional provision (Article III, section 2) in which was entered a final judgment or decree such
as entitled the petitioner to appeal to tins court.
SECTION

460 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1253, 1336)

entitled "An act to define and punish crimes in the District of
Alaska and to provide a code of criminal procedure for said
district," reads

OCTOBER 'rERAL 1902.
Statement of the Case.

"That any person or persons, corporation or company prosecuting or attempting to prosecute any of the following lines of
business within the District -of Alaska shall first apply for and
obtain license so to do from a District Court or a subdivision
thereof in said district, and pay for said license for the respective
lines of business and trade as follows, to wit-*"
Then follows a list of forty-two callings and occupations,
among which, applicable to the present case are the following:
"Fisheries Salmon canneries, four cents per case, salmon
salteries, ten cents per barrel, fish-oil works, ten cents per barrel, fertilizer works, twenty cents per ton.
"Ships and shipping Ocean and coastwise vessels doing local
business for hire plying in Alaskan waters, one dollar per ton
per annum, on net tonnage, custom-house measurement of each
vessel."
Section 161 makes it a misdemeanor to engage in any of the
occupations referred to without first obtaining a license. Section 463 reads
"That the licenses provided for in this act shall be issued by
the clerk of the District Court or any subdivision thereof, in
compliance with the order of the court or judge thereof duly
made and entered, and the clerk of the court shall keep a full
record of all applications for license and of all recommendations
for and remonstrances against the granting of licenses and of
the action of the court thereon. The clerk of the court shall
be entitled to receive from each applicant for a license a fee of
five dollars,, and no other or additional compensation shall be
paid such clerk for his services in connection with such license
or the issue thereof A'nd proided, That the clerk of said
court and each division thereof shall give bond or bonds in such
amount as the Secretary of the Treasury may require and in
such form as the Attorney General may approve, and all moneys
received for licenses by him or them under this act shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States, under such rules
and regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe."
On July 6, 1899, the Pacific Steam Whaling Company filed

PACIFIC WHALING CO. v,. UNITED STATES.

449

Statement of the Case.

in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Alaska a petition entitled "In the matter of the application of the Pacific Steam
Whaling Company for a license for the steamship Wolcott, the
steamship Excelsior, the steamship Newport, and the steamer
Golden Gate, and canneries, and protest thereon."
It alleged that the petitioner was the owner of the steamships Wolcott, Excelsior, Newport and Golden Gate, engaged
m doing a local business for hire in Alaskan waters, and was
also engaged in the business of carrying on salmon canneries
at certain named points in the district. It denied that it was
subject to any license for the prosecution of. either business,
notwithstanding the provisions of the statute referred to, that
in view of* the stringent penalties provided in that statute for
carrying on business without .the required license it made the
following protest That the steamships were taxed as its property in the Port of San Francisco, California, of which State
the petitioner was a corporation, and was therefore not subject
to a license tax in the District of Alaska, that a license fee at
the rate of $1 per ton, together with the tax charged in California against the petitioner, made a double tax, and was unreasonable, exorbitant, oppressive and amounted to the taking
of petitioner's property without due process of law, that the
title of the act under which this license sedtion was found had
no reference to the granting of a license for the prosecution of
a lawful business, and the provisions of the act, so far as they
purport to require the payment of license fees, are vague, unintelligible and doubtful, so that it cannot be reasonably inferred
that Congress intended to require their payment, and that
sections 460 and 461 of the act were contrary to the provisions
of sections 8 and 9.of Article I of the Constitution of the United
States, and therefore null and void. The prayer of the petitioner was as follows
"1. That the said court first try and determine the matter
as to whether or not it is necessary for the said petitioner to
pay into court any license or sum of money whatsoever as provided under said act.
"2. That if said court shall determine that your petitioner
VOL. CMXXxVII-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

with respect to said steamships Wolcott, Excelsior, Newport
and Golden Gate should first pay the said license fee required
under said act in your court, before the trial and determination
of said cause and matters herein set out, that the same be held
by the clerk until the trial and determination of the matters
and facts set forth herein.
"3. That if the court determines that a license in the meantime should be granted to the said steamships, or either of
them, as ocean and coastwise vessels, and doing local business
for hire, plying in Alaskan waters, that such license be so
granted and said money so held by the clerk of the court
under protest as aforesaid, subject to the further action of this
honorable court."
This petition was verified by the oath of the attorney of the
petitioner. A copy of the petition was served upon the United
States district attorney for the District of Alaska, the amount
of the license fees was deposited with the clerk of the court,
and a final order entered on January 2, 1900, which directed
the clerk to issue the license and turn the money deposited
into the Treasury of the United States, adding- "So far as
said protestants seek relief against the payment of a license on
the several businesses therein described, the same is overruled,
denied and ignored in each case of protest." An appeal was
allowed by the district judge and a transcript of the record
filed m this court on August 15, 1900.

r S. [. Stockslager for appellant. 3fr WTV .Dudley,
.Ar L. T .Aichener, _Mr J F .Aalonmy, Afr J H. Cobb, Mir
George C. Heard, Mr John. 1. Wynne and _Mr John G Heid
were on the briefs.
.Mr Solicitor General Richmds for the United States. -Mr.
As&qstant Attorney General Beck was with him on the brief.
MR. JUsTi E BREwER, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered.the opinion of the court.
The proceeding-in this case is a novel one, and the first ques-

PACIFIC WHALING CO. v.. UNITED STATES.

451

Opimon of the Court.

tion is whether there was any action or suit-any case within
the constitutional provision, Article III, see. 2, extending the
'judicial power of the United States "to all cases, in law and
equity, arising. under this Constitution "-in which was entered
a final judgment or decree such as entitled the petitioner to an
appeal. "A case isa suit in law or -equity, instituted according to the regular course of judicial proceedings, and when it
involves any question arising under the Constitution, laws or
treaties of the United States, it is within the judicial power
confided to the Union." 2 Story on the Constitution, sec. 1646,
O8born v Un-ed 8tate Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819. Here a
petition was filed, which was in form an application for a
license, with a protest that the petitioner ought not to be compelled to take one out. The application was granted, and the
petitioner could certainly not appeal from an -order granting
that which he asked for. The application, it- is. true, was
coupled with a protest, bat who ever heard of an appeal being
sustained from a protest 2 There was no suit against the clerk
to restrain him from receiving the license money. He was not
made a party, entered no appearance, and no decree was rendered for or against him.
The power to grant licenses was by the statute vested in
the District Court, or a judge thereof. Giving an interpretation to the petition the most favorable to the petitioner, it was
an application to a tribunal having judicialfunctions to restrain
itself from the discharge of administrative duties. It is contended that the nature of the proceeding is not changed by
uniting judicial functions and administrative duties in the
same tribunal, that it is the same as though such functions
and duties were exercised by different bodies or officers, and
that it is to be treated as though it was an-application to a
judicial tribunal to restrain a different and administrative officer from the discharge of administrative duties. Congress, it
is said, cannot by imposing, both sets of duties upon, the same
tribunal deprive a party of a right .which he would have if
those duties were entrusted to different officials. .If we are
justified in giving this interpretation to the proceeding we
meet the familiar doctrine that an injunction will not lie to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

restrain the collection of a tax on the mere ground of its illegality Dows v. City of C/ueago, 11 Wall. 108, Hannewm-le
v Georgetown, 15 Wall. 54:7, ,State Railroad Tax Cases, 92
U. S. 575, .Milwaukee v Kwefler, 116 U. S. 219. And this is
true whether these taxes are local or general, or, if general,
whether internal revenue or direct taxes. Indeed, in respect
to internal revenue taxes, section 3224, Revised Statutes, specifically provides "iNo suit for the purpose of restraimng the
assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any
court." Something more than mere illegality is necessary to
justify the interference of a court of equity But it does not
appear that the tax if unpaid would cast a cloud upon the title
to any real estate, or work irreparable injury. While it may
be that the failure to pay the tax would expose the petitioner
to a multiplicity of prosecutions for misdemeanor, yet neither
the District Court, nor the judge, nor the clerk initiates criminal proceedings, and the district attorney-the prosecuting
officer-was not made a party to the suit. True, an order was
entered that he be notified of the pendency of the application
and he appeared as amwus curts. Even had he been made a
party, would equity entertain a bill to restrain criminal prosecutions 2 In re Sawyer, 124 U. S.200, Harkraderv. Wadey,
172 U. S.148, Fitts v -McGhee, 172 U. S.516.
It is said that unless this application can be sustained the
petitioner is without remedy, and that there is no wrong without a remedy While as a general statement this may be true,
it does not follow that it is without exceptions, and especially
does it not follow that such remedy must always be obtainable
in the courts. Indeed, as the government cannot be sued without its consent, it may happen that the only remedy a party
has for a wrong done by one of its officers is an application to
the sense of justice of the legislative department. Still we
must not be understood as deciding that the only remedy in
this case was an appeal to Congress. It was held in Elliott v.
Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 156, that, under the law asit stood at
that time, Congress having made no special provision, where a
collector had charged excessive duties, and the party paying
them, in order to get possession of his goods, accompanied the

PACIFIC WHALING CO. v UNITED STATES.

453

Opinion of the Court.

payment by a declaration to the collector that he intended to
sue him to recover back the amount erroneously paid and by
a notice not to pay it over to the Treasury, an action could be
maintained against the collector for the excessive charge. The
court said that the question as to the right to recover must be
answered in the affirmative, "unless the broad proposition can
be maintained, that no action will lie against a collector to recover back an excess of duties paid him; but that recourse
must be had to the government for redress. Such a principle
would be carrying an exemption to a public officer beyond any
protection, sanctioned by any principles of law or sound public
policy" See also C'ary v Curtis, 3 How 236, Curtis' Adrmnzstratmx v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 461. In .Ersknie v. 'FanArsdale, 15 Wall. 75, a case of internal revenue taxes, it was said
by Chief Justice Chase (p. 77) "Taxes illegally assessed and
paid may always be recovered back, if the collector understands
from the payer that the taxes are regarded as illegal and that
suit will be instituted to compel the refunding of them." And
in tate Railroad Taxes, -supra,p. 613, Mr. Justice Miller observed "The government of the United States has provided,
both in the customs and in the internal revenue, a complete
system of corrective justice in regard to all taxes imposed by
the general government, which in both branches is founded
upon the idea of appeals within the executive departments.
If the party aggrieved does not obtain satisfaction in this mode,
there are provisions for recovering the tax after it has been
paid, by suit against the collecting officer. But there is no
place in this system for an application to a court of justice until
after the money is paid." Patto? W Brady, Executmx, 184
U. S.608, 614. By the statute the clerk ismade the collector
of the license taxes, and if this tax was illegal and paid under
protest, and nothing in this or other legislation of Congress restrict such an action, very likely under these authorities an action would lie against hin for the money thus wrongfully taken
fror the petitioner.
It may be also that an action could be maintained in the
Court of Claims or in one of the Circuit or District Courts of
,the United States, under the Tucker act, to recover directly

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

from the United States. .Doolky v. nited States, 182 U. S.
222. But we are not called upon to decide what remedy by
suit or action, if any, the petitioner may have. It is enough
now to hold, as we do, that this novel proceeding was not a suit
or action in which a final decree or judgment was rendered
from winch the petitioner could take an appeal to this court.
The order of the District Court is
Afflrmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the decision of this case.

PACIFIC COAST STEAMSHIP COMPAINY v. UNITED
STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
Nos. 29, 30, 31.

Argued December 8, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

Affirmed on authority of Pacific Steam Whaling Co. v. United States, decided simultaneously herewith, p. 447, ante.

THESE cases were argued by the same counsel as in No. 26,
p. 450, ante.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

These three cases. are substantially similar to the one just decided, and for the reasons stated in the opinon therein the
orders of the District Court in each are
Affrned.
The
cases.

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of these

