JACOBI v. ALABAMA.

133

Syllabus.

isgun under the sleeping bags, and had it under his knee like
this way
"Q. And where was Patterson? A. He was lumping from
here over against the edge like-you see the rifle was right in
here. I had.seen that gun there before, for Scheffier had it out
and brought in and set it down there. He was going for that."
It is hardly necessary to point out thatthis testimony shows
the woman to have been an innocent spectator of the fray, and
if Scheffier had any guilty connection with what transpired it
was not as the accomplice of plaintiff in error. Nor did he become an accomplice by not disclosing the homicide until some
time afterward.
We find no error in the other rulings objected to not do they
require particular review
Judgmnt afflrmd.

JACOBI v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 341.

Argued November 7, 1902.-Decided November 17, 1902.

Plaintiff in error was convicted of assault and the judgment was affirmed
bythe Supreme Court of Alabama; the conviction was the result of a
second trial and the alleged victim who testified at the first trial was not
present at the second trial; the witness was permanently absent from the
State and there was no pretense of absence by procurement, but there
was evidence of diligence in attempting to serve process on her.
Evidence of the former testimony of this witness was admitted against defendant's objections based on several grounds, one of which was that le
had the constitutional right to be confronted by the witness, but as no
reference to the Constitution of the United States was made in the ob3ections, and the constitution of Alabama provides that in all criminal
to be confronted by
prosecutions the accused has a "right
witnesses against him"; Held, that the constitutional right was asserted
under the state, and not the Federal Constitution.
In the state Supreme Court error was assigned to the admission of the evidence as being in vioiation of the Fourteenth Amendment, but as the court
did not refer to that contention, and as the settled rule in Alabama in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
crimnal cases is that when specific grounds of objection are assigned all
others are waived, the Supreme Court of the State was not called upon
to revise the judgment of the lower court, and this court will not interfere with its action, although if the Supreme Court of the State had
passed upon that question the jurisdiction of this court might have been
maintained.
Where objection to testimony on the ground that it is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States is taken in the highest court of the
State for the first time, and that court declines to consider such objection because it was not raised at the trial, the judgment of the state court
is conclusive, so far as the right of review by this court is concerned
(following Spnes v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131).

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xrb Henry C. Lazarus for plaintiff in error. .2r -Lionel
Adams, JTIP J. N Luce and -Up '. XAickhet were with him on
the brief.
X9, Charles G Brown, attorney general of the State of Alabama, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLEtE delivered the opinion of the court.
Jacobi was convicted in the City Court of Montgomery,
Montgomery County, Alabama, on an indictment for criminal
assault, and the judgment against him was affirmed by the Supreme Court of that State. 32 So. Rep. 158. To revise that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
The conviction was the result of a second trial of the case,
and the alleged victim of the assault, who had testified at the
first trial, was not present at the second. But evidence of her
previous testimony was admitted against defendant's objection,
and it is contended that thereby defendant was deprived of
rights secured by thp Federal Constitution, and denied due
process of law . The question for us to decide at the outset is
whether such a claim was specially set up at the proper time
and in the proper way
The rule is firmly established by the decisions of the highest
court of Alabama that when a witness is beyond the jurisdiction of the court$ whether he has removed from the State per-

JACOBI r ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

manently, or for an indefinite time, his testimony on a former
trial for the same offence may be given in evidence against defendant on a subsequent trial. -Lowe v State, 86 Alabama, 47,
Perry v State, 87 Alabama, 30, Pruitt v State, 92 Alabama,
41, . fatthews v. State, 96 Alabama, 62, Burton v. State, 115
Alabama, 1.
In this case evidence was introduced before the trial judge
that the witness was not in the State at the time of the trial,
and that her absence was of a permanent or indefinite nature.
There was no pretense of absence by procurement and there
was evidence of diligence in attempting to serve process upon
her. It was held that sufficient foundation for the admission
of evidence of her former testimony had been laid and the Supreme Court concurred in that conclusion. Defendant objected.
to this preliminary proof and moved to exclude it on several
grounds, one of which was "that the defendant has the constitutional right to be confronted by" the witness. These objections having been overruled, evidence was introduced of the testimony given by the absent witness on direct and cross-examination
on the.former trial, to which defendant objected on the ground,
among others, "that the defendant, Jacobi, has the constitutional right to be confronted by the witnesses against him."
The trial judge overruled defendant's objections, and each
ground thereof, and admitted the evidence, and defendant duly
excepted. No reference to the Constitution of the United
States was made in the objections. The coistitution of Alabama provided that "In all criminal prosecutions the accused
has a right
to be confronted by witnesses against
bn," and it is plain that the constitutional right asserted
was under the state constitution. Alillerv ( ornwall 2 ailroad
Compvany, 168 U. S. 131, Xansas -Endowment Assoczation v.
Kansas, 120 U. S. 103.
After the case reached the state Supreme Court, error was
assigned to the admission of the evidence as being in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court did-not
refer to that contention, presumably because of the settled rule
in Alabama in criminal cases that when specific grounds of objection to the admission of evidence are assigned, all others

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902;
Opinion of the Court.

are waived, fcDane v The State, 97 Alabama, 14, and that
the Supreme Court will not decide a question relating to the admission of evidence not made and acted on in the trial court.
Freeman v Swan, 22 Alabama, 106, Robertson v Robnson, 65
Alabama, 610. The Supreme Court was therefore not called
upon to revise the judgment of the City Court for error .not
committed, and, we cannot interfere with its action in adhering
to the usual course of its judgments. If the court, however,
had passed upon the question our jurisdiction. might have been
maintained. Jallet v Nlorth Carolina,181 U. S. 5.89, Dreyer
v. illinos, ante 71.
In 5 pies v illinois,123 U. S. 131, where objection to the
admission of a certain letter, because obtained in violation of
the Constitution of the United States, was made in he Supreme
Court of the State for the first time, and that court declined
to consider the constitutional question supposed to be involved
on the ground that it was not raised in the trial court, Air.
Chief Justice Waite said "To give us jurisdiction under section 709 of the Revised Statutes 'because of the denial by a state
court of any title, right, privilege or immunity claimed under
the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United States,
it must appear on the record that such title, right, privilege or
immunity was 'specially set up or claimed ' at the proper time in
the proper way
To be reviewable here the decision must be
against the right so set up or claimed. As the Suprenc Court
of the State was reviewing the decisign of the trial court, it
must appear that the claim was made in that court, because
the Supreme Court was only authorized to review the 3udgment for errors committed'there, and we can do no more. This
is not, as seems to be supposed by one of the counsel for the'
petitioners, a question of a waiver of %right under the Constitution, laws.or treaties of the United States, but'a question
of claim. If the righlt was not set up or claimed in the proper
court below, the judgment of the highe'st court of the' State m
the action is conclusive, so far as the right of review here is
concerned," And see Brooks v. ,Missourit, 124 U. S. 394,
Baldwm v Kansas, 129 U, S. 52.
The result is that the writ of error must be
Dusmmssed.

