KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 197
'Syllabus.

the intention of stealing it, he was guiltylof larceny The question was treated as one for the jury In People v Raschke, 73
California, 378, it was held that if one, through false representations, obtains the possession of personal property with the
consent of the owner, but without a change of the general title,,
he is.guilty of larceny, upon subsequently converting the same.
to his own use, if he had the felonious intent to steal the property at the time the possessionxiyas obtained. The authority of
these cases is not questioned. In the case under consideration,
a cheque was delivered to the petitioner with instructions to
draw the money from the bank, take it to the railway station,
to be forwarded to another city The facts show that he obtained possession of both the cheque and the money, honestly,
and with the consent of his principal, and -subsequently converted it to-his own use. Puzma fame, at least, this makes a
case of embezzlement, and if there were m fact an original intent to steal, that is a question for a jury in a Russian court to
pass upon. It is sufficient for the purposes of this proceeding
that apmmezfaci case of embezzlement is made out.
This disposes of all the questions made in the brief, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court is

-Afflmed.

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' AND MASONS' LIFE INDEMNITY COMPANY v. JARMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS, FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 48. Argued October 17, 902.-Decided December 8, 1902.

1. That section of the Revised Statutes of Missouri declaring that in all suits
upon policies of life insurance it shall be no defence that the insured
committed suicide, applies not only to cases where the insured takes his
own life voluntarily and in full possession of his mental faculties, but to
all cases of self-destruction by the insured, whether sane or insane, unless he contemplated suicide at the time he made his application for .the
policy.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
The fact that this court has held that a clause avoiding a policy in case the
insured should die by his own hand applied only where the insured intentionally took his own life while sane, does not estop the court from
giving a different construction to a statute embodying an important question of public policy.
2. While under the decisions of the Supreme Court of Missouri it must be
held that the above statute-was repealed by the act of 1887, authorizing
the incorporation of insurance companies on the assessment plan, as to
policies thereafter issued, this statute of 1887 was prospective in its operation, and with respect to policies issued anterior to rbe date of that act,
the rights of the parties are to be determined by the suicide statute.
It was further held that a law passed in 1897, speially applying the suicide
statute to insurance companies doing business upon the assessment plan,
was constitutional, and applied to'tbis policy, inasmuch as the insured
1898.
did not die until
the
company to pay the plaintiff the sum of $5000 and all
3. The promise of
the money paid on the policy in assessments, was not impaired by subsequent amendments to the constitution, inasmuch as these amendments
operated only upon policies thereafter issued.

Tnis was a writ of certiorari to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the Circuit

Court for the Western District of. Missouri, overruling the defence of suicide to an action upon apolicy of life insurance, and
awarding plaintiff judgment for the amount of the policy and
assessments thereon.
An agreed statement of facts shows defendant to be an -llinois corporation, organized "for the purpose of furnishing life
indemnity or pecuniary benefits to widows," etc., and that on
October 19,-1885, it issued to John P Jarman, iilaintiff's husband, and a citizen of Missouri, a policy of insurance or certificate of membership, subject to the constitution and by-laws
of the company and certain conditions in the policy, one of
which provided for its avoidance in case of self-destruction,
" whether voluntary or involuntary, sane or insane." The seventh stipulation was that "John, P Jarman, while insane to
such an extent as to be incapable of understanding the nature
or consequences of his act, took his own life, and came to his
-death on the 12th day of September, 1898, by a gunshot wound,
inflicted by himself. It is not contended, however, by plaintiff
that such self-destruction was the result of accident." The further material facts are set forth in the opinion.

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 199
Opinion of the Court.

Defendant having refused to pay the amount of the policy
on account of the suicide of the insured, Rosa B. Jarman, his
widow and beneficiary, brought an action January 19, 1899, in
the Circuit Court of Grundy County to recover the amount of
the policy, $5000, and assessments, which action was subsequently removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Missouri, upon the ground of diversity
of citizenship. The case was submitted to the court without
the intervention of a jury, and resulted in a judgment in favor
of the plaintiff in the sum of $6006.30, which was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. Whereupon petitioner sued out a
writ of certiorari from this court.
_H1, Heey B -yan Hick
tioner.

and ZrMS. IS. Gregmoy for peti-

.Mr Irederzck . Bacon for respondent. Yr E. X. Harber
and -fr A. G Kngt were. with him on the brief.

:MR-.. JusTE BRoWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns principally upon the applicability to the policy
in question of sec. 5982 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of
1879, afterwards see. 5855, Rev Stat. 1889, (hereinafter termed
the suicide statute,) which was in force in 1885, when this policy
was written. The section is as follows
"In all suits upon policies of insurance on life hereafter issued
by any company doing business in this State, it shall be no defence that the insured committed suicide, unless it shall be
shown to the satisfaction of the court or jury trying the cause,
that the insured contemplated suicide at the time he made his
application for the policy, and any stipulation in the policy to
the contrary shall be void."
1. The first defence in order of time is that Jarman did not
commit suicide within the meaning of this act, since the stipulated fact was that he shot himself while insane to such an
extent as to be incapable of understanding the nature or conse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

quences of his act. Th6 position of the company m this connection is that the enactment above quoted, that "it shall be
no defence that fhe insured committed suicide," relates only to
cases where the insured takes his own life V'oluntarily, while
sane, and in full possession of his mental faculties, and hence,
the provision of the policy, that "in case of the self-destruction
of the holder of this policy,, whether voluntary or involuntary,
this policy shall become null and void,"
sane or nsane,
applies, and exonerates the company from all liability beyond
that provided in the policy, "that in the case of the sdicide of
the holder of 'this policy, then this company will pay to his
widow and heirs or devisees such an amount of his policy as
the member. shall have paid to this company on the policy in
assessments on the same without interest."
This contention is founded upon the ruling of this court m
.L-feInsurance Co. v Terry, 15 Wall. 580, and cognate cases,
to the effect that a similar provision avoiding a policy in case
the insured should "die by his own hand" applied only where
the insured intentionally takes his own life, while in possession
of his ordinary -reasoning faculties, and does not apply when he
is unable to understand the moral character, the general nature,
consequences and effects of the act he is about to commit, or
when he is impelled thereto by an insane impulse, which he has
not the power to resist.
But we are of opinion that the word "suicide" is not used
in this statute in its technical and legal sense of self-destruction
by a sane person, but according to its popular meaning of death
by one's own hand, irrespective of the mental condition of the
person committing the act. The result of the construction
urged by the defendant, would be that, if a perfectly sane man
voluntarily and from anger, pride or jealousy, or a mere desire
to escape from the ills of life, puts an end to his life, and thereby
becomes guilty of the crime of self-murder, and of a fraud upon
the insurance company, the company would still be responsible,
unless it could be shown that the insured contemplated suicide
at the time he made his application for the policy, while, if he
committed the same act while snsane, and therefore irresponsible, the statute would not apply, and the company would not

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 201
Opinion of the Court.

be liable under the terms of the polickr, which provided that it
should become void "im case of the self-destruction of the
whether -voluntary or involuntary, sane or
holder,
snsaane. In the one case, as we held in RitMt v. lutuaZ Lse
Insurance Co., 169 U. S. 139, that is, of self-destruction by a
sane man, not only would the 'policy be void, whether there
were a provision to that effect or not, but even a contract that
it should be valid under such' circumstances was thought to be
against public policy and subversive of sound morality, (p. 1541;)
while in the other case of a suicide by an insane person, the
insured is guilty of no wrong to the company, if he be incapable
of understanding the moral consequences of his own act, and
there is no reason in law or morals why the company should
not pay It is im.possible to suppose that the legislature could
have contemplated such a contingency, and a construction that
would lead to this result should be deemed inadmissible, unless
the language of the statute were too plain to be misunderstood.
The statute was manifestly intended to apply to all cases of
self-destruction or suicide, unless the same were contemplated
at the-time application was made for the policy, and the fact
that we may have given a different construction to the same
words when used in a policy of insurance does not militate
against this theory The same words rhay require a different
construction when used m different documents, as, for instance,
in a contract, and a statute, and identity of -words is not decisive of identity of meaning where they are. used in different
connections and for different purposes. In a contract, the technical rights of the parties only are involved-in a statute, -an
important question of public policy If this statute were read
alone and disembarrassed .by the construction given to these
words in policies of insurance, not a doubt would arise as to its
application to all cases of self-destruction, and when we examine the theory of the defendant, and find that it leads to the
conclusion that the company would be liable if the insured had
committed a fraud upon it, and would not be liable if he had
taken his life, though guilty of no fraud, the theory must be
rejected without hesitation. The construction we have given
committed suicide" in this act is fortified by
to the words "1

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

reference to sec. 6570, Rev Stat. Missouri, 1889, referring to
the construction of statutes, which provides that "words and
phrases shall be taken in their plain or ordinary and usual sense,
but technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical inport." Undoubtedly the word suicide in its usual
sense includes all cases of self-destruction.
2. We are next brought to the consideration of the applicability of the suicide statute, sec. 5982, to policies of this company issued at this time. This act, upon its face, applies to all
insurance companies "doing business m this State," and to all
policies issued by such companies after the date of the act. It
undoubtedly governs the rights of the parties m this case, except so far as the same may have been modified by an act passed
in 1887, authorizing the incorporation of insurance companies
on the assessment plan. See. 10 of this act, Laws, 1887, pp. 199,
204, is now known as sec. 5869 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1889, and provides that corporations "doing business
under this article" shall make certain annual statements, which,
as well as other requirements, are also made applicable to foreign companies, with the following proviso "Provsded, always,
That nothing herein contained shall subject any corporation
doing business"under Amis article to any other provisions or requirements of the general insurance laws of this State, except
as distinctly herein set forth." It appears that the defendant
in this case, which is a citizen of Illinois, elected to take advantage of this law, and on June 18, 1888, received from the
insurance department of the State authority to do business
thereunder upon the assessment plan. As to policies issued upon
the assessment plan subsequent to this date and prior to 1897,
the Supreme Court of Missouri held that the suicide statute,
above quoted, does not apply ffaynse v KZnglits Tempars &c.
Co., 139 Missouri, 416. To the same effect are Hanford v. AYassachusetts Benefit Association, 122 Missouri, 50, Jacobs v Omaha
Life Assoczatwn, 142 Missouri, 49, and Aloe v _Y-utual Reserve
A8somation, 49 S. W Rep. 553. It is true the authority of
these cases was somewhat shaken by the recent case of Aloe v.
Fidelity -Mutual Zife Association, 55 S. W Rep. 993, which

KNFGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 203
Opimon of the Court.

did not involve-the repeal of the smcide statute, but of another
statute, providing that no misrepresentation should be deemed
material, unless the matter misrepresented should have contributed to the death of the insured. The case, however, turned,
as did the cases above cited, upon the scope of the proviso of
sec. 5869, and a persuasive opinion was delivered by Judge
Valliant in favor of the theory that the proviso was intended to
relate only to the organization of the corporations, and the extent to which they should be subject to the supervision of the
Department of Insurance, and under the superintendent's control. This opinion' was delivered in thefirst department of the
Supreme Court, and, there being a dissent, the cause was transferred to the court sn banc, wherein a majority of the court
apparently differed from the views expressed by Judge Valliant,
and reaffirmed the cases above cited. These cases, including
the Hayn~e case, must therefore be regarded as representing
the views of the Supreme Court that the suicide statute was
actually repealed by the act of 1887 as to policies thereafter
issued, and that view is, of course, binding upon this court.
But we are of the opinion that this statute was intended to
be prospective in its operation, and that the rights of the defendant as an assessment company under the act of 1887, began
in June, 1888, with its certificate of authority to do business
under that act, and with respect to policies anterior to that date
the rights of the parties are to be determined by the suicide
statute, sec. 5855, Rev Stat. 1889. It must be borne in mind
that the repealing act of 1887, now known as see. 5869, Rev.
Stat. 1889, was not passed as an independent statute,.but as section 10 of a new statute of fourteen sections, entitled "An act
to provide for the incorporation and regulation of associations,
societies or compames doing a life or casualty insurance business on the assessment plan." The prior sections define what
shall be deemed a contract of insurance upon the assessment
plan, how the corporations are formed, what the policies should
specifyf giving general details with regard to the management
of the business, and then providing, 'm section 10, 'for annual
statements made by "every corporation doing business under
this act," with the provision that "nothing herem contained

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

shall, subject any corporation doing business under tins act to
any provisions or requirements of the general insurance laws
of this State, except as distinctly herein set forth." This whole
act, slightly ainended in language, was carried into the Revised
Statutes of 1889 as chapter 89, article III. It seems to us quite
clear that the declaration of the proviso that corporations "do
ing business under this act" shall not be subject to the general
insurance laws of the State applies only to corporations which
took out a certificate of authority from the - insurance department to dobusiness on the assessment plan, and to policies
thereafter issued by such companies, notwithstanding the fact
that such companies may have. issued policies under the general
insurance laws of the State prior to the act of 1887. The words
"doing business" evidently refer to issuing policies and not to
paying them. A man does business when he contracts obligations-he ceases to do business when he discharges them.
Tins is not only the natural construction of the act, but to
hold that the proviso applies to policies antecedently issued
might open it to the imputation 'of impairing the obligation of
contracts previously entered into between these companies and
their insured, since .these policies amounted. to a special agreement on the part ofthe companies that they would be liable in
case of suicide-an agreement upon which the insured and his
beneficiary were entitled to rely The provision of the suicide statute, that it shall be no defence that the insured committed suicide, and that any stipulation in the policy to the
contrary shall be void, must be considered as imposing a condition upon every policy thereafter issued, notwithstanding any
stipulation in the policy to the contrary It must be treated
as an independent and binding obligation, and as overriding and
nullifying any, stipulation of the parties. As Mr. Justice Gray
observed m _Eqautable Zife As&urance Soczety v Clementa, 140
is mandatory, and controls
U. S. 226 "The statute
the nature and terms of the contract into which the company
may induce the assured to enter."
But we do not find it necessary to express a'n opinion whether,
if the act of 1887 were plainly applicable upon its face to antecedent policies, it would be objectionable as impairing the obli-

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 20&
Opinion of the Court.

gation of contracts, entered into between the insurance company
and insured, inasmuch as we are clearly of opinion that it should
not be held to apply to such unless its language imperatively
demand it. City Railway Co. v Citizens' R. RI. Co., 166 U S.
557, 565.
Were the act of 1887 more ambiguous than it is as to its application.to past transactions, we should still be disposed to
apply the cardinal rule of construction, that where the language
of an act will bear two interpretations, equally obvious, that
one which is clearly in accordance with the provisions of the
constitution is to be preferred. Endlich on Statutes, sec. 178.
This rule was applied by this court in Granada County Supervsors v. .Brogden,112 U. S. 261, Presser v .ll1inots,116 U. S.
252, 269, and -Hooperv. Californsa, 155 U. -. 648, 657.
We do not wish to be understood, however, as expressing an
opinion upon the constitutionality of the act of 1887, if it were
applied to prior policies, but simply as holding that, in view of
the language of the act, and the doubtfulness of its constitution-ality as applied to prior policies, it should only be given effect
in cases of policies thereafter issued.
But there is another argument in this connection which ought
not to be overlooked, and which is, in our opinion, decisive that
the suide statute is applicable to this policy In 1897 a law
was passed by the legislature of Missouri, specially applying the
suicide statute to insurance companies doing business upon the
assessment plan. This was done by an amendment to see. 5869,
which will hereafter be considered. Two objections to the applicability of this statute are deserving of consideration. Firsti
that it is in conflict with art. IV, sec. 28, of the constitution of
. shall contain more
Missouri, declaring that "no bill
than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title,"
and also art. IV,.sec. 25; that "no law shall be passed except
by bill, and no bill shall b, so amended in its passage through
either house as to change its original purpose."
The act was entitled "An act to repeal section 5869 of article 3 of chapter 89 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1889,,
entitled 'Insurance companies on the assessment plan,' and to
enact a new section in lieu thereof, to be known and designated

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon 6f the Court.

as section 5869" of the same chapter, "relating to statement of
affairs of assessment insurance companies and misrepresentations made in securing a policy of insurance, and defence thereon,
for such misrepresentations," and as first introduced contained
the section as herein printed in the margin.1 Subsequently
the bill was amended by inserting between the word "sections"
and the figures "5912" the figures "58 5 5," (the suicide statute).
This was not strictly germane to the other sections cited, winch
related to the purposes set forth in the title -to the act, and it
is argued that the legislature exceeded its constitutional powers
in inserting these figures.
In the absence of an express adjudication of the Supreme
Court of the State upon this question, we are forced to rely
upon other decisions concerning the construction given to this
provision of the state constitution. In State v. .Miller,45 Missouri, 495, it was held that the object of this provision was to
prevent logrolling, and surprise and fraud on members, and in
State ex rel. Wofe v Bronson, 115 Missouri, 271, 276, it is said
that "these and other cases show that this section of the constitution is to be reasonably and liberally construed and applied,
due regard being to its object and purpose. It was designed
to prevent the insertion of disconnected matters in the same bill.
The section, asserts only two propositions. The first is that no
bill shall contain more than one subject, and the second is that
this single subject must be clearly expressed in the title. If all

I SEc. 5869. Every corporation doing business under this article, shall
annually, on or before the first day of February, return to the superintendent of the insurance department in such manner and form as he shall prescribe, a statement of its affairs for the year ending on the preceding 31st
day of December, and the said superintendent, in person or by deputy, shall
have the power of visitation of and examination into the affairs of any such
corporation,whiih are conferred upon him in the case of life insurance
companies by the laws of this State; and all such foreign companies are
hereby declared to be sfibject to, and required to conform to the provisions
of sections 5912, 5849 and 585O of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1889,
and governed and controlled by all the provisions in said sections contained:
Provided, always, That nothing herein contained shall sub3ect any corporation doing business under this article to any other provisions or requirements of the general insurance laws of this State, except as distinctly herein set forth and provided.

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 207
Opimon of the Court.

the provisions of the bill have a natural relation and connection,
then the subject is single, and this too though the bill contains
many provisions. As to the second proposition, namely that
the single subject must be clearly expressed in the title, it is
sufficient to say that the legislature may select its own language,
and may use few or many words. It is sufficient that the title
fairly embraces the subject matter covered by the act, mere
matters of detail need not be stated in the title." And in tat
v. Heege, 135 Missouri, 112, 118, it is said "A mere reference
to the section to be amended, without other description of the
subject matter of the amendatory law, is, under the rulings of
this .court, a sufficient title to an act which deals exclusively
with the subject of the section amended." It was also said. in
'State v. County Court; 128 Missouri, 427, 440 "The practice
of legislatibn by reference to sections of-the authorized version
of the statutes (without other desoription of the subject of the
amending act) has been followed.'quite generally in this State
on the faith of early rulings of- the Supreme Court approving
such methods of lawmaking. So much has been done, and so
.many rights have been acquired, on the basis of those rulings,
that we-hold that the question of their correctness ought not to
be reopened at this day We adhere to them and follow them
as an expression of the settled law of Missouri."
As the -new act was simply an amendment of section 5869
these two last cases would seem to b5e decisive of the opinion
Df the Supreme Court upon the statute in question,iupon which
its decision is of course obligatory upon this court.
Section 5869 of the Revised Statutes.of 1889-deals with four
questions relating to the law. of insurance by companies doing
business on the assessment plan. First, providing for-an annual
statement ; second, a visitation and examination into the affairs
of the corporation, third, a general statement that forign companies are subject to certain provisions ; and, fourth, a recital
as to what, among the general insurance laws of the State, shall
be applicable to these companies.
While, as already stated, the Supreme Court has not decided
as to the constitutional power of the legislature to incorporate
the suicide statute into this amended section 5869, the decisions

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of.the Court.

above citedthat a mere reference to the section amended is sufficient to sustain the validity of the law, would seem to cover
the case, and for this reason the suicide statute, though not
strictly germane to the other sections mentioned, is germane to
the business of insurance on the assessment plan. Bearing in
mind that the suicide statute was originally repealed, as to these
policies, by section 5869, as enacted in 1887, it would seem that
an amendment introduced into the same section restoring its
application to these same policies would not be unconstitutional.
A second objection to the application of this statute is that
if the petitioner be right in his contention that, by the repeal
of the suicide statute, the contratt between the assured and
the company relieving the latter from liability in case of suncide, became effective, the legislature could not thereafter, by
regnacting the statute or attempting to subject assessment companies to its proviions, inpair the contract subsisting between
the assured and this petitioner.
The answer to this argument is not difficult. No new contract-was made and no new rights were vested between the act
of 1887, repealing the suidide ,statute, and the act of 1897 restoring it. All that the latter act purported to do was to reinstate the parties in their original rights prior to the act of 1887,
whichrights had not been affected by anything done during the
ten years between the two acts. Upon defendant's theory, if
the act of 1887 had been in existence but a single day the same
result would'have Tollowec.,
Our conclusion; then, is that the court below was correct m
holding that the suicide statute, as originally applied to this
policy, had not been, repealed at the death of Tarman in 1898,
when the cause of action arose.
3. It is also assigned ap error in this case that the .court permitted a recovery, not only of the amount of the policy, but
of all the money paid by assured 14 assessments upon such
policy
The promise of the company was to pay the plaintiff "the
sum- of $5000, and all the money pa d o thepolioys assessmenMt, subject to the limitation as to the amount of such pay-

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. 'v. JARMAN. 209
Opinion of the Court.,

ment as is provided ii sec. -1 of art. VII of the constifution on
the back of -this policy, which section reads as follows
"S1Ec. 1. Upon due notice and satisfactory proof of the
deathof a member of this company, the board of directors
shall within sixty (60) days pay the widow, children or heirs
of the deceased member, (and m the order named unless otherwise ordered by the member during his lifetime or in his will),
the ainount set forth in the deceased member's policy of membership. Provided that a policy of membership for $5000
shall be good for all the nioney-in the death-find arising from
one assessment, provided, it shall -not exceed $5000 and al
the mony pazd. on the _oliay e assessments., and a certificate
for $4000 shall be .goo&f6r four-fifths of. all the money ih the
death fund arising from one assessment, prov~ded it shall not
exceed -$4000 -and all the money paid on the policy in assess-ments, and so on in the same proportion as to all certificates."The assessmentu paid upon the policy amounted to.811.83,
and the right of lhe plaintiff to recover this amount in -addition
to the principal sum of-$5000 would be beyond question, were
it nbt for certain changes thereafter made in the constitution,
which it is insited were binding upon the-'plaintiff under the
following clause, found in the application of Jarman for membership .2" I. further agree, if-accepted, to abide by the constitution, rules and regulations of the company, as they now are,
or may be constituti6nally changed hereafter." '
'The application further stated that the application was made
a part.of the policy by reference thereto.
In. virtue of the privilege thus given to amend its constitution the company, on -Janfiary 8, 1889, amended art. IV, sec.
of the constitution.so as to -read as -follows
"Sxc. 3. Policies of membership may be issued upon a basis
of benefits ranging in -amounts to $5000 and all the money
'paid in assessments upon the policyfr their.st five years."
The provio ,of art. VII, sec., 1,o was also amended at the
'smeF time to correspond, with the above amendiient and to
read as follows
"Proided,That a policy, of menbership for $5000 shall be
good for all .the money in the death fund arising- from-one
-VOL.

CLXXXVI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

assessment, provided, that it shall not exceed $5000 and all
the money paid on the policy in assessments for the first five
years."
On February 20, 1894, this section was again amended by
striking out the proviso altogether.
It seems that these sections thus changed from an agreement to repay all assessments upon policies to an agreement
to pay all. assessments for the first five years, was found or
deemed to be, too liberal, and in January, 1898, the company
made an important additional amendment by striling out
entirely the proviso for the repayment of assessments, under
which it now claims to. be relieved altogether from paying
more than the principal sum of the policy The article as
finally amended reads as follows
"S1EC. 3. Policies of membership may be issued upon a basis
of benefits ranging in amounts to $5000, but no member shall
hold more thaln one policy at the same time, except one additional policy on the term plan," etc.
In view of the fact that both of these amendments imply a
prospective operation upon policies which may be wssued, it
would seem to be unnecessary to consider the question discussed with much detail in briefs of counsel, whether the
amendments were intended to operate upon policies already
issued. In our opinion it is clear that they were not, and conceding the proposition that Jarman had agreed to abide by
the constitution, rules and regulations of the company, as they
then, were, or might be constitutionally changed thereafter,
this agreement could lave no operation upon changes which,
upon their -face, indicated that they applied only to policies
thereafter to be issued. To cover this case he should have
promised to abide by amendments thereafter made, though
they were intended to apply only to future policies.
The judgment of the court below awarding the plaintiff the
full amount agreed upon m the policy, without damages, is
accordingly
.flrmed.
MR.JusTioE HARLAN took no part in the decision of this case.

