SECURITY TRUST CO. r,. DENT.
Syllabus.

under the state statute had expired. All that was before the
Circuit Court of the United States was an action at law upon a
cause of action against a decedent's estate, which, under the
laws of the State of Minnesota, could not be maintained in the
courts of that.State, because barred by the operation of the laws
of the State regulating the administration of the estates of deceased persons. Moreover, it is obvious, and it has always been
held, that the Circuit Court cannot, in the trial of an action at
law, exercise the power of a court of equity An application
to the Federal court to decree an extension of tine beyond the
period previously prescribed .by the probate court would have
to be made by a bill in equity, showing good cause. Scott v
Ar1m8trong, 146 U. S. 499.
Following our previous and repeated decisions, that- the courts
of the United States, when exercising jurisdiction over executors
and administrators of the estates of decedents within a State,
are administering the laws of that State, and are bound by the
same rules which govern the local tribunals, we conclude, in
the present case, that
The'judgment of the Circuit Court qf ppeals.9nust be 'eversed, thejudgment qf tihe Circuit Court zs also r'eversed,
and the cause -isremanded to that court,:with directwns to
enter judgment sn conformity with the opjrn'on of th's
court.

SECURITY TRUST COMPANY v. DENT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 42. Argued April 21, 22, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

Where a case is originally brought to this court by writ of error, but it appears that the proper course was to have brought the final judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for review by writ of certiorari, this court
under the powers given by the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, may allow a writ of certiorari and direct that the copy of the record heretofore
filed under the writ of error be taken and deemed as a sufficient return
to the certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
The facts and questions of law involved in this case are similar to those
decided in the case of Security Trust Compoany v. Black River National
Bank, p. 211, ante.

THR case is stated m the opinion of the court.

nrment for petitioner.
M' Edmund ,S.
.oore was with him on the brief.
Mr Edward C. Strmngerfor respondent.
mour was with him on the brief.
MRh. JUSTICE SHIRAS

.Mr Albert R

.r faYeil V Sey-

stated the facts and delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was an action brought in January, 1897, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, by
William H. Dent, as receiver of the First National Bank of
Decorah, Iowa, against the Security Trust Company of St.
Paul, Minnesota, .as administrator of the estate, of Sumner W
Matteson, deceased, to recover the sum of $13,535.06, being the
amount of principal and interest of certain promissory notes
made by said Matteson in his lifetime, and which were the
property of the said national bank. The execution and ownership of the notes were not denied, nor that the Security Trust
Company had been, on September 3, 1895, duly appointed by
the probate court of Ramsey County, Minnesota, administrator
of the estate of said Matteson.
The defendant, however, alleged in its answer that the action'
was not brought until after the expiration of the time limited
by the order of the .probate court for the filing, examination
and allowance of claims against M[atteson's estate, nor until after the examination and allowance of the administrator's final
account, whereby, under the laws of the State of Minnesota,
the official existence of the defendant company as administrator had ceased, and that therefore no action could be maintained against it, and also that the right to a judgment on the
notes in suit was, by the laws of Minnesota, forever barred,
notwithstanding they -were owned by a non-resident of the
State, and that recovery was sought in a Federal court.

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

The plaintiff obtained a judgment m the Circuit Court, and
that judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit. The case is reported m 104: Fed. Rep.
380. The cause was then brought here by a writ of error. We
think the proper course was to have asked for a writ of certiorari to bring the final judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals here for review However, under the powers possessed
by us under the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, we now allow
a writ of certiorari, and direct that the copy of the record heretofore filed under the writ of error shall be taken and deemed
as a sufficient return to the certiorari.
The questions presented are similar to those just decided in
the case of Security Trust Company v. Black River NBational
Bank, tried m the same court, and where the parties were represented by the same counsel which appear in this one.
Accordingly, for the reasons given in the opinion in that
case,
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Apyeuk ss reversed,
the judgment of the Circuit Court ¢Z likewmse reversed, and
the cause s remanded to that court ith directions to enter
judgment sn accordancewith the opnmson of th court.

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
APPEAL

FROM! THE COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMhBIA.
No. 331. Argued November 5, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

A judgment or decree to be final, within the meaning of that term as used
in the acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals and writs
of error, must terminate the litigation between the parties on the merits
of the case, so that if there should be an affirmance here, the court below
would Ihave nothingto do but to execute the judgment or decree it had
already rendered. Bostwzck v. .Brinkerhoff,106 U. S. 3, followed.
When, therefore, the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reverses
an order of the Supreme Court of the District in proceedings for the con-

