IIANLEY r KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY CO.

617

Syllabus.

Kidd v. Pear8on, 128 U S. 1, 21, Coe v .-&rol, 116 U. S. 517,
525, 527, Tredway v Riley, 32 Nebraska, 495.
Yet another objection to the statute remains to be mentioned. At the date of the contract the section applied to
partnerships as well as to corporations. It is argued that the
act, so far as it applied to the former, was contrary to art. 2,
section 4, of the Constitution of the United States, and to the
Fourteenth Amendment, and therefore was invalid throughout.
We shall not consider the validity of the law as applied to unincorporated associations, because, in our opinion, the application of the provision to corporations was severable from and
independent of its application to partnerships, so that even if
in the latter aspect the section was bad, it remained unaffected
and valid so far as this case is concerned. The independence
seems to us obvious on reading the statute, and is emphasized
by the fact that the next year after the enactment, before the
completion of the factory, partnerships were struck out of the
act. Laws of 1899, c. 351, ยง 27. We are of opinion that the
ruling of the Circuit Court was right, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.
Judgment afirmed.

HANLEY v.KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRIrT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 131.Argued December 18, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

The transportation of goods on a througr bill of lading from Fort Smith,
Arkansas, to GranniskKansas, over respondent's railroad by way"of
Spiro in the Indian Territory, a total distance of one hundred and sixteen miles, of which fifty-two miles is in Arkansas and sixty-four in' the
Indian Territory, is interstate commerce, and is under the regulation of
Congress, free from interference by the State of Arkansas; a railway
company operating such a line can maintaiii an action for equitable relief restraining the state railroad commissioners from fixing and enforc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
ing rates between points within the State, when the transportation is
partly without the State and under the conditions above stated.
Lehigh Valley Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvanta,'145U. S. 192, distinguished as
applying to taxation on freight received on merchandise transported from
one point to another within the same State by a route partly through
another State and not to the regulationof such transportation.

TiE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.M' C/arles E. Warner for appellants.
&f Xartin were on the brief.

Xes ,s. Finchester

-Mr Gardner athrop for appellee. H1" .Max Pam, Mr.
Thoma 1R. .orrow and Avr James B. Read were with him on
the brief.
Mm. JUSTiCEc HouwEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought in the Circuit Court by a railway company incorporated under the laws of Missouri, against
the railroad commissioners of Arkansas, seeking an injunction
against their fixing and enforcing certain rates, as we shall
explain. The bill was demurred to for want of equity, the demurrer was overruled, and a decree was entered for the plaintiff. The defendants bring the case here by appeal. 106 Fed.
Rep. 353.
The plaintiff owns a road running through several States and
Territories. The-road after leaving Missouri runs for twentyeight miles and a fraction through Arkansas to the dividing
line between that State and the Indian Territory, then nearly
one hundred and twenty-eight miles in the Territory, and then
over one hundred and seventeen miles in Arkansas again to
Texas. There is also a branch line running from Fort Smith,
m Arkansas, to Spiro, in the Indian Territory, about a mile of
which is in the State and fifteen in the Territory, and there are
other branches. Goods were shipped from Fort Smith by way
of Spiro and the road in the Indian Territory to Grannis, in
Arkansas, on a through bill of lading, the total distance being
a little more than fifty-two miles in Arkansas and nearly sixtyfour in the Indian Territory For this the railroad company
charged a sum in excess of the rate fixed by the railroad corn-

HANLEY it. KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RY CO.

619

Opinion of the Court.

missioners, and was summoned before them under the state
law. The commissioners decided that the company was liable
to a penalty under the state statute, assert their right-to fix
rates for continuous transportation between two points in Arkansas, even when a large part of the route is outside the State
through the Indian Territory or Texas, and intend to enforce
compliance with these rates. The only question argued and
the only one that we shall discuss is whether the action of the
commissioners is within the power of a State, or whether it is
bad as 'interfering with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States- and with the Indian tribes.
S'nythl v. Ames,, 169 U. S. 466, 517.
It may be assumed that this power of Congress over commerce between Arkansas and the Indian Territory is not less
than its power over commerce among the States, Stoutenbur'ghv.
Jiengrw/e, 129 U. S. 141, and the distinction hardly is important,
since the appellants are asserting similar authority where the
loop beyond the state boundary runs through Texas. We may
as well add, in this connection, that the present railroad gets
the authority for its line in the Indian Territory, through a
predecessor in title, from an act of Congress of 1893, c. 169,
27 Stat. 487, and that, by that act, Congress "reserves the right
to regulate the charges for freight and passengers on said railuntil a state government shall be authorized to
road
fix and regulate the cost," etc., "but Congress expressly reserves the right to fix and regulate at all times the cost of such
transportation by said railroad or said company whenever such
transportation shall extend from one State into another, or
shall extend into more than- one State."
It may be assumed further, as implied by the language just
quoted, that the transportation in, the present case was commerce. See also the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, ยง 11 24
Stat. 379, Glouceder Fery Co. v Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, 203, and fabashl, St. LoUis & Paot-c Railwoay Co. v lll noi , 118 U. S. 557. Transportation for others, as an independent business,, is commerce, irrespective of the purpose to sell or"
retain the goods which the owner may entertain with regard
to them after they shall have been delivered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The transportation of these goods certainly went outside of
Arkansas, and we are of opinion that in its aspect of commerce
it was not confined within the State. Suppose that the I~idian
Territory were a State and should try to regulate such traffig,
what would stop it 2 Certainly not tho fiction that the commerce was confined to Arkansas. If it could not interfere the
only reason would be that this was commerce among the States.
But if this commerce would have that character as against the
State supposed to have been formed out of. the Indian Territory, it would have it equally as against the State of Arkansas.
If one could not regulate it the other could not.
No one contends that the regulation could be split up according to the jurisdiction of State or Territory over the track, or
that both State and Territory may regulate the whole rate.
There can be but one rate, fixed by one authority, whether that
.abash,
St. Loins & Paauthority be Arkansas or Congress. l
c Rfic
Railway (Co. v Illisnot, 118 U S. 557, Co ngton &(Unh.cinnaaBrzdge Co.v JHentucky, 154: U. S.204, Hall v De Cusr,
95 U. S.485. But it would be more logical to allow a division
according to the jurisdiction over the track than to declare that
the subject for regulation is indivisible, yet that the indivisibility does not depend upon the commerce being under the authority of Congress, but upon a fiction which attributes it
wholly to Arkansas, although that fiction is quite beyond the
power of Arkansas to enforce.
It is decided that navigation on the high seas between ports
of the same State is subject to regulation by Congress, Lord v.
Steamshzp Co., 102 U. S.541, and is not subject to regulation
by the State, Paifi Coast Steamsh2p Co. v. Railroad Comm'?8sioners, 9 Sawyer, 253, and although it is argued that these
decisions are not conclusive, the reason given by Mr. Justice
Field for his decision in the last cited case disposes equally of
the case at bar. "To bring the transportation within the control of the State, as part of its domestic commerce, the subject
transported must be within the entire voyage under the exclusive jurisdiction of the State." 9 Sawyer, 258. Decisions in
point are 8tate v C'koago, St. Paul, JMinneapolis & Oma&a
Railway Co., 40 Minnesota, 267, Sternberger v Cape Fear &

I

HANLEY v. KANSAS CITY.SOUTHERN RY CO.

621

Opinion of the Court.

Yadkzm Valley Railroad-Co., 29 So. Car. 510. See also .Milk
Producer' Protective Aseoczation v Delawae, -Laceawanna
& Wetern Railroad Co., I Interstate Commerce Rep. 92, 160,
161.
There are some later state decisions contrary to those last
cited. Campbell v Chwago, Xilwaukee & St. Paul Railway
Co., 86 Iowa, 587, SeawelZ v -Yma. CityFt.Scott & Xfeunphw
Railroad Co., 119 Missouri, 222, Railroad-ommwswners v.
Western Unzon Telegraph. Co., 113 No. Car. 213. But these
decisions were made simply out of deference to conclusions
drawn from Lekigh Valley Railroad Co. v Pennsy vam, 145
U. S. 192, and we are of opimon that they carry their conclu- sions too far. That was the case of a tax and was distinguished
expressly from an attempt by a State directly to regulate the
transportation while otside it$ borders. 145 U. S. 201. And
although it was intimated that, for the purposes before the
court, to some extent commerce by transportation night have
its character fixed by the relation between the two ends of the
transit, the intimation was carefully confined to those purposes.
Moreover, the tax "was determined in respect of receipts for
the proportion of the transportation within, the State." 145
U. S.201. Such a proportioned tax had been sustained in the
fa?,ne v. Grand
case of commerce admitted to be interstate.
T'umnk Railway Co., 14;2 U. S.217. Whereas it is decided, as
we have said, that when a rate is established, it must be established'as a whole.
We are of opinion that the language which we have quoted
from Ar. Justice Field is correct, and that the decree of the
Circuit Court should be affirmed.
Decree awmned.

