CASES ADJUDGED
IW THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OOTOBER TERM, 1902.

AMBROSINI v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 14. Argued December 4,190L-Decided October 20, 1902.

Sections 6 and 7 of the War Revenue Act of 1898, 30 Stat. 448, c. 448, provided for certain stamp taxes on bonds, an'd other instruments enumerated in Schedule A of the act, but section 17 of the same act exempted
"all bonds, debentures, or certificates of indebtedness issued by the
officers of the United States Government, or by the officers of any State,
county,'town, municipal corporation, or other corporation exercising
the taxing power."
The "dramshop act" of Illinois and the Revised Code of Chicago provided
for the giving of bonds by all applicants to whom licenses were granted
to sell liquor in the city of Chicago. Ambrosini gave two such bonds as
required by the state statute but failed to affix thereto United'States
revenue stamps, and was indicted for an offence under the War Revenue
Act, tried, found guilty and sentenced to pay a fine after a motionto quash
the indictment had been overruled. Held error and that the indictment
should have been quashed.
The General Assembly of Illinois in enacting the dramshop act legislated
"against the evils arising from tile sale of intoxicating liquors" not by
prohibiting, but by regulating, the traffic, and such legislation was in exercise of the police power which is reserved to the States free from any
Federal restriction material in this action.
Such legislation (and ordinances of the city of Chicago) required bonds to
be given by applicants as prerequisites to the issue of licenses permitting
sales, and the granting of the license was a strictly governmental function
(1)
VOL. CLXXXVII-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
and the giving of the bonds was a part of the same transaction, and to
taxeither would be to impair the efficiency of state and municipal action;
this case, therefore, falls within the general principle that as the means
and instrumentalities employed by the General Government to carry into
operation the powers granted to itare exempt from taxation by the States,
so are those of the States exempt from taxation by the General Governprinciple the bonds in question were
nient, and viewed in the light of thins
exempted by section 17 of the War Revenue Act.

THis was a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment of
the District Court imposing a fine on a finding of guilty of an
offence under section seven of the act of Congress entitled "An
act to provide ways and means to meet war expenditures, and
for other purposes," 30 Stat. 448, c. 448, otherwise known as
the War Revenue Act of 1898. The indictment contained two
counts. The first charged that defendant on August 30, 1898,
executed a certain bond in the penal.sum of $3000 to the People of the State of Illinois without affixing to the bond a fiftyeent revenue stamp, alleged to be required by said act of
Congress. The second count -charged that defendant on August 30, 1898, executed a certain bond to the city of Chicago
in the penal sum of $500 without affixing thereto a fifty-cent
revenue stamp, alleged to be required by the act. The bonds
were set forth =n extenso. A motion to quash the indictment
was made and overruled, and, a jury being waived, the cause
was submitted to the court for trial, defendant found guilty,
.and sentenced to pay a fine. The opinion is reported 105 Fed.
Rep. 239.
Sections 6, 7 and 17 of the act are as follows
"S~c. 6. That on and after the first day of July, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, there shall be levied, collected, and
paid, for and m respect of the several bonds, debentures, or certificates of stock and of indebtedness, and other documents,
instruments, matters, and things mentioned and described m
Schedule A of this act, or for or in respect of the vellum, parchment, or paper upon which such instruments, matters, or things,
or any of them, shall be written or printed by any person or
persons, or party who shall make, sign, or issue the same, or
for whose use or benefit the same shall be made, signed, or issued, the several taxes or sums of money set down in figures

AMBROSINI v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

against the same, respectively, or otherwise specified or set
forth in the said schedule.
"Sxo. 7. That if any person or persons shall make, sign, or
issue, or cause to be made, signed, or issued, any instrument,
document, or paper of any kind or description, whatsoever,
without the same being duly stamped for denoting the tax
hereby imposed thereon, or without having thereupon an adhesive stamp to denote said tax, such person or persons shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction-thereof
shall pay a fine of not more than one hundred dollars, at the
discretion of the court, and such instrument, document, or paper, as aforesaid, shall not be competent evidence in any court."
"Sec. 17. That all bonds, debentures, or certificates of indebtedness issued by the officers of the United States Government,
or by the officers of any State, county, town, mumcipal corporation, or other corporation exercising the-taxing power, shall
be, and hereby are, exempt from the stamp taxes required by
this act. Provided, That it is the intent hereby to exempt from
the stamp taxes imposed by this act such State, county, town,
or other municipal corporations in the exercise only of functions strictly belonging to them in their ordinary governmental,
taxing, or municipal capacity Promdedfarther,That stockand bonds issued by coSperative building and loan associations
whose capital stock does not exceed ten thousand dollars, and
building and loan associations or companies that make loans
only to their shareholders, shall. be exempt from the tax herein
provided."

Schedule A.contained this provision "Bond For indemnifying any person or persons, firm, or corporation who shall have
become bound or engaged as surety for the payment of any sum
of money, or for the due execution or performance of the duties
of any office or position, and to account for money received by
virtue thereof, and all other bonds of any description, except
such as may be required in legal proceedings, not otherwise
provided for in this schedule, fifty cents."
The bonds, to which it was alleged the stamps should have
been affixed, were bonds required by the laws of Illinois to be
given as a condition of the issue of licenses to keep dram shops

OCTOBER TERU4, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

or sell intoxicating -liquors in the State of Illinois and in the
city of Chicago.
Sections one, two and five of an act of the general assembly
of the State of Illinois, entitled "An act to provide for the licensing of and against the evils arising from the sale of intoxicating liquors," read
"ยง 1. That a dram-shop is a place where spirituous or vinous
or malt liquors are retailed by less quantity than one gallon,
and intoxicatmg liquors shall be deemed to include all such
liquors within the meaning of this act.
"ยง 2. Whoever, not having a license to keep a dram-shop,
shall, by himself or another, either as principal, clerk or servant,
directly or indirectly sell any intoxicating liquor in any less
quantity than one gallon, or in any quantity to be drank upon
the premises, or in or upon any adjacent room, building, yard,
premises or place of public resort, shall be fined not less than
twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100),
or imprisoned in the county jail not less than ten nor more than
thirty days, or both, in the discretion of the court."
"ยง 5. 1o person shall be licensed to keep a dram-shop, or to
sell mtoxicating liquors, by any county board, or the authorities of any city, town or village, unless he shall first give bond
in the penal sum of .$3000, payable to the People of the State
of Illinois, with at least two go.od and sufficient sureties, freeholders of the county in which the license is to be granted, to
be approved by the officer who may be authorized to issue the
license, conditioned that he will pay to all persons all damages
that they may sustain, either in person or property, ori means
of support, by reason of the person so obtaining a license sellmg or giving away intoxicating liquors. The officer taking
such bond may examine any person offered as security upon
any such bond, under oath, and require him to subscribe and
swear to his statement in regard to his pecuniary ability to become such security Any bond taken pursuant t6 this section
may be sued upon for the-use of any person, or his legal representatives, who may be injured by reason of the selling or giving away any intoxicating liquor by the person so licensed, or
by his agent or servant." 2 Starr & Curtis, Anno.%Stat. Ill.
(2d ed.) 1586, c. 43.

AMBROSINI v. UNITED STATES.

5

Statement of the Case.

By article five, chapter 24, of the statutes of Illinois concerninog cities it was provided
1.The city council -in cities, and .president and the board
of trustees-in villages, shall have the following powers
"Fourth. To fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing
and revoking licenses.
"Forty-s&xth. To license, regulate and prohibit theselling or
giving away of any intoxicating, malt, vinous, mixed oi fermented liquor, the license not to extend beyond the municipal
year in which it shall be-granted, and to determine the amount
Promded,further, That
to be paid for such license
in granting licenses, such corporate authorities shall comply with
whatever general law of the State may be in force relative to the
granting of licenses."
Ninety-&sxth. To pass all ordinances, rules, and make
all regulations proper or necessary to carry into effect the powers
granted to cities or villages, with such fines or penalties as the
2' 1
city council or board of trustees shall deem proper
Starr & Curtis (2d ed.), 689, c. 24.
The Revised Code of Chicago of 1897, provided "The mayor
of the city of Chicago shall, from time to time, grant licenses
for the keeping of dram shops within the -city of Chicago to
persons who shall apply to hnmin writing therefor, and shall
furnish evidence satisfying him of their good character. Each
applicant shall execute to the city of Chicago a bond, with at
least two sureties, to be approved by the city clerk or city collector, in the sum of five hundred dollars, conditioned that the
applicant shall faithfully observe and keep all ordinances in
force at the time of the application or thereafter to be passed
during the period of the license-applied for, and will keep closed,
on Sundays, all doors opening out upon any street from the bar
or room where such dram shop is to be kept, and that all windows opening upon any street from such bar or room shall, on
Sundays, be provided with blinds, shutters or curtains, so as to
obstruct the view from such street into such room. No application for a license shall be considered until such bond
shall have been filed." 1 Rev. Code, 1897, p. 253, c. XXXIX,
art. I.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The ordinance contained many other specific regulations of
the traffic, and provided that licenses might be revoked by the
mayor for violation of "any provision of any ordinance of the
city council relating to intoxicating liquors, or any condition of
tfei bond aforesaid."
The conditions of the bond in the sum of $3000 to the People
of the State of Illinois were substantially in the words of the
statute. The conditions of the bond in the sum of $500 to the
city of Chicago were somewhat more stringent than the langudge of the municipal code.
XAb T A. Xoran. and JYf Levy Afayer for plaintiff.
.fr Assstant Attorney GeneralBeck for defendants in error.
MR. OnI.F Jusricx FULLER, after making

the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
By the dramshop act the general assembly of Illinois legislated, as was stated in the title of the act, "against the evils
arising from the sale of intoxicating liquors," not by prohibiting
the traffic altogether, but by regulating it in protection of the
public. The act concerning cities authorized municipal action
subject to the general law
The legislation was enacted in the exercise of the police
power for the safety, welfare and health of the community, and
it is conceded that that power is a power reserved by the States,
free from Federal restriction in any particular material here.
The act and the ordinance required these bonds to be given
as prerequisites to the issue of licenses permitting the sale. The
licenses could not be issued without compliance with this condition precedent. The statute expressly provided that no license should be granted unless the applicant "shall first give
bond in the penal sum of $3000," and the ordinance, that "no
application for a license'shall be considered until such bond shall
have been filed."
The bonds were obviously intended to secure the proper enforcement of the laws in respect of the sale of intoxicating liq-

AMBROSINI v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

uors, the prompt payment of fines and penalties, a remedy
for injuries in person, property or means of support, and the
protection of the public in divers other enumerated particulars.
The granting of the licenses was the exercise of a strictly governnental function, and the giving of the bonds was part.of
the same transaction. To tax the license would be to.impair
the efficiency of state and municipal action on the subject and
assume the power to suppress such action. And considering
license and bond together, taxation of the bond involves the
same consequences. In themselves the bonds were not mere
incidents of the regulation of the traffic, but essential safeguards
against its evils, and governmental instrumentalities of State
and of city, as authorized by the State, to. insure the public
welfare in the conduct of the business, although the business
itself was not governmental. They -were not mere individual
undertakings to secure a personal privilege as suggested by the
court below, but means for the preservation of the peace, the
health and the safety of the community in compelling strict
observance of the law, and remedying injurious results.
The.general principle is that as the means and instrumentalities employed by the General Government to carry into operation the powers granted to it are exempt from taxation by the
States, so are those of the States exempt from taxation by the
General Government. It rests on the law of self-preservation,
for any government, whose means employed in conducting its
strictly governmental operations are subject to the control of
another and distinct government, exists only at the mercy of
the latter. Nelson, J ., Collecto' v Day, 11 Wall. 113.
Viewed in the light of that general principle, we think it
clear that Congress, lest the broad language of Schedule A,
"and all other bonds of any description," might literally cover
bonds such as those in question, and in avoidance of controversy
in that regard, exempted them by section 17, wherein it was
declared that it was intended "to exempt from stamp taxes
imposed by this act, such State, county, town, or other municipal corporations in the exercise only of functions strictly belonging to them in their ordinary governmental, taxing or municipal
capacity" True, this language was used in a proviso, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

'enacting clause exempted bonds "issued by the officers of any
State, county, town, municipal corporation or other corporation
exercising the taxing power;" but as the bonds were required.
by the State and the city and were issued for the benefit of the
public and not for the benefit of the individuals who executed
them, it appears to us that they came fairly within the meaning
of the clause, assuming that they were covered by Schedule A.
The question is whether the bonds were taken in the exercise
of a function strictly belonging to the State. and city in their
ordinary governmental capacity, and we are-of opinion that
they were, and that they were exempted as no more taxable
than the licenses. Either they were exempt, apart from the
proviso, because, in the sense of the statute, issued by the State
and city, or the proviso so far-qualified the language of the enacting clause as to exempt them in exempting the State and city
in respect of the exercise of strictly governmental functions.
We conclude, therefore, that they were not taxable within
the statute. United States v Owens, 100 Fed. Rep. 70, Stuneman v. Smzith, 100 Fed. Rep. 600; TVarwwk v Bettman, 102
.0., 108 Fed. Rep. 46, .Peoplev City, 31 0.
Fed. Rep. 127,
L. N. 211.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
qurish the 'indictment.

Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued April 22, 23, 1902.-Decided October 27, 1902.

In an action brought for the distribution of the property and assets of the
Harmony Society on the ground that it had ceased to exist and that its
assets should revert to the heirs of the original contributors some 4f
whom were ancestors of the plaintiffs in error (complainants below),

