OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff agreed to furnish certain materials at a certain price,
for use, by the contractor, that he did furnish the same in
specific amounts, and that the contractor received them and
then refused to pay the sum due for them."
The affidavit of plaintiff in error was not sufficient. The
rule requires the affidavit not only to deny. the right of the
plaintiff but to state also in precise and distinct terms the
grounds of defence, "which must be such as would, if true, be
sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's claim in whole or m part."
See cases cited above.
Finding no error in the record the
Judgment w fflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. MOSELEY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 248. Argued October 2,

i902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

The Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission is entitled to be
reimbursed for telegrams sent by him pursuant to directions of the
Commission, on presenting vouchers in the form prescribed by law to
the proper auditing officer of the Treasury Department, approved bythe
chairman of the Commission and accompanied by the request of the
chairman that the rules of the Comptroller as to the production of
copies of telegrams for which credit is asked be disregarded on account
of the confidential character of the messages, the secretary having also
offered to submit the books of the Commission to the Comptroller and
Auditors of the Treasury.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr A8stant Attorney General Pradtfor appellants.

MRomes Conrad for appellee.
.Xr
MR. JusTIE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition in the Court of Claims to recover the

UNITED STATES v. MOSELEY
opinion of the Court.

sum of $310.37, disallowed by the auditing officers of the
government.
The petitioner is Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the clan disallowed was incurred for telegrams
sent at the direction of the Commission. Judgment passed for
the petitioner October 28, 1901, and the United States took
this appeal.
The findings of fact and the conclusion of law by the Court
of Claims were as follows
"I. The claimant herein, a citizen of the United States, is
Secretary and disbursing agent of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and as such agent it becomes his.duty to disburse
the moneys appropriated by Congress from time to time to
enable the Commission to carry out the provisions of the act
of February 4, 1887, and amendments thereto. The disbursements were made under the direction of the-Commission, and
the accounts therefor, together with itemized vouchers, approved by the chairman of the Commission, were presented to
the accounting officers of the Treasury Department for the
quarter and year ending June 30, 1899, and also his supplemental accounts, with, vouchers so made out and approved, for
the same year, among which were the accounts and itemized
vouchers for $310.37 for money paid from time to time to, the
Western Union Telegraph Company and Postal Telegraph
Cable Company. for sundry dispatches sent over their lines
under the direction of said Commission.
"II. The accounts for money so expended for telegrams
were disallowed by the Auditor for the State and other Departments, and on appeal to the Comptroller of the Treasury
the decision of the Auditor was sustained on the ground that
the claimant had -not complied with the requirement of.the
Comptroller to furmsh the origibal telegrams or copies thereof,
or, if of a, confidential nature, to furnish in lieu thereof a certificate to that effect signed by, the chairman of the Commission.
"In response to that ruling the. claimant presented and filed
with his said accounts the following order, issued by the Com-.
mission April 2'7, 1899
"' That so much of the Comptroller's communication as requires

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

copies of telegrams relating to the business of the Commission
to accompany telegraph vouchers for which credit is asked be
disregarded by the Secretary and disbursing agent, the.Commission holding that such messages are so far confidential as to
justify refusal to disclose their contents, and that the requirement for their production is unreasonable and against public
interest.'
"And that the Interstate Commerce Commission did, through
their Secretary, address to the Hon. R. J Tracewell, Comptroller of the Treasury, a letter dated October 4,1900, containmg an invitation to inspect the books, papers and other matters
relating to the accounts of the disbursing agent, as follows, viz.
" 'By the act of March 15, 1898, Acts 1897-99, page 316,
it is provided
"' "SEC. 5. All books, papers and other matters relating to the
accounts of officers of the government in the District of Columbia shall at all tames be subject to -the inspection and examination by the Comptroller of the Tkeasury .and Auditors of the
Treasury authorized to settle such accounts or by the duly authorized agents of either of said officers'
"' I am authorized by the Commission to extend to the officers
and agents referred.to in this section the fullest opportunity of
making such examination, in the offices of the Commission, of
all such books, papers and other matter relating to the accounts
of the disbursing agents as they may see proper to examine,
and among these all such telegrams as are embraced in the accounts of the disbursing agent. By this means the objections
which the Commission have made to. the undue publicity of
their telegrams will, in some measure, be avoided, and the purposes of the auditing officers should be thereby fully attained.'
"But the decision of the Comptroller was adhered to.
The accounts and itemized vouchers were presented to
"I.
the accounting officers in the form prescribed by statute, that
is to say3 that each telegram sent by the Commission, and the
cost thereof, and the dates, number of words, persons from and
to whom sent, places from and to which sent, and the charge
for each message transmitted, were fully shown in a voucher
approved by Martin A. Knapp, chairman, and the defend-

UNITED STATES v. MOSELEY
Opinion of the Court.

ants concede the correctness of the several amounts so expended.
"I1V After the disallowance of the claimant's accounts for
the moneys so disbursed to the Western Union Telegraph Company and Postal Telegraph CableCompany, as aforesaid, and
to avoid any balance being stated against him, he, under protest, paid into the Treasury of the inited States the full amount
of the sum so disallowed, to wit, $310.37.
"V That prior to January, 1899, the- original telegrams, or
copies thereof, or certificates that such telegrams were of a confidential character, were not required by the auditing officers
of the Treasury to be produced by the disbursing officers of
the Department of State, or the Post Office Department, or the
Navy Department, or the Interstate Commerce Commission,
with the vouchers produced by these disbursing officers, for the
telegrams sent from such Departments on official business.
"VI. The correspondence by official communications between
the Comptroller of the Treasury and the claimant appears in the
letter of June 15, 1900, from Edward A. Moseley, Secretary and
disbursing agent, to Hon. R. X Tracewell, Comptroller, letter
of July 23, 1900, from the Acting Comptroller to the claimant,
the letter of October 4, 1900, from the claimant to the Comptroller, and the letter of October 6, 1900, to the claimant, which
were filed as part of the claimant's petition and exhibits therewith.
""Conluswn of lane.
"From the foregoing findings of fact the court decides, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant is entitled to recover judgment against the Unitled States, on the authority of the M[oseley
case, 35 C. 01. 34:7, in the sum of three hundred and ten dollars
and thirty-seven cents ($310.37)."
The case is in narrow compass. There is no controversy over
the fact of expenditure of the sum sued for, and the Court of
Claims found that "the accounts and itemized vouchers were
presented to the accounting officers in the form prescribed by
statute, that is to say, that each telegram sent by the Commission, and the cost thereof, and the dates, number of words, per-

OCTOBER TERMF, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

sons from and to whom sent, places from and to which sent,
and the charge for each message transmitted, were fully shown
in a voucher approved by Martin A. Knapp, chairman, and the
defendants concede the correctness of the several amounts so
expended."
Relying on a former decision between the same parties, 35
Court Claims, 3417, the court evidently thought that the issue
made by the government was not substantial. In that case it
was said "The claimant's statement of account being in the
form prescribed by statute, z. e., 'itemized vouchers therefor,
approved by the chairman of the Commission,' is prmrna faeme
correct. The defendants do not controvert the fact of the expenditures therein shown to have been made under the direction of the Commission, nor of the money paid into the Treasury, and, as under the circumstances of this case we have no
reason to doubt the correctness or legality of such expenditures,
the claimant is entitled to recover, and judgment will be entered
accordingly"
The case comes, therefore,.to a very narrow question. The
act to regulate commerce as amended March 2, 1889, Supp.
iRev Stat. 2d ed. 690, provides "all of the expenses of the Commission
shall be allowed and paid on the presentation
of itemized vouchers therefor approved by the chairman of the
Commission."

The appropriation act of the same (Supp. Rev.

Stat. 2d ed. 698) date provides "That hereafter expenses of
the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be audited by the
proper accounting officers of the Treasury"
It is claimed that these provisions can. be reconciled and leave
unimpaired the first as the only condition of the allowance and
payment of the expenses of the Commission. Not passing upon
that but granting the power of the auditing officers to require
something more, we think their requirement was substantially
complied with.
It is to be remembered that the petitioner (appellee) is but
the Secretary of the Commission. He does not direct its functions, its expenditures, or control-its records. le could only
submit the requirement of the Comptroller to the Commission
and its response to the Comptroller. Its response was "that

ELLIOTT -o.TOEPPNER.
Syllabus.

so much of the Comptroller's communication as requires copies
of telegrams relating to the business of the Commission to accompany telegraph vouchers for which credit is asked be disregarded by the Secretary and disbursing agent, the Commission
holding that such messages are so far confidential as to justify
refusal to disclose their contents, and that the requirement for
their production is unreasonable and against public interest."
This was a substantial compliance with the requirement of the
Comptroller.
Judgment affirmed.

ELLIOTT v. TOEPPWER.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 85. Submitted November 12,1902.-Decided December 8,1902.
The right of a person, against whom an involuntary petition of bankruptcy
has been filed, to a trial by jury under section 19 of the bankruptcy act
is absolute and cannot be withheld at the discretion of the court.
The trial is a trial according to the course of the common law and the
court cannot enter judgment, as the chancellor may, contrary to the verdict, but the verdict may be set aside or the judgment may be reversed
for error of law as in common law cases.
The distinction between a writ of error which brings up matter of law only,
and an appeal, which, unless expressly restricted, brings up both law and
fact, has always been observed by this court and recognized by the legislation of Congress from the foundation of the Government.
Congress did not attempt by section 25a of the bankrupt act, which provides for appeals as in equity cases from the District Court to the Circuit
Court of Appeals from judgments adjudging or refusing to adjudge the
defendant a bankrupt, to empower the appellate court to reexamine the
facts determined by a jury under section 19, otherwise than according to
the rules of the common law. The provision applies to judgments where
trial by jury has not been demanded and the court proceeds on its own
findings of fact. In such case the facts and the law are refxaminable on
appeal; but in case of a jury trial the judgment is reviewable only by
writ of error for error in law, and alleged errors in instructions, the giving or refusal of instructions or in the admission or rejection of evidence
which must appear by exceptions duly taken and preserved bybill of ex-

