SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES

rS. SAMUIEL

B.

STONE.

Action in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
by the United States against\the defendant, for a penalty under the act of 1838, "to provide for the better security of the lives of passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole
or in Part by steam." A verdict was rendered for the United States, and withut a judgment on the verdict, the case was, by consent, removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States. In the Circuit Court certain questions were presented on the argument, and a
statement was made of those questions, and they were certified, pro forma, at the
request of the counsel for the parties to the Supreme Court, for their decision. No difference of opinion was actually expressed by the judges of the Circuit Court. By the
Court: "The judgment or other proceedings on the verdict ought to have been entered in
the District Court; and it was altogether irregular to transfer the proceeding in that con.
dition to the Circuit Court." The case was remanded to the Circuit Court.
In some cases, where the point arising is one of importance, the ju ges of the Circuit Court
have sometimes, by consent, certified the point to the Supreme'Court, as upon a division
of opinion; when in truth they both'rather seriously doubted, than differed about it.
They must be cases sanctioned by the judgment of one of the judges of the Supreme
Court, in his Circuit.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court fo "the Southern District of New York.
An action of debt was instituted in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York, by the United States against the
defendant, as master of the steamboat New York, to recover the
penalty of three hundred dollars imposed by the ninth section of the
act of Congress, of the 7th of July, 1838, entitled, "An act for the
better security of the lives of passengers on board vessels propelled
ift whole or in part by steam."
The cause was tried in the District Court, in June, 1839.
On. the trial of the cause in the District Court, exceptions were
taken by the counsel for the defendant to the decision of the Court,
on questions of evidence which arose in the trial. Evidence was
offered by the defendant, which was overruled by the Court; to
which decisions, the counsel for the defendant also excepted.
The district judge charged the jury in favour of the plaintiffs, on
a case agreed upon; but for the more full consideration of the questions in the cause, he recommended, with the consent of the counsel
on both sides, that the jury should find a verdict for the plaintiffs,
subject to the opinion of the Court, upon a case to be made ; with
leave to either party to turn the same into a bill of exceptions or
special verdict. Upon which the jury found such verdict, accordingly.
'No judgment was entered on the verdict; but by consent of the
counsel in the cause, it was transferred to the Circuit Court, without any other proceedings in the District Courf.
The record stated that on the argument of the cause, the Circuit
Court were divided 'n opinion on questions presented on the argument of the counsel for the plaintiffs and the defendant; and at the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

525

[The United States vs. Stone.]

request of the counsel for the parties, they were ordered to be certified to the Supreme Court for their decision. This division of opinion was in fact made pro forma. and for the purpose of obtaining
the opinion of the Supreme Court on the points certified.
For the United States, Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General; for Samuel
B. Stone, Mr. Sullivan, who submitted a printed argument.
The case was not argued, it having been remanded to the Circuit
Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court
The Court have examined the record in this case, And it is evident
that in the form in which it comes before us, We have no jurisdiction.
The suit appears to have been brought in the District Court, and
to have been carried onin that Court until a verdict was rendered.
It was then by consent of counsel transferred to the Circuit Court,
precisely in the state in which it then was; and a division of opinion then entered, pro forma, to send the case to this Court.
All of this appears on the record; and is exceedingly irregular.
The suit was brought originally in the District Court, and the verdict rendered there. The judgment or other proceeding on that
verdict, ought to have been entered there also; and it was altogether irregular to transfer the proceedings, in that condition, to the
Circuit Court.
We are aware that in some cases, where the point arising is one
of importance and difficulty, and it is desirable for the purposes of
justice to obtain the opinion of this Court, the judges of the Circuit
Court have sometimes, by consent, certified the point to this Court,
as upon' a division of opinion; when in truth they both rather seriously doubted thaft differed about it. We do not object to a practice of this description, when applied to proper cases, and on proper
occasions. But they must be cases sanctioned by the judgment of
one of the judges of this Court, in his circuit. A loose practice in
this respect, might render this Court substantially a Court for the
original decision of all causes of importance; when the Constitution
and the laws intended to make it altogether appellate in its character; except in the few cases of original jurisdiction enumerated itt
the Constitution.
The case, as sent here, involves a constitutional question, which
is argued at some length in the printed brief; and this furnishes a
still stronger objection to the manner in which the point is brought
before us. It would hardly be proper for this Court to express
opinions upon constitutional questions; when it appears, clearly, by
the record that there is no suit legitimately before it.
The case is therefore remanded to the Circuit Courf for further
proceedings, according to law.
The case of the United States vs. Charles A. Woolsey, having been
sent here in like manner; must also be remanded for the reasons

abo,e stated.

