SUPREME COURT.

THE COMMONWEALTH BANK oF KEN*FUCKY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
vs. THOMAS GRIFFITH AND QTHERS, DEFENDAN'TS IN ERROR.
Under the twenty-fifth section of'the Judiciary Act of,1789,' three things are necessary to
give the Supreme Court jurisdiction of a case brought up by writ of erroror appeal.
1. The validity of a statute of the United States, or of an authority exercised under a
state must be drawn in question. 2. It must I e drawn in question on the ground that it
is repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States. 3. The decision
of the state Court must be in favour of its validity.
When the decision of a state Court is against the validity of a state statute, as contrary to
the Constitution of the United States, a writ of error does not lie to the Supreme Court
upon such a judgment.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the First Judicial District of the
State of Missouri.
Mr. M'Ginnis, of counsel for the defendant in error, moved the
Court to dismiss this writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
The action was originally instituted in the Ninth Judicial Circuit
of the state of Missouri, on a promissory note given by the defendant in error to the Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky, for the notes
of that bank, to the amount of the promissory note. To this action
the defendant pleaded several pleas; and among them was one which
presented the questions whether the charter of the CommonWealth
Bank of Kentucky was a violation of the Constitution of the Uiited
States, and whether the notes of the bank were not "bills of credit."
The judgment of the Circuit Court was given in favour of the plaintiff, and the defendant removed the cause to the Supreme Court of
Missouri by a writ of error.
In the Supreme Court, the judgment of the Circuit Court was
reversed; the Court deciding that the notes of the bank were "bills
of credit," and prohibited by the Constitution of the United States.
The Bank of the.Commonwealth prosecuted this writ of error, under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Mr. M'Ginnis stated that the only question inthe case was, the
constitutionality of the charter of the Commonwealth Bank. The
Supreme Court of Missouri decided that it was void.
This is not a case within the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, The decision brought up from the state Court was against the
validity of the statute of Kentucky; and it is only When the validity
of a state law, as opposed to the Constitution or laws of the United
States, has been decided to be in favour of that validity, that the
provision of the section in reference to such questions operates. If
the Supreme Court of Missouri had decided in favour of the Kentucky law, the case could come to this Court. This would be a case
in which there might be supposed to have been an infraction of the
Constitution of the United States; but there is no necessity, for an

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

57

[The Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky vs. Gtiffith et al.]

interference with the decisions of state tribunals, where there is
no interference with the Constitution. No principle can be urged
which would justify such a construction of the Judiciary Act. The
protection of the Constitution of the United States was its object; and
exclusively so.
Mr. M'Ginnis cited Crowell vs. Randal, 10 Peters, 391; and the
case referred to in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error, opposed the motion. le
referred to the provision in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, which authorizes writs oi error in cases where is drawn ill
question the validity of a statute, and the decision is against it.
The state of Kentucky, in the exercise of its reserved rights, had
established the-Bank of the Commonwealth. She claims under this
authority, and relies on the clause of the Constitution which declar's
all powers not granted by the Constitution to be reserved. She says
that by the decision of the Supreme C.ourt of Missouri she is interrupted in the exercise of her reserved rights. She claims to have
these rights guarantied to her, and their exercise protected by this
Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ of error in this case,
upon the ground that this Court have not jurisdiction.
It appears from the record that an action was brought in the Circuit Court of the state of Missouri, for the county of Calloway, by
the plaintiff in error, in order to recover the amount due on a promissory note given by the defendant and others to the bank. The
defendants, among other things, pleaded "that the note sued on was
made by the defendants to the plaintiffs, in consideration of the paper
of the said Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and that the
said paper was bills of credit, w#ithin the meaning of the Constitution
of the United States, issued on the credit of the state." The Circuit
Court o'verruled this plea, and gave judgment for the plainitiffs.
The defendants removed the case to the Supreme Court of the state,
where the question above mentioned was again raised;, and it was
then decided that the notes of the bank were bills of credit, within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and that the
contract upon which the note-in question was .given was therefore
-void: and upon that ground the judgment of the Circuit Court was
reversed, and jidgment entered ftir the defendants. The point is,
can this judgment of the state'Cou t be re-examined here ?
The question depends altogether upon the construction of the
second clause of the twenty-fifth section of the act of 11789, which
provides that the final judgment or decree of the highest Court of
Law or Equity in a state, in which a decision could be had, may
be re-examined in this Court upon a writ of error, "where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of, or dn authority exercised
under any state, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Con8

58

SUPREME COURT.
[The Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky vs. Griffith et al.)

stitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is in
favour of such their validity."
Under this clause of the act of Congress, three things must concur
to give this Court jurisdiction.
1. The validity ofa-statute of a state, or of an authority exeieised
under a state, must be drawn in question.
2. It must be drawn in question upon the ground that it is repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States.
3. The decision of the state Court must be in favour of their
validity.
In the case before us, the validity of the statute of the state of
Kentucky which chartered the .Commonwealth Bank, and the authority exercised under that charter, were drawn in question in the
state Court; and they, were questioned upon the ground of their
being repugnaht to the Constitution of the United States. But the
decision was against their validity, and not in favour of it; and consequently the third contingency which is necessary to give jurisdiction to this Court has not arisen.
In the -case of Briscoe and others vs. The Commonwealth Bank,
11 Peters, 257, the decision of the state Court was in favw ur of the
validity of the statute. The party therefore who denied its validity,
and alleged that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, was entitled to haire that question re-examined in the Supreme Court. But it is otherwise, by the plain words of the law,
when the decision of the state Court is against the validity of the.
state
authority exercised under it.
. Thestatute,
policyorofthethis
distinction is obvious enough. The power
given to the Supreme Court by this act of Congress was intended
to protedt the general government in the free and uninterrupted
exercise of the powers conferred on it by the Constitution, and to
prevent any serious impediment from being thrown in its way while
acting within the sphere of its legitimate authority. The right was
therefore given to this Court to re-examine the judgments of the
.state Courts, where the relative powers of the general and 'state
government had been in controversy, and the decision had been in
favour of the latter. It may have been apprehended that the judicial tribunals of the states would incline to the support, of state authority, against that of the general government; and might, moreover, in different states give different judgments upon the relative
powers of the two governments, so as to produce irregularity and
disorder in the administration of the general government. But
.when, as in the case before us, the state authority or state statute is
decided to be unconstitutional and void in the state tribunal, it cannot under that decision come in collision with the authority of the
general government; and the 'right to re-examine it here is not
,necessary to protect this government in the exercise of its rightful
powers. In such a case, therefore, the writ of error is not given;
and the one now before us must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

59

[The Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky v8. Griffith et al.]
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the state of Missouri, holden at the
town of Fayette, in the county of Howard, in and for the First
Judicial District of said state, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
Court, that this writ of error to the said Supreme Court be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

