JANUARY TERMj 1840.

Guy" C.

IRVINE, FOR THE USE OF THE LUMBERMAN'S
WARREN, Vs. NATHANIEL A. LOWRY.

BANK AT

An action was brought by toreign attachment, in the Court of Common Pleas of Warren
county, Pennsylvania, in the name of a citizen of Pennsylvania, for the use of the Lumberman's Bank, at Warren, Pennsylvania, against a citizen of New York. The suit was
on a note given by the defendapt to the plaintiff, to be paid "in the office notes of the
Lumberman's Bank at Warren." Some of the stockholders of'the Lumberman's Bank
at Warren, were citizens of the state of New York. The defendant appeared to the action, by counsel, and having given bond with surety to theCourt of Common Pleas, removed
the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania. A motion was made in the Circuit Court to remand the cause to the Court of
Common Pleas of Warren county, the Circuit Court having no jurisdiction of the cause
on the ground that the real party in the suit was the Lumberman's Bank at 'Warren,
an aggregate corporation, some of the stockholders of the bank being citizens of the state
of New York. It was held, that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the case.
The decisions of the Supreme Court have been uniform, and as declared at the present term
in the case of The Commercial and Rail Road Bank of Vicksburg:vs. Slocomb et al., that
the Courts of the United States cannot exercise jurisdiction when some of the stockholders
in a corporation established in one state are citizens of another stake, of which the party
sued by the corporation is a citizen.
A note to be paid ",in the office notes of a bank," is not negotiable, by the usage or custom
of merchants. Not being a promissory note by the law merchant, the statute of Anne,
or the kindred act of Assembly of Pennsylvania, it is not negotiable by endorsement;
and not being under seal, it is not assignable by the act of Assembly of Pennsylvania on
that subject, relating to bonds. No .uit could be brought upon it, in the name of the
endorser. The legal interest in the instrument continues in the person in whose favour
it has been drawn, whatever equity another may have to claim the sum due on the same,
and he only. is the party to a suit at law on the instrument.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court of the United
Statesfor the Western District of Pennsylvania.
On the 6th of May, 1839, a writ of foreign attachment was issued
out of the Court of Common Pleas of Warren county, Pennsylvania,
in the name of Guy C. Irvine, for the use of the Lumberman's Bank
at Warren, against Nathaniel A. Lowry, requiring bail in eighty
thousand dollars. The action was founded oi a promissory note, in
the following terms:
Warren, Pa,. Sept. 6, '37.
"Three months after date I promise to pay to the order of Guy
C. Irvine, Esq. fifty-three thousand dollars, in office dotes of the
Lumberman's Bank at Warren, and payable at their banking house
inWarren.
N. A. Lowyty."
Endorsed on side, " Guy C. IRVINE."
$%53,000.

The sheriff of Warren county attached certain real estate in the
county; and also returned that he had attached the goods and. chattels of Nathaniel A. Lowry, in the hands of certain persons named
in the return, Among the garnishees was Guy C. Irvine.
2n2

SUPREME COURT.
[Irvine vs. Lowry.]

On the 24th of October, 1839, Nathaniel A. Lowry, the defendant,
presented a petition to the Court of Common Pleas of Warren county,
stating that he was at the commencement of the action, and at the
time of filing the petition, a resident and citizen of the state of New
York; and that Guy C. Irvine, the plaintiff in the suit, is, and was
at the commencement of the suit, a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania; and asking the Court to accept the security offered for entering his appearance in the Circuit Court of the United States, and in
all things complying with the'acts of Congress in such cases made
and provided; he prayed the Court to proceed no further in the
cause, and to allow the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The Couirt of Common Pleas granted leave for the removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court; and the defendant gave a bond with
security, for the entry of the cause in the Circuit Court.
On the same day on which the petition of Nathaniel A. Lowry
was presented to the Court of Common Pleas of Warren county,
the affidavits of Robert Falconer, President of the Lumberman's
Bank at Warren, and of Walter W. Hodges, were filed.
ThQ affidavit of Mr. Falconer stated, that at the date of the note
on which the action was founded, he was President of the bank, and
the note was received from the defendant at the time it bears date,
as a security,for his previous indebtedness to the institution ; and
that Guy C. Irvine had not then, or at any time since, any interest
in the said note, except as guarantor for the payment of the same,
and the solvency and sufficiency of the drawer of the note.
The affidavit of Mr. Hodges stated, that William Hall, Vine
Ekderken, Brown and Buckland, Starkweather and Brown, and
sundry other persons, were stockholders in the Lumberman's Bank
at Warren; and at the time of the institution of the suit were citizens of the state of New York, residing in that state.
The case being in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of' Pennsylvania, at the November sessions of the
Court, Mr. Biddle, for the plaintiff, moved to remand the cause to the
Court of Commoi' Pleas of Warren county, for want of jurisdiction.
On the hearing of this motion before the Circuit Court, Mr. M'Candless, the counsel for the Lumberman's Bank at Warren, produced
to the Court an act of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, passed the
28th of February, 1834, for chartering the bank; also an act of
Assembly of Pennsylvania, of 21st March, 1813, entitled, An act

to recharter certain Banks: and it was admitted that the bank commeieed the business of banking at Warren, in Pennsylvitnia, having
been organized under the act of 1824 The counsel for the bank
also produced the note on which the suit hdd been brotight.
The counsel for the bank stated, and the defendant's counsel
admitted, that this suit was founded on the note.
"Whereupon, it appealing to the Court that this suit is founded
on the note aforesaid, dated 6th Sept., 1837; that Guy C. Irvine
was, at the date of the institution of this suit, a citizen of Pennsyl-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

295

[Irvine vs. Lowry.]

vania, and that N. A. Lowry was, at the same date, a citizen of the
state of New Yprk; that said bank was erected, and duly organized
at Warren, in Pennsylvania, under the act-of February 28(h, 1834,
aforesaid; and that six persons mentioned in the record, and sundry
other stockholders thereof, were, at the date of said suit, citizens of
the state of New York; and due consideration being had of the
premises, the Court are divided in opinion; one of the judges
thereof, being of opinion that this Court has no jurisdiction of the
case; that the rule, granted as aforesaid, be made absolute; and the
record of this suit remanded tQ the Court of Common Pleas of the
county of Warren. The other judge being of opinion that the
Court has jurisdiction of the case; and that the rule granted as aforesaid be denied."
The judges of the Circuit Court certified this division of opinion
to the Supreme Court of the United States.
The case was argued by Mr. M'Candless, for the plaintiff; and by
Mr. Marvin, for the defendant.
Mr. -M'Candless contended, that Guy C. Irvine is a mere nom;nal
party in the suit, except as guarantor of the sufficiency of Lowry,
the defendant. He is one of the garriishees in the attachment; and
he is a competent witness in the cause, under the decisions of the
Courts of Pennsylvania. The nominal plaintiff, who assigns an
obligation, is a competent witness in an action against the obligor;
9 Serg. and Raw. Rep. 20. 2 Brown's Rep. 171. The Courts of
Pennsylvania, even after suit brought, allow a party on the record
4o assign the action, depositing with the clerk enough to cover the
costs of the suit. 3 Binney's Rep. 306.
The reason -of this rule is, that in Pennsylvania there are no
Courts of Chancery; and the assignee of a chose in action, is therefore compelled t6 bring his suit in the name of the assignor. So
also a bankrupt, who has obtained his certificate, and released his
claim to the surplus of his estate, may be a witness. 4 Dall. 137.
2 .Dall. 172. Cited also, 7 Serg. and Raw. Rep. 116. 3 Rawle's
Rep. 407. 1 Peters' C. C. R. 308.
This Court have decided the question now depending before it.
In 3rown vs. Strode, 5 Cranch, 903, it was held, that the Courts of the
United States have jurisdiction in a case between citizens of the
same, when the plaintiffs are only nominal, for the use of an alien.
Who is the real party in this cause? It is not Guy C. Irvine, but
the Lumberman's Bank, at Warren. This Court have said they
would look at the real parties in the cause. In Wormley vs. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 421, Mr. Justice Story says, "This Court will not
suffer its jurisdiction to be ousted by the mere joinder, or nonjoinder of formal parties." The converse of the proposition is
equally true.
It has been incontestably shown, 1. That Guy C. Irvine is not a
party, or if a party, is only nominal. 2. That the Lumberman's

SUPREME COURT.
[Irvine vs. Lowry.]

Bank is the real party. 3. That this Court will look at the real
parties, for the purpose of entertaining or excluding jurisdiction.
This is the case of a corporation aggregate, part of whose
stockholders live in the same state as the defendant.
This Court has decided that a corporation aggregate cannot be a
citizen, and cannot litigatein the Courts of the United States; unless
in consequence of the characters of the individuals who compose a
body politic. Hope Insurance Company vs. Boardmani, 5 Cranch,
57. Bank of the United States vs. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61.
Breithaupt vs. The Bank of Georgia, 1 Peters, 238. Paine's C.
C. R. 410. Corporation, of New Orleans vs. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91.
1 Wash. C. C. R. 146. Bank of Augusta vs. Earle, 13 Peters, 519.
1 Kent's Com. 324--326. 3 Cranch, 267. Commercial and Rail
Road Bank of Vicksburg vs. Slocomb et il., decided at this term.
Another question arises in this case.
This was a foreign attachment; a proceeding in rem. Do the
provisions of the Judiciary Act extend to any actions but those in
personam?. 1 Story's Laws, n. 1. 57.
The act of Congress gives jurisdiction to the Coilrts of the United
States, in cases where "the defendant is an inhabitant, or when he
shall be foupd in the district at the time of serving the process."
Lowry was 'not an inhabitant of the Western District, of Pennsylvania; nor found there at the time of serving the writ. He was at
the time the writ 'issued, and afterwards) residing in the state of
New York.
What is, the object of the foreign attachment? It is a proceeding'agafnst the lands or goods of a defendant, to compel his appearAnve. Can a party plaintiff compel the appearance of a defendan,
in the Circuit Court, by issuing a foreign attachment. -It has been
decided thai this cannot be' done. 2 Dall. 369. Sergeant on Attachments, 42.
If a Circuit Court of the Uniied States cannot have jurisdiction
originally, can it have by the removal of a cause from a state Court.
It was not intended by the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, to' extend the jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States
over causes brought hefore them on removal, beyond the limits prescribed to therm opiginally. - Conklin's Treatise, 78. No suit can
be removed to the national Court, which might not, by the Constitution, have been originally commenced in those Courts.
As to the construction of the note'on which the action was
brought, the counsel cited, 1 Peters, 489. 3 Chitty on Commercial
and Maritime Law, 107.
Mr. Marvin, for the defendant.
The question raised in this case has never yet been decided.
Four questions have been presented in the argument for the plaintiff; but one only is depending. Has the Circuit of the Western
District of Pennsylvania jurisdiction of the cause?
Is the Lumberman's Bank, at Warren, the'plaintiff in the cause,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

297

[Irvine vs. Lowry.]

or is Guy C. Irvine the plaintiff? On the decision of this point, the
case must be decided. Guy C. Irvine is a citizen of Pennsylvania,
and Nathaniel A. Lowry is a citizen and'resident of the state of
New York; and those are the parties on the record. This brings
the, case wiihin the provisions of the Constitution of the\ United
States.
But, it is said, the Court will go beyond the parties named in the
suit, and inquire who is beneficially interested. That it is not. the
party to the record, which will give or exclude jurisdiction; but the
party really interested, and he only is in the contemplation of the
act of Congress. In this case, it is said, the action is brought for
the bank, because this is so statcd on the record. But the act of
'Congress looks only to the parties on the record.
Pennsylvania is the only state in the Union in which actions in
this form are brought. In New York, no such form of proceeding
is known. Would the Court in a case brought here. from New
York, and standing on the record between parties subject to the
jurisdiction of the Court, inquire who are the persons really interested in the controversy ?
Was it necessary in this case tostate for whose use the action
was brought; and if it was, could issue be taken upon it ? If this
could be, a collateral issue would be raised; the regular inquiry in
the cause would not be pursued. In all other states, the Courts
will take care that the party really interested has the money which
may be recovered. This will be done by the equitable powers of
the Courts.
The legal party in the suit is Guy C. Irvine; and the Circuit Court,
on its law side, will look only to the legal party. The note is not
assignable by endorsement, for it is not a negotiable instrument.
It is not given for the payment of money, but for the office notes
of the Lumberman's Bank. It is not, therefore, within the statutes
which maketpromissory notes negotiable.
It is said, that Guy C. Irvine is not a party in this cause, because
he may be a witness. But if he can be a witness, which is denied,
it does not follow that he is not a party. Does the jurisdiction of
the Court of the United States depend on the legislature, or on the
decisions of the Courts of the states? In many of the states a
party is a witness to an account; and according to the rule now set
up, this would deprive the Courts of the United States of jurisdiction in a case :between citizens of different states, when' an account
was the subject of contestation.
.The cases cited by the counsel for the plaintiff, go on the principb,;
that the party has no interest in the cause, the costs having been
paid, and his interest assigned. But in all these cases, he still continues the plaintiff in the cause. The law is not, however, as
stated by the plaintiff's counsel. It has been decided by this Court,
that a party who is a plaintiff in a cause, cannot; by an assignment
of the action, and the payment of the costs, become a witness; and

SUJPREME COURT.
[Irvine v8. Lowry.]

the decision of.the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania has been solemnly
overruled. Scott vs. Lloyd, 12 Peters, 151.
The case cited from 8 Wheat. Wormley vs. Wormley, was a case
in equity. And it rested on its special circumstances. The case
cited from 5 Craneh,.303, was one in which the bond sued upon was
taken officially, for the use of creditors; the bond had been, given to
a public officer, for the use of creditors. This was, no doubt, averred
in the declaration. The real character of the parties was thus apparent on the record. The real party was the creditor.
As to the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court, it being a
foreign attachment, the counsel for the defendant contended that
there is no limitation imposed in the Constitution. The act of Congress protects suits by parties riot citizens of the same state, or found
in the state in which the action, of whatever kind it may be, shall
be brought. - Act of Congress of 1789, section twelve. - Conklin's
Treatise, 78, 79. Suits cannot be rem6ved which are not within
the constitutional provision.
The affidavits made in the Court of Common Pleas of Warren
county, were improperly admitted by that Court, and shoild not be
regarded here; nothing in the case can be tried by affidavits of
this character.
Mr. Justice BALDwIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was instituted in the Court of Common Pleas of Warren
county, Pennsylvania, whence it was removed to the Circuit Court
for the western district of that state, pursuant to' the provisions of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, section twelve; and comes before this Court
on a certificate of division of opinion between the judges of that
Court, pn a motion to remand the cause for want of jurisdiction.
Irvine, in whose name the suit is brought, is a citizen of Pennsylvania; the Lumberman's Bank of Warren is a corporation chartered
by a law of that state, and located at Warren; part of the stockholders are citizans of New York, of which state the defendant is
also 'acitizen. The suit is brought upon a paper, of which the following is a copy:
Warren, Pa., 6 September, '37.
"Three months after date, I promise to pay to the order of Guy
C. Irvine, Esq., fifty-thiee thousand dollars, in the office notes of the
Lumberman's Bank at Warren, and payable at their banking house
N. A. LowaRy."
in Warren, Pa."

"$53,000.

Endorsed on side, "Guy C. IRVINE."

The suit was commenced by the process of foreign attachment,.
agreeably to the law of Pennsylvania; the property of the defendant
was attached according to its provisions: whereupon he appeared,
and, by his counsel, moved for the removal of the cause; and having
complied with the' requisitiohs of the Judiciary Act, the cause was
ordered to be removed to the Circuit Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

299

[Irvine vs. L9wry.]
By thus approving and submitting to the process of attachment,
the defendant waived any privilege to which he was entitled by the
section of the Judiciary Act, as held by this Court in Toland vs.
Sprague, 12 Peters, 330, 331 : so that on his appearance and entry
of bail, the attachment was dissolved, and the cause will thenceforth
proceed, as if it had commenced by the ordinary process of the
Court, served on the defendant within the district. The commencement of the action in the Common Pleas, by attachment, being. expressly provided for in the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act; it
must be considered, when removed into the Circuit Court, as an
originhl one.
This brings us to the question raised in the argument of the plaintiff's counsel, whether that Court can exercise any jurisdiction over
the case, on the ground that the defendant, and some of the stockholders of the bank, are citizens of New York; which would be a.
fatal objection to the jurisdiction, if the corporation is to be considered
as the plaintiff and sole party in interest. On this subject, the decisions of the Court have been uniform,, and, as declared in the present
term, in the Vicksburg Bank vs. Slocomb, have settled this point decisively; nothing then remains but to ascertain from the record, as certified, whether the bank is the real plaintiff; for if they are not, then.
as Irvine is admitted to be a citizen of Pennsylvania, and Lowry
of New York, the jurisdiction is urdoubted.
The paper on which the suit is brought, is not negotiable by the
usage or custom of merchants; it is payable to order; the promise is
to pay so many dollars, but not to pay any certain sum of money;
it is a promise to pay the amount "in the office notes of the Lumberman's Bank at Warren," which are not money, and at most a chattel.
Not being a promissory note, either by the law merchant, the statute
of Anne, or the kindred act of Assembly of Pennsylvania, it is not
negotiable.by endorsement; and not being under seal, it is not assignable by the act of Assembly on that subject relating to bonds.
The bank, therefore, cannot sue in their own name, in virtue of the
endorsement of Irvine in blank; nor could they so sue if it was specially endorsed to them; because the legal right of action would
still remain in Irvine, though the equitable interest it, the thing promised may have passed to thie bank. This case, however, is not of
that description; the only evidence of any transfer of the contents of
the note is the blank endorsement of Irvine, and the affidavit of the
President of the bank; in the latter of which it is stated, that the note
was received by the bank from the defendant, at the time it bears
date, as a security for his previous indebtedness thereto; and that
Irvine had not then or since any interest in said note, except as a
guarantor for its payment, and the solvency and sufficiency of the
drawer.
In referring to the affidavit, we are not to be understood that
whatever may be its contents, they would influence our decision; yet, assuming the case to be as there stated, the legal right
of action is in Irvine ; the paper is not the evidence of an original

300

SUPREME COURT.
[Irvine vs. Lowry.]

debt, contracted by a discount thereof; or its reception as payment
of a pre-existing debt due the bank: it is only a collateral security,
by adding the name of Irvine as endorser. Standing as such to the
bank, their rights are derivative throi~igh him; and as the endorsement
passes only an equity, the legal interest is in him; he is the real
plaintiff in a Court of Law, in which legal rights alone can be recog-

nised. This consideration points to the true line of discrimination
between this and the case of Brown vs. Strode, 5 Cranch, 303; which
was, a suit against an executor on his administration bond, given to
the justices of the peace of the county where the testator died, and
who were citizens of the state of Virginia, as well as the defendant.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was sustained, on the ground that
though the plaintifis and defendants were citizens of the same state, the
former were mere nominal parties, without any interest or responsibi]ity; and made by the lawof Virginia, the mere instruments or conduits
through whom the legal right of the real plaintiff could be asserted;
as such their names must be used, for the bond must be given to
them in their official capacity, but as the person to whom the debt
was due. was a British subject, he was properly considered as the
only party plaintiff in the action. Whatever right of action existed
in virtue of the bond, passed by the operation of the law of Virginia
directly to the person for whose benefit it was given, through the
conduit appointed for that purpose. . For such; and kindred cases,
the person or officer thus selected by the law as its agent, is
not a party to the suit; and no transfer of the bond or other security to the person intrusted is necessary to invest him with a
complete legal interest or right of action%: but cases of this description cannot be applied to actions like the present, in which the interest and responsibility of the parties to the paper depends on their
contract; and the law neither dissolves or transfers any legal right of
action on or to the party who accepts it as security for payment of a
pre-existing debt.
We are therefore of opinion that the Circuit Court has jurisdiction
of the case, and direct that it be so certified.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Pennsylvania, and on the point and question on which the judges
ofitbe said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was
certified to this Court for: its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such cases made and provided, and was argued by counsel.. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Ccjrt that
the said Circuit Court has juirisdiction of the case. Whereupon it
is ordered and adjudged that it be so certified to the said Circuit
Court accordingly.

