JANUARY TERM, 1840.

JOSEPI

SMITH, APPELLANT, VS. THE CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO
,CANAL %COMPANY,APPEILEES.

The legislatures of Virginia and Maryland authorized the surrender of the charter granted
by those states to the Potbmac Company to be made to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company, the stockholders of the Potomac Company assenting to the same. A provision
was made in the acts authorizing the surrender for the payment of a certain amount of
the debts of the Potomac company by the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, a list
of those debts to be made out, and certified by the Potomac Company.--By the Court.This assignment does not impair the obligation of the contract of the Potomac C6mpauy
with any one of its creditors, nor place him in aworse situation in regard to his demand. The
means of payment possessed by the old company are carefully preserved, and indeed guarantied by the new corporation; and if the fact can be established that some bona fide
creditors of the Potomac Company were unprovided for in the new charter, and have
consequently no redress, against the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, it does not
follow that they are without remedy.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia.
In the Circuit Court for Alexandria county, the appellant filed a
bill to compel the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, to pay to
him a proportion of the amount of a judgment obtained for a prize,
drawn in a lottery authorized to be drawn by "The Potomac Company," the judgment having been assigned to the claimant to the
amount for which the bill was filed. The Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, under the authority of their act of incorporation,
and of acts passed by the Legislatures of the states of Virginia and
Maryland, had become entitled to, and held all the property, rights,
and privileges owned and possessed by the Potomac Company under
their charters; and were subjected to the payment of certain debts
due by the Potomac Company, according to the provisions of their
charter, and the acts of Assembly referred to.
The whole case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Semmes and Mr. Lee for the appellants; and bv Mr. Key and Mr. Jones for the appellees.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinlion of the Court.
This is an appeal, in Chancery, fom the decree of the Circuit Court
of the District of Columbia.
The complainant represents himself to be a judgment creditor of
the Potomac Company, which was iticorporated in 1784, by acts of
*he Virginia and Maryland legislatures, for the purpose of opening
and extending the navigation of the Potomac river. That on the
organization of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, in 1825,
under a charter obtained the preceding year, the Potomac Company
surrendered its charter, and conveyed to the new company all "the

SUIJPREME COURT.
[Smith vs, The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

property, rights, and privileges by them owned." That certificates
of stock in the old company, and also its debts, were made receivable
by the new company in payment for stock; and certain provision
was made in behalf of those creditors who should not take stock in
payment of their claims.,
And the complainant states that the defendants have refused to
take any step to pay his judgment, or to recognise his demand as
coming within the provision in behalf of the creditors of the Potomac Company. And he prays that an account may be taken,
and that such dividend as he may be entitled to receive, may be
decreed to him.
The defendafits, in their answer, admit the obtainment of the judgment, but aver that it was founded on a claim against the Potornac
Company for a prize drawn in a lottery, under an act of the state of
Maryland; which lottery was drawn beyond the limits of that
state, and within the District of Columbia, not only without authority, but against law. And they insist that the lottery being
void, the prize alleged to have been drawn by the. complainant or
his assignor, can give no right of action at law, or entitle him to
relief in equity.
The defendants also allege, that the demand of the complainant
was not included in the list of debts due by the Potomac Company,
for which provision was made under the new charter.
The statements in the answer in regard to the illegality of the lottery, are not responsive to the bill; and there is no proof in the record where the lottery was drawn.
On the 7th January, 1810, the legislature of Maryland, by an act,
authorized the Potomac Company, for the purpose of improving the
navigation of the Potomac river, &c. to raise a sum of money not
exceeding three hundred thousand dollars. But, as there is nothing
in the record or in the evidence, which conduces to prove that the
lottery was not drawn in pursuance of the act, the CQurt cannot presume that it was so drawn, and thereby defeat the plaintiff's right.
If the statements of the answer, in this respect, were proved, the
judgment could interpose no obstacle to giving to them full consideration and effect.
The complainant asks the aid of a Court of Chancery to give
effect to his judgment ; and this no Court of Chancery will do, in
violation of the established rules of equity.
The second section of the act incorporating the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company, provides that subscriptions for the stock may
be paid either "in the legal currency of the United States, or in the
certificates of stock of the present Potomac Company, at the par or
nominal value thereof; or in the claims of the creditors of the said
company, certified by the acting president and directors to have been
due for principal and interest, on the day on which the assent of the
said company shall have been signified by their corporate act, as
herein before required ; provided that the said certificates of' stock
shall not exceed, in the whole amount the sum of three hundred and

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

47

[8mith vs. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

.eleven thousand, one hundred and eleven dollars and eleven cents;
nor the said claims the sum of one hundred and seventy-five thousand eight hundred dollars:"
And in the twelfth section, it is provided, "That it shall be the
duty of the president and directors of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, so long as there shall be and remain any creditor
of the Potomac Company, who shall not have vested his demand
against the same in the stock of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company, to pay to such creditor or creditors annually, such dividend
or proportion of the nett amount of the revenues of the Potomac
Company; on an average of the last five years preceding the-organization, of the said proposed company, as the demand of the
said creditor or creditors at this time may bear to the whole debt
of one hundred and seventy-five thousand eight hundred dollars."
This sum, it was supposed, would cover the debts of the Potomac
Company; and there is a statement in the record showing the different items which produced this aggregate amount. The judgment
of the plaintiff is not included in this statement.
The liability of the defendants to the stockholders and creditors
of the Potomac Company, arises wholly under their charter; and
the extent of that liability is shown by the above extracts. They
were bound to receive the certificates of stock and debts of the
Potomac Company, in payment for stock; and to pay a proportionate dividend to those creditors who should riot subscribe for stock.
The stockholders and creditors of the old company were named,
so that the liability of the new corporation was not only specific as
to amount, but also as to individual creditors. The contract was
made in their charter, and there is no allegation or pretence, that
the defendants colluded with the Potomac Compay to defraud
either its stockholders or creditors. The responsibility of the def&ndants, then, cannot extend beyond the express terms of their
contract.
It is insisted that'the twelfth shetion embraces all creditors of, the
Potomac Company; and requires that the average dividend paid by
that company, the last five years preceding the surrender of its
charter, should be:paid to them. But that this is not the true construction is shown, by the further limitation imposed in the same
section. The sum of one hundred and seventy-five thousand eight
hundred dollars, being the amount of the debts, is made the basis
on which the dividend is to be apportioned. The net average revenue for the five years being ascertained, it is easy to calculate
the total amount
what per cent. this would pay on the sum stated
of debts; and the same per cent. must necessarily be paid on the
amount due the creditors respectively. This is a very simple ope:
ration, and it shows very clearly that the sum sta. I was the maximum of debts to be provided for.
Four thousand dollars of the plaintiff's judgment were assigned
to Haley and Sukeley; and it appears that George Sukeley was
entered on the books of the Ohio and Chesapeake Canal Company,

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. The Cheapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

as a subscriber for four thousand dollars of stock, payable in debts
of the Potomac Company But it seems, the company afterwards
refused to receive the above assignment in payment for the stock.
From, the fact of this subscription being mad, an inference is
drawn, that the defendants considered themselves liable for the
judgment of the plaintiff.
It is probable the subscription of Sukeley was entered through
mistake; and, it seems, the company refused to ratify it. No presumption can be drawn from this circumstance which can, in any
degree, influence the construction of the contract in the charter.
There can be no doubt that the states of Virginia and Maryland,
in granting the charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, had the power to authorize a surrender of the charter of the
Potomac Company, with the consent of the stockholders; and to
make the provision which they did make for the creditors of the
company. This assignment eoes not impair the obligation of the
contract of any creditor of the company, nor place him in a worse
situation in regard to his demand. The means of payment possessed by the old company are carefully preserved, and, indeed,
guarantied by the new corporation. And if the fact can be established, which is denied by the defendants, that some bona fide
creditors of the Potomac Company were unprovided for in th6 new
charter, and consequently have no redress against the defendants, it
does not follow that they are without remedy.
It may be that all the creditors whose demands make up the sum
of one hundre& and seventy-five thousand eight hundred dollars,
have not claimed stock in the new company, or the proportionate
dividend secured to them. But if they have not asserted their right
to stock or the dividend, they may yet claim either, and the defendants are bound to satisfy their demand.
Upon the whole, We are of the opinion, that the defendants are
not liable under their contract with the Potomac Company, to pay
the judgment of the plaintiff; or to pay him a proportionate share
of the nett revenue of the Potbmac Company stock, under the
twelfth section: the Olecree of the Circuit Court, which dismissed
the bill, is, therefore, affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued
by counsel. On conviJeration whereof, it is now here ordered and
decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in
this cause De, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

