SUPREME COURT.

JOHN F.

GAMES AND NATHAN GILBERT, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, VS.
JOHN STILES, EX DEM. OF WALTER DUNN, DECEASED, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

A deed was executed in Glasgow, Scotland, by which land in Ohio, which had been patented
tp David Buchanan by the United States, was conveyed to Walter terling. The deed
recited that ii was made in pursuance of a decree of the Circuit Court of 'the United
States, for the District of Virginia. No exemplification of the decree was offered in evidence in support of the deed. The Court held, that as Buchanan was the patentee of
the land, although he made the deed in pursuance of the decree of the Circuit Court of
Virginia, the decree bould add nothing to the validity of the conveyance; and therefore it
was wholly unnecessary to prove the decree. The deed was good without the decree.
The possession of a deed, regularly executed, is rima facie evidence of its delivery. Under
ordinary circumstances, no other evidence of the delivery of a deed than the possession
is required.
of it, by the person claiming under it,
The grantor in the deed was David Carrick Buchanan; and he declares in it that he is the
same person who was formerly David Buchanan. The Circuit Court were required to
charge the jury that it was necessary to convince the jury, by proofs in Court, that David
Carrick Buchanan is the same person as the grantor named in the patent, David Buchanan; and that the statement by the grantor was no proof to establish the fact. , The Circuit Court instructed the jury that they must be satisfied from the deed and other documents, and the circumstances of the case, that the grantor in the deed is the same *person
to whom the patent was issued; and they declared their opinion that such was the fact.
By the-Court: The principle is well established, that a Court may give their opinion on
the evidence to the jury, being careful to distinguish between -matters of law and matters
of opinion, in regard to the ,fact. When a matter of law is given by the Court to the
jury, it should be considered by the Court as conclusive; but a mere matter of opinion
as to the facts, will only have such influence on the jury as they may think it entitled to.
The, law knows of but one Christian name, and the omission or insertion of the middle
, name, or of the initial letter of that name, is immaterial; and it is competent for the party
to show that he is known as well without as with the middle name.
A deed of lands sold for taxes cannot be read in evidence, without proof that the requisites
of the law which subjected the land to taxes had been complied with. There can be no
class of laws more strictly local in their character, and which more directly concern real
property, than laws imposing taxes on lands, and subjecting the lands to sale for unpaid
taxes. They not only constitute a rule of property, but their construction by the Courts
of the state should be followed by the Courts of the United States, with equal if not with
greater strictness than any other class of laws.
The Supreme Court of Ohio has reqtiired a claimant under a tax title to show, before his
title can be available, a substantial compliance with the requisites of the'law.
In an action of ejectment, the defendants having entered into the consent rule, the plaintiff in Ohio is not to be called upon to prove the calls of the patent under which he
claims, on the ground of establishing the' different corners. The defendants are bound to
admit, after they have entered into the consent rule, that they are in possession of the
premises claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio.
In 1836, the lessee of the defendants in error instituted an action
of ejectment against the plaintiffs in error, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Ohio, for a tract of land lying
between the Little Miami and Sciota rivers, in that part of the state
of Ohio known as the Virginia Military District being on a survey

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

323

(Games et al. w. Stiles.]
under a part of a military land warrant for one thousand acres.
The cause was tried at July term, 1838, and a verdict and judgment
were entered for the plaintiffs in the action, the defendant in error.
On the trial of the cause, the defendant tendered a bill of excep-.
tions. The bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff offered in evidence in support of his action:
First, A certified copy of a deed from David Carrick Buchanan
to
Walter Sterling, dated June 27th, 1825. The patent from the United
States, dated 22d May, 1802, ftr the land in controversy, was granted
to David Buchanan by the President of the United States, and the
deed was executed by David Carrick Buchanan, stating that he had
formerly been David Buchanan. The defendants asked the Court
to instruct the jury, that the statement in the deed by the grantor,
that he had formerly been David'Buchanan, is no proof that he was
David Carrick Buchanan. This instruction the Court refused. The
deed from David Carrick Buchanan recited that the deed was exectited in conformity with a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Fifth' Circuit, in the Virginia District, to convey the
land described in it to Walter Sterling, in fee simple. The defendants excepted further to the introduction of the deed in evidence,
because the proceedings of the Circuit Court of the United States in
Virginia, recited in the deed, were not produced with it. But the
Court overruled the objection.
Second, The defendants in their defence offered in evidence a certified copy of a paper, purporting to be a deed from William Middleton, auditor of Brown county, to John S. Wills, bearing date
April 22d, 1824, for two hundred acres of land; and insisted it was
duly acknowledged as such deed, and such copy was duly certified
by the recorder of Brown county. The deed from William Middleton, the auditor of Brown county, recited that a sale had been made
of two hundred acres of land, by William Middleton, county auditor,
to John S. Wills, on the 29th December, 1823, for arrearages of
taxes due to the state of Ohio, for 1821, 1822, 1823, for the lands
conveyed; the land being part of the land patented to Buchanan.
The deed particularly described, by metes and bounds, the tract conveyed, and granted the same. to John S. Wills, in fee simple. It
was duly acknowledged according to the laws of Ohio, and recorded
in the proper office.
The plaintiff objected to this deed as not competent to go to the
jury without evidence bf the proceedings and acts of the public
officers, prior, and at the sale of said land for the tax; and insisted
it ought to be admitted: and the Court sustained the objectian,
and overruled the evidence, and declared their.opinion that the
same evidence should not be admitted, and the same was rejected
accordingly.
The defendants then offered the same deed or copy of deed, accompanied by a duly certified copy of the record of the proceedings,
at and before the sale of said land for taxes, bearing date 9th May,
1838, certified by Hezekiah Lindsey, county auditor of said county

324

SUPREME COURT.
(Games et al. vs. Stiles.]

of Brown; which copies or papers, and certificates thereon, are referred to aa a part of the bill of exceptions; whereupon, the
plaintiffs, by counsel, objected to the admission of the sama on
the ground that the same did not contain all the legal requisites to
justify and authorize said sale and conveyance of said land for
taxes; and of this opinion was the Court, and declared their opinion
to be that the same ought not to be admitted in evidence in this
case, and the same were rejected accordingly.
The defendants below gave in evidence a transcript of the record
of the proceedings and decree of tile Supreme Court of the state
of Ohio, in a case wherein White's-heirs and J. S. Wills' heirs, and
JI. Brush were complainants, and David Buchanan, in his lifetime,
was defendant; and his unknown heirs, after his decease, were, by
bill of revivor, made defendants; wherein the title to the premises
in question was decreed to the complainants in that suit.
The defendants asked the Court to instruct the jury, that, the
recordof the proceedings and decree given in evidence by defendants, may be considered by the jury as conveying the title to the
land in controversy in that suit, to the complainants therein, and
will, and ought to affect parties and privies, who had knowledge of
the same, to prevent their taking title from the defendant therein
from tile time such knowledge existed. In place of this instruction,
the Court instructed the jury, that to prevent Btchanan from mak:
ing a good deed to those lands, it was.necessary he should have
notice, actual or constructive, prior to the making such deed; and
of the commencement of the suit; the service of the process or
the order of publication, giving such notice to appear and answer;
and such publication made, to be proved: if the jury should find
the deed from Buchanan to Sterling, was dated June 27th, 1825,
and was-at that time delivered, and the order of the Court fbr the
pub0lidation not made until August following, as appears in the
record aforesaid, it was competent for Buchanan to make -such
deed to Sterling; and the Court declared their opinions accordingly.
The defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Mason, for the plaintiffs in error;
and by Mr. Corwin, with whom was Mr. Bond, for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error, Mr. Mason, assigned the
following reasons for the reversal of the judgment of the Circuit
Court:
First, That on the trial of the cause, the Court admitted as evidence in the cause, a paper purporting to be a deed from, or signed
by David Carrick Buchanan to Walter Sterling, as appears by bill
of exceptions; which, for the reasons stated in the bill of exceptions
not There
have been admitted in evidence.
should
Second,
is also error in this, that the Court, on the trial
aforesaid, admitted in evidence to the jury a copy of another paper,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

325

[Games et a. vs. Stiles.]

purporting o be a deed from Walter Sterling to Walter Dunn; which,
for the reasons. stated in the bill of exceptions, ought not to have
been admitted in evidence.
Third, There is also error in this, that the Court refused to admit
a certified copy of a deed from William Middleton, auditor of
Brown county, to John S. Wills, 'for two hundred acres of land,
for the reasons stated in said bill of exceptions; whereas the same
evidence ought to have been admitted.
Fourth, There is also error in this, that said Court refused to admit the same deed or copy accompanied by a duly certified copy of
the record of the proceedings, at and before the sale of said lands
for taxes, for the reasons stated in the bill of exceptions ; whereas,
said evidence ought to have been admitted.
Mr. Corwin, for the defendants, contended, that the proceedings
of the Court in Virginia were not necessary to the validity of the
deed; that a good consideration is stated in the deed, independently
of that decree; that the title being in Buchanan, he had a right to
convey with or without the authority of the decree.
2. That it was not necessary, that the acknowledgment should
aver, or recite the delivery of the deed; that possession of the deed
was evidence to go to the jury of its delivery; that the recital of
delivery in the deed, is evidence of that fact.
3. That the recital in the deed, showing that the grantor, David
Carrick Buchanan, Esq., was the same person formerly called David
Buchanan, Esq., was evidence to go to the jury of the identity of
the person named in the deed and patent.
The counsel for the defendant also insisted, that it was incumbent on the party offering evidence of title growing out of a sale
for non-payment of taxes, to show that the law was in all material
respects complied with under which the auditor acted; that neither
the deed nor the iecord of the auditor shows such compliance. See
18 Ohio Laws, 70.
4. That the defendants below claiming title under Brooke, through
whom the lessor of plaintiff also claimed, it was not competent for
them to dispute the validity of their common title.
5. That the identity of the land in question with that described in
the title papers, is shown by the descriptive calls recited in the declaration, and those in the title papers of the plaintiff below, and is
admitted by the consent rule.
The defendant below asked the Court to charge the jury, that the
statement in the deed from Buchanan to Sterling, reciting that David Carrick Buchanan, Esq., was formerly called David Buchanan,
Esq., was no evidence that it was the same person who received
the patent, and conveyed to Sterling. The Court refused so to
charge, and instructed the jury that they must be satisfied from the
deed, other documents, and the circumstances of the case, that David Carrick Buchanan, and David Buchanan, Were the same person;
VoL. XIV,-2 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Games et al. vs. Stiles,]

and declared their opinion, that such was the case; to which opinions
the defendants excepted.
1. The defendant in error insisted, that this exception only questions the propriety of the opinion given to the jury as to the fact of
identity, as arising out of the proof before them.
2. That it was proper for the Court to give such opinion, leaving
the jury to decide on it for themselves. 1 Peters, 182. 190. ;10
Peters, 80.
3. That the recital in the deed is evidenc6 to be considered by the
jury, with other proofs in the cause, to show the identity of the
grantee of the United States with the grantor to Sterling.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this Court from the Circuit Court of
Ohio, by a writ of error.
An action of ejectment was brought by Dunn against the defendants, in the Circuit Court, for the recovery of a certain tract of land ;
and on the trial, exceptions were taken to the rulings of the Court,
which being the points decided before this Court.
The first objection taken was, that the deed offered in evidence
by the plaintiff from David Carrick Buchanan to Walter Sterling,
recited the proceedings and decree of a Court of the United States,
for the. fifth circuit, and Virginia district, &c., and no exemplification of the record of such proceedings and decree was offered in
evidence, in support of the deed. Buchanan was the patentee of
the land; and although he made the conveyance in pursuance of
the decree, yet as the fee was in him, the decree could add nothing
to the validity of the conveyance; and it was, therefore, 'wfiolly
unnecessary to prove it. The deed was good without the decree,
and was only referred to by the grantor to show the consideration,
in part, for making it.
The defendant also objected to the admission of the deed in evidence, because "it was not duly acknowledged and proved, according to law; there .being no proof of the delivery, either in the acknowledgment or other proof; except what appears on the deed,
and that it was in possession of the lessor of the plaintiff."
This deed was executed at Glasgow, in Scotland, and its execution was proved by the two subscribing witnesses, who swore, "that
they saw the said grantor seal as his own proper act and deed, in
due form of law, acknowledge and deliver this present conveyance." This oath was administered by the Lord Provost, and chief
magistrate of Glasgow, and Which he duly certified, under his seal
of office.
The objection did not go to the execution of the deed, but to the
want of proof of the delivery.
In the conclusion of the deed, it is stated to have been signed,
sealed, and delivered in presence of the subscri b ing witnesses, and
they swear that it was delivered. But, independently of these

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

327

[Games et al. vs. Stiles.]

facts, the possession of the deed by the lessor of the plaintiff, who
offers it in proof, is prima facie evidence of its delivery. Under
ordinary circumstances, no other evidence of the delivery of a deed,
than the possession of it by the person claiming under it, is required.
The defendant also objected to -this deed, that it did not appear
that the grantor, David Carrick Buchanan, was the same person
named as grantee in the patent, who is called David Buchanan.
• In the deed, the grantor declares, that "I, David Carrick Bucha,nan, formerly David Buchanan," &c.

And in connection with this objection the Court were asked to
charge the jury, "that it is necessary for the plaintiff to convince
them by proofs in Court, that David Carrick Buchanan is the same
person as David Buchanan, named as grantee in the patent. That
his statement of the fact in the deed is no proof tending to establish
that fact."
The Court instructed the jury that they must be satisfied from the
evidence given to them, to wit, by the deed and other documents in
evidence, and the circumstances of the case, that the grantor in the
deed to Sterling is the same person to whom the patent was issued;
and they declared their opinions that such was the fact.
The principle is well established, that a Court may give their opinion on the evidence to the jury, being careful to distinguish between
matters of law and matters of opinion in regard to the facts. When
a matter of law is given by the Court to the jury, it should be considered as conclusive; but a mere matter of opinion as to the facts,
will only have such influence on the jury as they may think it is
entitled to.
The law knows of but one Christian name, and the omission or
insertion of the middle name, or of the initial letter of that name, is
immaterial; and it is competent for the party to show that he is
known as well without as with the middle name. 5 Johns. Rep. 84.
12 Peters, 456.

We think there was no error in the Circuit Court, either in admitting the deed, or in their instruction to the jury on the point stated.
A deed from Sterling to Walter Dunn, the'lessor of the plaintiff,
for the premises in controversy, was objected to on the ground " that
the delivery thereof was not proved nor acknowledged in the acknowledgment and proof thereof thereon endorsed."
This deed is not in the record, and it cannot therefore be inspected; nor can it indeed be considered in reference to thd objection.
But the same question is raised, it seems, on this deed as was made
on the deed from Buchanan to Sterling, and the remarks of the Court
on that exception would be equally applicable to this, if the deed to
Dunn were in the record.
The evidence of the lessor of the plaintiff being closed, the defendants offered in evidence a certified copy of a paper -purporting to be
a deed from the auditor of Brown county, to John S. Wills, dated

328

SUPREME COURT.
(Games et al. vs. Stiles.

the 22d April, 1824, for two hundred acres of land in the tract
claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff; which the Court overruled, on
the groutd that it could not be received without proof that the requisites of the law, which subjected the land to taxation and sale, had
been complied with.
The defendants then offered the same, deed or copy of a deed, accompanied by a duly certified copy of the record of the proceedings,
at and before the sale of said land, for taxes, dated 9th May, 1838,
certified by Hezekiah Lindsey, county auditor of said county of
Brown, which the Court overruled.
The laws of Ohio, imposing a tax on lands, and regulating its collection, like similar laws in, perhaps, almost all the other states, are
peculiar in their provisions, having been framed under the influence
of a local policy. And this policy has, to some extent, influenced
the construction of those laws. There can be no class of laws
more strictly local in their character, and which more directly concern real property, than these. They not only constitute a rule
of property, 'but their construction by the Courts of the state
should be followed by the Courts of the United States, with equal
if not greater strictness than the construction of any other class of
laws.
It will be lbund from' the Ohio reports, that the Supreme Court
has required a claimant under a tax title to show, before his title can
be available, a substantial compliance with the requisites of the
law. In 2 Ohio Rep. 233, the Court say, "the requisitions of the law
are substantial and useful, and cannot be dispensed with. Tax sales
are attended with greater sacrifices to the owners of land than any
others. Purchasers at those sales seem to have but little conscience.
They calculate on obtaining acres for cents, and it stands them in
hand to see that the proceedings have been strictly regular."
In the case 6f the Lessee of Holt's Heirs vs. Hemphill's Heirs,
3 Ohio Rep. 232, the Court decided that a deed from a collector of
taxes is not available to transfer the title, without proof that the
land was listed, taxed, and advertised," &c.
The act of the 2d February, 1821, provides, that all deeds of land
sold for taxes, shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title, and
interest of the former proprietor, in and to the land so sold; and
shall be received in all Courts as good and sufficient evidence of
title in such purchaser."
,Under this and similar provisions, which are found in the various
tax laws up to 1824, the Courts of Ohio seem never to have held,
that the deed on a tax sale is admissible as evidence of title, unaccompanied by proof that the substantial requisites of the law, in the
previous steps, had been complied with. The collector, or person
making the sale, was considered as acting under a special authority,
and that his apts must be strictly conforniable to law, to divest the
title of real property, without the consent of the owner. And the
purchaser at such sales is held bound to see that the requirements

JANUARY 'TERM,,1840.

329

[Games et al. vs. Stiles.]

of the law, which subjected the land to sale for taxes, had been
strictly observed. These principles have been repeatedly sanctioned
by We
thiswill
Court.
now examine the statutes under which the sale in
question was made, with the view of ascertaining Whether the Circuit
Court erred in overruling the record of the auditor, offered in evidence to support the tax deed.
The act of the 8th Februa ry, 1820, and the act to amend the same,
of the 2d February, 1821, are the laws under which the title in
question was obtained.
The county auditor is required to make out from the books or
lists in his office, every year, a complete duplicate of all the lands
listed in his office, subject to taxation, with the taxes charged thereon. In which duplicate he shall state the proprietor's name, the
number of entry, for whom originally entered, the quantity of land
contained in the original entry, the county, water course, number
of acres, Whether first, second, or third rate land, and the amount
of taxes charged thereon. These matters of description are required
to be entered in separate columns, opposite the name of the progrietor. And the auditor is required to keep a book 'for that pur.pose, and to record in the form above specified, the lands entered in
his county for taxation.
If the tax be not paid in the county by the 26th November, or to
the state treasurer by the 31st December, in each year, the lands are
to remain charged with all arrearages of taxes, and the lawful interest thereon, until the same shall be paid; to which there shall be
added a penalty of twenty-five per, cent. on the amount of tax
charged for each year the same may have been delinquent.
The auditor of the state is required to compare the listof defalcations
transmitted from each county auditor with thd duplicates sent to his
office from said county, for the same year ; and to record in a book
kept fdr that purpose, the delinquent lands, and charge the same
with penalties and interest. And the county auditor is required,
in making out the duplicate for his county, to charge each tract,
in addition to the tax. for the current year, with the tax, interest,
and penalty of the preceding year, which shall be entered ina separate column, to be' designated for that purpose, on said dupl;
cate. And when lands are returned delinquent for two years, the
penalty and interest are to be charged for each year by the state
auditor, who is required to transmit the same to the county auditor;
and he is forbidden to enter lands a second time delinqugnt oa the
duplicate for the current year.
On receiving this list of lands, a second time delinquent., the auditor, is required to advertise the same six weeks successively in a
newspaper printed in the county, which advertisement shall state
the amount of the tax, interest and penalties due on each tract, and
the time of sale, &c. All sales are to be made by the county auditor; and on such sale being made, he is required "to make a fair

SUPREME COURT.
[Games et at. v3. Stiles.]

entry descriptive thereof, in a book to be provided by him for that
purpose," and shall also "record in said book, all the proceedings
relative to the advertising, selling, and conveying said delinquent
lands; which record shall be good evidence in all Courts holden
within this state."
The record offered in evidence is stated to be a "record of the
-proceedings relative to the advertising, selling, and conveying the
lands delinquent for tax, for the years 1821, 1822, and 1823, within
the county of Brown, and state of Ohio."
"Be it remembered, that the following lands, as herein set forth,
advertised for sale, in the names of the person to each tract annexed, were regularly entered on the duplicates for taxation, by the
auditor of Brown county, for the year 1821 ; the tax whereon not
being paid for said year, the collector of said county returned the
same as delinquent therefor; whereupon the said county auditor
made out and transmitted to the auditor of state, a list of said lands
so returned as delinquent; and afterwards a list of said lands, with
the amount of taxes, penalty, and interest charged thereon, was
transmitted by the auditor of state to the county auditor of said
county; whereupon a copy thereof was published three weeks in
succession in a newspaper printed at Georgetown, Brown county,
Ohio, in general circulation in said county; and afterwards the
county auditor, in making out the duplicate for said county the succeeding year, to wit, for the year 1822, charged each tract in addition to the tax for said year 1822, with the tax, interest, and penalty
of the preceding, and sent the same out a second time for collection;
the tax on said land not being paid for the year 1822, they were a
second time returned delinquent for the non-payment of the tax,
penalty, and interest charged thereon; a list of which was again
transmitted to the auditor of the state; that afterwards the said auditor of the state did transmit," &c.
This, together with the advertisement published six months before
the sale of the land, is the record and only evidence offered to show
that the legal requisites of the law had been complied with, previous
to the sale of the land.
The first objection which arises to this paper is, that *itis a mere
historical statement of the facts as they occurred, and not a copy
from the record.
The first important step is to show that the land was listed for
taxation. On this depends the validity of the subsequent proceedings. And how is this shown by this record? It states that "the
land was regularly entered on the duplicates for taxation, and sent
out for collection for the year 1821," &c. Now this is a mere statement of the fact, and not an exemplification of the record.
The record of the auditor shows in what manner the land was
listed for taxation, the amount of tax charged, the description of the
land required by the law, and the rate at which it was entered. But
the auditor in the record before us has stated that the entry or list

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

831

fGames et al. vs. Stiles.1
was regularly made, without copying the same from his records,
which copy would enable the Court to determine whether the entry
for taxation had been made legally. Now this is the foundation of
the whole proceeding; and unless the Court will substitute the judgment of the auditor for their own, it is impossible for them to say
the land was entered for taxation according to law.
Suppose the auditor had, instead of copying the advertisement on
which the land was sold, merely stated that the land had been Kegularly advertised; could such a statement have been held sufficient?
Perhaps no one acquainted with the legal requisites on this point,
could hesitate in deciding that such a statement would be radically
defective. That the advertisment constituted an essential part of
the record, as the Court could only judge of its sufficiency by inspecting it. It would not do therefore for the auditor to withhold
from his record and the Court, the advertisement, and merely say
that it was regular.
Clear as this point is, it is not less so than the objection above
stated. The listing of the land in conformity to law, is as essential
as advertising it for sale. But in this record we have no evidence
that the land was entered according to law, except the mere statement of the fact by the auditor, that it was so entered.
Is this statement evidence ? The law makes the record evidence
but this statement is evidently made out, not by copying from the
record, but by looking at the record, and giving in a short statement
what the auditor supposed to be the fact.
Suppose it should be important in any other case to show that
this land had been regularly entered for taxation in the year 1821.
Would the certificate of the auditor, in general terms, that the land
was regularly entered that year, be evidence ? Must not the record
itself be produced, or an exemplification of it; which would show
how it had been entered; and'enable the Court to judge of the regularity (f the entry ? That this would be required, seems too clear
for argument; and yet in no possible case could this evidence be so
important, as in the case under consideration.
If the Court are to receive the mere statement of the auditor,
that the land was regularly entered, which is the first step in the
proceeding, and as important as any other; to be consistent, they
must receive his mnere statement, as proof that the subsequent steps
were taken as to Ithe charge of penalties, and interests, and delinquencies, and that it was advertised regularly and sold. This would
be a short mode of arriving at the result, and might add somewhat
to the validity of the titles, in disregard, however, to the rights of
the nonresident land holder.
The law requires the auditor, on receiving the list of delinquent
lands from the state auditor, to give public notice by advertisement,
for three weeks in succession, in some newspaper in general circulation in his county, of the amount of taxes charged, &c. Now, if
this advertisement be not published, the land cannot be returned by
the auditor a second time as delinquent; and if not regularly re-

33.2

SUPREME COURT.
[Games et al. vs. Stiles.]

turned as delinquent twice, it is not liable to be sold. And what
evidence is there in the record that this notice was given. There
is nonebut the mere statement of the fact that such notice was
given three weeks in succession, in a newspaper printed in Georgetown. Now, if the statement of the auditor be sufficent as to
this notice, it must be held equally good as to the notice of the sale.
This land was transmitted from the auditor of the state twice,
charged with penalties, to the county auditor, who, by the thirtysixth section of the act of '1820, was required to publish the same,
when received, three weeks; but it seems from his record that this
notice has been but once given.
And, again, there is no evidence that the penalties were charged,
and the interest added, but the mere statement of the auditar.
What amount was charged as penalty, and the amount of interest
added, nowhere appears.
In the list published in the notice of sale, it does not appear at
what rate the land was entered for'taxation ; and the gross sum of
fifty dollars is charged, without showing of what items it was composed. In the case of Lafferty's Lessee vs,. Byers, 5 Ham. 458, the
plaintiff offered in evidence an exemplified copy of the books of the
county auditor, showing the listing for taxation, and the advertisement of the sale.
Upon the whole, we think that the Court did not err, in rejecting.
the paper certified by the auditor as a record. We think that this
record contained no evidence that the land was regularly, listed for
taxation; and that it was defective in not showing that other imaportant requisites of the law had been coinplied with. That it is a
mere historical account of the facts as they transpired, and not the
record evidence of those facts, as they appear or should appear on
the.record.
Under the law of 1824, which makes the tax deed prima facie
evidence, the Ohio Courts have not required proof to the same extent in support of the deed, as before such law. But the present
case does not come under this law ; and it is unnecessary to go into
its construction by the Ohio Courts. 5 Ohio Rep. 370.
The defendants gave in evidence a duly authorized transcript of
the record, proceedings and.decree, of the Supreme Court of the
state of Ohio, of a certain case, wherein White's heirs and J. S.
Wills' heirs, and H. Brush, were complainants, and David Buchanan, deceased, in his lifetime, defendant; and his unknown heirs
defendants after his death, by bill of reviver; wherein the title to the
premises in question, and other lands, were decreed to complainants.
And here the defendants rested their case.
The Court were asked to instruct the jury, by the defendant, that
it was necessary for the plaintiff to prove the calls of his patent
for the ground, by establishing the different corners, &c. But the
Court refused to give the insti'uction as requested, and informed the
jury, that, by a rule of Court, the defendants having entered- into the
consent rule, were bound to admit, at the trial, that they are in pos-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

333

[Games et al. vs. Stiles.]

session of the premises claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff. And
there can be no doubt that, under the rule, this decision of the Court
was correct.
This Was not a dispute about boundaries, but of title ; and in such a
case, the rule referred to is salutary, and supersedes thZ necessity of
proving the possession of the defendant. Without this rule, it would
have been incumbent on the plaintiff to prove the possession; but
this could have been done by any one who had a general knowledge
tf the land in controversy, and who could state that the defendant
was in possession.
And the Court instructed the jury, that the pendency of the suit
against Buchanan and his heirs, could in no sense be held constructive notice to Sterling, in receiving the deed from Buchanan, after
the commencement of the suit, unless the process had been served,
or publication made, before such deed was executed.
There can be no doubt that this instruction was proper; and,
upon the whole, we affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

