SUPREME COURT.

LESSEE OF MARGARET LATTIMER AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, VS. WILLIAM POTE.T, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
'Ejectment for forty-nine thousand acres of land in the state of North Carolina, claimed
by the plaintiffs under a grant from the state, dated 20th July, 1796, to' William Cathcart, founded on entries made in the -office of the entry taker, in the county of Buncombe, in tLo state of North. Carolina, made after the 3d of February, 1795, within the
limits of the county. The land lay wholly within the limits of the territory specially
described and set forth in the fifth section of the act of 1783, entitled an act for opening
the land office of. the state of North Carolina. The claim of the plaintiffs in the ejectment was resisted on the ground that the grant tinder which the plaintiffs claimed, was, at
the time of its emanation, wholly within the territory allotted to the Cherokee Indians,
and was null and void; as sach entries and grants were prohibited by the sixth section
of the act. It was held thtft the title under which the plaintiffs claim was invalid.
Construction of the treaties with the Cherokee Indians, relative to lands within the boundary; anl of the acts of the legislature of the state of North Corolina, relative to the occupation and entry of lands within the Indian boundary.
Ii will not be denied that the parties to a treaty are competent to determine any dispuc
respecting its limits. In no mode can a controversy of this nature be as satisfactorily
determiped: as by the 'contracting parties. If their language in the treaty shall be
wholly indefinite, or the natural objects called for are uncertain or contradictory, there
is no power but that Iwhich formed the treaty which can remedy such defects.
It is a sound principle of law, and applies to the treaty-making power of the government
of the United States, whether exercised with a foreign nation or an Indian tribe, that
all questions of boundary may be settled by the parties to the treaty: and to the,exercise
of that high function of the government -within its constitutional powers, neither the
rights of a state, or qf an iplividual can be interposed.
The Indian title being" a right of occupancy, the state of North Carolina had the power
to grant the fee ia those lands subject to this right.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of North Carolina.
This case was argued at January term, 1839, by Mr. Coxe for
the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Webster for the defendant. It
was held under advisement until this term.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion.
This case comes before the Court on a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of North Carolina.
The" lessors of the plaintiff brought their action of ejectment, to
recover the possession of forty-nine thousand nine hundled and
twenty acres of land, in Haywood county, and described in the
declaration by metes and bounds. On the trial, certain exceptions
-were taken 'by the plaintiff to the rulings of the Court; and the
verdict being not guilty, a judgment in favour of the defefidant was
entered. To revise this judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted.
The lessors of the plaintiff, to sustain their act;op, offered in evidence a grant from North Carolina to William Cat' cart, for the land
described in the declaration, dated the 20th July, 1796, and.founded

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

5

vs. Poteet.]
[Lattimer et 'al.

on entries made in the entry-taker's office, of the county of Buncombe, in said state, in the year 1795, within the limits of said
county. It was admitted that the title, if any, had descended to
the lessors of the plaintiff, and that, at the commencement of the
action, the defendant was in possession; and also, that the land was
within the limits of the territory described in the fifth section of the
act of North Carolina, 1783, entitled an act for opening the land
office for the redemption of specie and other certificates, &c. And.
the great questions arising out of the instructions are, whether, at
the dates of, the entry and grant, the land was within the Indian
country; and if it was, whether the entry and grant were void.
The limits of the Indian country, within the state of North. Carolina, were established jby treaties made between the United States
and the Cherokee tribe of Indians.
The first treaty was concluded at Hopewell, the 20th November,
1705. The fourth article of this treaty declared, "that the boundary allotted tQ the Cherokees for their hunting grounds, between
the said Indians and the citizens of the United States, &c., shall
begin at the moith of Duck river, on the Tennessee; thence runDing northeast to the ridge dividing the waters running into
Cumberland from those running into theTennessee, thence easterly
along the said ridge to a northeast line, to be run, which shall strike
the river Cumfiberland forty miles above Nashville; thence along
the said line to the river; thence up the said river to the ford where
the Kentucky road crosses" the rivpr; thence to Campbell's line,
near Cumberland Gap; thence to the mouth of 'Cloud's creek on
Holston, thence to the Chimney-top mou.6tain; thence to Camp
creek near the mouth of Big Limestone on Nalichuchey; thence a
southerly course six miles to a mountain; thence south to the North
Carolina line; thence to the South Carolina Indian boundary; and
along the same southwest over the top of the Occunna mbuntain,
till it shall strike Tugalo river; thence a direct line to the top of
the Currahee mountain; thence to the head of the south fork of the
Occunna rive.1"
The treaty of Holston, which was concluded the 2d July, 1791,
altered the limits, as established by the Hopewell treaty, and declared that "the line should begin at the top of the Currahee mountain, where the creek line passes it; thence a direct line to Tugalo
river; thence northeast to the Occunna mountain, and over the
same along the South Cafolina Indian boundary to the North Carolina'boundary; thence north to a point from which a line is to be
extended t9 the river Clinch, that shall pass the Holston at the ridge
which divides, the waters running into Little river from those running into the Tennessee; thence up the river Clinch to Campbell's
line, and along the same to the top of Cumberland mountain; thence
a direct line to the. Cumberland riyer, where the Kentucky road
crosses it; thence down the Cumberland river to-a point from which
a southwest line will strike the ridge which divides the waters of
Cumbert tnd from those of Duck river, forty miles above Nashville;

SUPREME COURT.
[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

thence down the said ridge to a point from whence- a southwest
line will strike the mouth of Duck river."
"And in order to preclud6 forever all disputes relative to the said
boundary, the same shall be ascertained and marked plainly, by
three persons appointed on the part of the United States, and three
Cherokees on the part of their nation."
Another treaty was made with the Cherokees, at Philadelphia,
the 26th June, 1794, in which it was stated that the treaty of Holston had not been fully carried into effect; and in the second article
it was "stipulated that the boundaries mentioned in the fourth article
of the said treaty shall be actually ascertained and marked in the
manner prescribed by the said article, whenever the Cherokee
nation.shall have ninety days' notice of the time and place at which
the commissioners of the United States intend to commence their
operation."
The whole extent of the line designated by this treaty, never appears to have been run and marked. Some parts of it Were not
run, because the country through which it passed was mountainous
and uninhabitable. On the 7th October, 1792, (1 American State
Papers, Indian Affairs, 630,) Governor Blount having given the
notice to the Cherokees required by the treaty, under the directions
of the Secretary of War, instructed David Campbell, Charles
M'Clung, and John M'iKe, commissioners for extending the line
between the United States and the Cherokees, according to the
treaty of Holston, to meet the next day at Major Craig's,'on Nine
Mile creek, to extend the line. And they were instructed in case the
commissioners appeared on the part of the Indians to run the line ;
but if the Indians did not attend, they were required to examine
where the ridge which divides the waters running into Little river
from those running into the Tennessee, strikes the Holston ; and extend the line from thence to Clinch river; and again from the ridge
to the Chilhowee mountain, paying strict regard to the treaty.
In their report, the 30th November ensuing, the commissioners
say, that "1the commissioners on the part of the Cherokees did n}t
attend; and we "proceeded to examine with great attention for the
ridge which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of
Little river, and tracing it, found it-a plain leading ridge, and -that
it struck the Holston at the mouth; but, having heard it suggested
that the Indians had in .contemplation, at the time the treaty was
made, a ridge which they supposed would strike the Holston higher
up, we did not content ourselves, but retraced the ridge, and examined well the south bank of the' Holston, and the result was,. that
we were perfectly convinced that ihe ridge which divides the
waters of Tennessee and Little river, strikes the Holston at the
mouth, and at no other part."
"We then proceeded to run, but not to mark, a line of experiment,
from the point of the ridge in a southeast direction to the Chtilhowee
mountain, distance seventeen and a half miles, and again from thence
to the Clinch, in a northwest direction, distance nine miles, and

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

7

[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

fouhd that line, continued to the southeast, would intersect the Tennessee, shortly after it crossed the Chilhowee mountain, consequently
take away all'the Indian towns lying along the south side of the Tennessee. This showed the necessity of turning the direction more to
the east and west; and it is our opinion that a line extended from
the point of the ridge aforesaid south sixty degrees east to Chilhowee
mountain, again from the point north sixty degrees west, will form
the true line from Chilhowee mountain to Clinch, between the United
States and the Cherokees, according to the treaty of Holston. The
more fully to elucidate this report, we present you with a map,
which we believe is nearly correct, on which both the lines are laid
down."
This line left several whit6 settlers within the Indian lands.
In transmitting this report to the War Department, Governor
Blount remarks, "As the geography of the country generally cannot
be known to you, there being no correct map of it, I think it necessary to inform you that the country to the east or rather southeast
of Chilhowee mountain, through which the line. reported upon, if
continued beyond it, will pass, for fifty or sixty miles is an entire
bed or ledge after ledge of mountains, that is, until it intersects the
line which is to be extended south from the north boundary of North
Carolina, near which no settlements can be formed; hence I conelude it will not be essential to extend it. That which the line
reported on will intersect, if continued, meaning that which runs
south from the north -boundary of North Carolina, I caused to be
run, and marked about sixty miles from the mouth of M'Namee's
creek to Rutherford's war trace, by Mr. Joseph Harden, in the
course of last winter.' Harden did not run north, as required by
the treaty of Holston, but south, according to the treaty of Hopewell." The writer then states certain parts of the line, which, in
his opinion, need not be run.
In a letter from-Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, (1 American State Papers, Indian Affairs, 629,) dated July 15th, 1.791, in
reference to the treaty of Holston, concluded the 2d of the same
month, says, " According to my instructions, I proposed that the
ridge dividing the waters of Tennessee 'from those of Little river,
should form a part of the boundary; but the Indians would not
agree to it, but insisted on a straight line which should cross the
Holston where that ridge should strike it; and were so firmly fixed
in their determination, that I could not prevail on them to agree to
any other." And in another letter from Governor Blount to the
Secretary,. (same page,) dated 2d March 1792, he says, "I can't
help remarking, that I proposed at the treaty that the ridge should
be the line. You will recollect that I was so instructed ; and the
chiefs were unanimously opposed to it, saying it should be a straight
line; and that it was an evidence that my heart was not straight that
I wanted a crooked line. The difficulty will be-in running the line
to ascertain where the ridge that divides the waters of Little river and
Tennessee will strike the Holston; for, it seems, the white people

8

SUPRIEME COURT.
[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.3

cannot agree upon' it-a circumstance unknown to me at the time
the Indians proposed it; but from the best information I can obtain,
I am induced to believe it will prove to be lower down than they
expected; and, in that case, it is my opinion that the words of
the treaty ought not to be so strictly adhered to as to give them
any great degree of dissatisfaction." In his answer of 22d April,
1792, the Secretary of War says, "I am commanded by the President of the United States, to whom your letters'are constantly submitted, to say, with respect to your remarks upon the line at Little
river, that you will be pleased to make a liberal construction of that
article, so as to render it entirely satisfactory to the Indians, and at
,the same time as consistently as may be with thetreaty."
,
On the 2d October, 1798, the treaty of Tellico was entered into,
which contained the following preamble: "Whereas the treaty
made and concluded on Holston river, on the 2d of July, 1791,
between the United States and ,- cherokee nation of Indians, had
not been carried into execution for some time thereafter, by reason
of some misunderstanding which had arisen; and whereas, in order
to remove such misunderstanding, and to provide for carrying the
said treaty into effect, and for re-establishing more fully the peace
and friendship between the parties, another treaty was held, made
and concluded, by and between them, at Philadelphia, the 26th of
June, 1794; in which, among other things, it was stipulated that the
boundaries mentioned in the fourth article of'the said treaty of Holston should be actually ascertained and marked, in the manner prescribed by the said article, whenever the Cherokee nation should
have ninety days' notice of the time and place at which the commissioners of the United States intended to commence their operations:
and whereas further delays in carryiig the said fourth article into
complete effect did take place, so that the boundaries mentioned and
described were not regularly ascertained and marked iintil the latter
part of the year 17.97; before which time, and for want of knowing
the direct course of said boundary, divers settlements were made by
'citizens of the United States upon the Indian lands, over and beyond
the boundaries so mentioned and described in the said article, and
contrary to the intention of the said treaties; but which settlers were
removed from the said Indian lands, by authority of the United
States, as soon after the boundaries had been so'lawfully ascertained
and marked as the nature of the case ha& admitted."
The fourth article declares, "In acknowledgment for the protection of the United States, and for the considerations hereafter expressed and contained, the Cherokee nation agrees; and does hereby
-relinquish and cede to the United States, all the lands within the
following points and lines, viz. from a point onthe Tennessee river,
below Tellico blockhouse, called the Wildcat Rock, in a direct line
to the Militiv Spring, near the Maryville road leading from Tellico.
From'the said spring to the Chilhowee mountain, by a line so to be
run as will leave all the farms on Nine-mile creek to the northward
.ndeastward of it; and to be continued along Chilhowee mountain

JANUARY TERM, 1840
[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

until it strikes Hawkins' line. Thence along the said line to the
Great Iron mountain; and from the top of which a line to be continued in a southeasterly course to where the-most southerly branch
of the Little river crosses the. divisional line to Tugalo river i and
from the place of beginning, at the Wildcat Rock, down to the northeast margin of the Tennessee river, (not including islands,) to a point
or place one mile above the junction of that river with the Clinch;
and'from thence by a line to be drawn, in a rightangle, until it intersects Hawkins' line leading from Clinch. Thence down the said
line to the river Clinch; thence up the said river to its junction with
Emmery's river; and thence up Emmery's river to the foot of'Cumberland mountain, &c."
The 5th article provided that this line should be run and marked
under the superintendence of commissioners appointed by both parties; and that maps should be pnade, one of which was to be deposited in the War Office.
The Indian boundary established by the treaty of Holston calls
for certain lines and natural objects, which, it would seem, give as
much certainty to a boundary as could well be given, short of a
marked line or water course.
It was to begin at the top ,of the Currahee mountain, where the
Creek lihe passe it. This mountain is in the state of Georgia, and
is designated on the maps of that state; and " ,where the Creek line
passes it," i's easily ascertained. From this point the line was to run
direct to Tugalo river, an object well known, and marked on the
maps; thence north-east to the Occunna mountain, and over the
the same along the South Carolina Indian boundary, to the North
Carolina boundary. This mountain is designated on the map, and
the boundaries called for, being established, were known. From the
North Carolina southern boundary, the line was to run north to a
point, from which a line is to be extended to the river Clinch, that
shall pass:the Rolston at the ridge'which divides the waters running
into Little river from those runninginto the Tennessee.
The point at which the line shall strike the Holston, at the ridge,
not being certain, gave rise to some controversy shortly after the date of
thetreaty. The commissioners appointed to run the line in 1792, found
that by tracing the ridge, it led to the junction of the Holston and Ten,
nessee rivers; and consequently, if the termination of the ridge was t'he
place, within the meaning of the treaty, where the line should cross,
it must cross the Holston at its mouth. But that this was not the
construction given to the treaty by the parties to it is clear, from the
letters of Governor Blount, wjio negotiated it, to the Secretary of
War. The same day the treaty was concluded, he writes:, I have
concluded a treaty which includes all the white settlers, except those
south of the ridge dividing the waters of. Little river from those of.
Tennessee. And again, July 1,5th, 1791, he says, "I proposed that
the ridge dividing the waters of Tennessee from those-of Little river
should form a part of the boundary; but the Indians Vould not
agree to it; and were so, firmly fixed in their determinatioi), that I
2

SUPREME COURT.
[ILattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

could not prevail on them to agree to any other., This line is not
so limited, as to the point at which it shall leave the north line, or
at which itshall strike the Clinch, but that it may be so run as either
to include or leave out the settlers sotith of the ridge ; the only stipulations respecting it are, that it shall cross the Holston at the ridge."
And again, in a letter of 2d March, 1792, "I can't help remarking,
that I proposed at the treaty that the ridge should be the line. You
will recollect that I was so instructed, and the chiefs were unaninously opposed to it, saying it should be a straight line." Aind he
says that "the ridge will strike the Holston lower down than was expected ; and, in that case, it is my opinion that the words of the
treaty ought not to be so strictly adhered to, as to give them any
great degree of dissatisfaction." In his answer, the Secretary of
War says, by command: of the President, "Youi will make a liberal
construction of that article, so as to render it entirely satisfactory to
the Indians." The Indians remonstrated, and ,required the white
settlers south of the ridge to be removed.
In the talk of the President, dated 27th August, 1798, to the Cherokees, which was sent to them preparatory t the treaty of Tellico,
he says, if was expected that the Holston treaty line would have included a great proportion of the frontier white settlers, but it proved
otherwise when the line was run. The words, "shall passthe Holston at the ridge which divides the wAtersrunnibg into Little river
from those running into the Tennessee," do not necessarily imply
that the line shall cross the Holston at the point where the ridge terminates. Little river falls into the Holstgn, and the general course
of the ridge would strike the Holston some distance above its mouth.
And when we consider that the Indians refused to make the ridge
the bouthdary, and would agree to no other than a straight line; and
that.:neither Party seems to h'ave considered the place of crossing at
the mouth of the Holston, we think, in the language of the President, through the Secretary of War, "that a liberal construction of
this clause of the treaty should bei given."
But it is unnecessary to consider the correspondence of Governor
Blount, the report of the commissioners of 1792, or the words of
this article of the treaty, with the view to give to it a satisfactory
construction ; as the parties ihthe treaty near Tellico have given to
it a practical construction.
In this treaty, the parties say, that for certain causes enumerated,
the boundaries mentioned and described in the fourth article of the
treaty of Holston, "were not regularly ascertained and marked until
the latter part of the year 1797."
The second article provides, that the treaties subsisting between
the present contracting parties, are acknowledged toibe of full and
operating force; together with the construction nd usage under
their respective articles, and so to continue. And ini the third article
it is declared, that the limits and boundaries of the 'Cherokee nation,
as stipulated and 'marked by the existing treaties between the parties,
shall be and remain the same, where not altered by the present treaty.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

11

[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

The object of the government in entering into this treaty was, to
purchase the Indian territory, into which white settlers had intruded,
at ard near Nine Mile creek, and perhaps at other places. The line
established was run and marked, and we have the original map, or
a copy of the survey, before us, which was returned to the' War
Department.
That this purchase was of territory not included in the boundaries
of the Holston treaty, will not be disputed. And, from the language
of the third #rticle, it is clear, that the parties did not intend to
establish an entirely new boundary, but to make such alterations of
the Holston boundary as should secure the object of the United
States.
The land lying southwest of the Holston boundary belonged to
the Indians ; and it was. a part of this land that was purchased by
the treaty of Tellico. Of course, this purchase extended from the
Holston treaty line southerly. For no one can suppose that a strip
of Indian land would be left between the treaty lines of Holston,
and Tellico. The facts go clearly to show, that the Tellico purchase
was up to the Holston line, and that the part of that line to which
the purchase did not extend, was designated ; and the point where
the Tellico line varied from it, so as to include the lands purchased,
is marked on the map. And .Lhis shows the propriety of the language used in the third article of the Tellico treaty; that' "the
boundaries should remain the same as established by existing treaties, where not altered by the present treaty."
The line of this treaty was to begin "at the Wildcat Rock, in a
direct line to the Militia Spring, near the Maryville road, leadiig
•from Tellico. From the said spring to the Chilhowee mountain, by
a line so to be run as will leave all the farms on Nine Mile creek to
the northward and eastward of it ; and to be continued along Chilhowee mountain until it strikes Hawkins' line." This line is laid
down on the map, and although it is not called the southern boundary of the Holston freaty, yet it is recognised as the northern boundary of the territory purchased; and consequently must be the Holston boundary. Hawkins' line extends from Clinch, crossing the
Holston some miles abo e its mouth, and runs between the waters
of Little river and those of the Tennessee, as appears from the map,
and continues until it reach9s the summit of the Great Iron mountain. At this point a monumeat is erected; but if the line were extended beyond this easterly, it was not, probably, marked; and it is
not laid down 6n the p!at. Ifis probable that the original survey
of this line was destroyed when the War Office was burnt, in 1800.
From the Wildcat Rock, the Tellico treaty calls "to run down the
northeast margin of the Tennessee river, to a point or place one
mile abbve the junction of that river with the Clinch; and
from thence by a line to be drawn in a right angle until it intersects
Hawkins' line leading from Clinch." Here is another recognition
of this line as the northern boundary of the Indian lands; and consequently, the line established by the Holstoh iraty.

SUPREME COURT.
ELattimer et a]. va. Pteet.]
And the Tellico treaty calls again, after striking Hawkins' line,
by running near Nine Mile creek, and along Chilhowee mountain,
to run with it to the top of the Great Iron mountain. From this
point the new treaty line va:ries from 'adirect course, and continues
"southeasterly to whbre the most southeasterly branch of Little
river crosses the divisional line to Tugalo river."
It is only -necessary to compare the course and objects here designated with the southeastern 'calls of the Holston treaty lige, to see
hat the Tellico line includes a large tract of country not included
by the Holston line. The Holston line, after striking the Tugalo
river, runs northeast to the Occunna mountain, and over.the same
along the Souh Carolina Indian boundary, continuing a northeasterly direction, until it strikesthe North Carolina boundary;
thence north to a point which shall intersect a line to be extended
from the river Clinch, that shall pass the Holston at the ridge.
The Tellico line. runs southeasterly, until it strikes the divisionat
line to Tugalo river. The Holston line calls to ruin along this divisional line, northeasterly; so that from this point these lines diverge
until the Holston line shall reach the point of connection with the
line drawn from the Clinch.
These boundaries, from the point of intersection on the top of the
Great Iron mountain to the point of intersection.on the South Carolina Indiar boundary, include a large tract of country. And this
tract, with the one designated by Hawkins' line, the Tennessee
Nine Mile creek, and the Clinch, &c., constituted the territory purchased by the Tellico treaty.
This recognition of'Hawkins' line as the Indian boundary, was
in 1798, only eight years after the boundary was established by the
treaty of Holston, and one year after the line is declared to have
been -run and maiked. The facts in regard to this line were recent,
and of course fresh in the recollection of the contracting parties.
It was a matter about which they could not be mistaken. They
.ay'the Holston line was not run and marked until the latter part
qf the year 1797, and the United States purchase the Indian lands
4p to Hawkins! line. It is true, this line is not in terms said to be
the boundary established by the Holston treaty, but in the most
solemn form it is recognised to be the boundary of the Indian' lands,
by purchasing those lands up to it; and by tracing it as-the boundary, beyond the purchase on Nine Mile creek, to the top of the
Great Iron mountain. It could then be no other than the Holston
treaty line, for in that part of the country there was no other Indian
boundary before the treaty of Tellico.
Whatever doubt may have existed as to Hawkins' line-being the
true Indian boundary, independently of this treaty; thre would seem
to be no ground for doubt under the recognitions-of that line in this
treaty.
It is contended that the Holston line should run irom the Clinch,
crossing the Holston river at its mouth, and continue on in the same
direction, until it shall strike the North Carolinaboundary.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

13

[Lattimer bt al. vs. Poteet]

This would -not only disregard the solemn acts and recognitions
of the parties to the Holston. treaty, in forming the treaty of Tellico-;
but it -would also disregard the language of the former treaty. It
calls for a line running north, from North Car'olina boundary, to -a
point that shall intersect a line drawn from the Clinch, crossing the
Holston at the ridge. This call to run north, by this constructioh,
is wholly disregarded., And on what ground is this construction
attempted to be maintained ?
The' answer must be, simply on the call for the line to cross the
Holston river at the ridge. A call in itself somewhat indefinite, and
which was never construed by the Indians to mean the, mouth of.
the Holston: nor was such a construction insisted on by the United
States, either at the time the -treaty was concluded or afterwards.
The Hopewell treaty line, in running a southerly course, strikes
the northern boundary of North Carolina, near Nalichuchey, and
extends south to the North Carolina line, and thence to the South
Carolina Indian boundary.
From a point in the Hopewell line, near where it strikes the
southern boundary of North Carolina, a lne seems to have been
run by General Pickens, north seventy-six west tothe state road
leading from Ashville to Clayton, in Georgia. But this line has no
connection with any other, and'does not appear to have been regarded, eithgr by the United States or the Indians, as any part of
the line established -by the Holston treaty. It was certainly not
run agreeably to the treaty.
The evidence establishes very satisfactorily, that Hawkins' line,
so far as it goes, is the boundary of the Holston treaty; and it is
very clear, from the language of the treaty, that from the Clinch,
crossing the Holton river at the ridge to the point at which this line
will intersect a line run north from the southern boundary of North
'Carolina, a straight line was intended. Of this no doubt can exist;
and it is only necessary to extend Hawkins' line from the top of the
Great Iron mountain eastward to the point where it shall intersect
a line run north from the,place where the South Carolina Indian
boundary strikes the -southern boundary of North Carolina. This,
we feel authorized to say, from the evidence before us, constitutes
the boundary of the Holston treaty.
It is argued; that it was not in the power of the United States
and the Cherokee nation, by the treaty of Tellico in 1798j to vary
in any degree the treaty line of Holston; so as to affect private
rights, or the rights of North Carolina.
The answer to this is, that the Tellico treaty does not purport to
alter the boundary of the Holston treaty, but by the acts of the
parties, this boundary is recognised, Not that a new boundary
was substituted, but that the old one was substantially designated.
Will any one deny that the parties to the treaty are competent to
determine any dispute respecting. its limits. In what mode can a
controversy of this nature be so satisfactorily determine'd as by the
contracting parties. If their language in the treaty be wholly inVOL. XIV.-B

SUPREME COURT.
(Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

definite, or the natural objects called for are uncertain or contradictory, there is no. powdr but that which formed the treaty which
can remedy such defects. And it is a sound principle of national
law, and applies to the treaty-making power of this govenment,
whether exercised with a foreign nation or an Indian tribe, that all
questions of disputed boundaries may be settled by the parties to
the treaty. And to the exercise of these high -functions by the
government, within its constitutional powers, neither the rights of a
state nor those of an individual can be interposed. We think it
was in the due exercise of the powers of the executive and the
Cherokee nation, in concluding the treaty of Tellico, to recognise in
terms, or by acts, the boundary of the Holston treaty.
It is agreed, that if Hawkins' line shall be extended as the Holston treaty line, the land in controversy lies within the Indian country. And we are now to consider whether, in this view, the entry
and patent are void. .The Indian title being only a right of occupancy, the state of North Carolina had the power to grant the fee in
the lands, subject to this right. The land was entered in 1795, and
patented the 20th July, 1796.
By the fifth section of the act of North Carolina, for opening th
land office for the redemption of specie and other certificates, and
discharging the arrears due to the army, passed in 1783, it is provided, "That the Cherokee Indians shall enjoy all the lands lying
within certain bounds, forever." And the sixth section provides,
"That no person shall enter and survey any lands within the
bounds set apart for the said Cherokee Indians, under the penalty
of fifty pounds specie for every such entry so made, to be recovered
in any Court of law in this state, &c.; and all such entries and
grants thereupon, if any should be made, shall be utterly void."
In 1784, (North Carolina Laws, 482, ch. 14,) the above act was
amended, by authorizing the appointment of three surveyors, viz.:
"One to survey those lands. that lie between the bQunds hereafter
described for the surveyor of Green county, and Cumberland mountain; one to survey the lands that lie between the Cumberland
mountain and the river Tennessee; and one to survey the lands
that lie between the Tennessee and the Mississippi river."
The boundaries here described cover the land reserved by the act
of 1783, for the Cherokee Indians; but there is no express repeal
of the fifth and sixth sections of that act; and as the act of 1784
cap. operate upon lands not reserved in the above sections, they
cannot be held to have been repealed by implication. The Supreme
Court of North Carolina has decided in several cases, that the
above sections remained in force; and that the entries and grants
made for lands within the territory described, before the Indian title
was extinguished, were void. 1 Murphy, 162, 164. Con. Rep.
4-34. 2 N. Carolina Law Repository, 451. 3 Hawks. 163.
We come now to examine the exceptions of the plaintiffs in the
Circuit Court; and having considered and decided the controverted
points, it will not be necessary to examine the exceptions in detail.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

15

[Lattirner et al. vs. Poteet.]

The first exception was fo the refusal of the Court to instruct the
jury that the sixth section in the above act of 1783, had been repealed:
and we think the Court did not'err in refusing to give the instruction.
The second instruction asked was, "that the treaty line of Holston
ought to run with the South Carolina Indian boundary, called for in
the treaty of Hopewell, made on the 28th of November, 1786, until
it should reach the termination of the line described in that treaty,
running from the North Carolina, boundary to the South Carolina.
Indian boundary; and on reaching that line, should then run with
the same reversed to the North Carolina boundary ;" which instruction was not given.
Some doubt arises from the structure of this instruction, whether
the reversed line referred to is the Hopewell treaty line, or the South
Carolina Indian boundary. From the maps, the latter line strikes
the southern bouidary of North Carolina, and from the language of
the Holston treaty, this fact seems to have been within the knowledge of the parties. The call is to run "along the South Carolina
Indian boundary, to the North' Carolina boundary."
In the Hopewell treaty line, the southern boundary of North Carolina is not named, but the northern; from which the line runs to the
South Carolina Indian boundary. Now the instruction must have
referred to the southern boundary of North Carolina; and if the
Indian boundary strikes this line, it is difficult to perceive what
application to the facts the instruction would have.. But if the
instruction referred to the Hopewell treaty line, it was not called for
in the Holstorf treaty; and under the circumstances of the case, we
are not prepared to say that there was error in refusing to give the
instruction.
And we think there was no error in refusing to give the third,
fourth, and fifth instructions prayed by the plaintiffs' counsel. Nor
do we perceive any error of which the plaintiffs can complain, in the
first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth instructions given by the
Circuit Court, on the prayer of the defendant.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.

I agree with the majority of the Court in affirming these judgments; but I dissent from some of the principles upon which they
have founded their opinion.
The Court (as I understand the opinion) consider Hawkins' line
to be the established boundary line of the treaty of Holston; they
ihink it is recognised as such in the subsequent treaty of Tellico;
and that being thus recognised by the political department of the
government, the Court (according tothe principles deduced in Garcia vs. Lee and Foster, and Elam vs. Nielson) must also regard it
as the true boundary line; and must treat it as such from the date of
the treaty of Holston, in any question of property that may come
before them.
If the legislative or executive departments of the government, by

SUPREME COURT.
[Lattimer et at. vs. Pot~et,]

any clear and unequivocal act, had declared Hawkins' line to be
the true line of the treaty of Holston, I should concur with the majority of this Court. But I do not find any act of that description.by
any department of the government. In the cases of Foster and
Elam vs. Neilson, and of Garcia vs. Lee, an act of Congress had
been passed describing particularly the boundary line-therein mentioned, and declaring it to be the true line of that treaty. But in
this case we have no act of the legislative or executive departments
of the government, recognising the line run by. Hawkins as the
treaty line. It is true that in the subsequent treaty of Tellico, the
parties, in describing the boundaries of this new treaty, call, upon
two occasions, for Hawkins' line, and upon both of them run some,
distance with it. But there is no expression in ,this treaty which
recognises the line thus called for as the boundary line.Qf the treaty
of Holston. It is mentioned and referred to merely as a known
point, like other places called for in this treaty; and the lines spoken
of, are run with, merely as known lines. But so far from declaring
it to be the boundary line described in the treaty of Holston, the
treaty of Tellico does not even say that it was run, by Hawkins as
the boundary; nor is it described as having any connexion whatever
with the treaty of Holston. It is called for as a line known in the
country, and which on some occasion or other had been run by
Hawkins; but when run, or for what purpose, cannot be gathered
from any expressions in the' treaty of Tellico. We know, indeed,
from public historical documents, that Hawkins' line is one of the
many efforts that were made to fix a certain boundary between
North Carolina and the Cherokee Indians, from the vague and imperfect descriptions contained in the treaty of Holston. Other lines
were' run for this purpose besides that of Hawkins. And we have
no evidence that Hawkins' line, or any other line was ever acknowledged, either by the Cherokees or the United States, as the correct
one, unless the expressions in the treaty of Tellico are deemed to
be sufficient for that purpose. The treaty of Holston was made in
1791 ; the treaty of Tellico in 1798 : and the last mentioned treaty
recites that delays had taken place in carrying the former into effect,
so that the boundaries were not regularly ascertained and marked,
until the latter part of the year 1797. But the treaty of Tellico gives
no description of the marks or of the boundaries thus ascertained;
nor does it siate by whom the lines were run, or the boundaries
ascertained and marked. I cannot think that this recital, and the
calls before mentioned for Hawkins' line, are sufficient of themselves
to establish as a matter of law, that this line is the true boundary of
the treaty of Holston; and I must dissent from that part of the
opinion of the Court which holds that doctrine. At the trial of this
case in the Circuit Court, the jury were instructed, "that the treaty
of Tellico is an admission by the parties that the line of the treaty
of Holston has been ascertained and marked; and furnishes strong
evidence that the lands reserved to the Cherokees by the treaty of
Tellico were reserved by the treaty of Holston, but does not estab-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

17

fLattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

i
I conlish the lines of Pickens and Hawkins, if erroneous in fact
cur entirely in this opinion of the Circuit Court,: and as I perceive
nothing in the other instructions of that Court, as stated in the exception, of which the: plaintiff has a right to complain, I agree with
a majority of my brethren in affirming its judgment.

Mr. Justice WAY1E dissented.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
1 think the treaty of Tellico did not settle the line of the treaty of
Holston, from the Holston river to the top of the Iron mountain;
and certainly not cast of the Iron mountain. So that it must now
be extended in a direct course, and as a unit, to the line of intersection, running north froth the North Carolina line.
The land in controversy was granted before Hawkins' line was
run; and which was not marked in execution of the treaty of Holston ; no one pretends it was; the Indians were not present, which
was indispensable to give binding validity to the line.
To say' it was conclusive on one of the contracting parties, the
United States, and void as tothe other, the Cherokees, at the time
it was run and marked, would be a most harsh assumption in regard
to those whd acquired titles before it was run ;' admitting, that the
contracting parties had the power afterwards to settle its position,
but, which they never saw proper to do. The truth is not open to
question, that the Holston treaty line never was ascertained southeast of the Iron mountain ; and with due deference to the opinion
of others, I think not west of it, in execution of, and in conformity
to, the treaty. Why Hawkins' line was r'un, the history of our relations with the Cherokees does not with any distinctness show. From
personal position, I. happen to know, through those who lived at
that date, and by reputation, that it was run to fix some line beyond
which it was intended the white population should not be permitted
to obtrude, further than they had done at the ,time the line was
marked, extending to a few settlers on Nine Mile creek. But that
Hawkins' line was run as a conclusive boundary in execution of the
treaty of Holston, of.1791, or for any further purpose than to hold
the whites .in check, for the sake of peace and convenience, it is impossible to affirm as a matter of history; and as such it must be
affirmed, there not being any evidence in this cause.
I repeat: The lanrd in controversy was granted before this line
was run; Hawkins' ceased running far west of where the land is
situated ; on the east a line was run and marked by Pickens, which,
when marked, was as authentic as that marked by Hawkins, for
any thing we know; the object of each line no doubt was the same:
neither concluding the Cherokees previous to the treaty ofTellico;
which treaty superseded the necessity of ascertaining and marking
the true line of the treaty of Holston, from the point east, from
where Hawkins' ceased running. From this point, (the top of the
Iron mountain,) it continues a line not fixed by the contracting parB2

3

SUPREME COURT,
[Lattimer et al. vs. Poteet.]

ties; anct the United States and Cherokees having ceased to have
any interest in its ascertainment after the treaty of Tellico was made,
North Carolina had the right to ascertain and settle it for herself,.
according to some one construction of the treaty of 1791 ; and by
which her grantees should be bound, if so settled :,or, she may have
recognised Pickens' as the true line of the treaty; if so, I think the
state and her grantees bound by the recognition: so this Court held
in Patterson vs. Jenks, 2 Peters, in 'a similar case; and for reasons
manifestly just. Truly, Pickens' line must be proved to'be in conformity to some ong construction of the treaty; and that it is in confornity to the most favourable construction for North Carolina, there
can be little doubt.,
T5 extend H'awkins' line eastwardly as the true boundary of the
treaty of Holston, will manifestly tend to disturb titles made in reference to another line; as it will (when extended) split Buncombe
county, long settled, almost in the centre.

I do not, therefore, find myself capable of concurring with the
majority of the Court in its extension.
Again : If North Carolina has construed this treaty, and for herself settled this boundary, by her srbsequent acts manifesting her
understanding of it, I should -not hesitate to adopt that construction,
unless in violation of the plain terms Of the treaty : I use the language holden by this Court in Patterson vs. Jenks, 2 Peters, 231.
But the misfortune is, the bill of exceptions sets forth not a single
fact; and the correctness of the instructions of the Court below cannot therefore be tested by the evidence given on the trial ; whether
they are right or wrong, it is imp6ssible for me to say ; they may
have been mere abstractions, especially as to the main fact, whether
or not North Carolina had by her acts fixed a boundary for herself,
be it Pickens' line or another. It follows, I feel bound to concur
with a majority of the Court, ii affirming the judgment, on the presumption that the instructions were proper.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of' the -Unted States for the-District of North
Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs.

