SUPREME COURT.

318

SAMUEL

L.

FOWLER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. I-ARRIS BRANTLY
AND

OTHERS, DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.

Action on a promissory note for two thousand dollars, drawn for the purpose of being discounted at the Branch Bank at Mobile, payable to the cashier of the bank or bearer, and
upon which was written an order to credit the person to whom the note was sent, to be
by him offered for discount to'the bank for the use of the drawers, the order being signed
by all the makers of the note. The bank refused to discount the note, and it was marked
with a pencil mark, in the manner in which notes are Marked by the bank which are
offered for discount. The agent of the drawers, to whom the notle was entrusted to be
offered fo, discount, put it into circulation, after endorsing it; having disposed of it for
one thousand two hundred dollars, for his own benefit, without the knowledge of the
drawers; and communicated to the purchaser of the note that it had been offered for discount, and rejected by the bank. The note was afterwards given to other persons in part
payment of a previous debt, and credit for the amount was given in the account with
their debtors. The form of the note was that required by the bank when notes are discounted, and had not been used before it had been so required by the bank. The Circuit Court instructed the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover from the drawers of the note. Held, that the instruction was correct.
The known custom of the bank, and its ordinary modes of transacting business, including
the prescribed forms of notes offered for discount, entered into the contract of those giving
notes for the purpose'of having them discounted at the bank ; End the parties to the
note must be understohd as having agreed to govern themselves by such customs and
modes of doing business: and this, whether they had actual knowledge of them or not:
and it was the especial duty of all those dealing with the note to ascertain them, if unknown. This is the established doctrine of the Supreme Court, as laid down in Ren.
ner vs. The Bunk of Columbia, 9 Wheat.; in Mills vs. The Bank of the United States,
11 Wheat.; and in The Bank of Washington vs. Triplett and Neale, 1 Peters, 32.
A note over-due, or a bill dishonoured, is a circumstance of suspicion to put those dealing
for it afterwards on their guard ; and in whose hands it is open to the same defences it
was in the hands of the holder, when it fell due. After maturity, such paper cannot be
negotiated.

IN error to the Cireuil Court of the United States fdr the Southern
District of Alabama.
In the Circuit Court of Alabama an action was instituted on a promissory note, by the plaintiff in error, against the defendants; and
a verdict and judgment were entered for the defendants. The plaintiff took exception to the charge of the Court, and prosecuted this
writ of error.
The facts of the case, and the matters which were the subjects of
the exceptions taken to the rulings of the Court, are fully stated in
the opinion of the Court.
The ease was argued at January term, 1839, by Mr. Ogden, for
the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Van De Graff, for the defendants.
It was held under advisement, for a reference to a. statute of Alabama, until this term.
Mr: Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action of assumpsit by the assignee of a note against

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

319

(Fowler vs. Brantly et al.]

the makers. The questions of law arising in this cause depend on
the construction of a note of hand, in the following words:
"Selma, Dallas County, /labama, March 1st, 1836.
"Eleven months after date, we, Harris Brantly, Peyton S. Graves,
and Hugh Ferguson, jointly and severally, promise to pay Andrew
Armstrong, cashier, or bearer, two thousand. dollars, value received,
negotiable and payable at the Branch Bank of the state of Alabama,
at Mobile.

(Signed)

"Credit: Diego M'Vov.

HARRIS

BRANTLY,
PEYTON. S. GRAVES,

HUGH FERGVSON.

HARRIS BRANTLY,
PEYTON S. GRAVES,
HUGH FERGUSON."

The note had on it the two endorsements of Diego M'Voy and
William D. Primrose; and that of Taulmin, Hazard, and Company
was stricken out. On the face of the note there was, in pencil, the
figures 169..
The defendants, the three makers, introduced evidence to prove
that the note, in its present form, (except the endorsements,) was
senL by one of the makers to M'Voy, who was his factor in Mobile,
to be offered for discount in the Branch Bank of the state in that
city as an accommodation note; the proceeds of which were to be
forwarded to said maker. That the note was offered for discount
and rejected. The factor then proposed to raise money on the note
for his own use, without the knowledge of the. makers, and intended
to conceal the appropriation of the note from them. The first person to whom he offered to sell the note deemed the attempt a fraud,
and refused to purchase. M'Voy then endorsed and .transferred the
note to Primrose for one thousand two hundred dollars, communicating to him it had been offered for discount at the bank and
rejected.
Taulmin, Hazard, and Company held a note for three thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars, on Black, endorsed by Vail and Dade,
and by Primrose, and which was past due; to discharge which, in
part, Primrose transferred the ncte in controversy to Taulmin, Hazard, and Company; and Taulmin, Hazard, and Company endorsed
the same before its maturity, to the plaintiff, Fowler, and received
credit on their account; they being largely indebted to him at the
time.
The leading feature in the cause, involving the principle on which
it turns, is this: the note was in the form prescribed by the bank to
those who desired accommodations at it; which form was not in
use before its adoption there. The memorandum on the left hand
side of the note, and signed by the drawers, was designed to show
the officers of the bank to whose 3redit the money was to be placed,

3 O

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowler vs. Brantly et al.]

should the note be discounted; and by the usages of the bank, no
other person than the'one thus named could receive the money.
Primrose testified, he knew from the pencil mark on the face of
the note, it had been offered for discount and refused, when he purchased it. The cashier proved the pencil mark was made according
to the usage of the bank on all notes offered for discount and refused.
To a part of the first instruction, that held, if the plaintiff.tbok the
note in payment of a pre-existing debt, due to him from Taulrnir,
Hazard, and Company, then the jury ought to find for the defendants,
exception is taken; and the Court refused to instruct the jury, that,
if the plaintiff took the note fairly in payment of a debt due to him,
'before its maturity, without notice of the purpose for which M'Voy
had held it, then he was entitled to recover.
And also refused to instruct, if the jury believed plaintiff took the
note bona fide in payment of a previous debt, that he had no notice
of any fraud, and there were no circumstances to put him upon an
inquiry into any fraud commifted on the part of M'Voy, he was entitled to recover.
There were other instructions asked, and refused; but, as they
are in effect the same as those recited, an answer to which will
cover the whole coe, they need not be further noticed.
The known customs of the bank, and its ordinary modes of transacting business, including the prescribed forms of -notes offered for
discount, were matters of proof, and entered into the contract; and
the parties to it must be understood as having governed themselves
by such customs and modes of doing business; and this, whether
they had actual knowledge of them, or not; and it was especially
the duty of all those dealing for the paper in question to ascertain
them if unknown. Such is the established doctrine of this Court,
as laid down in Renner vs. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheaton.
Mills vs. The Bank of the United State , 11 Wheaton, and the Bank
of Washington vs. Triplett and Neale, 1 Peters, 32, 33.
The: note sued on is peculiar in its form; it was made for the
purposes of discount, and only intended for negotiation at the bank,
and not for circulation out of it. The pencil mark on its face when sold,
was common to all rejected paper, and was put there by the officers
of the bank as evidence of the fact that it had been offered and rejected; and those dealing for it, with the mark on its face, must be
presumed, to have had knowledge what it imported; as the slightest
inq iry would have ascertained its meaning. These were the legal
presumptions attached to the contract, when the plaintiff purchased
it; and-the explanatory evidence to prove the custom of the bank,
was introduced to enlighten the Court and jury in regard to the
rules governing the transaction, and furnishing the law of the case;
and which the plaintiff, when he purchased the paper, is presumed
to have known and understood; as the Court knew and understood
it after it was proved on the trial.
This was the case made up of law and fact, on which the Court

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

3M1

[Fowler vs. Brantly et al.]

was asked tp charge the jury,; and not the abstract proposition
whether, on a proper coostruction of the statutes of Alabama, nego,tiable paper, payable in bank, purchased bona fide, and without
notice of an existing infirmity, but taken in discharge of a pre-existing debt, carried thd lnfirmity with it into the hands of the purchaser ;Ifor the reason, that the mode of payment was not in the
usual course of trade.
A note over-due, or bill dishonoured, is a circumstance of suspicion, to put those dealing for it afterwards ol their guard; and in
whose' hands it. is open for the same defences it was in the hands of
the holder when it fell due. 13 Peters, 79, After maturity, -uch
paper cannot be negotiable "in the due course of trade ;"' although
still assignable.
So the paper before us carried on its face circumstances of suspicion, so palpable as to put those dealing for it, before maturity, on
their guard; and as to require at their hands strict inquiry into the
title of those through whose hands it had passed. , Failing to be
thus diligent, they must abide by the inisfortune their negligence
imposed, and stand in the condition of M'Voy.
-As between him and the defendants, there was no contract or
liability on their part: nor as bearer of the note, could lie lawfully
pass it off in.the due coutse of trade, so as to communicate a better
title to another; the face of the paper betraying its character and
purposes, and.M'Voy's want of authority.
AII the rulings of the Court below must be referred to this paper,
and to the special case made by the proofs., Any instruction asked,
wjhich cannot be given to the whole extent asked, may be simply
-refused; or it may be modified, at the discretion of the Court. No
instruction was asked, that could. have been lawfltlly given; to
-every one, the Court could well say, and did in substance say, that
under no circumstances could a purchase of this note be made by
the plain-tiff, from Taulmin, Hazard, and Company, so as to, exempt
it in the hands of the a signee, from the infirmity it was subject to
in the hands of M'Voy.
And in regard to the last part of, the first instruction, where the
.jury is in substance toldi that if they believed the note was taken.
in payment of a pre-existing debt, due to plaintiff, from Taulmin,
Hazard, and Company, still they should find for the defendants:
the Court might have gone further, and instructed the jury, that
neither could the plaintiff recover had the note been purchased
bona fide, and without notice of the 'raudulent conduct of M'Voy.
The judgment is, therefore, ordered to be atfirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rejcord
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Alabama, and was argued br counsel. 6n consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged bythis Court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed,
with. costs.

