JANUARY TERM, ,1840.

bUSAN

497

I)ECATUV, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JAMES, K. PAULDING;
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY, DEFENDANT IN FRROR

On the 3d of March, 1837, Congress passed an act giving to the widow of any'officer who
had died in the naval service of tile United States authority to receive, out of the navy
pension fund, half the monthly pay to which the deceased officer would have been entitled
under the acts regulating the pay in the navy, in force on the lst day of January, 1835.
On the same day, a resolution was adopted by Congress, giving to Mrs. Decatur widow
of Captain Stephen Decatur, a pension for five years, out of the navy pension fund, and in
conformity with the act of 30th June, 1834, and the arrearages of the half-pay of a post
captain, from the death of Commodore Decatur to the 30th June, 1834; the arrearages
to be vested in trust for her by the Secretary of the Treasury. The pension and arreqrages, under the act of 3d March 1837, were paid to Mrs. Decatur on her application to
Mr. Dickerson, the Secretary of tthe Navy, under a protest by her, that by receiving the
same she did not prejudice her claim under the resolution of the same date. She applied
to the Secretary of the Navy for the pension and arrears, under the resolution, which
were refused by him. Afterwards; she applied to Mr. Paulding, who succeeded Mr. Dickerson as Secretary of the Navy, for the pension and arrears, which were refused by him.
The Circuit Court of the County of Washington, in the District of Columbia, refused to
grant a mandamus to tie Secretary of the Navy, commanding him to pay the arreas, and
to allow the pension under the resolution of March 3d, 1837. Held, that the judgment
of the Circuit Court was correct.
In the case of Kendall vs. The United States, 12 Peters, 527, it was decided by the Suprume
Court that the Circuit Court of Washington County, for the District of CoTiubia, ias
the power to issue a mandamus to an officer of tle federal government, commanding him
to do a ministerial act.
In general, the official duties of the head of one of the executive departments, whether imposed by act of Congress or by resolution, are not mere ministerial duties. The head of
an executive department of the government in the administration of the various and important concerns of his office, is continually required to exercise judgment and discretion.
He must exercise his judghent in expounding the laws and resolutions of Congress,
under which he is from time to time required to act. If he doubts, he has a rigit to call
on the Attorney General to assist him with his counsel; and it would be difficult to
imagine why a legal adviser was provided by law for the heads of departments, as well as
for the President, unless their duties were regarded as executive, in which judgment and
discretion were to be exercised.
If a suit should come before the Supreme Court which involved the construction of any of
the laws imposing duties on the heads of the executive departments, the Court certainly
would not be bound to adopt the construction given by the head of a department. And if
they supposed his decision to be wrong, they would, of course, so pronounce their judgment. But the judgment of the Court upon the construction of a law, must'be given in
a case in which they have jurisdiction; and in which it is their duty to interpret the act
of Congress, in order to ascertain the rights of the parties in the cause before them. The
Court could not entertain an appeal from the decision of one of the secretaries, nor revise
his judgment in any case where the- law authbrized him to exercise his discretion or
judgment. Nor can it, by mandamus, act directly upon the officer, or guide and control
his judgment or discretion in the matters committed to his care, in the ordinary discharge
of his official duties. The interference of the Court with the performance of the ordinary duties of the executive departments of the government would be productive of
nothing but mischief; atnd this power was never intended to be given to them.
The principles stated and decided in the case of Kendall vs. The United States, 12 Peters,
610 and 614, relative to the exercise of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia, where the acts of officerc of the executive departments of the United States
may be inquired into for the purpose of directing a mandamus to such officers, affirmed.

2T2

63

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
On the 3d of March, 1837, an act was passed by Congress, giving
to the widow of any officer who had died in the naval service of the
United States, out of the navy pension fund, half the monthly pay
to which the deceased officer had been entitled to receive under th
laws in force on the 1st day of January, 1835; the half-pay to commence from the death of such officer: the pension so allowed, to
cease on the intermarriage or death of the widow, &c.
On the same 3d of March, 1837, a resolution was passed by Congress, "granting a pension to Susan Decatur, widow of the late Stephen Decatur." The resolution directs that Mrs. Susan Decatur be
paid from the navy pension fund, a pension for five years, commencing from the 30th June, 1834, in conformity with the provisions "of
the act concerning naval pensions and the navy pension fund, passed
thirtieth June, eighteen hundred .and thirty-four, and that- she be
allowed from said fund the arrearages of the half-pay of a post captain, from the death of Commodore Decatur to the thirtieth of June,
eighteen hundred and thirty-four, together with the pension hereby
allowed her; and that the arrearage of said pension be invested in
the Secretary of the Treasury in trust for the tie of the said Susan
Decatur: provided that the said pension shall cease on the death ormarriage of the said Susan Decatur."
Under the law of March 3d, 1837, Mrs. Decatur applied to Mah-'
lon Dickerson, Esq., then Secretary of the Navy, and trustee of the
navy pension fund, and received out of the navy pension fund the
whole amount of the pension, which, as the widow of Commodore
Decatur, she was entitled to by the provisions of the law. This was
received by her under a reservation of her rights under the resolution of the 3d of March, 1837; she at the same time claiming the
-benefit of that resolution.
Mr. Dickerson, the Secretary of the Navy, referred the question
whether Mrs. Decatur was entitled to both pensions, to the Attorney
General of the United States; and he decided that she might make
her election to receive either pension, but that she was not entitled
to both. On the retirement of Mr. Dickerson from the navy department, he was succeeded by Mr. Paulding, the defendant in error.
In the autumn of 1838, Mrs. Decatur applied to Mr. Paulding, requiring him, as the trustee of the navy pension fund, to pay the sum
claimed to be due to her uqder the resolution of Congress of March
3dy 1837, stated in an amended petition filed in the Circuit Court tc be
eighteen thousand five hundred and ninety-seven dollars, with interest on the same. It was stated that there were ample funds, and
money of the navy pension fund to pay the amount claimed.
The Secretary of the Navy refused to comply with this demand;
and on the 25th November, 1837, Mrs. Decatur applied by petition
to the Circuit Court of the county of Washington, setting forth all

JANUARY TERM, 184o0

499

[Decatur-vs. Paulding.)

the circumstances of the case, and asking from the Court a writ of
mandamus, "to be directed to the said James K. Paulding, Secretbary of the Navy of the United Sttes, commanding him, that he
shall fully comply with, obey, and execute, the aforesaid resolution
of Congress, of the 3d of March, 1837, by paying to your petitioner
and to the Secretary of the Treasury, in manner and form as said
act or resolution provides, or as your honours shall think proper, the,
full and-entire amount of the aforesaid sum or sums of money, with
interest thereon, or such part or portion thereof as your honours
may direct."
'the Circuit Court granted a rule on the Sectetrary of the Navy
to show cause why the writ of mandamus, as prayed for, should not
'be issued; and to this rule the Secretary made the following return:
To the honourable the judgesIof the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia, for Washington County.
The undersigned, James K. Paulding, Secretary of the Navy of
theThat
United
States, respectfully states:
he hath
been served with notice of an order or rule frc(m this
honourable Court, requiring him to show cause why a writ of'mandamus should not be issued from the said Court, directed to him as
Secretary of the Navy of the United States, upon the petition of
Mrs. Susan Decatur, commanding him to pay certain sums of money
out of the navy pension fund, claimed by said petitioner to be due
to her under a certain resolution of Congresp referred to in the aforesaid petition.
The undersigned'considers it his duty, in the first place, to protest
against the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court invoked oin this occasion,
for the following reasons:
1st. Becaus6, as Secretary of the Navy of the United States, he is
not subject, in the discharge of the duties of his office by the Constitution, and laws of the United States, to the control, supervision,
and direction of the said Court.
2d. Because, as such Secretary, .he is by' law constituted the
trustee of the' navy pension fund, and it is made his duty, as such,
"to receive applications for pensions, and to grant the same according to the terms of the acts of Congress in such cases provided."
He is also required to cause books to be opened, and regular accounts to be kept, showing the condition of the navy and privateer
pension funds, the receipts and expenditures thereof, the names of
the pensioners, and the dates and amount of their respective pensions, with a-statement of the act or acts of Congress under which
the same may be granted; and he shall annually report to Congress
an abstract showing the condition of these funds in all these particulars, and the receipts and expenditures daring the year; and there
is no law authorizing the Circuit Court of this District to control and
direct him in the discharge of these duties.
3d. Because such jurisdiction in this Court would, if assumed,
operate as such an interference with the discharge of the official

5oo

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

duties of the undersigned, as to make it impossible for himto perform them as required and intended, and would transfer to the said
Court the discharge of the said duties and the whole~management
and disposition of the said fund, and subject all applicants for pensions to the delay, expense, and embarrassments of legal controversies as to their rights, and to a suspension of the provisions to which
they might be entitled under the laws, till these controversies were
judicially decided.
4th. Because such a jurisdiction in the Circuit Oourt would make
the United States sueable in that Court; and subject the money of
the United States, in the Treasury of the United- States, to be taken
therefrom by the judgments of said Court.
5th. Because if the Circuit Court assumes the jurisdiction of compelling the Secretary of the Navy, or the head of any other depart,
nent, to revise and reverse the decisions that may have been made
by their predecessors in office, these officers will necessarily be taken
off from the discharge of their immediate and most urgent public
duties, and made to apply their time and attention, and that of their
clerks in the departments, in an,endless review and reconsideration
of antiquated claims and settled questions, to the delay and hinderance of measures'of vital importance to the national welfaze and
safety.
For these and other reasons, Which ne trusts will be obvious, on
further consideration, 'to the Court, he respectfully objects' to the
jurisdiction assumed in this case'; and will now proceed, under such
protest, to show cause why the mandamus prayed for should ilot be
issued.
The undersigned was somewhat surprised to see-it stated in the
petition of the relatrix, that "he had been often requested by her
to pay the two several sums of money stated in the, petition,
amounting to the aggregate sum of twenty-three thousand four
'hundred and twenty-two dollars and twenty-five cents ;" and
that he had refused so to do ; and, that, "he pretended to say that
the petitioner was not entitled to the same, or any part thereof."1
The undersigned has no recollection of ever having refused the
payment of any sum, or any sunis of money demanded ih behalf
of Mrs. Decatur, except so far as this may have been inferred from
his declining to reconsider her claim on grounds which he will now
proceed to sthte.
Sometime in September, 1838, the undersigned received a communication from the counsel of Mrs. Decatur, informing him that
they had examined the documents connected with her claims, and
the opinion of the late Attorney General, Mr. Butler, upon the
strength of which the claim appeared to have been disallowed by
his predecessor, and that they were satisfied that the decision which
had been made was not warranted by law.
A reconsideration of the case was then asked of the undersigned,
"if he felt himself at liberty to revise the decision of his predecessor."
And if this could not be complied with, he was then asked

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

501

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

"to give such instructions to the District Attorney as will enable
him to concur with them in bringing the -subject before a competent
tribunal, in order to obtain a judicial decision upon the case." To
this application the undersigned replied, "that the claim having
been examined and decided by his predecessor, in conformity with
the opinion of the late Attorney General, he did not feel himself
authorized to disturb that decision, as no new, facts had been adduced to call for a re-examination." And further, that he also declirfed the second.proposition of the counsel; "being unwilling to
give a precedent, which, if once established, will place every executive officer of the government in the'attitude of adefendant, in all
cases where individuals are dissatisfied with his decisions."
After this reply, no further application' was made to the undersigned; but in February last, a memorial was presented. to the
President of the United States in behalf of the claimant, by her
counsel, in whiclh a reconsideration of the case and his interference
were requested, and that "if he should be of opinion that the claim
was lawful and proper to be allowed, that lie would direct the Secretary of the Navy to execute the resolution in favour of the
claimant without further delay." In this memorial the opinion of
the late Attorney General, and the decision of the late Secretary of
the Navy were stated; and it was added that "the claim had been
recently renewed before the preset Secretary of the Navy, and
again rejected, riot upon a consideration of its merits, but because
it had been before acted upon and denied, and no, new matter
shown upon the new application."

On this memorial the President decided, that "he did not find in
the papers submitted to him, sufficient tp justify the interference
asked ibr;" and of this the counsel for the claimant was informed.
The undersigned has been thus particular, for the purpose of
showing distinctly the nature of the application, and its refusal. He
desires it should be seen that he placed this refusal solely upon the
ground that his predecessor had decided it, after a fulL consideration,
and after calling for the official opinion of the Attorney General,
and that no new facts were adduced to authorize him to reconsider
it; and he desires now that this shall be considered by the Court as
a distinct ground of objection to the relief now prayed for.
He presumes, that even if the Court shall decide that it possesses
thejurisdicti6n claimed, it will not consider that it is bound to
'Pxercise it in all cases, and under all circumstances; and that after
a claim has been heard and rejected by the officer authorized to
decide upon it, it stilt remains in the power of the claimant to call
it up, and compel, a reconsideration of it from every successive
officer, who may be subsequently appointed in the place of the
officer making the decision. It is obvious, that if such a course is
allowed, there can be no such thing as the final decision of a controverted claim.
The executive officers must always continue to con~ider it as an

502

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding,)

open claim, and the funds of the government as still liable to its
demands. Nor is it possible for the affairs of the government to be
properly administered, if the executive officers, instead of devoting
themselves to the discharge of the duties brought before them; and
which are abundantly sufficient to occupy all their time and attention ;. are to be called upon to go back to the times of their predecessors, and determine whether they have properly discharged the
duties they were required to execute.
These considerations, and an experience of the impossibility of
thus conducting the public business committed to them, have long
since obliged all the executive departments, under every administration, with the sanction,, as the undersigned believes, of several
successive attorneys general, to adopt the rule, that no claim once
fully heard and rejected by the competent officer can be considered
open to the review and reconsideration of the successor to such
officer, unless new matter can be shown to justify such re-examination.
It is evidently as important to the public interests, if the Courts
shall be considered as invested with the jurisdiction claimed on this
occasion, that they should respect this rule.
The inconveniences resulting from disregarding it by the Courts
in the exercise of such a jurisdiction are tie same. The same unsettled state of controverted claims, the same uncertainty as to
the national funds, kept open to rejected demands, which may interfere with the rights of other claimants and with the public interests, and the same misemployment of the time and attention of
the public officers to cases already decided by their predecessors,
must continually occur; for, although the decision is ultimately
made by the Court, yet. the officer to whom the command is to be
directed must examine the case and every thing connected with it,
so as to present it to the coiisideration of the Court. Indeed, much
more of his time and attention may be withdrawn from the immediate duties of his station, by his being called to answer before
a judicial tribunal on such occasions, and make that defence against
the proceedings which he may feel bound to do, than by a reconsideration of the claim.
Under such circumstances it has been heretofore thought necessary by claimants whose demands have been rejected, and who
were dissatisfied with such rejection, to make their application to
Congress; and where it has been thought reasonable and. just by the
legislature that their claims should be allow.ed, acts have passed for
their allowance, or the accounting officers have been authorized to
open and reconsider their claims. And it appears to the undersigned that there would be a peculiar propriety in seeking that
mode of redress in relation to the present claim, which arises from
the circumstance of there being two legislative enactments of the
same date, making nearly similar provisions for the claimant, and
the question being whether she is entitled to one or both of these

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

503

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

provisions. The decision of that question by the late Secretary of
the Navy, and the opinion of the Attorney General, upon wfiih it
is founded, are herewith presented to the Court.
The undersigned observes that a specific sum is stated in the petition as being the amount of the pension claimed. He has already
stated that no sum was stated in the application made to him. It
appears from the amount stated, that the petitioner claims not only
half the pay to which the deceased was entitled, but half the pay
and rations, or pay and emoluments.
This wif present to the Court, incase they should assume the
jurisdiction, and decide in favour of the petitioner, a question under
the pension laws as to the construction of the words "half the pay"
and "half -the monthly pay," in those acts of Congress. The uniform construction of all these laws, in. all the departments of the
government, has invariably been such as to confine the pension to
the pay proper; the expression being in all these acts "pay," and
not pay and rations, or pay and emoluments. The undersigned is
not aware that any claimant of a pension has ever before suggested
a different construction.
in conclusion, he admits, in relation to the state of the navy pension fund, that there is at present a sufficient amount to pay the
claim of the petitioner, if it was now to be paid. What may be its
state when the payment may be ordered, if it should be ordered, it
will be impossible for him to state; inasmuch as it will depend on
the number of applicants whose claims may be made and allowed
in the mean time. And he thinks it proper to state, that if the payment of the sum stated in the petition shall be commanded by the
decision of the Court, in consequence of the Court's deciding that
the pensioners under these acts of Congress are entitled to half-pay
and rations, or pay and emoluments, of the deceased officers and
seamen, then he apprehends the navy pension fund would be greatly
insufficient to pay the present claimant and the other pensioners
whose claims have been alloWed, but who haVe only received half
the pay proper, ex:clusive of rations or emoluments. All which he
respectfully submits.

J. K. PAULDING.

OPINION 0F THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.

a4ttorney General's Office, april 1 th, 1837.
Sir-I have hac the honour to receive your letter of the 15th ult'o,
relative to the case of Mrs. Susan Decatur.
It is- assumed in your statement of the case, that Mrs. Decatur
would be entitled to the pension granted by the act of the 3d ultimo,
fon the equitable administration of the navy pension fund, "were it
not for the doubt created by, the passage, on the same day, of the
joint resolution for her special benefit. And on these two laws you
inquire whether she is entitled under the resolution, or under the act,,
or under both."
This case differs from that of Mrs. Perry, referred to in the note
of Mrs. Decatur, accompanying your letter, inasmuch as the law

504

SUPREME COUPT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

under whih Mrs. Perry ultimately obtained her pension was in
existence at the time of his death, at which time she was also entitled (although not then aware of the fact) to its benefits. I held,
in her case, that the law granting her an annuity, for such it was
called, could not deprive her of the pension given by a pre-existing
law; and that as Congress were presumed to be acquainted with
the laws in force, the legal intendment must be, that the annuity
was designed as an additional provision; and, consequently, that she
was entitled to both.
After maturely considering the history of the-general and special
provisions on which the present case depends, I am of opinion that
but one pension can be allowed ; but if the general provision in,cludes the case of Mrs. Decatur, then I am of qpinion she is entitled
to take, under that provisionor under the. joint resolution, at her
election.
I am, very respectfully, your ob't serv.
,B..F. BUTLER.
The Hon, MAHLON DIcKERSON,
Secretary of the Navy.
LETTER FROM SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TO MRS. DECATUR.

Navy D~epartment, 14th .4prili 1837.
Dear Madam-The Attorney General has given his opinion, that
in your case but one pension can be allowed; he, however, thinks
that you have your selection to take under the general law, or under
the resolution in your particular case; as soon as your pleasure
upon this subject shall be known, the warrant for pension shall be
made out,
I am, with great respect and esteem, your ob't h'le s't,
M. DIcKERSON.
Mrs. SUSAN DECATUR,
Georgetown, D. C.
The Circuit Court overruled the order to show cause to the Secretary of the Navy, and refused the application of Mrs. Decatur
for a mandamus; and this writ of error was prosecuted by her.
The case was argued by Mr. Brent and Mr. C.oxe, for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr.. Gilpin, Attorney General of the Urdted
States, for the defendant.
Upon the part of the plaintiff in error it was said:
1st. That there was error in the refusal of the Court below to
award the mandamus, and that it ought to have been granted.
-d. That the Secretary of the Navy, the appellee, is bound to
execute said resolution, and that he has no discretion in so doinig.
3d. That the said resolution being clear and explicit as an act of
legislation, the said Secretary of the Navy ought not,.(acting as he
did, ministerially, in carrying it into execution,) to refuse to execute
the same.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

505

(Decatur vs. Paulding.]

4th. That having refused to do the same, the Court ought to have
,issued the mandamus.
5th. If there be a doubt uporr the lax s of Congress, whether the
relatrix is entitled, that doubt is removed by an examination of the
journals and proceedings of Congress connected with the claim of
the relatrix.
The counsel for the plaintiff, in support of the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court to issue the mandamus as prayed for, cited Marbury
vs. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137. 6 Peters, 241. Kendall, Postmastergeneral, vs. The United States, 12 Peters, 524.
They contended, that it was ;he intention of Congress to give the
pension to Mrs. Decatur under the resolution; and also a pension
under the general pension law, passed on the same day the resolution was adopted and approved.
The pensions, it will be seen by an examination of the resolution
and of the law, are not the same, but are cumulative. Each law is
a clear and distinct act of legislation expressing the will of the legislature, directed to the Secretary of the Navy, in a ministerial capacity; and he should have obeyed both. He has no right to collate
the two laws for the purpose of interpreting them. While acting
under the provisions of the pension law,\ the Secretary of the Navy
may-have a discretion, and he is to inquire into facts on which he
is to decide; but under the first resolution giving a pension to Mrs.
Decatur, he is to act only ministerially.
The history of the proceedingsof Congress, granting a pension
to Mrs. Decatur, by the resolution, and contemporaneously giving
pensions to -the-widows of officers of the navy, shows that the claims
of the plaintiff in error are well founded. The'allowances are different. The rate of the pension under the resolution, and that given
by the law, is different. One is given for five years, and a trustee
is to hold the arrears, for the use of Mrs. Decatur. The sum given
by the resolution is greater than that given by the pension law.
One allows the rations of the captain to form a part of the estimate;
the law gives only half of the pay pioper.
The true construction ,ofthe law and resolution will be obtained
,by a reference to the principles which have been applied to wills
giving more than one legacy to the same persons. The Courts, in
such cases, always adjudged, that when the legacies are distinct and
independent, and have no reference to each other, both legacies are
payable. Cited, 1 Brown's Ch. Cases, 389. 6 Madox, 300. 303.
2 Russell's Rep. 272. 1 Coxe's Cases, 391.
When there is a doubt as to the intention of the legislature, the
law should be construed favourably to those who claim under it.
6 Dane's Abr. 570.
Mr. Gilpin, for the defendant in error.
The navy pension fund was established by the act of-2d March3
1799. 1 Story's Laws, 677. It was made up from a certain proportion of the sales of prizes, taken by the officers and seamen of
64
VOL. XIV.--2 U

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

the American navy, the investment of which it provided for, so as
to establish the fund in question. From the time of its establishment, occasional changes were made (1 Story's Laws, 769. 2
Story's Laws, 943. 1284. 1399. 3 Story's Laws 1565. 1637. 1731.
1934. 4 Story's Laws, 2129. 2299) in the organization of the trust,
the amount of pension, and the persons entitled to it. In the year
1832 ,the fund was in the Treasury of the United States, in charge
of three commissioners, being the Secretaries of the Navy, War, and
Treasury Departments, who were authorized to make the necessary
regulations for admitting pensioners and paying pensions; and the
payments to the pensioners were made by warrants drawn in their
favour, by the Secretary of the Navy, on the Treasurer of the United
States; every officer, seaman, and marine, disabled in the line of
his duty, received such pension as the commissioners might allow,
not exceeding his full monthly pay; and the widow of any-one
killed in service during the late war, or dead of wounds and casualties then received, was to have half his monthly pay for twenty-five
years after his death. On the 10th July, 1832, (4 :;tory'9 Laws,
2309,) the navy pension fund was reorganized; the commissioners
were abolished ; their duties were imposed on the Secretary of the
Navy alone ; and he was to "receive applications for pensions, and
grant them according to the terms of the acts of Congress ;" but no
change was made as to the persons entitled to receive them, or in
the amounts. On the 30th June, 1834, (4 Story's Laws, 385,) an
act was passed, adding to the persons previously entitled to pensions,
"the widows of officers, seamen, and marines, who died in the
naval service, since 1st January, 1824, or who might die by reason
of disease, casualties, or injuries received while in the line of their
duty." This law did not include the widows of those dying in the
naval serviceprevious to that day, although they might have contributed as much to the fund as those who died after it. Such was
the case in regard to the plaintiff in error, the widow of the gallant
Decatur. In 1830 a special resolution was introduced in Congress
to grant her half pay for five years from 30th June, 1834, which, in the
succeeding year, was extended, by adding thereto arrearages of half
pay, from her husband's death to the 30th June, 1834, (Journal of
House of Representatives, 336;) in that shape it passed the House,
and was sent to the Senate. In the meanwhile, that body had taken
up the subject, and had before it a general law to provide for the
widows of all officers, seamen, and marines similarly situated; which
bill they passed and sent to the House, without adopting the special
measure for Mrs. Decatur's relief. The general bill then gave rise
to discussion, and it not having passed the day before the close
of the session, the Senate adopted the special resolution in regard to
the plaintiff in error, which was approved by the President. Subsequent to the .passage of the special resolution, the general bill was
also passed by both Houses, and approved by the President, amongr
the last acts at the close of the session. Journal of the Senate, 41.
132. 206. 300. 318. 330. 338. 340. Journal of the House of Repre-

JANUARY TERM. 1840.

507

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

sentatives, 569. The general law embraced'in its provisions the
case of Mrs. Decatur, and differed in no respect from the special
resolution, except that it extended the pension. to her death instead
of limiting it, as the resolution did, to five years.
The application by Mrs. Decatur to Secretary Dickerson, to pay
her a double pension, the one under the general act, and the other
under the special resolution, was refused by the advice of the Attorney General; and she received the sum to which she was entitled
under the-former, without, however, waiving her claim to the latter.
She subsequently applied to Secretary Paulding, the defendant in
error, to revise this decision of his predecessor, which he declined
to do; and afterwards to the President, who decided, that "he did
not find in the papers submitted to him, sufficient to justify the interference asked for." Thereupon, Mrk. Decatur applied to the
Circuit Court of this district to issue a mandamus to Secretary Paulding, to comply with the special resolution, by paying to Mrs. Decatur, and to the Secretary of the Treasury, in trust for her, the full
amount of the arrearages and pension, including therein half the
rations, as well as half the monthly pay. The refusal of the Court
to issue such a mandamus, is alleged to be error.
1. It is submitted that there was no error in this refusal of the
Court below, because that Court was not authorized to issue a mandamus, for the purposes prayed for.
It is an attempt to compel the Secretary of the Navy, throuIh
the mandate of an inferior and local tribunal, to take from the
Treasury of the United States a sum raised by the gallantry of men,
most of whom are dead, and placcd there under his charge, as their
trustee, and to appropriate it in a manner contrary to what in his
own judgment the law sanctions, contrary to the opinion of the
Attorney General, and not approved of or sanctioned by the chief
executive officer. There must be strong grounds to authorize such
an exercise of power, to permit the Circuit Court of this District
thus to compel a public officer to take money from the treasury,
when he believes he is forbidden by law so to do, and when he i&
confirmed in that belie" by an officer whose opinion, he is, by law,
to require, in every doubtful case. It effects, in practice, a radical
change in the mode of managing and disbursing the public money;
it takes, in point of fact, the responsibility of superintending a pLrticular fund from the officer made answerable for it by law, and
transfers it to a Court of justice; it changes materially the modes of
proceeding in relation to the trust; it may delay the payment of
numerous pensioners, during the progress of a tedious and complicated litigation; if the power of prohibiting as well as compelling
payments to certain pensioners exists, (and it results from the same
principle,) those of whose rights the Secretary of.the Navy, as their
trustee, has no doubt, may be forced to contend for them by expensive and protracted lawsuits;
Nor is there any usage or principle of law which would sanction such an interference as was sought from, but properly refused

508

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

by the Circuit Court. The Secretary of the Navy is an executive
officer; the cases in which any Court, even one admitted to have
the power of issuing a mandamus, can control such an officer in the
performance of an executive duty, have been fully discussed; this
Court has examined the subject so as to lay down the rules by which
he may be guided; yet in no instance has a case like the present
been sustained by a~judicial sanction.
The case of Marbhry vs. Madison, (1 Cranch, 137,) was that of a
commission already signed by the President, sealed, and ready for delivery. This Court held, that a Courthaving legal authority to issue
a mandamus, might do so in such a case, because the course prescribed was a precise one, pointed out by law, to be strictly pursued,
and "in which there could be no variation." 1 Cranch, 158. Apply
this test to the duty devolved on the Secretary of the Navy, as trustee
of this fund. Was he bound to pay a certain sum under all circumstances? Was it a proceeding "which could not be varied,"
even if the fund was insufficient ? Must he not' look to the state of
the fund, to other existing claims upon it under the laws then in
force ? Could he pay it out of the fund committed to him, if already
exhausted, or if there were other legal claims upon it, made prior
to, or at the same time with Mrs. Decatur's, under prior or equal
legal sanctions, and it was insufficient to pay all? By this test it
was a proceeding that\ might, nay, must, of necessity, be varied;
the exercise of'the trustee's discretion was required to examine the
state of the fund and he validity of other claims; and the performance of the requireL act must depend on and might be varied
by the result of that examination. Again, this Court held, in the
same case, (1 Cranch, 164,) that where the Secretary of War was
directed by an act of Congress to place certain designated names on
the pension list, his refusal would authorize a mandamus. In such
a case the duty of the executive officer is plain; had Congress directed
Mrs. Decatur's name to be put on the pension list, it would have
prescribed an act merely and strictly ministerial; but they order
him to pay her out of the navy pension fund, of which he is trustee,
which he is bound to administer and dispose of according to other
existing laws, and to the legal sufficiency of which he must look
whenever he makes a payment. So when it was held, that the
Secretary of State might be compelled to deliver a patent which
had been duly signed, sealed, and recorded, (1 Cianch, 165,) we
have a proceeding which could not be varied; the Secretary could
do nothing but the act required; it had no communion with any
other act; but suppose the patent had not beeti signed and sealed,
and that the Secretary was of opinion, that all the necessary
prerequisites had not been complied with ; or, suppose the 'Tight
of the patentee was limited to a location within a certain designated body of land, (as in military bounties,) and all the lands
therein had been exhausted, could the Secretary, in such a case, be
compelled to issue and deliver the patent by a writ of mandamus?
Again, the Court held, in the same case, that an olficer might be

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

509

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

compelled to do an act, peremptorily enjoined, and affecting individual or private rights, (1 Cranch, 166;) thus distinguishing such an
act from those of a public or political character, or those which
affect the rights and interests of various persons. To place a name
on the pension list, to deliver his patent to a patentee, to record the
commission of a justice of the peace, are acts not of a public concern, but solely affecting the interest of the individual. On these,
as the Court say, it is "their province to decide; not to inquire how
the executive, or executive officers perform duties in which they
have a discretion." Is the plaintiff in error solely interested in the
act which she requires the Secretary of the Navy to do ? Does it
affect her individual rights alone ? Are not other claimants on the
fund equally interested? Is not the executive officer responsible
for the correctness of his decision in performriing a public trust?
Are not the natiii, the public, bound to see that the fund is properly applied, and to make good any deficiency arising from an
erroneous payment, even though made under the sanction of the
Circuit Court of this district ? The tests thus established by this
Court, in the case of Marbury vs. Madison, exclude the act asked
for by the plaintiff in error, from the class of ministerial acts; they
place it clearly among those which are executive, and to a certain
extent discretionary.
In the case of M'Cluney vs. Silliman, (6 Wheat. 349,) a preemption claim had been rejected by the Register of the Land Office,
on the ground that the land belonged to another; a mandamus was
refused, because the Court held, that they had no controlling power
over the officer in such a case, whatever might be the justice of the
applicant's claim; but that "the parties must be referred to the
ordinary mode of obtaining justice, and not resort to the extraordinary one of a mandamus." Yet in what respect was the proceeding asked for in that case, less sustained by law than the
present ?
The case of Kendall vs. The United States (12 Peters, 610,) was,
like that of Marbury vs. Madison, very fully examined; important
principles were settled; rules were carefully laid down; and those
cases distinguished in which an executive officer would be, and
would not be compelled to act by a mandamus. The Court said,
that to justify such a proceeding the act required to be done, must
be "a mere, ministerial act ;" the Postmaster-general was " to
credit" the relators with a certain sum exactly ascertained and reported to him by an officer authorized so tO do ; the act was precise,
definite, and purely ministerial; no money whatever was to be
paid. All those are points distinguishing the case from the present
one, especially the -payment of money : here, too, it is to be withdrawn out of a particular fund in the treasury, which, as the officer
having it in charge believes, is appropriated to other purposes.
These decisions of this Court seem to be -sufficient to sustain, the
judgment of the Court belov, and they.are abundantly sanctioned,
if it were necessary to go beyond them, by the opinions of other

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur'vm. Paulding.]

tribunals. 3 Law Journal, 128. 5 Binney, 104. 6 Binney, 9.
1 Whart. 1. They mark with exactness the line between executive
arid merely ministerial duties; and they place the act which the Secretary is now called on to perform, clearly within the former. It is
one requiring the exercise of deliberate judgment in the construction
of a long series of laws; in a determination between conflicting legal
provisions; in ascertaining the rights of different parties, that may
seriously interfere with each other, and in, apportioning between
all an inadequate fund. It is, therefore, in no sense an act in which
a Court. is authorized to interfere with an executive officer. Much
less is it so, when the effect of such interference riust be to require
a revision of decisions previously made in the most deliberate manner, and to oblige -every incumbent of an office, already laborious,
to investigate and open anew, without the exhibition of additional
facts, subjects that have been already fully and finally decided.
2. But if the act which the Secretary of the Navy is required to
perform were ministerial, and such as a Court having competent
jurisdiction might compel him to perform; it is yet submitted, that
upon the merits the applicant would not be entitled to the relief
prayed for. Mrs. Decatur had no right to claim payment under the
resolution, having received it under. the general law.
To make such a double payment out of the navy pension fund,
would be a violation of the trust created in the establishment of
that fund. It was not raised by Congress ; it was taken from the
sale of prizes captured by the naval officers and seamen. By what
right, on what principle of justice can the widow of one officer receive from that fund twice as much as another? Congress never
designed so to violate the principles of justice, or so to appropriate
any portion of a fund raised by the services and gallantry of the
whole navy. That they could not, is strikingly shown in the instance of their gratuity to the widow of Commodore Perry; she
was entitled to her pension from this fund; but when Congress resolved, under circumstances of strong sympathy, to add to her compensation, they gave her an annuity "payable out of the treasury; not a double pension, to be 'taken from the navy, pension fund, to
the detriment of those to whom it belonged, according to the terms
of the original trust. 6 Laws of the United States, 561.
It was evidently the intention of Congress to substitute the general
for the special provision; to give to all the widows of the officers
and 'seamen,.the same relative gratuity; with this object, the special
resolution in favour of Mrs. Decatur was withheld till the latest
moment: it was only when it was found that a differepce between
the two flouses might prevent the passage of the general bill, at
that session, that the special- res6lution in her behalf was adopted.
This is evinced, by the identity of every prQvision in the two, except that which prolongs the pension during life. An intention so
clearly exhibited must always prevail in construing a statute. Brown
vs. Barry, 3 Dallas, 365. But were there a doubt as to the intention to abrogate the special provision by the general law, it would

JANUARY TERM, 184o.

511

.[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

not sanction the assumption that Congress meant the latter to apply
to the case of Mrs. Decatur, while the former continued in force.
It would be more reasonable to suppose that her claim, having been
separately presented, separately discussed, and separately legislated
upon,.any which she might have had under the general law was
extinguished.
In the construction of statutes, where a general legislative
provision embraces a special one, it is a substitute for, not an addition to
it. The general provision embraces and controls the special one.
This arises from two well established principles in regard to statutes:
that all legislative provisions on the same subject are to be taken
together; and that later. regulations, if at variance with previous
ones, are to control them. It is said by Lord Coke, (2 Inst. 13,) that
earlier clauses in the same statute are to be restrained by those that
are subsequent. Where an act provided for the place where treason, committed by particular persons, should be tried, and a subsequent act established the mode of all trials for treason, the latter was
held to supersede the former. i Reports, 63. In Rex vs. Loxdale,
1 Burrows, 447, it is said, that all statutes relating to one subject
are to be taken together. When the act of 5 Geo. 3, punished "seducing artificers" with three months' imprisonment, and that ,of
23 Geo. 3, with six months, the last was held to supersede the former; though there was no express repeal. Rex vs. Cator, 4 Burrows, 2026. In Williams vs. Pritchard, 4T'erm Reports, 2, it is said,
that a subsequent act controls a prior one on the same subject. In
the Attorney General vs. Chelsea Waterworks, Fitzgibbon, 195, it
is said, that the latter part of the same statute controls the former
part. In Bywater vs. Branding, 7 Barn. and Cress. 643, it is said,
that statutes are to be so construed as to give effect to the whole,
not to separate clauses. In Gage vs. Currier, 4 Pickering, 399, where
an act of 1793 gave limited privileges, as to church membership, to
a particular town, and an act of 1823 gave general privileges on the
same subject to the whole state, the latter was held to supersede the
former. Applying these r inciples, we must admit, that where a
pension to the widow of a deceased officer is given, and subsequently
thereto a pension is allowed to all such widows, including by its
terms the one for whom the special act was passed, it is to be taken
as one general provision.
It is held, that the same rules should govern the construction of
statutes as of wills. Butler and Baker's case, 3 Reports, 27. Attorney General vs. Chelsea Waterworks, Fitzgibbon, 195. If so, the
principle contended for is clearly established. It cannot be doubted
that if, in a will, an annuity for five years, of a specific sum, payable
out of a specific funcl, were bequeathed to the plaintiff in error, ana
shortly afterwards, by a codicil, an annuity in all respects similar,
except that it was to last for life, were bequeathed to a class of persons of whom the plaintiff was necessarily one, that the latter would
be regarded, not as an addition to, but a substitute for the former.
In St. Albans vs. Beauclerk, 2 Atkyns, 638, where the same sum

512

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur is.Paulding.]

was given to the same person in two codicils, it was held to be but
one legacy; an d that even a greater sum to the same person is only
an augmentation, not a second legacy. In James vs. Semmes, 2 H.
Blackstone, 213, an annuity of the same sum to the same person,in
a will, and afterwards in a, codicil, was held to be but one, because
made chargeable on the same fund. In Allen vs. Callow, 3 Vesey,
289, a legacy was given to a child named, and by a codicil the same
sum to the children generally; and it was held to be a mere repetition. In Osborn vs. Leeds, 5 Vesey, 384, a legacy to children generally, and a codicil giving the same sum to a particular child, was
held to be merely a repetition. In Dewitt vs. Yates, 10 Johnson's
Reports, 158, a legacy to a granddaughter, and afterwards one of
the same sum to the same person, but payable by a different legatee,
was held to be only a substitution. None of these cases are so
strongly indicative of the intention to substitute the last for the first
provision, as that of Mrs. Decatur.
But if the first provision be not superseded, is it not expressly
repealed by the last ? The general act provides that the navy pension fund shall be distributed in a certain manner, and no other; it
then repeals all other laws at variance with it. Is not the special
act therefore repealed ? Even if not superseded or repealed, does'
not'the well established principle apply, that where tyvo modes are
given to recover the same thing, one must be chosen? Co. Litt. 145.
On these several grounds it is submitted, that the plaintiff in error,
having received her pension under one law, cannot claim it under
the other, for which the former was only a substitute. Even if both
were passed intentionally; if Congress on the same day knowingly
passed two distinct acts, relating to the payment of a widow's pension out of the navy pension fuid, they can be regarded only as two
sections of a single, law; the one providing for the person named,
the other for all widows. How would the clauses be considered in.
such a case? The most favourable construction. would be, that Mrs.
Decatur might take under eitjher-might claim her right to select;
that she was to have a special benefit, if she chose under the 'one
qection, not being required to offer any evidence to sustain' her claim,
as others were obliged to do; or that she was to have her pension
for life, if she preferred to waive that benefit. The special clause
excepted her from'the general provisions imposed on all other persons. Rex vs. Armagh, 8 Modern, 8. Churchill vs. Crease, 5 Bingham, 180. Torrington vs. Hargraves, 5 Bingham, 492.
3. But again: the Circuit Court was right in refusing the mandamus, because it asked for the payment of a sum under the resolution, which the resolution did not warrant. The plaintiff in error
asked a mandamus to compel the Secretary of the Navy to pay her
the full and entire amount of the sums of money stated in her petition, which were one-half of the monthly pay of her husband, and
also one-half of the daily rations to which he was entitled. The
lesolution gives her a pension "in conformity with the provisions
of the act concerning naval pensions and the navy pension fund,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

513

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

passed 30th June, 1834," (4 Story's Laws, 2385;) and also, "the
arrearages of the half-pay of a post captain."

No authority or rea-

son for including the daily rations-the subsistence of an officer or
seaman, in his pay, can be shown either by statute or usage. Unifori construction, from the beginning of the government, has excluded them. This exposition of the law is so strong that a Court
of justice would now scarcely change it, even if 'the language admitted of doubt. 1 Dallas, 136. 178, 179. The whole current of
legislation shows that they are considered as distinct. 1 Story's
Laws, 321. 502. 514. 2 Story's Laws, 830. 1090. 1210. 3 Story's
Laws, 1810. And in the case of Parker vs. The United States,
1 Peters, 297, it evidently appears that this Court regarded the
rations of an officer as distinct from his pay.
On these grounds it is submitted, that it was no error in the Circuit Court to refuse the mandamus which was prayed for. The act
of the Secretary of the Navy, which it was sought to compel, was
not such as that tribunal had a right to control; and if it had been,
the payment already received by the plaintiff in error appears to
have been all that Congress intended her to have, by virtue of the
resolution on which she relied. That the generous liberality of the
legislature might be justly extended to reward the gallant services
of the brave and lamented Decatur, no one can doubt; but it is not
to be supposed that they desired to effect that object, by an unequal
charge upon a fund collected by the gallantry and intended for the
benefit of the officers and seamen of the navy in general.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error, from the judgment
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia,
refusing to award a peremptory mandamus.
The material facts in the case arpe as follow: By an act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March, 1837, the widow of any officer
who died in tie naval service, became entitled to receive out of the
navy pension fund half the monthly pay to which the deceased dfficer would have been entitled, under the acts regulating the pay of
the navy, in force on the 1st day of January, 1835; the half-pay to
commence from the time of the death of such officer; and upon the
death or intermarriage of such widow, to go to the child or children
of the officer.
On the same day the following resolution was passed by Congress:
No. 2. Resolution granting a pension to Susan Decatur, widow of
the late Stephen Decatur.
Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That Mrs. Susan
Decatur, widow of the late Commodore Stephen Decatur, be paid
from the navy pension fund, a pension for five years, commencing
from the thirtieth day of June, eighteen hundred and thirty-four, in
conformity with the provisions of the act concerning naval pensions
65

514

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur v&.-Paulding]

and the navy pensiorl fund, passed the thirtieth June, eighteen hundred and thirty-four; and that she be allowed, from said fund, the
arrearages of the half-pay of a post captain, from the death of
Commodore Decatur to the thirtieth of June, eighteen hundred and
thirty-four, together with the pension hereby allowed her; and that
the arrearage of said pension be vested in the Secretary of -the
Treasury, in trust for the use of the said Susan Decatu:: provided
that the said pension shall cease on the death or marriage of the said
Susan Decatur.
Approved, March 3, 1837.
By the act of Congress of July 10th, 1832, the Secretary of the
Navy is constituted the trustee of the navy pension fund; and as
such it is made his duty to grant and pay the pensions,' according to
the terms of the acts of Congress.
After the passage of the law and resolution of March 3d, 1837,
Mrs. Sfsan Decatur, thp, widow of Commodore Decatur, applied to
Mahlon Dickerson then Secretary of the Navy, to be allowed the
half-pay to which she was entitled under the general law above
mentioned; and also the pension and arrearages of half-pay specially provided for her by the resolution passed on the same day.
The Secretary of the Navy, it appears, doubted whether she was
entitled to both, and referred the matter to the Attorney General;
who gave it as his opinion that Mrs. Decatur was not entitled to
both, but that she might take under either, at her election. The
Secretary thereupon informed her of the opinion of the Attorney
General, offering at the same time to pay her under the law, or the
resolution, as she might prefer, Mrs. Decatur elected to receive
under the law; but it-is admitted by thee counsel on both sides that
she did not acquiesce in this decision, but protested against it; and
by consenting to receive the amount paid her, she did not mean to
'waive any right she might have to the residue.
Some time afterwards, Mr. Dickerson retired from the office of
Secretary of the Navy, and was succeeded by Mr. Paulding, the
defendant in this writ of error; and in the' fall of 1838 Mrs. Decatur
applied- to hind to revise the decisign of his predecessor, and to
allow her the pension provided by the resolution. The Secretary
declined doing so; whereupon Mrs. Decatur applied to the Circuit
Court for Washington County, in the District of Columbia, for a
mandamus to compel him to pay the amount she supposed to be
due to her. A rule to show cause was granted by the Court; and
upon a return made by him, stating, among other things, the facts
above 'mentioned, the Court refused the application for a peremptory mandamus. It is this decision we are now called on to revise,
In the case of Kendall vs. The United States, 12 Peters, 524, it
was decided in this Court, that the Circuit Court for Washington
county in the District of Columbia, has the power to issue a mandamns to an officer of the federal government, commanding him
to do a ministerial act. The first question, therefore, to be consi-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

515

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

dered in this case is, whether the duty imposed upon the Secretary
of the Navy, by the resolution in favour of Mrs. Decatur, was a
mere ministerial act.
The duty required by the resolution was to be performed by him
as the head of one of the executive departments of the government,
in the ordinary discharge of his official duties. In general, such duties,
whether imposed by act of Congress or by resolution, are not mere
ministerial duties. The head of an executive department of the
government, in the administratioit of the various and important
concerns of his office, is continually required to exercise judgment
and discretion. He must exercise his judgment in expounding the
laws and resolutions of Congress, under which he is from time to
time required to act. If he doubts, he- has a right to call on the
Attorney General to assist him with his counsel; and it would be
difficult to imagine why a legal adviser was provided by law for the
heads of departments, as well as for the President, unless their duties
were regarded as executive in which judgment and discretion were
to be exercised.
If a suit should come before this Court, which involved the construction of any of these laws, the Court certainly would not be
bound to adopt the construction given by the head of a department.
And if they supposed his decisidn to be wrong, they would, of course,
so pronounce their judgment. But their judgment upon the construetion of a law must be giveh in a case in which they have jurisdiction,
and in which it'is their duty to interpret the act of Congress, in order to
ascertain the rights of the parties in the cause before them. The
Court could not entertain an appeal from the decision of one of the
Secretaries, nor revise his judgment in any case where the law
authorized him to exercise discretion, or judgment, Nor canf it by
mandamus, adt directly upon the olicer, and guide and control his
judgment or discretion in the matters committed to his care, in the
ordinary discharge of his official duties.
The case before us illustrates these principles, and shows the differ.pnce between executive duties and ministerial acts. The clhim
of NIrs. Decatur having been acted upon by his predecessor in office,
the Secretary was obliged, to determine whether it was proper to
revise that decision. If fie had determined to revise it, he must
have exercised his judgment upon the construction of the lauw and
the resolution, and have made up his mind whether she was entitled
under one only, or under both. And if he detcrmined that she was
entitled under the resolution as well as the law, he must then have
again exercised his judgment, in deciding whether the half-pay
allowed her was to be calculated by the pay proper, or the pay and
emoluments of an officer of the Commodore's rank. And after all
this was done, he must have inquired into the condition of the navy
pension fund, and the claims upon it, in order to ascertain whether there was money enougn to pay all the demands upon it;. and
i" not money enough, how it was to be apportioned among the parties entitled. A resolution of Congress, requiring the exercise of so

516

SUPREME COURT.
(Deeatur vs. Paulding.]

much judgment and ifivestigation, can, with no propriety, oe said to
command a mere ministerial act to be done by the Secretary.
The interference of the Courts with the performance of the ordinary duties of the executive departments of the government, would
be productive of nothing but mischief; and we are quite satisfiedthat such a power was never intended to be given to them. Upon
the very subject before us, the interposition of the Courts might
throw the pension fund, and the whole subject of pensions, into the
greatest confusion and disorder. It is understood from the Secretary's return to the mandamus, that. in allowing the half-pay, it has
always been calculated by the pay proper; and that the rations or
emoluments to which the officer was entitled, have never been
brought into the calculation. Suppose the Court had deemed the
act required by the resolution in question a fit subject for a mandamus, and, in expounding it, had determincd that the rations and
emoluments of the officer were to be considered in calculating -the
half-pay ? We can readily imagine the confusion and.disorder into
which such a decision would throw the whole subject of pensions
and half-pay; which now forms so large a portion of the annual expenditure of the government, and is distributed among such a mu!titude of individuals.
The doctrines which this Court now hold in relation to the executive departments of the government, are the same that were distinctly announced in the case of Kendall vs. The United States, 12
Peters, 524. In page 610 of that opinion, the Court say, "We do
not think the proceedings in this case interferes in any respect whatever.with the rights or duties of the executive, or that it involves
any conflict of powers between the executive and judicial departments of the government. The mandamus does not seek to direct or
control the Postmaster-general in the discharge of any official duty,
partaking in any respect of an executive character; but to enforce the
performance of a mere ministerial act, which neither he nor the
President had any authority to deny or control."
And in page 614, the Court still more strongly state the mere
ministerial character of the act required to be done in that case,
and distinguish it from official acts of the head of a department,
where judgment and discretion are to be exercised. The Court
there say, "He was simply required to give the credit. This was
not an official act in any other sense than being a transaction in the
department where the books and accounts were kept; and was an
official act in the same sense that an entry in the minutes of a Court,
pursuant to an order of the Court, is an official act. There is no
room f6r the exercise of any discretion, official or otherwise ;, all that
is' shut out by the direct or positive command of the law, and the act
required to be done is, in every just sense, a mere ministerial act."
We have referred to these passages in the opinion given by the
Court in the case of Kendall vs. The United States, in order to show
more clearly the distinction taken between a mere ministerial act,
required to be done by the head of an executive department, and a

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

517

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

duty imposed upon him in his official character as the head of such
department, in which judgment and discretion are to be exercised.
There was in that case a difference of opinion in the Court, in rela.tion to the power of the Circuit Court to issue the mandamus. But
there was no difference of opinion respecting the act to be done.
The Court were unanimously of opinion, that in its character the act
was merely ministerial. In the case before us, it is clearly otherwise; and the resolution in favour of Mrs. Decatur imposed a duty
on the Secretary of the Navy, which required the exercise of judgment and discretion : and in such a case the Circuit Court had no
right, by mandamus, to control his judgment; and guide him in the
exercise of a discretion which the law had confided to him.
We are therefore of opinion, that the Circuit Court were not authorized by law to issue the mandamus, and committed no error in
refusing it. And as we have no jurisdiction over the acts of the
Secretary in this respect, we forbear to express any opinion upon
the construction of the resolution in question.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, refusing to award a peremptory mandamus, must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN.

The answer of the Secretary of the Navy to the rule to show
cause why a mandamus should not issue, is conclusive; and I entirely concur with the decision of the Circuit Court, in refusing the
writ. The relatrix having received a pension under the general
law, is not entitled to receive one on the ame ground, under the
special law. My impression is, that Congress having acted upon
her case and made a special provision, she cannot claim under the
general law.
An individual applies to Congress for compensation for services
rendered to the public, and a special provision is made for his relief.
And if a law should be passed at the same session, making general
provision for the payment of similar services, I should think that it
could not be successfully contended, that such individual could claim
under the general law. The merits of his claim having been considered and decided by Congress, he can only claim under the
special provision made for him. But in the present case, the claimant
having received under the general law as large, if not a larger benefaction, than was given under the special law, her right under the
latter is extinguished.
I differ from a majority of the judges, who hold, that the construction. of this resolution, giving to the relatrix a pension, is a
duty, in the discharge of which, an executive discretion may be
exercised. The law is directory and imperative, and admits of the
exercise of no discretion, on the part of the Secretary. The amount
of the half-pay pension given in the resolution, is fixed by law
and is, therefore, certain. I am authorized to say that my brother
Story agrees with this view of the case.
VOL. XIV.-2 .X

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered an opinion to the reporter, after
the adjournment of' the Court; which will be found in the Appendix, No. I.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
Between the Circuit Court of this District, and the executive administration of the United States, there is an open contest for
power. The Court claims jurisdiction to coerce by mandamus in
all cases where an officer of the government of any grade refuses
to perform a ministerial duty: and of necessity claims the right to
determine, in every case, what is such duty; or whether it is an
executive duty; when the power to coerce performance is not
claimed. Where the line of demarkation lies, the Court reserves to
itself the power to determine. Any sensible distinction applicable
to all cases, it is impossible to lay down, as I think; such are the
refinc'ments, arid mere verbal distinctions, as to leave an almost unlimited discretion to the Court. How easily the doctrine may be
pushed and widened to any extent; this case furnishes an excellent
illustration. The process of reasoning adopted bythose who maintain the power to assume jurisdiction, is, that where a right exists
by law to demand money of an officer, and he refuses to pay, the
Court can enforce the right by mandamus ; and to ascertain the existence of the right, it is the duty of the Court to construe the law:
and if by such construction, the right is found, and the refusal to
pay ascertained to have been a mistake ; then the officer will be
coerced to pay out the money, as a ministerial duty.
In most cases, (as in this,) the Court will be called on to try a
contest only fit for an action of assumpsit. First, it must ascertain
the existence of the right, from complicated facts, and the construe.
tion of doubtful laws: this found, the duty follows; it being a
duty, it is for the Court to say whether it is clear ; if so, being an
ascertained duty, and clear, then coercion, of course, would follow.
What few eases of contested claims against the government
would escape investigation, were these assumptions recbgnised, is
free from doubt.
The great question, then, standing in advance of all others in this
cause, and the only one I feel myself authorized to examine is the
broad one, whether the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
can, by a writ of mandamus, force one of the secretaries of the
great departments, contrary to the opinion and cornmands of the
President of the United States, to pay money out of the treasury?
Mrs. Decatur claimed a-double pension ; a single one was paid by
the Secretary of the Navy; she demanded the addition'al one,
amounting to nearly twenty thousand dollars; the Secretary refused
to pay it ; she then memorialized the President, and he concurred
with, and affirmed the decision of the Secretary, that the claim
could not be allowed: and from this final decision of the executive
department of the nation, Mrs. Decatur appealed in the form of a

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

519

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

petition for a mandamus, to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, to reverse and annul the decision, made by the Secretary,
and sanctioned by the President,
The Court assumed jurisdictfon, compelled the United States,
through the Secretary of. the Navy, to file a long answer; and in a
tedious lawsuit to defend the United States. That he did so successfully, is of little consequence,; the evil lies- not in the loss of
eighteen thousand six hundred dollars to the government, but in
the concession by this Court, that the Circuit Court, of the District
has the power to sit in judgment on the Secretary's decision; to reverse the same at its pleasure, and to order the money to be paid out
of the treasurycontrary to his will* and to the will of the President.
and that of all those intrusted by the Constitution and laws with
the safe keeping of the public moneys.
Stripped of the slight disguise of legal forms, such is the case
before us; the conflict between the executive and judiciary departments could not well be more direct, nor more dangerous. The
idea that they are distinct, and their duties separate, is confounded,
if the jurisdiction of the Court below is sustained; placing the executive power at its mercy, in case of all contested claims. Few
can be more contested than the one before us; if jurisdiction can
be exercised in this instance, it is difficult to see in what others it
does not exist; to establish which, we will briefly recapitulate the
leading facts. On the 3d of March, 1837, a resolution was passed
by Congress giving a pension of the half-pay of the late Captain
Decatur, to the petitioner, his widow; and on the same day a bill
passed, giving an equal pension to all the widows of naval officers,
and seamen, who had died in the service: with this difference in
the general law and the resolution, that by the former, the half-pay
continued for life, and by the resolution only for five years, if the
petitioner so long lived, and continued a widow. She claims by
her petition, not only the half:monthly pay proper of a post captain of the navy, but for daily' rations, eight, at twenty-five cents
each, amounting to one-half of seven hundred and thirty dollars
pe annum; and also iffterest on the sum withholden. These claims
r back rations and interest are contrary to the construction given
by the g6vernment to the navy pension acts, for more than forty
years. To cover a failure, should the Court concur with the executive departments in rejecting these claims, the petition has a double
aspect in the form of a bill in equity: first, praying for the whole
sum of eighteen thousand five hundred and ninety-seven dollars;
or such part or portion thereof as the Court may direct.
It was first called on to decide whether the United States owed
the petitioner any thing; secondly, how much; and, thirdly. whether
there was any money in the treasury belonging to the navy fund,
out of which the claim could then be satisfied.
The Secretary answers, he had money enough of the fund at his
control when he made the answer, if the old construction was adhered to by the Court; but if he Was adjudged to pay the petitioner

520

SUPREME C'cfURT.
[Decatur v8. Paulding.]

for rations, and interest, then all other widows and orphans provided
for by the various acts of Congress, and entitled to half-pay out of
the fund, would likewise be entitled to come in for half rations and
interest; in which case, he would not have money to pay the claim,
but that the fund would be greatly in arrear. A more complicated and difficult lawsUit than is found in this cause, rarely comes
before a Court of justice; and to be compelled to defend which the
Secretary protests; "Because such jurisdiction in this Court would,
if assumed, operate as such an interference with the discharge of
the official duties of the undersigned, as to make it impossible for
him to perform them as required and intended; and would transfer
to the said Court the discharge of the said duties, "and the whole
management and disposition of the said fund; and subject all applicants for pensions to the delay, expense,'and embarrassments of
legal controversies as to their rights, and to a suspension of the provisions to which they might be entitled under the laws, till these
controversies were judicially decided.
"Because such a jurisdiction in the Circuit Court would make the
United States sueable in that Court; and subject the money of the
United States, in the treasury of the United States, to be taken
therefrom by the judgments of said Court.
"Because, if the Circuit Court assumes the jurisdiction of compelling the Secretary of the Navy, or the head of any other department t9 revise and reverse the decisions that may have been made
by their predecessors in office; these officers will necessarily be
taken, off from the discharge of their immediate and most urgent
public duties, and made to apply their time and attention, and that
of the clerks in the departments, in an endless review and reconsideration of antiquated claims and settled questions; to the delay
and hinderance of measures of vital importance to the national
welfare and safety.
"For these and other reasons which he trusts will be obvious, on
further consideration to the Court, he respectfully objects to the
jurisdiction assumed in this case; and will now proceed, under such
protest, to show cause why the mandamus prayed for should not be
issued."
He was, however, compelled to defend the suit, and defeated the
claim upon it merits; the discussion of which took up two days in
this Court.
But the great question was decided below, that the Court have
jurisdiction and power to order money to be paid out of the Treasury of the United States, by a writ in the nature of an execution,
running in the name of the United States, commanding the government to 6bey its own authority. This prominent feature of the writ
demanded, it is impossible to disguise. That no other Federal Circuit Court in the Union has power to issue such a writ, wag recognised as settled in the case of Stockton and Stokes vs. The Postmaster-general, by this Court, in 1838. The power claimed is confined to this ten miles square. 'And what is the extent of the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

521

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

power?

To overrule the decisions of the five great departments

and of the President, extending to the payment of money, the delivery of commissions, and innumerable other matters involved in the
complicated operations of this government, amounting each year to
a-hundred thousand separate transactions, to say the least: the validity of all debateable- and contested claims are holden to be subjected to the ordeal, and, on their rejection, to the supervision of the
Circuit Court of this District. Beyond doubt, this is the breadth of
the assumption of jurisdiction put forth by the cause before us. The
entertaining such a cause is calculated to alarm all men who
seriously think of the consequences. It is an invitation to all needy
,expectants, with pretensions of claim on the government, to seek
this superior and controlling power, (the Circuit Court of this District,) and, invoke its aid to force their hands into the treasury, contrary to the better judgment of the guardians of the public money.
Thousands of claims exist, quite as ffair on their face, and as simple
in their details, as is this of Mrs. Decatur's, that have been rejected.
She has been allowed to appeal to the Court, and been heard; and
so can all uthers. The assumption of powers need not be pushed
further, to let suitors enough into the Court to consume the time and
absorb the attention of the secretaries; a principal business of theirs
presently must be, to sit at th 9 bar of the Court to ward off its mandate, and keep its officers froth forcing the money out of the public
treasury; unless this Court arrests the attempt: whether well or ill
intended, is aside from the purpose ; the assumption and exercise of
the power, is equally poisonous in its consequences to the country:
it takes from the hands of those the administration of public affairs,
that the laws and the people of this nation have intrusted with.
them; it brings to the bar of the Court, the nation itself; for it cannot be denied, that the United States government is the real defendant in this cause; and that if it was east, it would be forced, (on
this cause being remanded for execution,) to open the treasury according to the dictates of the Circuit Court.
The origin of the opinion that 'the public money could be reached
through such instrumentality is of recent date; its history will be
found in the case of Stockton and Stokes vs. The Postmaster-general.
Money was not there asked in a direct form ; and the Court put the
case upon the express ground that the defendant " was not called
upon to furnish the means of paying any balance that was awarded
against the department by the solicitor of the treasury. He was
simply, (say the Court,) required to give the credit ;" and this was
no more an 6fflicial act, than the making of an entry by a'clerk, by
order of a Corrt of justice - it was, in every just sense, a mere ministerial act. '12 Peters, 614. Had it not been placed on this narrow ground, the decision could not have been made. That it falls
short of this case, is admitted; still, it was then manifest, that the
attempt to push the doctrine of ministerial duties further,'so as to
reach the money in the treasury, would follow ; the case has occurred, and must be met.
66
2x 2

SUPREME COURT.
[Decatur vs. Paulding,)

I maintain that the executive power of'this nation, headed by
the President, and divided into departments in its administration of
the finances of the country, acts independently of the Courts of justice in paying the public creditors; and that the decision of the Se,cretary of the Navy in' this case, affirmed by the President, under
the advice of the Attorney General, was final on the laws as they
stood; and that the petitioner could only appeal to Congress.
And here it may be safely asked whether the Secretary and President, the latter elected by the nation and responsible to the people
directly, and to their representatives in Congress, each exercising an
undoubtedly legitimate authority, were not the safest and best to
decide on the rights of the nation, and of the petitioner seeking justice at its hands? Is the country known, that submits the administration of its finances to the Courts of justice, or permits them to
control the operations of the treasury ? What guarantee have the
people of this country that the Circuit Court of this District, will as
faithfully perform the functions they have assumed, when' dealing
out the public money to satisfy rejected claims, as the heads of the
departments? The Court is wholly irresponsible to the people for
its acts; is unknown to them ; the judges hold appointments of all
ordinary judicial character; and are accidentally exercising jurisdiction over the territory where the treasury and public officers are
located. Furthermore, for nearly forty years this fearful claim to
power has neither been exerted,-nor was it supposed to exist; but
now that it is assumed, we are struck with the pe,.uliar impropriety

of the Circuit Court of this District becoming the front of opposition
to the executive administration.
Every government is deemed to be just to its citizens ; its executive officers, equally with the judges of the Courts, are personally
disinterested; and why should not their decisions be as satisfactory
and final. They must be final, in most instances, in the nature of
things, and the necessities of the government. Money is appropriated for certain objects; none can be drawn from the treasury
save according to some law ; of the obligations, the departments
must judge in a prompt manner ; they cannot await years of litigation to learn their duties, and the responsibilities of the governments
from the Courts; the Secretary of the Navy could not subject to
wants and miseries the whole of the widows and orphans on the navy
pension list, until he was informed by the Court of this District,
whether Mrs. Decatur should be paid her claim for rations and interest; he had to proceed, as for forty years and more his predecessors had done, and pay out upon the old construction; nor could the
government submit to its alteration, for the arrearages would have
exhausted the fund, possibly for the next ten years, and left most of
the widows and orphans dependent upon it for daily bread, in utter
destitution.' Td permit an interference of the Courts of justice
with the accormts and affairs of the treasury, would soon sap its
very foundatns ; money would not be drawn out according to its
own rulQs, nor could the Secretary of the Treasury ever inform

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

523

[Decatur vs. Paulding.]

Congress of the amount needed. Congress would, of necessity, be
compelled to consult the Court, not the Secretary, when making
appropriations. This case again furnishes the illustration: if tile
Courts were to hold that Mrs. Decatur should be paid the eighteen
thousand five hundred and ninety-seven dollars, and that the true construction of the acts of Congress was, that the widows and orphans
pensioned on the navy fund should receive, in addition to the halfmonthly pay, half rations, and interest on the arrearages; then an
addition of, possibly, a million to the fund would be required.
For these and other reasons, the Court below had no jurisdiction
of the subject matter; and, of course, no authority to issue the mandamus to bring the Secretary before it: and therefore I hold the
suit must be dismissed, and the judgment affirmed.
This cause-came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

