JANUARY TERM, 1840.

SAMUEL SPRIGG, APPELLANT, V

THE BANK OF MOUNT PLEASANT,

APPELLEE.

The principles decided in the case of Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant, reported
in 10 Peters, 257, examined and affirmed.
It is equally well settled in Courts of Equity, as well as in Courts of law, a4 a rule of evidence, that parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict, or substantially vary the legal
import of a written agreement. And this is founded on the soundest principles of reason and policy, as well as authority. The ease of Hunt vs. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat.
211, cited.
Extending the time of payment of a bond, and a mere delay in enforcing it, will not discharge a surety; unless some agreement has been made injurious to the interest of the
surety.
it is a sound and well settled principle of law, that sureties are not to be made liable
beyond their contract; and any agreement with the creditor, which varies essentially the
terms of the contract, without the assent of the surety, 'will discharge him from responsibility. But this principle cannot apply where the surety has by his own act exchanged his character of surety, for that of principal ; and then applies to a Court of
Equity to reinstate him to his character of surety, in violation of his own express
contract.
Courts of Equity will permit independent agreements which go to show a deed on its face
absolute, was intended only as a mortgage, to be set up against the express terms of the
deed, only on the ground of fraud. Considering it a fraudulent 'attempt in the
mortgagee, contrary to his own express agreement, to convert a mortgage into an absolute deed. And it is equally a fraud on the part of a debtor, to attempt to convert his
contract as principal, into that of a surety only.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Ohio.
This case was brought before the Court at January term, 1836,
on a writ of error, prosecuted by the present appellant, seeking
to revers e the judgment of the Circuit Court in an action instituted against him on a joint and several bond, under seal, made
by him and others, to the Bank of Mount Pleasant, for the payment
of a sum of money stated in the bond, to the bank, upon which
.obligation the bank had loaned the sum of twenty-one hundred
dollars, and had paid the same to Peter Yarnall and Company, one
of the co-joint, and several obligors. The bank, after the loan, had
continued to renew it for some years; the discount a-id interest on
the same having been paid to the bank every sixty days; until,
when Peter Yarnall and Company, having been insolvent, suit was
brought on the obligation, against Samuel Sprigg, and a judgment
obtained against him for the amount of the obligation.
The object of the writ of error was to have the judgment of
the Circuit Court reversed, on the ground that the indulgence for
the payment of the debt had been' given to Peter Yarnall and
Company, without the privity or knowledge of the plaintiff in
error; that he was only a surety in the obligation, which was, he
alleged, known to the bank; and he was discharged from the liability
26

SUPREMfE COURT.
(Sprigg vs. The Bank qf Mount Pleasant]

for the debt to the bank. These allegations were denied by the
Bank of Mount Pleasant.
The Court in that case held that all wcre principals in the obligation, and were equally and fully bound to the payment of the
debt, and the continuation of the loan oh the bond, whether -the
same was to one or all the obligors did not impair the claim of the
bank to recover from all and each of them. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Ohio was affirmed. 10 Peters, 257.
In December 1838, the appellant in this case, Samuel Sprigg,
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of Ohio, praying to have the judgment which had been affirmed in the Supreme Court, perpetually
enjoined; on the ground that all the parties to the bond held by
the bank, except Peter Yarnall and Company, were sureties for the
loan made on the bond; and that the bank, on the maturity of the
bond, having re-discounted it from time to time, at the request
of Yarnall and Company, without the consent of the sureties, they,
the complainant being one, were discharged.
The. Circuit Court, after the testimony of many witnesses had
been taken, and a full hearing, refused the injunction ; and ordered
the bill to be dismissed: and from this decree the complainant
prosecuted this appeal.
The counsel for the appellant contended, that his case is made
out as stated in the bill, and referred the Court to the depositions,
and particularly to the letters of Yarnall to the bank, and the account of the bank with Yarnall and Company, taken from the bank
books. He contended, that there is no estoppel in equity, especially
as a rule of evidence, though there may be some cases in its popular
sense, as a broad rule of right.
He contended, that though the sureties made themselves principdls to pay in sixty days, yet they are not principals without their
consent, as long as the bank might choose to renew the loan.
He contended, that if he has made a case which would entitle
him to relief, supposing the words "as principals" were not in the
obligation, that then he is entitled to the relief he seeks, notwithstanding the insertion of these words, "as principals." He contended, that the existence of the words "as principals," in the bond,
does not deprive him of that equity which the like conduct of the
bank would give him in the common case of a joint and several
obligation. The plaintiff also contended, that to so give time and
enter into new agreembnts, without the surety's assent, is, though
none may have been intended, a fraud 'upon him, notwithstanding
the insertion of the words "as principals," when the bank knew
that the discount was for the sole benefit of Yarnall and Company.
He further insisted, that the insertion of the words "as principals," when the bank knew the true relations of the parties, did not
give the bank the right to renew the loan, to make hew agreements,
or to give further day of payment at its pleasure, without the assent
of the sureties. That if the defendants intended to gain such a

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

-203

[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]
power or advantage, fair dealing required them to ask or demand it
from the sureties in a plain way, as by a direct insertion of such a
power in the obligation, a practice which this same bank has long
since adopted. And that the decree of the Court below ought to be
reversed, and one entered, perpetuating the injunction, with costs.-

The counsel for the appellee contended, that the appellant, having
acknowledged himself in the bond to be a principal debtor, is estopped from alleging that he is only a surety, as between him and the
appellee. Also, that the testimony excepted to is entirely inadmissible, so far as it is sought by the same'to contradict, &c., the bond;
there being no allegation in the bill, or proof, that there was any
fraud, surprise, or mistake, in the making or executing the same.
Also, that the appellant, upon his own showing, admitting all
in his bill stated to be true, is not entitled to the relief prayed for.
And that, as the appellant was accustomed to transact business with
the bank, and as the payment of the bond was deferred according
to her usages, he is bound by those usages; such usages, under such
circumstances, forming a part of the bond or contract.
Also, that the appellant has legally and equitably waived all his
rights as surety, if he were such, by acknowledging himself to be a
principal debtor, and so contracting with the bank; and has thereby
at least authorized the bank to treat him according to the character
voluntarily assumed by him, until such time as he might give notice
that he was but a surety, and require the bank to prosecute the collection of the bond. And that the Court ought not to permit the
appellant to disclaim the character of a principal debtor, and thereby
violate his contract and good faith, and thus perpetrate a fraud upon
the appellee. And that the appellant has, failed, even if the testimony is admissible, to sustain by proof the material allegations of
his bill.
The ;.ppellee also contended, that the bank is entitled to a decree,
and that decree should include, if the injunction in this case should
be dissolved, damages, according to the statutes of Ohio, which may
be recognised as rules, &c., by this Court; and which require the
Courts of that state, on the dissolution of an injunction to stay the
collection of money, to render a decree for ten per cent. damages oil
the amount due, in favour of the defendants: and if an appeal
should be taken to a superior Court, and the injunction there dissolved, that court is required to render a decree for fifteen per cent.
damages.
The case was submitted to the Court, on printed arguments, by
Mr. Jacob and Mr. Webster, for the appellant; and by Mr. Alexander., for the appellee.
Mr. Justice THoMpsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes up on appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the'District of Ohio. The appellant filed his bill on the

SUPREME COURT.
[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

equity side of the Court for an injunction, to enjoin all further proceedings on a judgment recovered against him by the appellees, on
the law §ide of the Court.

The judgment was founded upon the

same single bill now in question, and is as follows:
"$2,100: Know all men by these presents, we Peter Yarnall &
Co., Samuel Sprigg, Richard Simms, Alexander Mitchell, and Z.
Jacobs, as principals, are jointly and severalfy held and firmly bound
to the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank of Mount
Pleasant, for the use of the Bank of Mount Pleasant, in the just
and full sum of twenty-one hundred dollars, lawful money of the
United States, to the payment of which said sum, well and truly
to be made, to .the said President, Directors, and Company, for the
use aforesaid, within sixty days from the date hereof, we jointly and
severally bind ourselves, our heirs, &c., firmly by these presents,
signed with our hands and sealed with our seals, this twentieth day
of February, A.D. 1826.
PETER YARNALL & Co., [SEAL.]
SAM. SPRIGG,
RICHD. SIMMS,
ALEX. MITCHELL,
Z. JACOBS,

[SEAL.]
[sEAL.]
[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]"

"Signed and delivered in presence of
The judgment at law caihe before this Court on a writ of error,
and is reported in 10 Peters, 257.

There were in that case various

pleas interposed, setting forth, substantially, that this bill was executed by the obligors, to be discounted at the bank; aind that the
defendant, Samuel Sprigg, was surety only for Peter Yarnall and
Company, who had executed the bill with him; and that the bank
had, by renewing or continuing the discount, after the time first
limited for the paynent of the same, discharged the sureties.
The pleadings in the suit were very voluminous, and terminated
in demurrers. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed irt
this Court; and the decision turned upon the point, that the defend
ant and all the other obligors had, by the express terms of the obli
gation, bound themselves as principals, and were thereby estopped
from setting themselves up as sureties for Yarnall arid Company,
and claiming to be discharged by reason of the extended credit
given to Yarnall and Company: and the present bill was filed on
the equity side of the Court, and relying substantially on the same
ground for relief against that judgment. The bill states that Peter
Yarnall and Samuel Mitchell were doing business as partners, under
the firm of Peter Yarnall and Company; and that the appellees
were a banking qompany, doing business as a bank in the town of
Mount Pleasant, That about the 20th of February, in the year
1826, the said Peter Yarnall Arnd Company borrowed from the bank
two thousand one hundred dollars, and the single bill now in question was executed, and discounted at the bank in the usual course

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

205

[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

of business. That at th6 time of the loan, the bank knew that.
Peter Yarnall and Company were the principals, and so received,
and accepted,'and treated them; and that the other obligors were
their sureties, notwithstanding the form of the obligation. That
when the said obligation became due, to' wit, on the 21st of April,
1826, the bank, on receiving twenty-two dollars and forty cents,
paid by Peter Yarnall and Company, for the discount for sixty days,
without the knowledge or consent of the sureties, gave a further
credit and time of payment for sixty days. That the bank, at each
consecutive day of discount and payment of interest in advance,
extended the payment of said bill in like manner, until September,
or October, 1828; until after the failure and insolvency of the said
Peter Yarnall and Company, which happened about that time.'
That between the time the said obligatidn first became due, and the
day when Yarnall and Company failed, the bank, or the said appellant and his co-sureties, could have collected and realized the money
secured by the said obligation. And that if the bank had not renewed said loan, and given new and further time of payment, the
obligation could have been collected from the said Peter Yatnall
and Company. And the bill then charges, that the bank, contriving
and intending to impose upon the appellant a loss which has occurred to him in consequence of a confidence and bargain made by themselves with the sa'd Yarnall and Company, and in fraud of the said
6ppellant and his co-sureties; if at the time of bestowing such confidence and making such bargains, it was intended to hold the appel.lant and his co-sureties liable, atd more particularly in fraud of
the appellant and his co-sureties, if such confidence and contract
with the said Yarnall and Company was, at the time of making the
same, a mere personal confidence and contract with. the said Yarnall and Company. The bill then sets out the proceedings at law,
upon which a judgment has been recovered; and praying a perpetual injunction against further proceedings upon the judgment and
execution.
The bank in their answer admit the discount of the single bill; and
allege that it was so discounted at the request of the obligors, and
the proceeds paid to Alexander Mitchel, one of the obligors. They
positively deny having any knowledge of any transaction in relation
to said obligation, until it was presented to them for discount; or that
they had any knowledge of the relation in which said obligors stood
to one another; or that they knew that tlhe proceeds of the obligation was obtained for the exclusive benefit of the said Peter Yarnall and
Company ; or that they were the principal 'debtors in said obligations.
They deny that they received, accepted, and treated them as the
principal debtors; and they aver that the appellant and all the other
obligors were principal debtors, and'so contracted with and bound
thenselves to the bank; as will appear by reference to the said'single
bill. And they further aver, that it was on the faith Of this agreement alone, that they discounted the obligation: and that, had not the
bbligors contracted and boubid themselves as principals, let the relaVOL. XIV.-S

206

SUPREME COURT.
[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

tions among themselves be what it might, they would not have discounted the single bill: and that this agreement was made with
full knowledge and fair understanding of the fact, and of the purport
of the provision.in said obligation. And they aver, that the appellant, having bound himself as a principal debtor to the defendants,
he -is
estopped from now alleging that he is only a surety. They
deny that they ever ga.ve the said Yarnall and Company the further
credit and time of payment as claimed in the bill or otherwise.
They admit they used great lenity towards the obligors, ii 'not requiring payment, prorbiptly, when due; but averthat they did so,
because they had confidence in the honesty, integrity, and .solvency
of the obligors, and considering them all as principal debtors. They
admit the proceedings at law as set forth in the bill; and deny all
manner of unlawful confederacy; and claim the same benefit of this
defence, as though they had demurred to the bill. To this answer,
there is a general replication: and the-cause having been heard
'upon the bill, answer, replication, 'exhibits, and testimony; it was
adjudged and decreed, that the complainant in the Court below was
not entitled to the relief prayed in the bill. Whereupon, the in-,
junction which had been allowed was dissolved, and the bill dismissed. '
When this case Was before the Court on the writ of error, the
effect and operation ofthe words, "as principals," contained in the,
single bill discounted at the bank, were fully considered ; and it was
decided, that they operated as an estoppel, and precluded the defendants from going into evidence to show that he was only surety
in the single bill. And unless it shall be found that a different principle prevails in a Court of Equity, the same result must follow upon
the present appeal.
It is said, however, on the part of the appellant, that there are no
technical estoppels in a Court of Equity. This may be admitted;
but it will not affect the present qfiestion. For itis equally well
settled, as-a rule of evidence, in Courts of Equity as well as in Courts
of law, that parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict or substan,
tially vary the legal import of a written agreement. And this rule
is founded on the soundest principles of reason and policy, as well
as on authority. This doctrine Is fully recognised by this Court in
the case of Hunt vs. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat. 211. The Court say: it
is a general rule, that an agreement in writing; or an instrument
carrying an agreement'into execution, shall not'be varied by parol
testimony, stating conversations or circumstances anterior to the
written instrument; that this rule is recognised in Courts of Equity,
as well as in Courts of Law. But Courts of Equity grant relief, in
cases of fraud and mistake ; which cannot be obtained in Courts of
Law. In such cases, a Court of Equity may carry the intention of
the parties into execution, where the written agreement fails to express that intention. This authority is so directly in, point, that it
cannot be necessary to refer to any other. But the principle will
be found in accordance' with the highest authority, both in this coun,
'

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

207

[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

try and in the English Chancery. 1 Johns. C.R. 429. 6 Vesey, 328,
and note.
The bill does not charge that the words, "as principals," were inserted in the obligation by mistake, or under any misapprehension,
on the part of t.he appellant, of their import and effect. But on the
contrary ; the bill states that the loan was made by the bank to Peter
Yarnal[. and Company, in the usual way of making loans at that
bank, From which it is fairly to be inferred, that this obligation
was, in form, according to the usage of the bank; with which usage,
the obligors must be presumed to have been conusant. Nor is
there any direct charge of fraud on the-part of the bank; but it
seems to be stated, as matter of inference from the allegation, that
the loan was for the sole benefit of Yarnall and Company, and that
known to the bank. But whatever the charge may be, it is denied
in the answer, and is entirely unsupported by the testimony. The
charge of fraud rests altogether upon the allegations that the appellant was only a surety in the single bill, and that was known to the
bank. All the parol evidence on these points seems to have been
admitted; although objected to, on the part of the bank, as inadmissible, on the ground that it contradicted the written instrument. The
ruling of the Court on this objection does not appear upon the record.
But if the evidence was admitted, the appellant has no ground of
complaint. It was his own evidence. And all that this evidence
established, was the simple fact, that the appellant was only suirty
for Yarnall and Company. But that can have no influence against
his direct admission in the obligation, that he was a principal; and
there being no pretence of mistake or surprise, there can be but one
meaning attached to this admission; which is,-that as between the
obligors and the bank, all were principals, whatever might be their
relation between themselves. They had undoubtedly a right to
waive their character and legal protection as sureties, and assume
the character of principals. 'This admission in the obligation must
have been for some purpose; and none can be reasonably assigned,
except that it was intended to place all the obligors upon the same
footing, with respect to their liability to the bank.
The evidence did not support the allegation that the bank had
made any agreement to extend the loan or time of payment, other
than continuing the discount, in the ordinary course of business at
the bank. The form of the obligation dispensed with the necessity
of giving any notice to the appellant, even considering him in the
character of a surety; and extending' the time of payment, and a
mere delay in enforcing it will not discharge a surety, unless some
agreement has been made injurious to the interest of the surety;
nothing of which appears to have been done in this case. 9 Wheat.
720. 12 Wheat. 554i

The cashier'of the bank denies that he ever

made any contract with Yarnall and Company, for the extension of
the payment of the obligation discounted at the bank, on the 20th
of February, 1826, for Peter Yarnall and Company, and others;

208

JANUARY TERM, 1840.
[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

(referring to the single bill in question,) after the same became due,
for sixty days, or any other period: but discounted the same according to the custom of the bank; but the time or indulgence
given was merely at the will of the bank. That he could not make
any contract for the extension of payment, according to the rules of
the bank, without an order from the board of directors; and that,
on an examination of the minute book, he found no such order;
where, if it had been made, it would appear : and tie inference, attempted to be drawn, that Yarnall and Company were considered
and accepted by the bank as the principal debtors, because the account kept at the bank of this loan was in his. name alone, was done
away, and fully explained by the testimony of the cashier as' to'the
custom'of the bank, that the account is always kept with the first
signer, unless otherwise especially authorized and directed. But, admitting that the bank knew that Yarnall and Company were the
principal debtors, this would not exonerate the other obligors from
'their responsibility as principals, in violation of their express contract. If Yarnall and Company. were of doubtful credit, it might,
have been the very reason why the bank required all the obligors
to bind themselves as principals.
It is no doubt a sund and well-settled principle, that sureties are
not to be made responsible beyond their contract; and any agree-'
ment with the creditor, which varies essentially 1he terms of the
contract, without the assent of the surety, will discharge him from
his responsibility. But this principle cannot apply where the surety
has, by his own act, exchanged his character of surety for t-lat of principal; and then applies to a Court of Equity to reinstate him to his
character of suirety, in violation of his own express contract. This
would be sanctioning a fraud upon the creditor. This case has been
likened at the bar to that of a deed, absolute in its face,.but which, by
an independent agreement between the parties, was intended only
as a mortgage. Courts of Equity Will permit such agreements to
be set up against the express terms of the deed, only on the ground
of fraud; considering it a fraudulent attempt in the mortgagee, contrary to his own express agreement, to convert a mortgage into an
absolute deed. And it is equally a fraud on the part of a debtor, to
attempt to convert his contract as principal into that of surety only.
No attempt has been made in the present case to show that the
bank had made any agreement with the appellant, that he should
be considered and treated as a surety only; contrary to the express
terms of his contract to be bound as-a principal. If any such agreemnent had been shown, the analogy to the case put of a mortgage,
might hold.
The allegation, that the neglect of the bank to prosecute Yarnall
and Company has, by their insolvency, thrown the loss of the debt
upon the sureties, might be of some weight if any measures had
been taken by them to expedite the collection of the debt from Yarnall and Company,' or no longer to continue the discount of the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

209

[Sprigg vs. The Bank of Mount Pleasant.]

obligation. But no such measures appear to have been tptken-, and
their solvency must be at the risk of the sureties, who have, by their
express contract, assumed the character of principals.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the 'record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

