JANUARY TERM, 1840.

19

THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF THE METROrOLIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,' VS.
FENDANT IN ERROR.

ERASTUS

GUTTSCIILICx,

DE-

Action on an agreement inwriting, by which Guttsehlick had purchased a lot of ground in the
city of Washington, from the Bank of the Metropolis, for which he had paid a part of
the purchase'money, and given a note for the residue. By the contract, the Bank of the
Metropolis, through its president and cashier, was pledged to convey the lot in fee
simple to Guttschlick, when the whole purchase money was paid. The declaration in
each count averred the payment of the note, and the failure of the bank to convey. To the
three special counts in the declaration, there was no conclusion ; to the fourth count, for
money had and received; there was a general conclusion, It was held by the Court, that
whatever might have been the effect of the want of a conclusion to the three counts
upon a special derurrer, the thirty-second section of,the judiciary act of 1789, would
cure the defect, if it be admitted to be one.
A corporation may be bound by contracts not executed under their common seal, and by
the acts of its officers in the course of their official duties~-when, in a declaration, it is
averred that a bank by its officers agreed to a certain contract, this averment imports
every thing to make the contract bitding.
An allegation that a party made, accepted, endorsed, or delivered a bill of exchange is sufficient, although the defendant did not do either of those acts himself; provided he au"thorized the doing of them.
The averment in'a declaratio,.set forth that the plaintiff -had been turnsd'out of p6ssession
of a lot of ground, but did not state that the eviction was by due course of law. The
breach alleged in the count was, that the defendant had refusef, on demand, to convey
the lot. The Court hold the avernhent of eviction to be rmere surplusage.
The Bank of the Metropolis contracted to deliver a title in feq simple to 6uttschlick, of
A lot of ground, and at the term of the contrapt they held the'lot, by virtue, of a sale
made under a deed of trust, at which sale they became-the purchasers of the property.
The 'same lot had, by a deed of trust executed by the same person, been..previously
conveyed to another person, to indemnify an endorser of his notes, and it was by the
trustee, afterwards, and after the contract with Guttschiick, sold-and purchased by
another. Held, that at the time of the contract of the bank, they had4 not a fee simple
in the lot which could be conveyed 'to
Guttschlick.
In case of a deed of trust executed to secure a debt, unless in case of some extrinsic matter
of equity, a Court of Equity never iterfercs to delay or prevent a sale according to the,
terms of the trust; and the only right of the grantor in the deed, is the right to any
surplus which may remain of the moley for which the property sold.
The action in this case was assumpsit against the bank on a contract under the seals of the
president and cashier. Held, that the action was well brought; and it makes no differ-.
ence in an action of assumpsit against a corporation wbether the agent was appointed
under the seal or not; or whether he puts his own seal to a contract which he makes in
behalf of the corporation.
It is admissible.for the party who sues on a contract, to make a title to a lot of ground in
fee 'simple which he had purchased, to give in evidence an examination of the records
of the office for the recording of deeds, by a witness who was searching into the title
of the lot, and also a letter giving to the party who made the contract, a notice that
the lot was about to be sold under a title superior to that under which he held. A deed
from the vendor, informally executed, and which: did not convey the title the vendor agreed
to give, was also admissible in evidence, in an action against the vendor on the contract.
A paper.executed by the president and cashier of a bank, purporting to convey a lot of
ground held by the bank, is not the deed of the corporation.
The proceedings in an action against the endorser of a note, by the holder, which gave to
a trustee, b',the terms of the deed of trust, a right to sell property hWld for the indemnity
of the endorser, were proper evidence in an action on a contract for the sale of the lot,
from which the party who had purchased under another title had been evicted by a title

20

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

obtained under the deed of trust. No exceptions to the regularity of the proceedings
offered in evidence can be taken, which should have been properly made in the original
action by the party sued on-the same.
Whether evidence is admissible or not, is a question for the Court to decide; but whether
it is sufficient or not to, support the issue, is a question for the jury. The only case in
which the Court can make inferences from evidence, and pass upon its sufficiency, is on
a demurrer to evidence.
When a trust is created for the benefit of a third party, though without his knowledge at
the time, he may affirm the trust, and enforce its execution.
Where a deed of trust was executed to secure the payment of certain notes, and a judgment obtained on the notes, the judgment did not operate as an extinguishment of the
right of the holders of the note to call for the execution of the trust; although the act
of limitations might apply to the judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This action was instituted by the defendant in error, against the
plaintiff in error, on the 31st day of March, 1836. The declaration contained four counts.
1., That on the 9th of November, 1827, the plaintiff bought of defendant a certain lot of ground in the city of Washington, being lot
5, square, 489, for the sum ofeleven hundred and ninety-one dollars
and twenty-five cents, and paid the sum of five hundred and ninetyone dollars and twenty-five cents, and gave his promissory note for
the balance of the purchase money; that the defendant, in consideration thereof, agreed through the president and cashier, that it was
pledged, when the note should be paid, to convey said lot to plaintiff, his heirs and assigns; that said note was paid at maturity, with
the interest: yet the .defendant has not conveyed said lot, but to do
sohas hitherto wholly refused, &c.
2. That whereas, the defendant, by John P: Van Ness, the preSident of said bank, arid Alexander Kerr, ihe cashier, agents for
that purpose, duly authorized by and acting for defendant, did, on
the 9th November, 1827, bargain and sell to the plaintiff the
said lot of ground, on the terms mentioned in the first count,
and did thereupon put plaintiff in possession of said lot; and the
plaintiff avers the authority of Van Ness and Kerr to make said
agreement; that plaintiff paid the note, and received and continued
in possession of the lot, and was obliged to pay, and did pay taxes
thereon, from the 9th November, 1827, to 30th December, 1835,
when he was turned out of possession by the Patriotic Ba'nk: yet
defendant, although often requested, has not conveyed the said lot
in fee simple to the plaintiff, but hath hitherto wholly neglected and
refused.
3. That whereas defendant, on the 9th November, 1827, by an
agreement of that date, acknowledged to have received from the
plaintiff the sum of five hundred and ninety-one dollars and twentyfive cents, and the promissory note of the plaintiff, payable six
months after date, with interest, and in consideration thereof put
the plaintiff in possession of said lot, and undertook and faithfully

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

21

[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

promised the plaintiff, upon the payment of said note, with interest, to
convey to plaintiff said lot in fee simple ; that the plaintiff did pay
said note, with interest,'whereby defendant became liable and bound
to convey said lot in fee simple, by a good and indefeisible title, free
from encumbrances; and being so liable, undertook and promised,
&c.: yet plaintiff says that the defendant was not at the time when,
&c., or at any other time after seized or possessed of said lot in fee
simple, nor did then or at any other time, although often requested
to convey, &c. And the plaintiff further avers, that being itf ppssession of said lot, as aforesaid, he was compelled to pay and did
pay the taxes and public dues. amounting to three hundred dollais,
whereby, &c.
: 4. The fourth count was for money had and received, and concluded as follows, "Yet the said defendants, the said sums of money
have not paid to the said plaintiff, nor have they-paid any part thereof,
but the same or any part thereof to pay to the said plaintiff, have
hitherto wholly neglected and refused, to the damage of the said
plaintiffd three thousand dollars, and tiereof," &c,.
There was no conclusion to the three preceding counts in the declara.tion.
The jury, under the charge of the Court, found a general verdict
for the plaintiff for eleven hundred and ninety-one dollars and
twenty-five cents, with interest from November 9, 1827.
The counsel for the defendant took four exceptions to the charge
of the Court.
The plaintiff in the Circun Court having given in evidence ah
account made out by the Bank of the Metropolis, against him,
stating that he had bought a certain lot of ground described in the
same, from the bank, for the sum of eleven hundred and ninetyone dollars and twenty-five cents, gives a credit for the sum of five
hundred and ninety-one dollars and twenty-five cents as "cash
received ;" and the balance, six hundred dollars, to be due on the
bond of the plaintiff, in the following terms, "Be it known, that
on this 9th' day of November, 1827, Ernest Guttschlick, has purchased of the Bank of the Metropolis, lot No. 5, in square No. 489, as
above described, and as laid down on the plat of the city of Washington, for the sum of eleven hundred and ninety-one dollars and
twenty-five cents, and that he hath paid on account of the same,
the sum of five hundred and ninety-one dollars and twenty-five
cents, leaving due the sum of six hundred dollars, for which he
hath given his note to the said bank, payable in six inonths after
date with interest from date, which sum of six hundred dollars,
when paid, will be in full for the purchase money of said lot.
"The Bank of the Metropolis, through the president tnd cashier,
is hereby pledged, when the above sum shall be paid, to convey the
said lot, viz. lot 5, in §quare 489, in fee simple, to the said Ernest
Guttschlick, his heirs or assigns, forever.
"In testimony whereof, the said president and cashier. by order
of

22

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.1

the board of directors, have hereto Set their hands and seals this
ninth day of Novemberi eighteen hundred and twenty-seven.
"JoHN

P. VAN NESS, [SEAL.]

" President of the Bank of Metropolis.
"ALEXANDER
KER, Cashier. [SEAL.]
"In presence of GEO. THoMAS."
With evidence that he, the plaintiff, had paid the sum of six hundred dollars to the bank: the defendants excepted to the admissibility and competency of the same, until some evidence should be
given, showing the authority of the parties who executed the same
to sign said paper.
The Court overruled the objection.
The defendant's second bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff
proved that in December, 1835, witness, at the instance of the plaintiff, examined the records of deeds in Washington county, for the
purpose of tracing the plaintiff's title to the'lot in question, and,
after such examination, wrote for the plaintiff his letter to the bank,
dated 17th December, 1835; that when he wrote that letter, a deed,
purporting to be executed by John P. Van Ness, president, &c., to
the plaintiff, was before him, and is the deed referred to in said
letter, having been handed to him by plaintiff. The said deed was
duly recorded on the 13th of May, 1828, and appears to have been
delivered in August, 1828. Statements were made by counsel, and
the plaintiff offered to read in evidence said deed ; which being objected to, the Court overruled the objection, and defendant excepted.
The third bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff, in order to
maintain the issue on his part, offered in evidence the proceedings
of the Circuit C.urt of the District of Columbia, for the county of
Washington, in a certain suit brought by the Patriotic Bank against
Samuel Lane, for the purpose of showing that Samuel Lane had been
in fact sued upon the note for three .thousand dollars, one of the
notes mentioned in the deed from B. G. Orr, to Joseph Elgar, dated
21st of August, 1818; to the competency and admissibility of the
same to prove the said fact, the defendant objected; bift the Court
overruled the objection, and permitted the same to go to the jury.
To the admission of which testimony the defendant, by his counsel
excepted. The deed from B. G. Orr, referred to in the exception,
was a deed of trust, executed on the 21st day of August, 1818, and
duly recorded, to Joseph Elgar, by which Orr conveyed to Elgar
certain lots of ground in the city of Washington, in trust, that if Samuel Lane should be sued, or put to any cost, trouble, damage, or
ekpense, by reason of his having endorsed certain notes drawn by
B
B.G. Orr, negotiable at the Patriotic Bank, the trustee should sell
and dispose of the property conveyed by the same, and out of the
,proceeds discharge the notes, or such as may have been substituted
for them, and to indemnify the said Samuel Lane, &c.
The fourth bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff, to sustain
the issue on his part, gave in evidence the articles of agreement

JANUARY TERM, 184G.

23

[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

igned by John P. Van Ness, President of the Bank of the Metropolis, and Alexander Kerr, Cashier of the Bank, with the plaintiff,
for the sale of the lot; and then, having proved that B. G. Orr was
seized in fee of the premises mentioned in the agreement, gave in
evidence the deed from Orr to Elgar, referred to in the third exception, and then gave in evidence. a deed from B., G. Orr to Kerr,
authorizing the sale of the lot, for the purpose of discharging certain
notes, drawn by Orr, and discounted at the Bank of the Metropolis,
and a deed made by Kerr to the Bank of the Metropolis, in pursuance of the trust, dated July 1st, 1825, under, which deed the bank
entered into possession of the lot; and then gave in evidence the
proceedings in the Circuit Court, in the case of the Patriotic Bank
against Samuel Lane, as stated in the third bill of exceptions, and
proved by competent testimony, that B. G. Orr had died in 1823,
and Samuel Lane, ai the year 1822, both insolvent;'and that in the
year 1835, said Elgar, at the instance and request of said Patriotic
Bank, advertised the property mentioned in said deed to him for
sale, in manner following, and that pursuant to sid advertisement,.
he did, on the 21st day of December 1835, enter on the premises and
expose to sale, and did sell, said lot No. 5, in square No. 489, and
the said Patriotic Bank, by its cashier, became the purchaser, and
said Elgar executed to said bank a deed for the same, arid that the
nett proceeds of said sale of said lot, was carried on the books of the
said Patriotic Bank to the credit of said B. G. Orr's note for three
thousand dollars, mentioned in said deed from said Orr to Elgar,
still leaving, as appears by the said books, a balance due on the said
note; and then gave in evidence a letter addressed by said plaintiff
to said defendant, and then proved by competent testimony, that the
said lot was vacant, and unenclosed, and unimproved; and that
after said sale and conveyance to said Patriotic Bank, the cashier of
said bank Went on to said premises, in company with the attorney
of said bank, and then and there declared that he took possession of
the same ; and that in the year 18294, the said lot was assessed on
the books of the corporation of Washington, as the property of said
Orr; and that from the year 18-5 to the year 1828, both inclusive,
the same was assessed to said defendant, who paid the taxes thereon ;
and that from the year 1829 to the year 1,835, the same was assessed
to said plaintiff, who paid the taxes thereon, and continued in possession till the year 1835, and from that time, the same has been
assessed to said Patriotic Bank; and further proved that said plaintiff was duly notified by the cashier of said Patriotic Bank, of his
intention to take possession of said lot, in the manner and t the
time of his said entry as aforesaid, that that said lot still remains
and has constantly remained open, vacant, unimproved, and inenclosed; and further proved that said plaintiff had paid to said defendant the whole consideration money for which said lot was sold
to him, and taken up at maturity as part of said purchase money; the
note mentioned in the agreement aforesaid, signed by said Van Ness
and Kerr; and that the said Orr and Kerr, during their lives, and

SUPREME COURT.
I[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]
the said Eigar,the Bankof the Metropolis, and Patriotic Bank, were
all in the city of Washington from 1818 till after 1835.
The defendant moved the Court to instiuct the jury, that upon
this evidence the plaintiff was notentitled to recover upon the first,
or second, or third, or fourth counts in the declaration ; which instructions the Court refused to give; to which refusal the defendants
excepted.
The defendants presented this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Messrs. Senmes and Bradley, for the defendant.
Mr. Coxe contended that the Circuit Court had erred in each and
all the instructions given to the jury.
ie argued that the proceedings under the deed from Orr to Elgar,
under which the Patriotic Bank claimed title to the lot sold to the
defendant in error, were irregular and void. Eighteen years had
elapsed between the execution of the deed of trust by Orr to Elgar;
and if the Patriotic Bank could come forward in 1835, to claim
under a note given in 1819, they should have gone into a Court of
Equity before they could call on the trustee to sell. The detd of
trust gave only a naked power ; and after the elapse of so many
years, no sale could be made under it. He had. exceeded his authority. Deeds of trust have the same effect as common law mortgages.
In 1835, when Elgar undertook to execute the trust, there was no
debt due to the Patriotic Bank. A Court of Equity, as well as a
Court of Common Law, would have presumed its payment.
There is Do evidence that Samuel Lane had been sued upon the
notes, or had ever suffered damage, or been put to expense. The
judgment of the Patriotic Bank on the notes was obtained in, 1823,
against the administrator of Lane.
By the law of Maryland, a judgment becomes inoperative after
twelve years; and this judgment was therefore invalid in 1835.
The statute of limitations had created a complete bar to all claims
on the notes of Orr, or on the judgment. The Patriotic Bank had
no rights under either the judgment or the notes.
The Bank of the Metropolis had therefore become entitled, completely and exclusively, under the deed to Alexander Kerr, to the
lot; for if no proceedings could be had against Lane, how could the
deed of trust from Orr to Elgar be put in force ? .No evidence could
be introduced to show the right of iEigar. It was at an end from
time.
The defendant in error did not show on the trial aright to recover
against the,Bank of the Metropolis. ie has no right of action. le
should have shown that he had tendered a proper deed to the bank,
to be executed: but this is not shown, or averred. He should have
proved that a power to sell the lot had been given by the bank to
the president and cashier: but the Circuit Court did not require this.
The defendant in error, was barred from sueing, by hisholding the

JANUARY TERM,

1840.

25

[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

deed for the lot,,although it may have been defective; and by his
holding possession under the deed, until he had demanded a better
one from the Bank of the Metropolis.
All the counts in the declaration are defective but the fourth and
last, as they have no conclusion; and the conclusion to the last
count is inapplicable to the preceding three.
Messrs. Semmes and Bradley for the defendant in error.
It is extraordinary, that after the pleadings were made up in this
case, a trial had, and the plaintiffs in error had*taken four bills of
exceptions, objections to the declaration should be first made in
this Court. The party thus objecting is too late: he has waved all
right to take such exceptions. All defects in the declaration are
cured by the verdict and by the statute of jeofails.
So if -the defendant in the Circuit Court had an objection to the
form of the action, he should have taken it by a plea. The contract
isset out in the declaration. It is a contract for the sale of the lot
by the officers of the bank; and it has been held that the accredited
agents of the bank have a right to bind it by their contracts. Hatch
vs. Barr, 1 Ohio Reports, 390.
It is certain that the Bank of the Metropolis made the contract set
out in the record, and did not keep it with the defendant in error.
At the time they assumed the right to sell the lot, the bank could
not legally convey it; nor has a legal title to it been made at any
time by the bank. There was an existing encumbrance on the lot
which the bank did not remove, and which' has, subsequently to the
sale to the defendant in error, been enforced; and he is entirely
divested of the property. He has paid the full consideration stated
in the contract, and he now seeks to recover the same back from the
bank. This is resisted, and this is the question in the case. On
the part of the defendant in error every principle of equity and
justice is in full force.
The bank would exempt itself from its
obligations upon legal and technical gi'ounds. But no objections on
such grounds to the recovery of the defendant in error will be found
to exist. 20 Johns. Rep. 15. 20. , Sugden on Vendors, 6. Encumbrances on property are objections to a valid title. 11 Johns. Rep.
525. 2 Johns. Rep. 613. 12 Johns. Rep. 190. s Wheat. 338.
12 Wheat. 64.
The authority of the agents of the bank to sell may be inferred
from the acts of -the parties. The money of the defendant and his
note were given to the bank for the property, and this property was
acquired by the bank from one of its debtors for the payment of a
debt. This is authorized by the charter.
This was a contract on the part of the bank to sell the lo., free
from all encumbrances. Cited on this point, 1 H. Black. 270. 280.
3 Bos. and Pull. 162. 4 Espinasse's Rep. 221. 2.Esp. Nisi Prius.
639, 640.

Was there an outstanding legal encumbrance on the lot, superior
VoL. XIV.-C
4

SUPREME COURT.
[Thb Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick,]

to the title of the Bank of the Metropolis, at the time they made' the
sale to the, defendant in error?
It must be admitted that any one interested in the trust given to
Elgar, might call on him to execute it; and if he was willing to do
his duty, there was ri necessity to call in the aid of a Court of Chancery. The Patriotic Bank was the holder of the notes endorsed by
Lane; it was the cestui que trust. The bank was not barred by
time. Their judgment was interlocutory, and was not affected by
he statute of limitations of Maryland. Tie object of the deed of
trust was to pay the notes, and thus to indemnify the endorser.
The bank had a right to avail itself of the trust whenever it became
known to them. s Johns. Ch. Cases, 261.
The purchase of the lot by the Bank of the Metropolis was made
subject to the deed of trust to Elgar. That deed was on record, and
was notice, fiom its date, to all the world. Nothing but actual
fraud can divest a mortgage properly on record, and that fraud must
be proved. Cited, the Recording Act of Maryland, 1815. 1 Johns.
Ch. Cases, 298. 394.
Another objection has been made. It is said, that Z]though the
length of time which had elapsed before the sale by Llgar, would
not bar a mortgage, but it would bar a judgment. But to make a
judgment a bar, the statute of limitations must be pleaded. It is
not void, but may be made so by pleading the statute. There was
no plea of thestatute in this case.
Mr. Jfustice BARaoun delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of assumpsit brought by the defendant in error
against the plaintiff in error, in the Circuit Court of the United States,
in the county of Washitigton, and District of Columbia.
The declaration contains three special counts., and h count for money had and received. The three special counts are all founded
upon an agreement in writing, wvhich, after reciting that tlhe plaintiff in the Court below had bought of the defendant in the Court
below, lot No. 5, in square No. 489, in the city of Washington, for
which he had paid a part of the purchase money, and executed his
note for the residue; contains the following stipulation: "The Bank
of the Metropolis, throtugh the president and cashier, is 'hereby
pledged, wh'en the above sum, (that is,,the amount of the note,) is
paid, to convey the said lot, viz. lot No. 5, in square 489, in fee simple, to the said Ernest Guttschlick, his heirs, or assigns forever."
Each of these counts avers the payment, at the time agreed, of the
amount of the note, and the failure of the bank, on demand, to convey the lot. At the trial several bills of exception were. taken, and
a verdict was found, and judgment rendered in favour of the plain-

tiff. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error is' brought.
In the argument at the bar, .various objections have been. urged
to the sufficiency of the declaration, which we will briefly notice, in
the order in which they were made.
The first objection is, that the special counts have no conclusion

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

27

[The Bank of the Metropolis vs; Gtttschlick.]

There is certainly no formal conclusion to either of these counts.
Each of them, after alleging the breach, terminating with the words,
"Whereby, &c." Whether counts thus concluding, would have
been sufficient upon a special demurrer in the Court below, it is not
necessa,ry to decide ;, because we are clearly of opinion, that the
thlirty-second section of the Judiciary act, would cure the defect, if
it were admitted to have been one.
The second objection which was taken, applies to the first count,
viz., that the agreement sued on, is averred to have been made by
the bank, "through the president and cashier," without averring
their authovization by the bank to make it. We consider this objection as wholly untenable. The averment in this count is, that the
bank, through these officers, agreed to convey the lot. Now even
assuming, for the sake of giving the objedtion its full force, that the
making of this agreement was not within the competency of these
officers, as such, yet it was unquestionably in the power of the bank
to give authority to* its own officers to do so. When, then, it is
averred that the bank, by them, agreed, this averment, in effect, imports the very thing, the supposed want of which constitutes the
objecti6n: because, upon the assumption stated, the bank could
have made no agreement but by agents having lawful authority.
Nay, it would have been sufficient, in our opinion, that the bank
agreed, without the words, "6through the president and cashier :"
for it is a rule in pleading, that facts may be stated according to
their lega4 effect. Now the legal effect of an agreement made by an
agent for his principal, whilst the agent is acting within the scope of
his authority, is, that it is the agreement of the principal. Accordingly, it is settled that the' allegation that a party made, accepted,
endorsed, or delivered a bill of exchange, is sufficient, although the
defendant did not, in fact, do either of these acts himself, provided
he authorized the doing of them. 'Chitty, on Bills, 356, and the authorities there cited. This principle has been applied too, in actions
ex delicto, as well as'ex contractu. In 6 Term Rep. 659, it was
held, that an allegation that the defendant had negligently driven
his cart against plaintiff's horse, was supported by evidence; that
defendant's servant drove the cart. In this aspect of the question, it
was one, not of pleading, but of evidence. If, on the contrary, the
act were one in their regular line of duty, then, of course, the averment was unnecessary. In the case of Fleckner vs. U. States Bank,
8 Wheat. 358, the Court declare the point to be settled, "that a corporation may be bound by contracts not authorized or executed under its corporate seal, and by contracts made in the, ordinary discharge of the official duty of its agents and officers,"
The next objection which was raised to the declaration applied
to the second count, viz., that the averment that the plaintiff was
turned out of possession, was insufficient in this, that it is not averred to have been by process of law, or by the entry of one having
lawful title. If entry and eviction were the ground of the action, or
constituted the gravamen of the count, as in covenant on a warranty,

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschick.]

or for quiet enjoyment, then, indeed, a declaration or count would
be defective, which omitted to aver, that the plaintiff was evicted by
due process of law, or by the entry and eviction of one who, at the
time of the covenant, had lawful title to the land; and having such
title, entered and eviated the plaintiff; or which did not contain
some averment of equivalent import. But upon examining the
count in question, it will be found, that although this averment is
contained in that count, it is mere surplusage ; because the breach
alleged is, that the defendant refused, on demand, to convey the
land. There is nothing, therefore, in the objection, as applied to this
count; because it would be good without averring any eviction
whatsoever.
The next 6bjection to the declaration applies to the third count,
and it is this ; that the plaintiff, in that count, tieats the agreement
as importing an undertaking on the part of the bank to convey the
lot in fee simple, by a good and indefeisible title) free from encumtrances. In the view which we have taken ofthis subject, it is uniecessary for us to decide whether the agieement does, or does not,
mport such an undertaking, on the part of the bank, as is ascribed
[o it in this count of the declaration. This count contains an averment that the bank was not at the time of the agreement, or at any
time after, seized or possessed of the lot in fee simple. "We have
seen that the language of the agreement is, that the bank was to
convey the lot in fee simple, to the defendant in error, his heirs, or
assigns forever. Now it appears from the record, that the bank
claimed under a deed from Alexander Ierr, who sold the lot as
trustee, under a deed of trust from Orr, the former owner, made to
secure certain debts therein stated, which deed of trust was executed oit the 8th of September, 1819. But Orr had previously, to
wit, on the 6th of August, 1818, conveyed the same lot, in fee simple, to Joseph Elgar, as trustee for the purpose of securing certain
debts therein stated, and with power to sell, in certain events
therein mentioned; one of which was, that Samuel Lane, who
was endorser of a note of three thousand dollars, secured by this
last deed, should be sued, which event occurred as early as the
year 1820. Now from this state of facts, it is apparent that at the
date of .the agreement, the bank was not seized 'of the fee simple
which it contracted to convey. If the deed of trust to Elgar be considered as a-mortgage, then the moment it was executed, the legal
estate in fee simple was in Elgar, subject to be defeated upon the
performance of the condition, and so continued in him, from that
time down to the year 1835, when, under the trust deed he sold and
conveyed the lot to the Patriotic Bank, which purchased at the sale.
The interest of the mortgagor, according to the common law, is not
liable to execution as real estate. 8 East, 467. 6 Bos. and Pull.
461.

It is treated as equitable assets, 1 Vesey, 486.

4 Kent, 154.

In conibrmity with this doctrine, this Court decided, 12 Peters, 201,
that the wife of a mortgagor was not dowable; and in 13 Peters, 294
tiat tfle:,equity of redemption could not be taken in execution unde:

JANUARY TERM, 184a

29

[The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschliek.]

a fieri facias. If this be so, in the case of a mortgage, the principle
applies more strongly in case of a deed of trust, because the interest
of the mortgagor, such as it is, is so far protected by a Court of
Equity, that the mortgagee' cannot foreclose, without a decree in
equity; and even in that decree a short time is allowed to the moitgagor, within which to redeem by paying the debt: whereas, in the
case of the trust, unless in case of some extrinsic matter of equity,
a Court of Equity neyer interferes; and the only right of the grantor
in the deed is the right to whatever surplus may remain after sale,
of the money f6r which the property sold. There was then a g6od
cause of action, on the ground that the bank had not the fee simple
which it contracted to convey.
We think, then, that the declaration is not liable to any of the
objections which have been urged against it.
Nor have we any doubt but that the action well lies against thd
bank. For although the agreement is under seal, it is not the seal
of the corporation, but that of the president and cashier. It was decided in the case of Randall vs. Vanvechten, 19 Johns. Rep. 60, that
covenant would not lie against a corporation, on a contract not under
their corporate seal; but that an action of assumpsit wotild lie: and
that it makes no difference, in regard to a corporation, whether the
agent is appointed under seal or not, or whether he puts his own
seal to a contract which- he makes in their behalf, the doctrine of
merger not applying to such a case. This doctrine we approve, and
it is decisive of the objection.
We come now in order to the exceptions taken at the trial.
The first was, to the Court's admitting the agreement declared
ipon, to be given in evidence, until some evidence was previously
given, showing the authority of the parties who executed it, to
sign it.
Assuming, argumenti gratia, as we have before done as to this
point, that the transaction was such that an authority was necessary
,to be proven, the objection resolves itself simply in a question of the
order in which evidence was to be given.
We think that there is nothing in it. It was as competent for the
party to prove the authority after, as it was before, giving the agreement in evidence.
The second exception was taken to the Court's admitting in evidence a letter from defendant in error to plaintiff in erFor, and the
testimony of a witness that he had examined the records for the
purpose of tracing the title of the defendant in error to the lot in
question; and also a deed purporting to be executed by John P. Van
Ness, president of the Bank of the Metropolis, to the defendant in
error. The letter was merely to inform the plaintiff in error of the
sale then advertised to be made of the lot in question, under the
deed of trust from Orr tp Elgar. The examination of the records
made by the witness, was made for the purpose of enabling the defendant in error to decide what course to pursue in relation to the
property. We see nothing objectionable in the admission. either of
C2

30

SUPREME COURT.
[The Baik of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

the letter or the testimony of the witness. The plaintiff in error
certainly was not injured by its admission. The property which
the defendant in error had bought being about to be sold, he cause.4
an examination to be-made, that he might know what ground he
stood on; then, out of abundant caution, he wrote the letter giving
notice of the, sale, so that the other party might pursue whatever
course they thought best for their safety. The most that can be
said of it is, that he thereby proved that he had done more than he
was bound to do. For if he had cho'en, he might have rested upon
his contract, without troubling himself either in examining records
or giving the other party notice. Nor have we any doubt as to the
admissibility of the deed; some of the counts in the declaration
charged as'a breach of the-agreement, the failure of the other party
to make a deed; a paper having been executed having the form of.
deed, it was altogether proper then to-give it in evidence, to show
that being sealed, not with the corporate seal, but with that of the president of the bank, it was no deed; and thus sustain the allegation ;
that no deed had been made. It is clear, beyond doubt, that a paper
such as this, not under the corporate seal, is not the deed of the
bank, in contemplation of law.
I -The third exception was taken to the Court's receiving in evidence
the record of a suit by the Patriotic Bank against Lane, for the purpose of sboiVng that Lane had been sued upon a note for three
thousand dollars, mentioned in the deed from B. G. Orr to Elgar,
dated August 20th, 1818. We think that this record was properly
admitted. For one important question in the cause was, whether
the occasion had occurred which justified Elgar, the trustee, in the
deed of trust from Orr, to sell the lot in question. Now one of the
provisions of that deed authofized him to sell, whensoever Lane
should be sued on the note for three thousand dollars, given by Orr
to the Patriotic Banl and endorsed byLane, and to pay off that
note to the bank. Now this recora. proved that 'Lane had been
sued, that therefore the casus fedoris had occurred; that the land
was rightfully sold; and therefore we think was admissible for the
purpose for which it was offered. But it was argued, that the note
stated in the deed of trust as the one endorsed by Lane, purported
to be negotiable at the Patriotic Bank, and that the note declaied
upon in the record did not purport to be negotiable at that bank, and
that there was therefore a variance. 'If the question had been raised
in the suit brought upon the note, it might have 'been considered a
misdescription; but in this case it was offered in evidence to the
jury to prove the fact that Lane had been sned; it was a question
for the jury to consider, whether this evidence was sufficient to
satisfy them that it was the same debt as the one described in the
deed from Orr to Elgar; and therefore the principle of law, that the
allegations, in the parties' pleadings, and their proofs, shall correspond, has no application.
The last exception, after setting out certain evidence given by the
plaintiff, without even stating that it was all the evidence, states

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

31

(The Bank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]

that the defendant prayed an instruction, that upon that evidence,
the plaintiff was not entitled to recover either upon the first, or
second, or third, or fourth counts in the declaration, which instruction the Court refused to -give: and we think very properly.
Whether evidence is admissible or not, is a question for the'Court
to decide; but whether it is sufficient or not, to support the issue, is
a question for the jury. This Court said, in the United States vs.
Laub, 12 Peters, 5, 1',It is a point too well settled to be now drawn
in question, that the effect and sufficiency of the evidence, are for
the consideration and determination of the jury." Aqd this proceeds upon this obvious principle. It is the province of the jury
to decide what facts are proven. It is competent to them, to draw
from the evidence before them, all such inferences and conclusions
as that evidence conduces to prove. If the Court were to tell them,
that upon a given state of evidence, the plaintiff could, or could
not recover, then they must in the assumption of what facts were
proven, either discard from their consideration such inferences as
the jury might draw, or they must themselves deduce them. The
first course would injure the party offering the evidence; the second
would be an usurpation of the office of the jury. The only case
in which the Court can make such inferences, and pass upon the
sufficiency of the evidence, is by a demurrer to evidence. This
would be the case,.even if the bill of exception professed to state
all the evidence; but the one which we are now considering does
not profess to do this, and we cannot assume that it was all. For
aught that appears on this record, there was other evidence; it is
enough, however, that it does not appear that the evidence stated
upon which the instruction was asked, was all.
Having now finished our examination of the several exceptions,
we will very briefly notice some points which were pressed upon
the consideration of the Court. It was said that the deed of trust
from Orr to Elgar, under which 'the lot in question was sold,
was made to indemnify Lane as endorser of Orr's note; that the
Patriotic Bank had no right to call upon the trustee to sell it; that
its only right was in a Court of Equity to ask to be substituted to
the rights of Lane: but upon examining the deed of trust, we find
in it a provision, that upon Lane's being sued, the trustee shall sell
the lot, and after paying the expenses of the sale, apply the proceeds to the discharge of the notes of Orr, endorsed by Lane, of
which the note on which the suit was brought against Lane, was
one;'so that this agreement fails in its foundation. We entirely
concur with the doctrine laid down in 1 Johns. Chan. Rep. 205.
3 Johns. Chan. 261, that where a trust is created for the benefit of
a third party, though without his k4owledge at the time, he may
affirm the trust, and enforce its execution. The truth is, that
although the object of the deed of trust was to secure Lane, its
provision, that, in the event which happened, of his being sued, the
property should be seld, and the notes which he had endorsed,
should be paid, was the most effectual means of attaining that

32

SUPREME

COURT

[The fBank of the Metropolis vs. Guttschlick.]
object: these notes were due to the bank, were held by it, and in
paying them, therefore, the money must be paid to the bank.
Hence the trustee was authorized to sell at its instance, and to pay
it the amount.
It was also argued, that the judgment against Lane was barred
by the act of limitations, and that, therefore, the trustee was not
authorized to sell for the purpose of paying a debt which could not
be enforced; the provision of the deed which we have already
referred to, furnishes an answer also to this objection; for even if it
were barred, the claim was in full force, under the trust in the deed.
For, although the- judgment extinguished the right of action upon
the note, yet upon well-established principle, it did not operate' at
all, by way of extinguishment of the collateral remedy under the
deed of trust, though it had relation to, and was intended to secure
the payment of the same.note. The result, then,,of this state of
things is, that the property bought by the defendant in error, of the
plaintiff in error, was legally sold under an elder subsisting lien;
and thus he was utterly divested of all title, so as to show an entire
failure of the consideration for which he paid his money, and to
enable him to maintain an action for money had and received, to
recover it back. We think that there is no error in' the judgment;
it is, therefore, affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel.. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court,
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six ner cent. per annum.

