JANUARY TERM, 1840.

95

PETER E. FREVALL, APPELLANT, Vs. FRANKLIN BACHE, ADMINISTRATOR OP JOHN DABADIE, DECEASED, APPELLEE.
A claim for the sum awarded by the commissioners under the treaty of indemnity with
France of July fourth, 1831.
The powers and duties of the commissioners under the treaty of indemnity with France,
were the same as those which were exercised under the treaty with Spain, by which
Florida was ceded to the United States ; as decided in the cases of Comegys vs. Vasse,
I Peters, 212, and Sheppard vs. Taylor and others, 5 Peters, 710. There is a difference
in the words used in 'the Treaty and Act of Congress, when defining the powers of the
Board of Commissioners; but they mean the same thing. The rules by which the Board
acting under the French treaty is directed to govern itself in deciding the cases that come
before it, and the manner in which it is constituted and organized, show the purposes for
which it was created. It was established for the purpose of deciding what claims were
entitled to share in the indemnity provided by the treaty ; and they of course awarded
the amount to such person as appeared from the papers before them to be the rightful
claimant. But there is nothing in the frame of the law establishing the Board, or in the
manner of constituting and organizing it, which would lead to the inference that larger
powers were intended to be given than those conferred on the commissioners under the
Florida Treaty.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for Wash-

ington county, District of Columbia.

This case was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the appellant; and by
ir.. Key, for the appellee.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before this Court upon an appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. "
The controversy has arisen out of the shipment of a cargo of cotton, indigo, and coffee, made in the fall of 1809, in the brig Spencer,
from Philadelphia to St. Sebastians, or Port Passage. The vessel
duly arrived, and discharged her cargo. She was afterwards seized,
and the cargo sequestrated by the French government. In the following year, the vessel was liberated, and returned to the United
States: but the cargo was never restored.
The cargo of the Spencer thus sequestrated, was entitled to share
in,,the indemnity provided by the treaty with France, of July 4,
1831.
But a dispute arose before the commissioners appointed
under that treaty, as to the right to five-sixteenths of the indemnity
allowed for this cargo. The opposing claimants were the present
appellant, who claimed for the whole of the cargo, and the appellee,
who claimed for the said five-sixteenths.
The commissioners
awarded in favour of the latter.
The appellant therefore filed his bill against the appellee, in the
Circuit Court for Washington county, in the District of Columbia;
alleging, among other things, that a certain Andrew Curcier, then a
resident merchant in Philadelphia, was the owner of the Spencer

SUPREME COURT
[Frevall vs. Bache.]

and her cargo on the yoyage in question ; that the said seizure and
sequestration gave him a valid claim against the French government;
which he afterwards, for a valuable consideration, transferred to the
claimant, who took it without notice of any other claim. And he
charges also, that if Dabadie, the appellee's intestate, ever had an
interest in the cargo, it'
had been relinquished to Curcier by a settle-!
mernt which took place between them in 1818, long before the assignment to the complainant. And he produces, as an exhibit, the
account which, as he alleges, contains this renunciation: and he
prays that the appellee may be enjoined from receiving the five-sixteenths awarded to him by the commissioners; and that the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Treasurer of the United States may
be enjoined from paying it.
To this bill the appellee put in his plea and answer, pleading the
award of the commissioners in bar of the complainant's bill; and also
insisting, by way of answer, Dabadie owned the five-sixteenths of
the cargo in question, and had a valid claim, on that account, against
the French government; that he had never transferred or relinquished
it to Curcier; and that his (Dabadie's) administrator was entitled
to receive it out of the indemnity provided by treaty: and he exhibits as the evidence of his interest in this cargo, an account, signed
by Andrew Curcier, in behalf of himself and Stephen Curcier, and
dated June 16, 1810.

A general replication was put in by the complainant: and the
testimony of a witness residing, at Marseilles, in France, was taken
by agreement of parties. This witness; it appears, is a native of
France, but resided in Philadelphia; and was engaged in commerce
there from the year 1796 until 1827, when he returned to his own
country, where he has ever since resided. He was intimate with
Curcier and Dabadie; and he states in his testimony, that in the year
1818, at Philadelphia, he, as umpire and mutual friend, settled an account between them, in which all differences were finally adjusted;
that the voyage of the Spencer to St. Sebastians, and the ownership
of her cargo, were settled in that account; and that by the terms of
the' settlement, the claim on the French government for indemnity
was afterwards to belong to Curcier. The witness mentions circumstances which took place at the settlement, to show that his memory is firm and accurate in relation to it. He states that it was
reducedto writing in the shape of an account current, as was customary ; and that two accounts were made, exactly the same in
every particular, both original, and one of them delivered to each
of the parties. No account current, however, was exhibited to the
witness at the time of his examinatioii, and none therefore has been
identified by him as the account current settled between the parties
in 1818 : and he states that he had not recently seen it, nor had any
communication from any one in relation to its contents.
Upon the hearing, the Circuit Court dissolved the injunction, and
dismissed the bill : and the case is brought before this Court by the
appeal of the complainant.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

97

[Frevall vs. Bache.]

Two questions have been presented for consideration here1. Is the decision of the commissioners appointed under the treaty
with France, conclusive upon the rights of the parties ? 2. If the
case is not concluded by the decision of the commissioners, is the
appellant, upon the testimony in the record, entitled to relief ?
Upon the first question, the Court have entertained no doubt.
This case cannot, we think, be distinguished from the cases of Co.
megys vs. Vasse, 1 Peters, 212, and Sheppard and others vs. Taylor
and others, 5 Peters, 710. It has been argued on the part of the appellee, that these cases were decided under the treaty with Spain ;
and that the language of that treaty, and of the act of Congress creating the board of commissioners under it, differs materially from
the treaty and act of Congress under consideration, when defining
the powers of the board. It is true, that there is a difference in the
words used; but in our judgment, they mean the same thing. The
rules by which the board is directed to govern itself in deciding the
cases that come before it, and the mariner in which it was cons tituted and organized, show the purposes for which it was created.
It was established for the purpose of deciding what claims were entitled to share in the indemnity promised by the treaty; and they of
course awarded the amount to such person, as appeared from the
papers before them, to be the rightful claimant. But there is nothing
in the frame of the law establishing this board, or in the manner of
constituting and o'ganizing .it, that would lead us to infer that larger
powers were intended to be given than those conferred upon the
commissioners under the Spanish treaty. The plea therefore put in
by the dcfendant in bar of the complainant's bill, cannot be sustained; and the case is fully open before this Court upon its merits.
Upon the second point there has been much more difficulty. It
is very ciear that Dabadie was the owner of five-sixteenths of the
cargo of the Spencer, upon the voyage in the fall of 1809, from Philadelphia, to St. Sebastians or Port Passage. This is abundantly
proved by the account stated and signed by Andrew Curcier, for
himself and Stephen Curcier, in June, 1810. For Dabadie, in this
account, is- charged with thirteen thousand seven hundred dollars
and thirteen cents, for his five-sixteenths of the cargo, and With three
thousand nine hundred and ninety-three dollars and- ninety-five
cents, for insurance upon it. He was therefore entitled to indemnity
to the extent of his interest in the cargo, and had a valid and just
claim for it against tie French government.
Has this interest been transferred to Curcier ? The witness
above mentioned deposed that it was relinquished to him, and the
agreement reduced to writing in an account curren't, settled in June,
1818. If such an account had been produced by the plaintiff, it
would decide the controversy in his favour. He does indeed produce an account settlcd betweed the parties, with mutual acquittances, in June, 1818. But it is not such an account as the witness
describes. Neither of the sums with which Dabadie was debited
in the account of 1810, for his share of the cargo, and for insurance,
VOL. XIV.-I

13

98

SUPREME COURT.
[Frevall vs. Bachn.]

appear in any way in this account of 1818. The acquittances therefore then executed do 'not apply to them. They apply only to
claims which the parties may have had against one another; and not
to claims which either of them had against the French government,
or any other third party.
There is -an item in the account of 181.8, which has been much
relied on by the complainant; in which Dabadie is credited with
five-sixteenths of the proceeds of the Spencer's cargo on this voyage,
sold at six' months' credit. But"there is nothing to show that any
part of the outward cargo was sold in Frafice. On the contrary,
the bill states that the whole cargo was sequestrated, and claims indemnity for the whole: and the answer admits the seizure of the
whole, and claims indemnity for five-sixteenths of the entire cargo.
We cannot therefore suppose that this item refers to the proceeds of
her outward cargo: for such an inference would be contrary to the
allegations of both the bill and the answer. And if it refers to a
homeward cargo, there is no evidence to show that such a cargo
was -brought by the Spencer; nor, if brought, by what means or
out of what funds it was procured. There is certainly nothing in
the record to connect this item in any manner with the outward
cargo, which was. seized; nor. to alter the rights of property in it. It
does not answer the description which the witness gives of the accountwhich'he settled in 1818, as the umpire and mutual friend of
the parties; and it is highly probable that the transaction of which
he speaks, may, from the lapse of time, have been confounded with
some subsequent voyage of the same vessel, out of which disputes
may have arisen between the parties. He states that he has not
seen the account, nor communicated with any person about it; and
after twenty years have passed, it ought -not to be a matter of surprise or' reproach if some of the items of an account, and some of
the circumstances connected with the settlement of it, were not accurately remembered. At all events, there is nothing in the account
of 1818, or any account in the case, that would justify us in saying
that the claim of Dabadie to the indemnity in question was transferred to Curcier, as charged in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued"
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

