SUPREME COURT.

A

imRosE WALDEN AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, V8. HENRY
LEY AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.

I. BOD-

There are cases in Chancery where amendments are permitted at any stage or progress, of
the cause, as where an essential party has been omitted: but amendments which change
the character of the bill or answer, so as to make, substanially, a new case, should rarely if
ever be admitted, after the cause has been set for hearing; much less after it has been heard.
A decree dismissing a bill in Chancery, generally, may be set up in bar of a second bill:
but where the bill has been dismissed on the ground that the Court had no jurisdiction,
which shows that the merits were not heard, the dismission is not a bar to a second bill.
Where parties by agreement dispense with the usual formalities, and no injustice results
from the mode'adopted, the Court should not on slight ground set aside the proceeding.
It is.a general rule that a tenant shall not dispute his landlord's title; but this rule is subject
to certain exceptions. If a tenant disclaims the tenure, and claims the fee in his own
right, of which Ith'e landlord has notice, the relation of landlord and tenant is put an end
to, and the tenant becomes a trespasser; and he is liable to be turned out of possession,
is not expired.
though the period of his lease
The same relation as that of landlord and tenant subsists between a trustee and a cestui que
trust, as it regards the title.
A Court of Equity cannot act on a case which is not fairly made out by the bill and
nswer. But it is not necessary that these should point out, in detail, the means which
the Court shall adopt in giving relief, Under the general prayer for relief, the Court
will often extend relief beyond the specific prayer, and not exactly in accordance with it.
Where a case for relief is made out in the bill, it may be giveA by imposing conditions
n the complainant, consistently with the rules of equity, in the discretion of the Court.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky..
This case was submitted to the Court by Mr. Underwood, for the
appellatits; and by Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees, on the argument
in the preceding case of Walden vs. Craig's heirs et al.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
Bodley and others filed their bill in the Circuit Court, representing, that on the 17th of October, 1783, an entry was made in the
name of Henry Crutcher and John Tibbs for ten thousand acres of
land, as follows: Henry' Crutcher and John Tibbs enter ten thousand acres of land on a treasury warrant; No. 18,747, as tenants in
common, beginning at a.large black ash and small buckeye, marked
thus, J. T., on the side of a buffaloe road, leading from the lower Blue
Lick, a N. E. cours, and about seven miles N. E. and by E. from
the said Blue Licks, to a corner of an entry of twenty thousand
acres, made in the name of John Tibbs, John Clark, John Sharp,
David Blanchard, and Alexander M'Lean, running thence with the
said Tibbs & Co.'s line due eqst, one thousand six hundred, poles;
thence south, one thousand poles; thencewest, one thousand six
hundred poles; thence north, one thousand poles, to the beginning,
for quantity.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

157

(Walden et al. vs. Bodley et al.]

That in 1790, a legal survey having been executed, a patent was
obtained in the names of Robert Rutherford, assignee of Henry
Crutcher and Willoughby, Tibbs, heir at law of John Tibbs, de-'
ceased, in 1790. That by several mesne conveyances the above
traqt was vested in the complainants.
The complainants represent that Ambrose Walden, the defendant,
on the 22d May, 1780, entered one thousand three hundred thirtythree and one-thir4 acres of land on the east, side of Jacob'Johnson's settlement and pre-emption, on the 'waters of Johnson's Fork,
a branch of Licking, to include two cabins on the north side of said
Fork5 built by- Simon Butler.; and to run eastwardly for quantity.
This entry was surveyed the 29th Novemb6r, 1785, after which a
patent was obtained.
Tho bill charges that this entry and survey.are void for want of
certainty, &c. And that Lewis Craig purchased of Simon Kenton,
who wasthe locator, and, claimied one-third of the 'land entered for
his services; which, being laid off, Craig sold several small tracts by
metes and bounds, to Jonathan Rose, William Allen, and Charles
Rector. That Rose sold a part of his purchase, to Abraham Shockey;
and Allen a'part of his, to Amzey Chapin.
And that Walden, alleging he had satisfied the claim of Kenton
as locator, commenced two actiois of ejectment in the District Court
of the United States for Kentucky, and obtained judgments against
the purchasers under Craig. That Shockey and Chapin, knowing
the title they held under Craig by purchase from Allen and Rose,
was inferior to that of the complainants, became their tenants. That
on the 30th October, 1801, the complainants entered into-an agreement with Lewis Craig, with the assent of Rose and Rector, for the
land they had purchased, and deeds were made to them by the comi
plainants. Shortly after this, Allen sold his land to Abraham Drake,
to whom the complainants made a deed.
That the complainants, Bodley arid Pogue, purchased Shockey's
claim to the land he had bought of Rose, and on which he had
erected a valuable mill. And tlat they still held the legal title -to
that, and the land purchased by Chapin of Allen, and to a considerable part of the interference of their claim with Walden's.
That twelve years after Walden obtained his judgments he
issued
writs of habere facias, which were set aside on the ground that the
demises had expired. That in 1824, the demises were extended,
without notice to the tenants, fifty years. That Rose, Rector, and
Allen, and those claiming under them, had possession of their respective tracts of land by metes and bounds, as purchased from
Craig, and held under the title of Bodley and Company, for more
than thirty years, adversely to Walden. That Shockey and Chapin,
and those holding under them, have had possession for 'near the
same length of time, &c.
The complainants state that Walden never has had possession of
any part of, his survey, except two hundred acres conveyed by him
to Robert Pogue, by proper metes and bounds; about one hundred
VOL. XIV.-O

158

SUPREME COURT.
tWalden et al. vs. Bodley et al.]

and fifty acres of which was held by Carter: and that the complainants have made valuable and lasting improvements on the land,
for which they require pay, if the title should be found in Walden.
And they pray an injunction, &c.; which, was granted.
The complainants afterwards amended their bill by stating that
Thomas Bodley and Robert Pogue, at the Fleming Circuit Court of

Kentucky, in March, 1825, in a suit in Chancery against the unknown heirs of John Walden, deceased, and others, obtained a
decree for the whole of Ambrose Walden's survey, except .'the one
hundred and fifty acres owned by Carter; and except so much of
John Walden's elder suf vey of one thousand six hundred sixty-six
and two-thirds acres, as was then in the possession of Ann Thrailhild, and the heirs of Jeremiah Proctor, deceased.
And the complainants further state that the tract of one tbousand
three hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres of Walden, interfered with an entry of twenty thousand 6cres, made the 31st July,
178.3, in the names of John Tibbs, John Clark, John Sharpe, David
Blanchard, and Alexander M'Lean, with the proper surveyor; sixteen thousand acres of which were surveyed and patented in the
name of the complainant Bodley; and this entry is charged to be
paramount to that mnder which Walden claims.
Walden, in his aifswer, states, that he obtained judgments against
the complainants, who are tenants on the land, by virtue of his legal
and better title; and that he has been a long time delayed by the
complainants from obtaining the possession of the land recovered.
He admits that some improvements have been made on the land;
but alleges that waste has been committed, and that rents and profits would more than compensate for the improvements. He states
that he brought his suits in ejectment shortly after the adverse possession was taken; and ,he relies upon the dismissal pf certain injunction bills, filed by the complainants,'as a bar to the present suit.
He knows nothing of the entries, surveys, and patents, set forth
in the bill, or of the sales and conveyances stated; and he requires
proof of the same. He insists on the validity of his own entry; and
denies that Kenton, as locator, was entitled to any part of it, as he
was paid in full for his services in locating the land. He denies all
fraud ; and prays the benefit of his judgments at law.
By agreement of the parties-in the Circuit Court, "the record and
proceedings of the Fleming Circisit Court-were filed, and that cause
was entered upon the docket, for further proceedings in this Court.
And that in the suits for trial, Thomas Bodley and others against
Ambrose Walden, and Clark's heirs against Ambrose Walden, and
also, the one by Duncan's heirs against Walden, should be entered
on the docket, and stand for hearing at the ensuing term, and be decided at the same time ; they all being connected with the present
controversy."
Bddley and Pogue having died, at November term, 1833, by consent, the suit was revived in the names of their heirs and representatives; and a guardian ad litem was appointed to certain infant heirs.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

159

[Walden et it. vs. Bodley et ,al.

A motion is made by tie defendants in the appeal, to dismiss it,
on the ground "that it is an appeal from several distinct decrees, in
several separate suits, which are attempted to be united in this appeal ; when there is no such record filed as is described in the appeal
and citation thereon."
In the decree of the Circuit Court, it is stated, that by consent of
the parties, the suits above named were to be heard at the same
time; and the*pape~s and pleadings filed in one case should be considered and have full effect in all the cases, to enable the Court to
decide the controversies in all the cases on their respective merits."
And it was expressly agreed, "that the bill, answers, and orders,
the entries, surveys, and patents, in the case of, Bodley and Pogue,
should be sufficient, without recording the whole suits and papers
in each of the cases; andthat in thdi event of either party appealing,
the clerk may copy all the papers in all the records; and that when
they are so copied and certified, the transcript shall have the same
effect as if there were full and separate records made out in each
and all of the cases: and this agreement was declared to be entered into, with the leave of the Court, to avoid expenses. in the
cases, as they all involve the same questions."
These agreements cover the apparent irregularities in the record,
as it regards the decrees and the proceedings in the different cases
stated ; and' obviate the objections on which the motion to dismiss
is founded.
And a further motion is made, to dismiss the appeal as to all the
parties named in the citation, who are not parties to the decrees.
The names in the citation are found on the record, as parties to
one or more of the several decrees entered. It is very clear, that
the parties to the decrees only can be made responsible for the costs
of this appeal.
Before the decrees were pronounced in the Circuit Court, by Consent
of the parties, it was entered upon the record, that every agreement
or admission on file, for the preparation of any one of the cases for
hearing, shall extend to all of them. And it was admitted, that the
complainants were respectively invested with the titles under the
entries of Peter Johnson and Tibbs, and Clark and Tibbs, and
Crutcher, as alleged in their several bills. And it was agreed, "that
the Court should give a final decree, without further ascertainment
of the boundaries or positions of the particular tracts or settlements
of each claimant or person interested; and that the principles thereof
shall be carried into effect as fully as if each tenement and each proprietor were specially named and identified."
The entries involved in this proceeding were brought before the
Conr in the case of Bodley et al. vs. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 191; and in
their decision, in regard to Walden's entry as well as the others,
the Circuit Court followed the decision of this Court.
It is true, the validity of these entries is brought before the Court
now by different parties; and the former decision having been made
between other parties, and on a state of facts somewhat different

160

SUPREME COURT.
[Watden et a!. vs. Bodley et al.]

from that now before us, does not settle, conclusively, thie question
in this case. But inlooking into the evidence, it is found that the
controlling call of Walden's entry is proved by Kenton and others;
and that. the effect of this evidence is not shaken by the testimony
on the other sfde. The calls of the entries are specific and notorious.
I deed, there seems to be little or no contest between the parties on
this ground; nor as to the survey of Walden's entry, as directed by
the
Circuit
Court.
. This
entry
being older and paramount to the other conflicting entries, it was-held to be good: 'but as the subsequent entries were
made before Walden's entry was surveyed, it was, very properly,
directed to be surveyed strictly in conformity to its calls.
*This mode of survey reduced the claim of Walden several hundred acres below the calls of his original survey. And for the land
lying outside of this last survey, and within the original one, the
Circuit Court decreed that he should relinquish the possession, and
release to the complainants, respectively, by metes and bounds
stated, the tracts covered by their titles.
Commissioners were appointed to ascertain the value of the improvements made by the tenants on the lands recovered by Walden;
the value of the rents and profits; the value of the land without the
improvements; and 'whether waste had been committed, &c. A,
report was made by the commissioners, which, on motion of the
complainants, was set aside, and another order to the commissioners
was made. And afterwards, no steps having been taken by thecomplainants to execute the order, the injunction was dissolved,

without prejudice to the complainants, for any claims they might
have for improvements; but the Court refused to decree releases
from the tenants to Walden of their claim; and also to order a writ
to the marshal, directing him to put Walden in possession of the
land recovered.
The Circuit Court, it appears, after the final decree was entered,
set it aside at the same term, and entered decrees'in each of the
cases. After the original decree, was set aside, and before separate
decrees were entered, the defendant moved the Court for leave to
file
answersto the cases placed on the dQcket by agreement,
and several
also. a cross
bill, which the Court refused. And we think that
this application to change the pleadings aiter the hearing, and under
the circumstances of this case, was very-properly rejected.
There are cases where amendments are permitted' at any stage of
the progress of the case; as where an essential party has been omitted ; but amendments which change the character of the bill or answer, so as to make substantially a new case, should rarely, if ever,
be admitted after the cause hag been set for hearing, much less after
it has been heard.
On the part of the appellant, it is contended, that the first and
second inijunction bills which were filed in this case, before the present one, and which were dismissed, constitute a bar to the relief
sought by the present bill.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

161

[Walden et al. vs. Bodle et al-]

The 'contr6versy in this case, by various causes,.has been protracted more than forty years. The judgments in the ejectment
cases were obtained in 1800. In the same year, and shortly after
the judgments were rendered, Bodley, 1ughe, and others, obtained
an injunction. This bill was dismissed, by the Court, in 1809, for
want of jurisdiction.
In 1811, another bill was filed, on, which an injunction was
allowed; and which, at Mayterm, 1812, was dissolved. The bill
was afterwards dismissed, by the complainants, at rules, in the
clerk's office. On the dissolution of this injunction,-writs of habere
facias possessionem were 'issued for the first time; and these, after
being stayed by order of the judge, were quashed at July term, 18,13,
on the ground that the demises had: expired.
The demises were laid, commencing in 1789, f6r ten years;. so
'that they had expired before the judgments were obtained.
In 1817, a motion was made toextend the demises, which was,
overruled. But the question was brought before thisCourt, which
decided they had no jurisdiction of the case, but gave an opinion
favourable to the amendment; which induced the Circuit Court, in
1824, to extend the demises to fifty years.
In the year 1825, the present bill was filed, on w'hich an injunction was issued to stay proceedings on the judgments, which was
continued until the final decree of the Circuit 'Vourt.
As the first bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and .the
second by the complainants, at rules, in the clerk's office,'it is clear
that neither can operate as a bar to the present bill. A decree dismissi.g a bill generally, may be set up in bar of a second bill,
having the same object in view ; but the Court dismissed the first
bill on the ground that they bad no jurisdiction, which shows that
the case was not heard on its merits. And this also appears from
the dismissal by the partyof the second billsin the clerk's office.
also insisted, that the decrees of :the Circuit Court should be
I
reversed, on the ground that there is an improper joinder of parties.
Were it not for the agreements on the record, the decrees entered
in the diffeaent cases would be wholly irregular, and of course, unsustainable. Different interests and parties are united, and 'a decree
is made in each case, which determines the matters of controversy
in each. But the agreement of the parties spread upop the record, and that which is stated by the Court, and the fact of all the
causes being brought to a hearing and submitted at the same time,
afford the most satisfactory evidence of the assent of the parties,
and the waiver of all objection to the irregularity of the proceeding. And we are inclined to this view, from the consideration, that
Ify this mode of proaedure, the rights of the parties concerned could
in no respect be prejudiced. They were as §usceptible of as distinct an investigation and decision, as if the pleadings had been
fully made up in each case, and it had been heard separately.
Where parties by agreement dispense with the usual formalities
in the progress of a cause ; and no injustice results from the mode
o2

21

SUPREME COURT;"
[Walden et a!. vs. Bodley et al.)

adopted,.the Court should not, on slight ground, set'aside the proceeding.
It is contended, that as the complainants, or at least some of
them, entered under the title of Walden, as purchasers from Craig,
the principle of landlord and tenant applies; at least so far as to
prevent the setting up of a title adverse to that undei which they
entered.
Craig claimed a certain part of the entry of Walden, ,as purchaser under Kenton, the locator; and he sold to Some of the complaihants: but as his-title was not sustained, the purchasers under
him become interested in the entries of Bodley and others, and Tceived conveyances from them.
It is a general rule, that a tenant; shall not dispute his landlord's
title; but this rule is subject to certain exceptions. If a tenant disclaims the tenure, and claims the fee in his own right, of 'Which the
landlord has notice, the relation of laildlord and tenant is put an.
end to, and the tenant becomes a trespasser, and he is liable to be
turned odt of the possession, though the period of his lease has not
expired. 3 Peters, 47. The same relation as that of landlord and
tenant subists between a trustee and the cestui que trust, as it regards the title. In the case of Botts vs. Shields' heirs, S Lit. 34, 35,
the Court of Appeals decided that a purchaser of land, who enters
into the possession of it under an executory contract, shall not set
up another title. But a purchaser who has obtained a conveyance,
holds adversely to the vendor, and may controvert his title.
4 Lit. P74.
It appears from Kenton's deposition, that he was paid in land
warrants for making Walden's entry, and that he had not, in fact,
a shadow of right to any part of this land, He assigned the contract with Walden to locate the land to Fox and Wood; and afterwards paid them in discharge of this contract, by a conveyance of
land, located by the land warrants received from Walden; but the
contract was not surrendeied nor cancelled. So that Craig, as purchaser, procured neither the equitable nor legal title to any part of
the land in Walden's entry.
The claim of Craig appears to have been purchased by Bodley
and others, who at the time claimed under Conflicting and adverse
entries to that of Walden, with the assent of the first purchasers
from Craig; and then deeds were executed to them.
The original purchasers from Craig, who afterwards received
deeds from Bodley and others, ari deceased; and the lapse of time,
and change of circumstances, have been so great, that we do not
think the complainants, or any part of them, can be precluded on
the ground of their purchase from Craig, from setting up a title adverse to that of Walden's. The persons who entered under Craig
were in fact, trespassers; for they had no title which could protect
heir possession, or shelter them from the consequences of wrongdoe. s, But on this point we go ito further than to say that such
an entry, under the circumstances of this case, does not preclude

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

163

[Walden etal. vs. Bodley et al.1

he complainants from retying on the adversary titles set up in their
bill. Whether any*other effect May result from this entry, as it regards any other right than the title asserted in the bill, we do not
decide.
The counsel for the appellant contend, that the decree of the Circuit Court should be reversed, on the ground that, although Walden
Was decreed to release his title to such parts of the land covered
by his original- survey, and not included in the SUrvey of his entry
under the order of'the Court, yet the tenants on the land to which
Walden had the better title were not required to execute releases
of:their title to him.
But we think there is no error in the decree in this respect.
Walden had 'the elder legal title for the land included in his first
survey; it was therefore necessary to decree a conveyance or release
from him to the tenants who established a paramount equitable
title. 'But as.to the land within the corrected survey, he had the
elder equitable as well as legal title ; it was therefore unnecessary to
decree releases from the tenants, who, from facts before the Court,
had neither the equitable nor-legal title.
There are other considerations which show the correctness of the
decree in this respect.
The tenants in possession were not parties to the suit; and the
Court did not know the nature or extent of their rigit. It was clear,
that so far as their right was.made known to the Cqurt by the bill
and answer, they had no title to release. Not being parties to the
suit, it is ve, clear that the Court could not divest them of any interest which was not divested, as a legal consequence of the recovery of the ejectment suits.
Forty years have nearly elapsed since Walden recovered his judgmfents. Delays, perhaps without precedent in this country, have occurred in realizing the fruits of these judgments. To some extent,
these delays may be attributed to thb expiration of the demises; but
they are chiefly to be ascribed to the injunctions which have been
granted. And now the demises, though extended fifty years from
1789, have again expired.

And it appears from the records in the ejectment cases, which are
before us as evidence, that the decease of some of the defendants
refiders a revivor of the judgments necessary before writs of possession can be issued.
When the final decree was entered in the Circuit Court, the demise had some years to run; and that Court, we think_.very preperly, refused to decree a surrender of the possession by the tenan.ts
to Walden, but dissolved the injunction. This, under ordinary circumstances, would have given to Walden all the'relief he could ask;
and, as was said by the counsel for the complainants, all the relief
he prays for in his answer. But new and unexpected delays have
occurred, until- the demises have expired; and the judgments have
become dead by the decease of a part of the defendants.
And a question here arises, whether, on the affirmance of the de-

164

SUPREME COURT.,

[Walden et A,v8. Bodley et al.1
crees'of the Circuit Court, it is not the dutyof this Court, under the
circumstances of this case, to direct the Circuit Court -to have the
value of the :improvements estimated, the rents arid profits ascertained, and also any damage which may have been done to the land;
and then, under an-order or decree that the tenants should relinquish
the possessioO to Walden, to issue a writ of possession, in pursuance
of,the practice of a Court of Chancery in Kentucky,
This in effect would be the same as the decree of the Circuit Court;
and it would seem that it is the only effectual mode by which this
protracted controversy can be. terminated within, any reasonable
time. The remedy at' law is obstructed by'the expiration of the
demises, and the death of defendants in the judgments. And, if this
Court have the case before them so as to send it down-with.the
above directions, We think they-are bound to do so. It would be a
reproach to the administration of justice, if in this case the parties
should be left by'the decision of this Vourt, apparently, as remote
from a final determination of it as they were .forty years ago,.
IIt is true, the answer 'prays merely for a dissolution of the iipjunction, and that the bill' may be dismissed, But, the Court have, by
the bill answer, and evidence, the equities of the parties before them;
and having jurisdiction of the main points, they may settle the
whole matter. A Court of Equity caimot act upon a case which
is not fairly made by the bill and answer. But it is not necessary
that these should point out, in detail, the means which the Court.,shall
adopt in giving relief. Under the general p-rayer for relief, the Court
will often 'extend relief beyond the specific prayer, and not exactly
in accordance'with it. Where a case for relief is made in the bill,
it may be given by imposing conditions on the complainant consistently with the rules of.equity, in the discretion of,the Court.
In their decree, the Circuit Court required.Walden to surrender
the possession of the land he was directed to irelease to the complainants; and the Court had, unquestionably, the power to decree a
surrender of the possession to Walden, by the tenants of the land recovered by him.- This was not done, it is presumed, because it was
thought the possession could be obtained under the judgments, on
the dissoluton of the injunction. -But this, for the reasons stated,
cannot "now be done. The remedy under the judgments, as they
now stand, must be attended with additional expense and delay;
and litiving the case before us, we think it is our duty to put -an end
to this controversy.
Forty years ago Walden recovered the land by virtue of his legal
right; and we now decide in favour of his equity. He should,
therefore, have the aid of the Court in attaining the object he 'has so
long and so perseveringly pursued; and that without unnecessary
delay.
Being satisfied with the 'decrees. wade in the cases stated by the
Circuit Court, -they are affirmed with the following modification:
The cause will be sent down to the Circuit Court, with directions to
take such steps- in regard' to the improvements, and to the puting

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

105

[Walden et al. vs. Bodley et al.)

of Wald .n or his, representative in possessioh of the premises recovered in the ejectment suits; as shall be conformable- to the decrees
affirmed, and the principles of equity.
And as it-regards any title or claim which the tenants or any part
of them may set up under the statute of limitations; as thq proper
parties are not before us, nor 'the-necessary facts, we do not decide
on such title or claim.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this Court, that the
decrees of the said Circuit Court in the cases stated by the said Circuit Court, be, and the same are hereby, affirmed; with the modification, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to that Court to take such further
steps in regard to the improvements, and to the putting of Walden
or his representativo in possession of the premises recovered in the
ejectment suits, as shall be cQnformable to the decrees hereby af
firmed, 'and to the principles of equity.

