SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM REMINGTON, PLAINTIFF IN ET'ROR, VS. OTHO M.
CuM, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

LINTHI-

A sale of land by the sheriff, under the laws of Maryland, seized under a fieri facias, transfers the legal estate to the vendee by operation of law, and does not require a sheriff's
deed to give it validity. But as sheriff's sales of lands are within the statute of frauds,
some memorandum in writing of the sale is required to be made. It is immaterial when
the return to the execution is made, provided it is before the recovery in an ejectment for
the land sold, as the sale must be proved by written evidence. The sale passes the title,
and the vendee takes it from the day of the sale. The evidence may therefore be procured before, or at trial.
If property is seized under a fieri facias, before the return day of the writ, the marshal may
proceed to sell at any time afterwards, without any new process from the Court: as a
special return on the ier facias is one of the necessary modes of proving the sale, the
marshal must be authorized to make the endorsement after the regular return term, in
cases where the sale was made afterwards.
The return to a fier; facias, if written on the writ, should be so full as to contain the name
of the purchaser, and the price paid for the property, or it would not be a sufficient memorandum of the sale, within the statute of frauds: nor can an imperfect return of a sale
be made complete by a reference to the private memorandum'book kept by the marshal
of his rales; as it was not a sufficient memorandum of a sale, within the statute.
When the deeds of the defendant in'the ejectment have been referred to by the plaintiff,
for the sole purpose of showing that both parties claim under the same person; this does
not prevent the plaintiff impeaching the deeds afterwards for fraud.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
Thedefendant in error, Otho M. Linthicum, instituted an action
of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the county of Washington, for
the recovery of certain real estate situated in the county of Washington, which had been purchased by him at a marshal's sale, sold
under three writs of fieri facias, against Z. M. Offutt ; and which the,
defendant in the ejectment claimed to hold under a deed of conveyance made by Z. M. Offutt, after the judgments on which the pro-

perty was sold.
On the trial of the cause, on the fourth Monday in March, 1839,
the counsel for the defendant, in the Circuit Court, took three bills
of exceptions to the decisions of the Court, upon points submitted to
them; and a verdict and judgment having been rendered for the plaintiff in the ejectment, the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.

The cause was argued by Mr. Brent, junior, for the plaintiff in
error; and by Messrs. Marbury and Coxe for the defendant.
The first bill of exceptions stated, that on the trial of the cause,
the plaintiff offered in evidence. the record and proceedings in the
three cases of 0. M. Linthicum vs. Z. M. Offutt, and then further
offered in evidence three writs of fieri facias, issued against the

lands of said Offutt; which it was admitted by the plaintiff had not

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

85

[Remington vs. Linthieun.]

been returned to the clerk's office by the marshal; but were produced
on the trial by themarshal, at the instance of the plaintiff, with the
written return thereon, as follows:
"Levicd as per schedule; property sold as per return annexed,
and satisfied pl'ff as per receipt on writ,
"ALEXANDER HUNTER, Marshal."

"Received of Alexander Hunter, marshal, six hundred and
seventy dollars and sixty-six cents, in full of, this fI. fa. Debt,
interest and costs, $670 66.
"0. M. LINTHIcUM.
"January 22d, 1838."
The returns on the other writs were the shine in effect and form.
And further offered in evidence the schedule of the property sold,
describing the property as follows: "Part of lot No. 153, on Third
street, in Beatty & Hawkins' addition to Georgetown, beginning
two hundred and twenty-six feet from Market street, thence running
east with Third street thirty feet, thence south one hundred and
fifty feet, thence west thirty feet, and thence to the beginning one
hundred and fifty feet, with the improvements thereon, being a two
story brick house, &c."
And he also offered in evidence the private book of entries kept
by the marshal, of his official sales, &c., in which is the following
entry, made on the 13th of January, 1838, by his clerk employed
in his office; but who was not a deputy marshal:
"Account of Sales."
"The property of Zachariah M. Offutt, sold to satisfy judicials to
November term, 1837, Nd.65, 66, and 67, in favour of Otho M.
Linthicum; also judicials No. 355, to November term, 1837, in favour
of Samuel Cunningham, use of William Remington; and struck off
as follows:
"'January 13th, 1836, Part of lot No. 153., in Beatty &
Hawkins' addition to Georgetown, thirty feet front, with
the improvements, sold to Otho M. Linthicum for
- $700 00
Part of lot No. 153, twenty feet front, sold to Otho M.
Linthicum for -

200 00

-

-

$900 00

Deduct expenses as follows:
Printer's bill, (Advocate)
Marshal's fee
-

-

-

$ 7 00
17 17
24 41
$875 59

Sale of personal property sold 23d Dec. 1837.
Nett an't after deducting $84 for house rent
VOL. XIV.-H

-

300 79
$1 176 38

86

SUPREME COURT.
[Remington vs. Linthicum.)

Ain't-of ex'n, and credited jud's No. 65, to November term, 1837

-

-

Jud's No. 66, do. do. credited with this sum

- $670 66
- 505 72

$1,176 38
"ALEXANDER

HUNTER,

"Marshal, D. C."
And further offered to prove that the said entry was truly copied
from the original memorandum made by the deputy marshal at the
time of sale, which original paper was lost; and that the said entry
was made in the said book, by the said clerk, according to the usage
and practice of the marshal's office.
And the plaintiff further offered to give in evidence a written list
of said writs of execution, by the said marshal.
"OTHO M. LINTHICUM
No. 66 Judi~ials,
VS.O
.
November
Term, 1837.
Z ACtARIA HtM . 0FFUT.S.!
"By virtue ofthe said writ of fieri facias, to me directed, I hereby return to the said Court tbat, in pursuance of said writ, returnable to November term, 1837, and under the levy by me made, as
per schedule returned with the said writ, I did, after due advertisemient thereof, sell the real property mentioned in said schedule and
appraisement.
"That said sale was made, according to law, on the 13th January, 1838; and at said sale, Otho M.Linthicum, being the highest
idder, became the purchaser of the first of said described pieces of
property, viz.: the part of lot No. 153, in Beatty & Hawkins' addition to Georgetown, described in said levy and schedule, for the
sum of seven hundred dollars, and the other piece of property mentioned in said schedule and levy, viz. : that part of lot No. 153, in
Beatty & Hawkins' addition to Georgetown, therein described, for
the sum of two hundred dollars; and having, in all respects, fulfilled
and complied With the conditions of sifle, and paid the purchase
money to me, he became the purchaser thereof. All which I certify, and return, this 19th day of April, in the year 1839,

"A.

H1TNTER,

Marshal."

Which return, it is admitted by the plaintiff, was not written or
made out until aftr the jury were empanelled in this cause; and the
plaintiff accompanied his said last mentioned offer with a prayer to
the Court to authorize said marshal to make said written return of
said writs: to the admissibility of all which testimony so offered,
and to the granting of which prayer, the defendant objected: but
the Court oyerruled said objection, and authorized the marshal to
make said written return, and admitted the said written return, as
well as the other testimony above offered by the plaintiff, to go in
evidence to the jury.

JANUARY TERM,

1840.

87

[Remington vs., Linthicum.]

The defendant's second bill of exceptions was as follows:
The counsel for the plaintiff, in opening his case to the jury,
claimed title tb the premises in question under a sale by the marshal
of said premises under a writ of fieri facias, at the suit of 0. M.
Linthicum vs. Z. M. Offutt, and that said defendant claimed title to
same premises under a conveyance from said Offutt to W. Reinington, which said last mentioned deed would be proved to be fraudulent land void, as against said plaintiff. And the counsel for the
defendant having, in his opening of his cause to the jury, stated
that the defendant did claim title under said deed from Offutt to
Remington, and the said plaintiff having offered the evidence mentioned in the preceding bills of exceptions, now, for the purpose of
showing that said defendant claimed title under Offutt, and preparatory to impeaching the same for fraud, gave in evidence the deed
from Z. M. Offutt to James Remington, dated 18th April, 1835,
recorded 17th October, 1835; and the deed from James Remington
to William Remington, dated 16th October, 1835, recorded 16th
April, 1836 ; and then offered further to prove that said last mentioned deeds were fraudulent and void as against said plaintiff: to
the admissibility of which said evidence, the defendant objected.
The defendant's third bill of exceptions was the following:
The plaintiff, in addition to the evidence contained in the aforegoing bills of exceptions, offered evidence tending to prove that the
conveyance from Z. M. Offutt to James Remington was fraudulent
as against the plaintiff's lessor: and the defendant then offered evidence tending to prove that the said mentioned conveyance was fair
and bona fide, and for a valuable consideration, and not intended to
hinder, delay, or defraud the said plaintiff's lessor: and then moved
the Court to instruct the jury that, upon the evidence offered by the
plaintiff, if believed by them, he is not entitled to recover: which
instruction the Court refused to give.
Mr. Brent, junior, for the plaintiff in error, contended that to
entitle the plaintiff below to recover, he must show a title to the lot
of ground in Offntt, and that this title is in him legally, not equitably.
2 Phil. Evid. 204. The legal title must be in the plaintiff when
the ejectment is brought, and this on the day the demise is laid.
2 Maul and Sehw. 446. 5 Harr. and Johns. 173. 3 Harr. and
Johns. 19. 8 Peters, 318. The plaintiff below traced no title in
Offutt, but gave in evidence the deed from Offutt to James Remington, and the deed from James Remington to William Remington;, thus using these conveyances for the purpose of exempting
himself fiom proof of title in Offntt, by showing that both parties
to the ejectment claimed from the same person. The plaintiff below, in opposition to, and inconsistent with these deeds, thus used by
himself, denies their validity to give a title to the defendant; thus
assailing his own evidence. This is.in direct opposition to the rule
of law, that a party cannot impeach his own evidence. If the deed
was void for fraud, then the party alleging the fraud cannot set up

88

SUPREME COURT.
[Remington vs. Linthicum.]

the deed for any purpose; if he claims a benefit from it, he cannot
impeach it.
The question presented on the first bill of exceptions is, whether
the Court erred in allowing the marshal to make out his return to
the execution, after the jury were sworn to try the cause ?
It is submitted to the Court, that the plaintiff in ejectment should
have a title at the time of the demise laid in the declaration. A purchaser at a sheriff's sale, must show a title in the defendant, under
whom he claims. 2 Phil. Evid. 2004. Binney vs. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, 8 Peters, 218. 3 Iarr. and Johns. 19.
5 Harr. and Johns. .173.

If this is the law, the plaintiff below must fail. He did not
show title in Offutt; he only showed a judgment and executions
against him.
The returns to the executions were made out after the trial of
the cause had commenced. Did the Court err in allowing the
marshal to make the return, when it was made in this case?
It was not an amendment, but was an original return; none had
been made before, there was nothing to amend by. And if it was
an amendment, it was not made in time. 2 Harr. and Gill's Rep.
637. The Courts of Maryland have sustained motions to quash
writs of execution, for want of sufficient returns. There is no case
in which an amendment has been allowed, to the extent of the return made by the marshal in this case.
The great question in the case is, could the plaintiff below, on
the whole evidence, recover ? He did not show a legal title atLthe
time when the suit was brought. The return, even if made in proper time, is not a legal title; no deed for the property was executed
by the marshal. A purchaser at a sheriff's sale must show a deed
from the sheriff, or a memorandum, admitted to be equivalent to a
deed, to take the case out of the statute of frauds. 1 Harr. and
Johns. 451. 6 Harr. and Johns. 204. 5 Harr. and Johns. 203. It
is admitted that if a deed had been executed, there would be no
necessity for a\ return by the marshal. The deed would be sufficient. 1 Harr. and Gill. 438-448. 5 Gill. and Johns. 206.
Have the Courts of Maryland decided that a mere private note
or memorandum in writing, by a sheriff, will be sufficient to maintain an action? This would be contrary to the statute of frauds.
Cited Sugden on Vendors, 63. 2 Caines' Cases in Error, 61. The
case in 4 Wheat. 63, is not at variance with these principles.
The uncertainty in the description of the property, in the declaration in the ejectment, cannot be allowed. Great strictness is insisted upon in the description of the property sought to be recovered.
Possession of the property is to be given according to this description. The defect of the description in this case, is manifest. No
one could, With it, find the property.
Messrs. Marbury and Coxe, for the defendant.
In the Circuit Court the plaintiff pxoduced all the law requires,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

89

[Remington vs. Linthicum.]

to sustain his title under the sale by the marshal. 1. An existing
judgment. 2. A fieri facias. 3. A levy on the property. 4. A
sale by virtue of the execution and levy. To prove the sale, he
offered the bookkept by the marshal in which he made entries of
his official sales, and the return of the writs of execution. To the
admissibility of all this evidence, the defendant, in the Circuit Court,
objected.
The objection to the first bill of exceptions is, as to its generality.
There is a denunciation of the whole of the evidence of the plaintiff, and yet it cannot be doubted that a large portion of it was far
from exception. It was the duty of the party who took the exception, to point out, particularly, that which was its object. Moore vs.
The Bank of the Metropolis, 13 Peters, 310.
As to the objection to the introduction of the return of the marshal after the trial had commenced, it is submitted, that the return
was of no importance. The title of the plaintiff below, as purchaser at the marshal's sale, was complete when the sale took
place. This point was determined in the case of Wheaton vs. Sexton, 4 Wheat. 503; the Court having decided, that "it was immaterial whether the writs were returned or not; the purchaser
took his title from the sale."
The particular evidence objected to, was the entry in the marshal's book of sales ; and the marshal's return to the execution.
But it has been shown from the authority cited,-and others can
be adduced, that to give a title, a return is not required. The property of the defendant is transferred to the purchaser by operation
of law, and no further act of the officer is -required. Boring vs.
Lemmon, 5 Harr. and Johns. 223. Barney vs. Patterson, 6 Harr.
and Johns. 204. Barnes on Sheriff, 262.
The entry in the book of the mae'shal was not offered as the
evidence of title, but to prove the sale ; and for this purpose there
was no objection to it. So also was the return on the execution.
They supplied the requisitions of the statute of frauds.
In the case of Fenwick vs. Floyd, 1 Harr. and Johns. 174, it
was held, that a sheriff's sale might be proved, 1. By the deed of
the sheriff; or, 2. By the return of the sheriff on the fieri facias; 3.
By'a memorandum of the sale, to take the case out of the statute of
frauds. Cited also, 6 Gill. and Johns. 306. The marshal made no
deed in this case, and the return is sufficient.
The only objection which has any apparent force, is to the time
when the return was made. But no rule of law is known, which
prescribes the time within which the return shall be made; provided
it is made before the writ leaves the hands of the officer, and the
return is made to the clerk of the Court.
If the return was necessary to complete the title of the purchaser,
it ought to be made before sait is brought by the purchaser of the
property, since the plaintiff in such a suit must have the title before
he commences his action. But this is not the law. In this case the
marshal had retained possession of the writs, he had not endorsed
H2

12

90

SUPREME COURT.
[Remington vs. Linthicum.]

on tnem his return, before they were offered in evidence; he was
required to make the return, and he did so; and this is in conformity with the decisions in the Courts of Maryland. 2 Gill. and
Johns. 359. In this case the Court held, "that it was not necessary
that the return should be 'endorsed on the writ, or the deed of the
sheriff executed at the time of the sale."
If the return is insufficient, the entry in the marshal's sales book
supplies the deficiency It was proved that the entry was according to the usage and practice of the officer; that it was made in a
book kept for the purpose, and by the clerk of the marshal; and
that it was truly made from an original memorandum, made by the
deputy marshal at the time of the sale, which memorandum is lost.
This is as good evidence as in the absence of the lost memorandum
can be required.
The entries *containall that is gssential-all that can be required:
the name of the purchaser; the price for which the lot sold; with
such a description of the property, connected with the schedule, as
gave it entire certainty.
As to the second bill of exceptions, taken by the defendant in the
Circuit Court, it was said, the deed from Offutt, the defendant in the
execution, was offered, with a notice of intention to impeach their
validity as against the title of the plaintiff under the sale ; 'and exclu sively to show, that both the parties in the 6jectnent claimed
title from Offutt. The title in Offutt could have been proved by
another course, but this was-the most ready mode of establishing it
as betweenthe parties in ,the Circuit Court. It was competent to
introduce the deed; and then to show that the judgments under
which the plaintiff below claimed were earlier than the date of the
deed.
. The third exception by the plaintiff in error, was
to the introduction and effect of conflicting testimony. It is sufficient to remark,
that this testimony was properly left to the jury.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by Linthicuft against
Remington, in the Circuit Court for Washington county, in the District of Columbia, to recover part of lot No. 153, in Beatty and
Hawkins', additipn to Gdorgetown.
It seems that'a certain Zachariah M. Offutt, of the said county,
was the owner of the property in question ; and being indebted to
Liuthicum in three several sums of money, actions were brought by
the latter upon those claims, in the year 1836. Judgments were
obtained, in due course of law; and executions against the property
of the defendant were issued upon each of them, retmiable to November term, 1837, of the said Court. Upon each g'f these writs of
fieri facias the marshal seized the property which is )ow in question,
and sold it at public sale, on tle 13th of January, 1838; and at this
sale Linthicum was the highest bidder, and became the purchaser.
In 1835, before the institution of any of the above mentioned

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

91

[Remington v8. Linthicum.]

suits, Offutt, by deed duly executed, conveyed this property to James
Remington, who in the same year 'conveyed it, in like manner, to
William Remington, the plaintiff in error.
Linthicum, having purchased of the marshal, as before mentioned,
brought an ejectpnent, in February, 1838, against William Remington, who was the tenant in possession. The case came on for trial
at March term, 1839, and the judgment of the Circuit Court being
in faVour of the plaintiff, the defendant brought the writ of error
which is now before us.
Three bills of exception were taken at the trial, but the principal
and most important question arises on the'first. It appeared that
the writs of fieri facias, herein before mentioned, had not been returned to the Court, but had remained in the possession of the marshal, and were produced by him at the trial, after the jury were
sworn. The plaintiff offered these writs in evidence, together with
the endorsements upon them, and also a schedule, in the usual form,
of the property seized; and a particular account of its sale, as entered
in a book kept by the clerk of the marshal for such purposes. It is
however unnecessary to state the contents of those endorsements,
and of the said account, because the opinion of this Court does not
turn upon them.
In addition to these papers, the plaintiff offered in evidence a special return of the said writs by the marshal, which return it was
admitted was not written until after the jury were empanelled; and
the plaintiff accompanied this offer with a :prayer to the Court to
authorize
the marshal
to make such written return.
The return
thus offered
bears date April 19th, 1839, which is the
term at which the ejectment was tried in the Circuit Court. It states,
that the fieri facias was levied on this property; that it was duly
advertised, and sold according to law; states the day of the sale ;
that Linthicum being the highest bidder, became the purchaser;
states the price at which he bought; that he had paid the purchase
money, and fulfilled the conditions of the sale. This return refers
to the schedule of the pr6perty seized, and returned with the writ;
in which the lot in question is described by abuttals with sufficient
precision. To the admission of all or any of this evidence., the defendant objected; but the objection was overruled by the Court, and
the evidence admitted: and this forms the first exception.
The evidence stated in this exception was offered by Lnthicum,
in order to show a legal title in himself at the commencement of the
suit; and undoubtedly such a title must be sbown by the plaintiff
in ejectment, and he cannot recover upon a title acquired pending
the action. In deciding upon the admissibility of this evidence, for
the purpose for which it was offered, we must of course be governed
by the laws of Maryland, as far as we can gather them from the
decisions of her Courts; because the property in question is situated
in Washington county, in this District, where the laws of Maryland,
as they existed at the time jurisdictipn was assuined by Congress,
have been adopted.

92

SI'PREME COURT.
[Remington vs. Liathicum.]

In the case of Boring's lessee vs. Lemmon, 5 Harr. and Johns
Rep. 225, the Court of Appeals, of Maryland, held that the sale of
land by the sheriff, seized under a fieri facias, transferred the legal
estate to the vendee, by operation of law ;, and that a deed from
the sheriff was not necessary.
The authority of this case is recognised in Barney's lessee vs.
Patterson, 6 Harr. and Johns. Rep. 204; in which the Court say.
"it is not the return of the Qflcer that gives title to purchaser, but
the previous sale." But they then proceed to qualify in some measure the general expressions used in Boring's lessee vs. Lemmon, and
declare that sheriffs' sales of land are within the statute of frauds, and
that some memorandum in writing is necessary to be made; anu1
they recommend, for the safety of purchasers, that in addition to a
deed from the officer, there should be a special return of the execution, particularly describing the premi.5es, and setting out the name
of the purchaser: either of which, (the deed or the special return,)
the Court say, 1"though not operating to pass the title, would be safe
and competent evidence of the sale."
The chief objection to hle special return made by the marshal in
this case, is, that it was not nmade before the suit was brought; and
is not therefore admissible to show title at the commencement of the
suit. This objection rests upon the hypothesis that a deed from the
marshal, or a special return upon the execution,'was necessary to
perfect the title of the vendee. But the Court of Appeals of Maryland, in the two cases above referred to, have decided that neither
the return nor the deed pass the title ; that they are nothing more
than evidence of the sale; and that it is the-sale which transfers the
title, by operation of law. It would seem to follow from these
decisionl, that it cannot be material at what time this evidence is
obtained. He cannot recover without it, because the sale being
within the statute of frauds, it must be proved by written evidence.
But whenever this evidence is obtained, it proves the previous sale
by the officer : and as it is the sale that passes the title, the vendee
must take it from the day of the sale. The evidence may be procured, therefore, before or after suit brought; or before or after the
jury are sworn in the trial of the ejectment. And the special return
of the marshal, in the.case before us, made at the time, of the trial,
was admissible in eviderice ; for when thus made, it related back'to
the sale, and proved the title to be good from that day. The return
is also sufficiently special, and complies with the statute of frauds.
Neither is there any objection to the time at which this execution
was actually returned to the Court. It is true that it was made returnable, on the face of it, to November term, 1837. But, if property, real or personal, is seized under a fieri facias,, before the return day of the writ; the marshal may proceed to 6ll, at any time
afterwards, without new process from the Court. And as a special
return on the fieri facias is one of the modes of proving the sale,
and securing the title of the purchasbr; the marshal must be authorized to make the endorsement, after the regular return term, in

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

93

[Remingtoh v8. Linthicum.)

cases when the sale was made afterwards.

In this case the execu-

tions had never been returned; they were still in the possession of

the marshal; and the return at first endorsed on them, was still in
his power : and if he believed it not correct; or not sufficiently par-:
ticular, he hajd a right to change it. His return, when thus made,
was under his oath of office; and he was equally responsible for it
as if it had been: made on the return day named in the writ itself.
And as the executions in question had not before been returned to
the Court, we do not think that any leave was necessary in order to
authorize the special endorsement made upon them.
We have said nothing of the short returns endorsed, in the first
instance, on these executions; nor of the accounts of sales contained

in the marshal's private book of accounts; because the returns, as
first written, did not name the purchaser, nor state the price paid
for the property; and were, consequently, not of themselves such
written evidence as would satisfy the statute of frauds. Nor can
tht-y be made better by reference to the memorandum of the sales
in the private book accounts of the marshal, which certainly was
not that kind of written evidence of the contract of 'which Linthicum could avail himself, in order to avoid the operation of the
statute of frauds. We place the decision upon the special return
before mentioned.
The second exception may be disposed of in a few words. In
order to supersede the necessity of tracing a title regularly from the
state, the plaintiff read in evidence the deed from Offutt to James
Remington and from James Remington to William Remington,
herein before mentioned; for the purpose of showing that the defendant in ejectment, William Remington, claimed title under the
said Offutt. And then offered further to prove that the said deeds
were fraudulent and void, as against him the plaintiff. This last
mentioned evidence was objected to by the defendant, but admitted
by the Court; and we think rightly admitted. The deeds- were
read by the plain'tiff to show that Remington claimed under
Offu'tt, but not to show-that he was a bona fide purchaser. And
when he afterwards offered evidence to prove that these deeds
were fraudulent, there was nothing in this offer inconsistent or incompatible with what he had before endeavoured to establish by
the production of these deeds. The third and last exception has
not been much pressed here, and certainly in the manner in which
the point is here stated, there is nothing for this Court to act upon.
The exception states generally, that the plaintiff offered evidence
tending to prove that the conveyance from Offutt to James Remington, was frauddlent as against the plaintiff; and, that the defendant
offered evidence tending to prove the contrary; and then moved
the Court to instruct the jury, that upon the evidence offered by the
plaintiff, if believed by them he was not entitled to recover; which
instruction the Court refused. No part of the evidence given by
the plaintiff to establish the fraud, nor any given by the defendant
to rebut it, is stated in the exception. It is impossible to say that

SUPREME COURT..
[Remington vs. Linthicum.]

the Circuit Court were in error, when we have none of the facts
before us upon whichi their opinion was given. Indeed, from the
manner in which the testimony is referred to in the exception, it
would seem that the question was rather one of fact than of law;
and that it was, therefore, properly left to the jury.
An objection has also been taken to the declaration, upon the
ground that the property sued for is not described in it with sufficient precision. It is described as "all that lot, piece, or parcel of
land, lying, and being in Georgetown, aforesaid, being that part of
lot number one hundred and fifty-three, in Beaty and Hawkins'
addition to Georgetown, aforesaid,. which is bounded as follows, to
wit"-and the declaration then proceeds to set out its abuttals.
Undoubtedly, it has often been decided in Maryland, that a declaration for a part of a tract of land by its name only, or for part of
a lot in a toWn, by its number only, without setting out the lines or
boundaries, is too uncertain; and that an action cannot be supported
upon such a declaration. But this case does not come within these
decisions, because the vague and imperfect description objected to, is
immediately followed in the declaration by a particular description
by lines and boundaries. It is said, however, that this description
is also too vague and uncertain, and that the property is not sufficiently identified by abuttals, set out in the declaration. We think
otherwise. The description of the premises appears to us to be
sufficient, and we perceive no objection on that score, which ought
to have prevented the plaintiff in the Court below from sustaining
his action.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed.

