Oct. 1876.]

THE " STEPHEN MORGAN."

descent, both of which were impertinent to the issue between
the parties. The assignment of error cannot, therefore, be
Judgment affirmed.
sustained.

T'1 " STEP

MoRGAw."

1. A party who does not appeal from the final decree of a circuit court cannot
be heard in opposition thereto, when the case is properly brought here by
the appeal of the adverse party.
2. This court, concurring in opinion with the court below that both vessels were
at fMult, affirms the decree dividing the damages between them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
HTr. F. TV Brune and Mr.Arthur G. Brown for the appellants.
Mr. I. .Nevitt Steele and Hr. Thomas . Hall, contra.
MR.JUSTICE. CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Parties who do not appeal from a final decree of a circuit
court which is regular in form cannot be heard in opposition to
the decree when the cause is removed here by the opposite
party, unless it appears that the proceedings in removing the
cause were unauthorized or irregular. They may be heard in
support of the decree, and in opposition to every assignment of
error filed by the appellants. The TFilliam Bagaley, 5 Wall.
877; Harrison v. Vixon, 9 Pet. 494; Canter v. Insurance
Company, 3 id. 818.
Where the decree was in favor of the libellant in the District
Court for a salvage service in saving goods at sea, this court
held, on appeal here by the owners of the goods, that the
decree was conclusive upon the libellant as to the amount of
salvage awarded ; that he could not, in the appellate court, claim
any thing beyond that amount, since he had not, by any appeal
on his part, controverted its sufficiency. Stratton v. Jarvis
Brown, 8 id. 16.
Compensation is claimed by the owner of the steamship
"Carolina" from the schooner "Stephen Morgan," her apparel,
taekle, and furniture, for injuries caused to the steamship by

THE -" STEPHEN'MORGAN."

[Sup. Ot.

the schooner in a collision which occurred between the two
vessels during the early morning of the 3d of October, 1872,
in the lower part of Chesapeake Bay, whereby, as the appel
lant alleges, the steamer was damaged to the amount of from
$12,000 to $15,000.
Detailed description of the circumstances is given in the
libel, from which it appears that the steamer, a vessel of eleven
hundred tons burden, with a cargo of corn, was bound down the
bay on " voyage from the port of Baltimore to Queenstown, Ireland, for orders, and that the schooner, a vessel of two hundred
and fifty-nine tons, in ballast, was bound up the bay on a voyage
from the port of New York to the port of Georgetown, in this
district. Both the steamer and the schooner were in a seaworthy condition, well manned and equipped, and the evidence
shows that they had competent lookouts, and that their signallights were properly displayed.
Certain errors of statement are exhibited in the description
of the circumstances attending the collision, as given in the
libel; but inasmuch as it is apparent that they were not made
with intent to deceive, and that they did not have the effect to
embaxrass the opposite party or the courts below, they cannot
have the effect to prevent the libellant from recovering just
compensation for the injuries which the steamer received, if the
evidence is sufficient to show that the decree below is correct
upon the merits.
Process was issued; and the owners of the schooner appeared
as claimants, and fled an answer.
Matters of fact are the chief reliance of the respondents; and,
inasmuch as the allegations of the answer show, in the judgment of the court, that the schooner was in fault, they will be
given in considerable fulness.
Prior to the collision, the mate had charge of the deck of the
schooner; and the respondents allege that the weather was fair,
and that it was clear overhead, with a slight mist or haze on
the water; that the wind, from about southwest-by-south, was
blowing a fresh and steady breeze; that the schooner was on
her port tack, with all her sails set, except her main top-sail
and jib top-sail; that her speed was about seven or eight knots
an hour; that the mate, about ten minutes after he took charge

Oct. 1876.]

THE " STEPHEN MORGAN."

of the deck, directed the man at the wheel to change the course
of the schooner from north-by-west-half-west to morth-by-west,
which, as the respondents allege, was her proper course up the
bay. Ten minutes later, as the respondents allege, the lookout
saw a bright light ahead, about a point or a point and a half
on the starboard bow of the schooner, and that the mate, who
was standing aft to the leeward of the spanker-boom, saw the
light about the same time, and looked at it through the glass.
Though the morning was clear, the mate came to the conclusion that the vessel showing the light was at anchor, because
he could only see the white light, and he thought the vessel
was distant about a mile and a half, or two miles.
Estimates of the kind are necessarily more or less uncertain;
but the answer states that the schooner was then a little above
the light-house, and nearer to the western than the eastern shore
of the bay; and the respondents admit that the schooner had
plenty of room to sail and manceuvre on each side of the place
where the vessel showing the light appeared to be at anchor.
When the mate first looked at the light, he told the man at the
wheel that it was a ship at anchor, and he directed the helmsman to let the schooner luff about a point; and that being done;
the statement is, that the light was brought to bear about two
points on the schooner's starboard bow. Both of those orders
were promptly obeyed; and the answer states that the helmsman, after the order to luff was executed, steadied the schooner,
and "let her run" for a short time; when the mate, thinking
that the schooner might not fairly clear the hip, told the man
at the wheel to luff a little more, so as to allow plenty of
room.
Throughout those manouvres, both the mate and the lookout of the schooner supposed that the light ahead was shown by
a ves el at anchor; and they iever discovered their mistake
until the steamer approached so near that they could see her
smoke-stack without the aid .of the glass. Alarm and confusion
ihmediately ensued on the deck of the schooner, as sufficiently
appears from the allegations of the answer. Obviously the
peril was imminent ;-'and the answer states that the mate, fearing that a collision would occur, ordered the helmsman to put
the wheel hard a-port; and that the master came on deck at

THE " STEPHEN MORGAN."

[Sup. Ct,

that moment, and asked the mate what was the matter; and
being told that there was a light 6n the lee bow, the master
looked under the boom, and, having seen the light, ordered the
wheel to be put hard down, which was immediately done.
Under the order given just before by the mate, the wheel had
been turned only a few spokes to port, when the master gave
the order to put the wheel hard down, which being promptly
obeyed, the schooner began to luff ; and at the moment of collision, which presently ensued, she was still coming into the
wind, and her sails were shaking. Almost immediately after
the helm of the schooner was put hard a-starboard the collision occurred, the schooner striking the steamer abaft the forerigging and a little forward of midships.
Testimony was taken on both sides; and the parties having
been fully heard, the District Court decided that both vessels
were in fault, and that the joint loss and damage should be
equally divided between the owners of the two vessels. Pursuant to that decretal order, the loss and damage sustained by
each were ascertained, and a final decree rendered in favor of
the libellant, for the sum of $5,295, with costs and interest.
Immediate appeal was taken by both parties to the Circuit
Court, where additional testimony was taken; and the parties
having been again fully heard, the Circuit Court reduced the
damages to be awarded, and in all other respects affirmed the
decree of the District Court. Due appeal to this court was
taken by the respondents; but the libellant acquiesced in the
decree of the Circuit Court.
Two errors, it is alleged by the appellants, were committed
by the Circuit Court, as follows: 1st, That the court erred in
awarding damages to the libellant, inasmuch as"the allegations
of the libel, if true, showed that, the alleged collision could not
have occurred. 2d, That the court erred in adjudging that the
schooner was in fault.
Substantial accuracy in pleading should be observed by the
libellant; and it is proper to remark, that a departure from
that requirement, with intention to deceive, may constitute a
bar to recovery, unless the faulty party is relieved from its consequences by leave of the court. Defects of the kind, when discovered, should be cured by amendment in all cases where the
imperfection is calculated to deceive or mislead.

Oct. 1876.]

THE " STEPHEN MORGAN."

Incorrect allegations as to the position and course of the
steamer are doubtless contained in the libel; but it does not
appear that the inaccuracies were intended to deceive, or that
they had the effect to mislead, the opposite party or the court.
Specific objection to the libel on that account was not taken in
the answer, nor does it appear that the errors in the allegations
occasioned any e~barrassment to the respondents in preparing
the case for hearing.
Material errors undoubtedly, occurred in the libel, but the
respondents corrected the same in their-answer; and, inasmuch
as the hearing upon the merits was full in each of the courts
below, the court here is not inclined to sustain that defence.
The Syracuse, 12 Wall. 173.
luch discussion of the second defende is unnecessary, as both
the proofs and the allegations of the answer show that the
schooner violated the sailing rules enacted by Cogress.
Steamships, under the circumstances described, are required
to keep out of the way of sailing-ships; but the correlative
rule is, that the sailing-ship shall keep her course, subject to
certain qualifications, which have no application in the cause
before the court. 13 Stat.-61.
Sailing-vessels approaching a steamer are required to keep
their course, on account of the correlative duty of the steamer
to keep out of the way, in order that the steamer may know the
position of the object to be avoided, and that she may not be
baffled or led into error in her endeavor to comply with ihe
requirement. Steamnship Company v. _Rumball, 21 How. 384.
Three changes of course were made by the schooner, in violation of that rule, which is all that need be remarked on the
subject, except to say that the failure of the steamer to perform
her duty to keep out of the way is no defence for the schooner
in violating the express command of the sailing rule. Beyond
all doubt, the steamer might have kept out of the way; and it is
clear that the decree below, adjudging both vessels in fault, was
correct. All that the steamer did in the outset was to change
her c6urse one point; and the evidence satisfies the court that,
if she ever did any thing more to prevent a collision, it was not
done in season to be of any avail. Porting the helm a point
when the light of a sailing-vessel is first observed, and then

GLENNY V. LANGDON.

[Sup. 0 .

waiting until a collision is imminent before doing any thing
further, does not satisfy the requirements of the law. The Carrol, 8 Wall. 802.
Other support to that conclusion might be invoked ; but it is
quite unnecessary, as the owner of the steamer did not appeal,
and cannot be heard, except in defence of the decree. Airey v.
Morrill, 2 Curt. C. C. 8; Allen v. Hatch, 2 id. 147; Chittenden
v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 196; The Quickstep, 9 id. 672.
Both vessels having been in fault, the settled rule in this
court is, that the damages must be divided. The Atlas, 98
U. S. 319.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that the decree below was correct, and that there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed,

G

m~

v. LANGDoN.

Where a party prosecutes a suit as a representative creditor, and the other
creditors, until notice to the contrary, have the right to rely upon him to
protect their interest in the subject-matter of the litigation, a notice by the
appellees of a motion to dismiss an appeal where he is the appellant, served
upon counsel representing him and the other creditors, is insufficient and
irregular, if it does not specify the time when such motion will be made,
although he may have entered into a stipulation with the appellees consenting to a dismissal of the appeal on their paying the costs.

to set aside an order dismissing an appeal from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio.
M. J. L. Miner for the appellant, in support of the motion.
M
Mr. Stanley Mattheks, contra.
MOTION

MR. CiiEF JusTicE WAiTrE, delivered the opinion of the

court.
The bill in this case shows upon its face that the suit was
prosecuted by Glenny as a representative creditor, and that
the other creditors named had the right to rely upon him for
the protection of theii interest, until notice to the contrary.
On Saturday, the 13th January, Glenny, at Cincinnati, Ohio,

