Oct. 1876.]

HINCKLEY

v.

GILiAN, ETC. R.R. Co.

property, with a foreclosure of all rights subordinate to th6
mo tgage, with directions to bring the purchase-money into
court. If the case proceeds thud far, the plaintiff will have a
lien on the money thus paid into court, not only for his overdue
coupons, but for his principal debt, and it must bd-provided for
in the order distributing the proceeds of the sale. If, however,
the company shall pay the sum found due in The decree nisi, no
further proceeding can be had until another default of interest
or of the principal.
In this manner full justice will be done the appellant, and no
wrong to the appellees.
.Decree reversed, and the case remanded with directions to proceed in conformity to this opinion.

HINCEEY v. GmrnIA

, CLmToix, AN~D SpRINGFIELD RAimROAD COMPANY.

Where, in the progress of a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage, a receiver was
appointed, against whom, after the foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged
premises, a decree was rendered directing him to pay into court $18,776.25,
the balance found due from him on the settlement of his accounts, -Held,
that he had the right to appeal from that decree.
AMOTiox to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois.
In the progress of a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage
executed by the Gilman, Clinton, and Springfield Railroad
Company, Francis E. Hinckley was appointed receiver. On the
8th of April, 1876, a final decree was rendered, under which,
on the 10th of June, the mortgaged property was sold, and sub-

sequently conveyed to the purchasers. Upon a settlement of
the accounts of the receiver, a balance was found due from him
of 18,776.25, for which a decree was entered Sept. 27, directing its pa~ment into court on or before Oct. 10. On the 9th of
October he prayed this appeal "from the decree against him,"
which was granted. The complainants now move to Jlismiss,
for the reason that he was not a party to the suit.

HINCKLEY

v.

GILMAN, EC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr.B. Biddle Roberts in support of the motion.
The appellant is not a party to the suit, and cannot be.
Being merely the officer or representative of the court, without
any personal interest whatever in the litigation, the right to
discharge him rests with the court, at any stage of the controversy; and from the exercise of this right he cannot appeal.
High on Receivers, 536-!Tn
re Colvin, 3 . Md. Ch. 800;
Ellicott v. Warford, 4 Md. 80. Only those who are parties to
the record can sue out a writ of error. Phillips's Practice,
p. 64, and cases there cited. The same rule applies to appeals.
Id. p. 65. On the eighth day of April, the final decree was
entered, from which an appeal was not prayed, nor could it, in
the following October, be taken, much more than sixty days
having then elapsed. Kitchen v. Randolph, 93 U. S.86. The
decree of Sept. 27, requiring the payment of money into court,
was merely interlocutory, transferring the possession of property in litigation. The rule of finality cannot apply to it.
.Forgayv. Conrad, 6 How. 201. This doctrine is sustained by
Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342; Bailroad Company v. Bradley,
7 id. 577 ; Stowall v. Banks, 10 id. 583 ; and it would seem, to
be the settled law in this court.
Mr. -. Crawford and Mr. S. P. McConnell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The motion to dismiss cannot be sustained.
In Bloss6m v. Railroad Company, 1 Wall. 655, a bidder at a
foreclosure sale was allowed to appeal, and in delivering the
opinion of the court Mr. Justice Miller said -

"It is certainly true that he cannot appeal from the original
decree of foreclosure, nor from any other order 'or decree of the
court made prior to his bid. It, however, seems to be well settled,
that, after a decree adjudicating certain rights between the parties
to a suit, other persons having no previous interest in the litigation
may become connected with the case in the course of the subsequent
proceedings, in such a manner as to subject them to the jurisdiction
of the court, and render them liable to its orders; and that they
may in like manner acquire rights in regard to the subject-matter
of the litigation, which the court is bound to protect?'

Oct. 1876.]

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

V. KELLOGG.

469

This seems to us to be decisive of this motion. The receiver
cannot and does not attempt to appeal from the decree of foreclosure, or from any order or decree of the court, except such
as relates to the settlement of his accounts. To that extent he
has been subjected to the jurisdiction of the court-, and made
liable to its orders and decrees. He has, thereforethe corresponding right to coutend against all claims made against him.
For this purpose he occupies the position of a party to the suit,
although an officer of the court, and after the final decree below
has the right to his appeal here. In this case, the final decree
has been given, and the case is properly here upon the appeal as
prayed and allowed. This will not keep any thing in litigation
but the receiver's accounts. The title tQ the property and the
possession under the sale cannot be in any manner affected.
Every thing can be closed up in the court below, in accordance
with the decree which has been entered in the cause, except
the distribution of the money claimed from the receiver.
It will be time enough to consider whether more of the record
has been brought here than is necessary to the hearing of the
questions presented by the appeal when the cause is reached, or
when application is made to us in that behalf.
Motion to dismis8 denied.

MnMWAU=x

AND SADIT

PAUL RAM.wAY

CoMPANY v.

KELLOGG.
1. As the effect of the statute of Iowa is to make an occupant of land in that
State, who, under color of title thereto, and in good faith, has made valuable
improvements thereon, the owner of the improvements, the question as to
the ownership of the land is immaterial in an action to recover for their
wilful or negligent destruction.
2 Where the subject of a proposed inquiry before a court is not a matter of
science, but of common observation, upon which the ordinary mind is capable of forming a judgment, experts ought not to be permitted to state their
conclusions.
8. The question as to what is the proximate cause of an injury is ordinarily not
one of science or of legal knowledge, but of fact for the jury to determine,
in view of the accompanying circumstances.
4. A finding that negligence, or an act not amounting to wanton wrong, Is the
proximate cause of an injury, is not warranted, unless it appear that the

