JEROME V. MCCARTER[

[Sup. Ct.

those machines. It was not shown how much of the profit was
due to those other patents, nor how much of it was manufacturer's profit. The complainant was, therefore, entitled
only to nominal damages. This the court gave him. It was
all the state of the evidence warranted. It would have been
error to give more.
.Decree affirmed, and the costs of each appeal are adjudged
against the party taking it.

JEROME V. McCARTE.
1. Prior mortgagees are not necessary parties to the bill of a junior mortgagee,
which seeks only the foreclosure or the sale of the equity of redemption.
2. Neither the mortgagor nor his assignee in bankruptcy can object to the order
in which the priority of valid and subsisting liens on the mortgaged premises
is fixed by the decree of foreclosure.
8. The subsequent bankruptcy of the pledgor of a negotiable instrument does not
deprive the pledgees of their right to dispose of it upon his default.
4. An objection that leave was not given to file the bill of foreclosure,- the
mortgaged premises being at the time in the possession of a receiver appointed in a former suit in the same court,-if, under any circumstances,
available, will not be sustained, if made a year and a half after the bill was
filed, and when the party objecting had in the mean time appeared, ansivered
it, and cross-examined the witnesses of the complainant.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the c6urt.
Argued by Mr. Hatt. t. Carpenter and Mr. George fforri8
for the appellants.
Mr. George . Edmunds and Mr. Alfred Bussell, contra.

Mr. JUSTICE STRONG aelivered the opinion of the court.
There are no less than twenty-seven assignments of error in
this case, but the subjects of real controversy are few. The
bill is an ordinary one for the foreclosure of a junior mortgage'
covering the canal and franchises of the Lake Superior Ship
Canal, Railroad, and Iron Company, and covering also two
separate bodies of land, each containing two hundred thousand
acres. The mortgage was given expressly subject to two priox

Oct. 1876.]

JEROME v. MCCARTER.

mortgages, one, dated July 1, 1865, upon the canal and one of
the bodies of land,, and the other, dated July 1, 1868, upon the
canal and the other body of two hundred thousand acres of
land. Each of these prior mortgages was made to secure the
payment of the company's bonds of even date therewith,
amounting to the sum of $500,000 ; and all the bonds were
issued, and they are now outstanding. The first of these prior
mortgages is known as the Sutherland mortgage. Defaiult
having been made in the payment of interest upon the bonds
secured by that, John L. Sutherland, the trustee, filed his bill
to foreclose it, making all the subsequent mortgagees parties;
and they all appeared. In that case, Isaac H. Knox was appointed receiver of all the property covered by the several
mortgages, and subsequently, in order to obtain the money
necessary for completing the canal by order of the court, he
was authorized to create, issue, and sell certificates of indebtedness to the amount of $500,000, to be secured by a
mortgage, which he was empowered to make, covering all the
property, and which was to be prior in right to all other mortgages. Pursuant to this authority, the receiver did issue and
sell such certificates, and for their security executed the mortgage directed by the court. These certificates are now all
outstanding.

Such was the condition of affairs when the present bill was
filed. But the- company having afterwards gone into bankruptcy, a supplemental bill was exhibited making the assignees
in bankruptcy parties defendant; and they appeared and made
defence, and they are the only parties appellant.
It is now contended, on their behalf, that the bill cannot be
sustained, because the prior mortgagees were not made parties.
This position cannot be sustained. It is undoubtedly true
there are cases to be found in which it was ruled that prior
incumbrancers were necessary parties to a bill for the foreclosure of a junior mortgage, but in most of these cases the
circumstances were peculiar. Where the effort of the juni6r
mortgagee is to obtain a sale of the entire property or estate,
and not merely of the equity of redemption, there is reason for
making the prior incumbrancers parties, for they have an
immediate interest in the decree. And so, when there is sub

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup. 0t.

stantial doubt respecting the amount of the debts due prior
lien creditors, there is obvious propriety in making them parties, that the amount of the charge remaining on the land after
the sale may be determined, and that purchasers at the sale
may be advised of what they are purchasing. But the case in
hand has no such peculiarities. The prior mortgages were not
due when this bill was filed; and, without the consent of those
m6rtgagees, nothing more than the equity of redemption could
be sold under any decree made in the case, or under the decree
which was sought. Nor is there any doubt entertainable respecting the amount due under the prior mortgages. Indeed,
the company is estopped by the provisions of its mortgage, of
which the complainant is trustee, from asserting that the entire
amount of the two $500,000 mortgages, and of the receiver's
mortgage, was not outstanding when the present mortgage was
made. The full indebtedness was acknowledged by making
the junior mortgage expressly subject to it, and as there is no
evidence that any portion of it has been paid, it is not admissible for the mortgagors or their assignees in bankruptcy to
deny it now. Bronson v. Ihe LaCrosse & Milwaukee Railroad Co., 2 Wall. 283.
Apart from the exceptional cases, we understand the general
rule to be, that, in a suit by a junior mortgagee to icreclose a
mortgage, prior mortgagees are not necessary parties. So it
has been held in England in Rose v. Page, 2 Sim. 471 ; Richards
v. Cooper, 5 Bear. 304 ; Delaberev. Norwood, 8 Swanst. 144.
Such, also, is the rule asserted in this country, where the bill
of a junior mortgagee, as in this case, seeks only a foreclosure
or sale of the equity of redemption. Edwards on Parties, p. 91,
and cases cited; Gihon v. Bellville, 8 Halst. (N. J.) Ch. 581;
Williamson v. Probasco,A id. 571.
The subject has been under consideration by this court in
Hagan v. Walker et al., 14 How. 37, in which it was shown that
it is not necessary in all cases to make a prior mortgagee a
party. And it is not easy to see why it should be in any case,
when the decree asJced cannot injure or affect him. In Payne
v. Hook, 7 Wall. 432, it was said, "It can never be indispensable to make defendants of those against whom nothing is
alleged, and from whom no relief is asked." See also Frenchv.

Oct. 1876.]

JER. . V. MC0ARTER.

S-wemaer, 14 Wall. 815. We think this is the correct rule.
It is certainly consonant with reason, and we see nothing in the
present case that justifies a departure from it. We hold, therefore, that the bill is not defective for want of proper parties.
The appellants next contend that the decree is erroneous,
because the mortgagors were declared bankrupt after the bill
was filed, and before the decree was entered; and it is urged
that the bankrupt court had absolute and exclusive jurisdiction,
and was entitled to the entire administration of the bankrupts'
property. That this objection is without mnerit was shown in
Mfarshall v. Knox, 16 Wall. 551, and .Eyster v. Gaff et al., 91
U. S. 521, to which we need only refer.
A further objection insisted upon is, that while the property
was in the charge of a receiver appointed in the suit brought
by Sutherland to foreclose the first mortgage, and therefore, as
it is said, was in castodia legis, this bill was filed without leave
of the court. If there could, under any circumstances, be any
force in this objection, there is none now. Both suits were
brought in the same court ; these appellants appeared, answered,
and cross-examined witnesses, and made no allegation that the
suit had been brought without leave until about a year and a
half afterwards. It was then too late. They must be held to
have acquiesced; and, if not, leave of the court to commence and
prosecute the suit must be presumed after the orders made to
facilitate its progress.
The only remaining assignments of error that require particular notice relate to the ascertainment of the liens on the
propel ty of the company anterior to the mortgage now in suit,
to the determination of their relative priority, and to the adjudication of the amount of the debt for the payment of which
that mortgage is a security. The court decreed not only that
the two five hundred thousand dollar mortgages, one dated July
1, 1865, and the other dated July 1, 1868, are liens for the full
amounts specified in them, and prior in right to the complainants' mortgage, but that the lien of the mortgage given by the
receiver appointed in the suit of Sutherland against the company,
in pursuance of the direction of the court in that case, is also a
prior lien to the extent of the certificates issued by the receiver;
namely, to the extent of $500,000 and interest. This portion
VOL. rV.

47

JEROME V. MCOARTER.

[Sup. at.

of the decree, it is now insisted, was erroneous. But if the receiver's certificates, issued by order of the court which had the
property in charge, are liens at all, what have the appellants,
who stand in the place of the company, to do with the order of
priority of liens? What difference does it make to them
whether the certificates be paid before any other liens are discharged, or after all the debts secured by any mortgage shall
have been satisfied? The assignees can get nothing until all
the liens on the assigned property have been removed. If the
Circuit Court has made a mistake in determining in what order
the incumbrances are entitled to payment, that is a matter for
the consideration of the incumbrancers, in which neither the
company nor the appellants have any interest. We do not
understand the appellants to contend that the entire sum of
$500,000, for which the receiver's certificates were issued, is
not due, or that the receiver was not authorized to make the
issue and secure it by mortgage, as he did. This is admitted
in the pleadings, and there is positive proof of it in the record.
It would be superfluous to spend much time in considering the
power of the court to confer the authority upon its receiver that
it attempted to confer. As a court of equity, having the mortgaged property in charge, it was its plain duty to preserve it,
not only for the benefit of the lien creditors, but also for the
benefit of the company whose possession the court had displaced.
Under the provisions of the acts of Congress granting the lands
covered by the mortgages, the lands reverted to the United
States, unless the ship canal should be finished within a fixed
period, and that period was passing away when the order was
granted to the receiver to raise money for completing the canal
by the issue of certificates secured by his mortgage. The canal
was unfinished, and there were in the receiver's hands no funds
to finish it.' Hence there was a necessity for making the order
which the court made, -a necessity attending the administration
of the trust the court had undertaken. The order was necessary
alike for the lien creditors and for the mortgagors. Whether
the action of the court could make the receiver's mortgage
superior in right to the mortgages which existed when it was
made, it is needless to inquire. None of the creditors secured
by those other mortgages objected to the order when it was

Oct. 1876.]

JEROM V. MCCARTER.

made, though they -were all then in court. None of them object to its lien or its priority now. And we think the appellants, either as representatives of their assignors, or of general
creditors, cannot be heard to object. Beyond doubt, they would
not be entitled to a return of the property discharged from
liability for the receiver's certificates remaining unpaid, even
if all the other mortgages were satisfied. As against them the
certificates are certainly charges upon the property, and they
have, therefore, no right to complain of the decree, which gives
the certificates priority to other liens.
That all the bonds secured by the first two mortgages are outstanding and due, is, we think, an established fact. We have
observed that the mortgage upon which the present suit has
been brought was made subject expressly to those two prior
mortgages. In it the mortgagors recited that the company did,
simultaneously with those mortgages, " execute, issue, negotiate,
and sell " all the bonds covered thereby, and declared that they
were an outstanding and subsisting lien. How can these appellants, who stand in the shoes of the mortgagors, be heard to
deny these recitals? Yet, if they can, we find no evidence that
all those bonds are not now a subsisting debt of the company
to the full extent of the sums named in them. There is some
proof that, when the company became bankrupt .(Aug. 28,
1872), some of the bonds were held as collaterals for loans
made to the company smaller in amount than the bonds pledged.
Bat the bonds were subsequently sold by the pledgees, and the
present holders hold them by absolute'right. The position that
the pledgees could not sell the pledge after the adjudication in
bankruptcy, is quite untenable. It is sustained by nothing in
the Bankrupt Act. The bonds were negotiable instruments.
They passed by delivery, and even were there no expressed
stipulation in the contracts of pledge, that the pledgee might
sell on default of the pledgor, such a right is presumable from
the nature of the transaction. Certainly the Bankrupt Act has
taken away no right from a pledgee secured to him by his contract.
In regard to the bonds covered by the McCarter mortgage,
which is the one now in suit, we find no error in the decree
of which the appellants can complain. Most of those bonds,

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup.at

though at first issued as collaterals for loans made to the mortgagors, have been sold, and they are now owned by the purchasers. There are some, it is true, that are still held in
pledge; but the pledgees have a clear right to use them, either
by sale or by collection, until the full amount of the debts due
from the mortgagors is satisfied. We cannot close our eyes to
the patent fact that the entire property mortgaged is insufficient
to pay the debts with which it is incumbered. The holders of
the bonds covered by the Union Trust Company will obtain
nothing, and none of the bondholders under the McCafter mortgage will obtain full payment. At least, such is the strong
probability. If, therefore, the holders of the McCarter bonds,
who hold them as collaterals, are allowed to hold them only for
the sums for which they have been pledged, the bonds may, and
probably will, prove an insufficient security for the debts actually due from the obligors to the hplders. They will prove
insufficient, unless the mortgaged property shall bring at the
sale enough to pay in full all the bonds held by purchasers, and
also all the debts for which the pledged bonds are held. If the
sale produces less, there must be a ratable abatement. On the
other hand, if the pledgees are allowed to prove the bonds held
by them for their full face, these appellants are not injured.
If, at the sale, the mortgaged property shall bring more than
sufficient to pay the debts for which the bonds are held in
hypothecation, the proceeds of the sale will be under the control of the Circuit Court, and it will take care that a proper
distribution is made. And if this were not so, the pledgees
would hold any excess they might receive in trust for other
incumbrancers, or for the appellants. The only persons, if any,
who can possibly be injuriously affected by the decree which
was made, are the absolute owners of the McCarter bonds, and
they acquiesce in it. It is not for those who are not injured to
complain.
Of the only other assignment of error which requires notice,
it is sufficient to say, that, in view of the circumstances of the
case, a sale in bulk is the only possible mode of sale which will
enable purchasers to buy with confidence. And a sale by parcels, though ordinarily the proper mode, cannot be made, with
-Decreeaffirmed.
any hope of justice to the creditors.

