EX PARTE LORING.

[Sup. Ct.

Had this been a valid statute, we might have been called
upon to discuss the point raised. But it was held in Van Allen
v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, that this statute was fatally
defective, in that it did not contain a proviso that the tax
thereby authorized to be imposed should not exceed the rate
imposed upon banks organized under the authority of the State.
The system of taxation devised by the statute of 1865 was
adjujged to be illegal and void. The clause now laid hold of
by the relators was simply a proviso or qualification of that
system. It necessarily fell with it. When the main idea was
thrown out of existence, the subordinate parts, which were
adjuncts of and dependent upon the main theory, ceased to
exist. There never was, legally speaking, any such proviso or
enactment as the relators claim the benefit of. Of course, there
could be no such thing as a violation of contract contained in a
proviso which never existed.
rarren v. The Mayor, 2 Gray,
98, 99; Sedgwick on Statutes, 413, 414 (ed. of 1874).
Judgment affirmed

Ex PArnTE LORING.
This court will not by mandamus compel an inferior court to grant a motion to
vacate an order setting aside a judgment of nonsuit.
PETITION for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan.
This petition shows that at the June Term, 1874, of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District-of
Michigan,* William B. True, the plaintiff in an action then
pending in that court against Elisha T. Loring, the petitioner,
after a jury had been empanelled and the testimony on his part
concluded, elected to become nonsuit, and that a judgment
to that effect was entered. On the 17th October, 1876, at a
subsequent term of the court, after notice to the attorney of
Loring, True moved to set aside this judgment and restore the
cause to the docket for trial. This motion was granted Oct. 31,
and, later in the term, Loring appeared by -his counsel, and

Oct. 1876.]

SELDEN v. EQUITABLE TRUST Co.

moved to vacate the order then made. This last motion was
refused, Jan. 15, 1877, and, Jan.,29, this petition was filed by
Loring for a writ of mandamus to the judges of the Circuit
Court, requiring them "to vacate the order setting aside said
nonsuit."
.Mr. Alfred Russell for the petitioner.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. CIE JUSTICE WAI=E delivered the opinion of the
court.
It seems clear to us that the object in this case is to use the
writ of mandamus as a writ of error. This cannot be done.
We may require the Circuit Court to decide in a proper case if
it refuses to act, but cannot control its decision. Here the
court has acted, and given its decision upon a motion made.
We are asked now to require it to reverse that decision. For
that, resort must be had to a writ of error after a final judgment
has been rendered. The writ of mandamus has no such office
Petition denied.
to perform.

SELDEN V. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY.
A corr-oration whose business is confined to the investment of its capital in bonds
secured by mortgage on real estate, and to the negotiation, sale, and guaranty
of them, is not a bank or a bankerwithin the meaning of sect. 3407 of the Revised
Statutes.

Eiuor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by -Ath. Assistant Attorney- General Sinith for the
printiff in error, and by 1r. Augustus Brandegee and Mr.
Jeremiah Halsey, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The Equitable Trust Company is a corporation created by the
laws of the State of Connecticut, and its principal office or place
of business is at New Haven, in that State. Its "only business

