Oct. 1876.]

EAMES v. Homr, INS. Co.

EAMhs v. HomE IwsuRANoE CompANY.
1. The correspondence in this case considered, and held to create a valid contract
for a policy of insurance in the Home Insurance Company of New York fdr
$4,000 on the mill and machinery of the complainants, situated at Staunton,
Ill., for one year from Oct. 12, 1872, at the rate of six and a half per cent
premium.
2. It appearing that the property was destroyed by fire Oct. 29, 1872, whereby
loss and damage accrued to the complainants to the whole amount of insurance, that due proof and notice were given, and that the premium for said
insurance was tendered and refused, the comilainants are entitled to a
decree against the defendant for $4,000, less the amount of said premium,
with interest and costs.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United-States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. J . Robinson for the appellant.
Mr. George 0. Ide, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed in the court below by Eames'and
Cooley, the appellants, against the Home Insurance Company
of New York, the appellees, to require said company to issue to
the complainants a policy of insurance against loss or damage
by fire, in pursuance of a contract for that purpose alleged to
have been made with their agents in Illinois, and for such other
and further relief as shall be just and equitable. The court
below, upon hearing, dismissed the bill.
. The contract referred to is alleged to have been made by
means of certain parol communications and written corre.
spondence, which are detailed and set forth in the record.
The subject on which insurance was desired by the complainants was a flouring-mill and its machinery situated at Staunton,
in Macoupin County, Ill., which was destroyed by fire in the
night of 2Sth of October, 1872. Cooley, one of the complainants, had previously procured insurance on the same property
from the defendant in February, 1870, which had rusi for two
years, and had then been permitted to expire. The amount of
insurance at that time was $3,500, and the rate five'per cent-

EAMES v. HOME INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

per annum. The policy was issued on the 28th of February,
1870, but ran one year from the 14th of that month, and was
renewed for a second year by the payment of a second premium
in 1871.
Cooley having taken Eames into partnership- and sold him
half of the property, the application for the insurance in question was made in their joint names. The negotiations were
commenced on the twelfth day of October, 1872, at Bunker
Hill, in Macoupin County, between Eames and James A.
Beach, the company's local agent at that place. They had a
general agent, A. C. Ducat, at Chicago; and it seems that local
agents were not authorized to take extra-hazardous risks, to
which class the property in question belonged, without referring
to the general agent.
At the interview referred to, Eames, there being then no
insurance on the mill, applied to Beach, who was agent for the
Home Insurance Company of New York, and of the Hartford
and Phmnix companies of Hartford, Conn., for $9,000 insurance; and an application to the Home Insurance was made out
on a printed blank of the company for $4,000, at five and a
half per cent. The application, numbered 105, was duly filled
up with answers to the various questions, and signed by Eames,
in the name of "Eames & Cooley," and dated the twelfth day
of October, 1872. From an agreement as to certain facts made
by the attorneys in the cause, it appears that said Beach forwarded said application by mail to Arthur C. Ducat, the general
agent, in a letter, of which the following is a copy: "[Office of James A. Beach, notary public and insurance agent.
Represents Home Insurance Company of New York, Hartford of
hlartfbrd, Phcnix of Hartford, Andes of Cincinnati.]
" Bu KKr HILL, ILL., Oct. 12, 1872.
"A. C. DUCAT, Esq.,, GenZ. Agt.:
" DEAR Sin, -I
enclose app. for ins. which you have carried for
two years, and was not renewed in Feb'y, because I asked 5, (you
were carrying it at 5 per cent). They now want to insure agaiii.
The other large mill in Staunton has lately burned, which is, I
suppose, the reason. I have not learned the particulars, but some
think the owners burned -it.
"Yours-truly,
JAS. A. B&CH2'

get. 1876.]

EAMES V. HOME INS. CO.

That, on the 14th October, 1872, said Ducat received said
letter of Beach and its enclosure, aid wrote to said Beach in
respect thereto a letter, whereof the following is a copy:"[Home Insurance Company of New York. General agency for
States of Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. Arthur C.
Ducat, general agent.]
"CHmcAGo, Oct. 14, 1872.
"JAs. A. BEACH, Agt., Bunker Hill, Ill.:
"DR. SiR,- We have yours of the 12th, and application of
Eames & Cooley on flour-mill at Staunton. Our present rate on
this risk will not be less than 61 per cent, which is probably more
than they will pay. If they wish a Home policy at that rate let us
know, and we will send you ticket.
"Truly yours,
ARTmU C. DucAT, Genl. Agent."
Which letter was returned to gaid Ducat by mail by said Beach,
Oct. 18, 1872, with the indorsement in the handwriting of said
Beach : "The Phmnix will carry $3,000 at 6 per cent; will you not do
the same?
Yours truly,
"J&is

A. BEACH."'

Across which is indorsed, in pencil, Oct. 18, 1872, in the
handwriting of said A. C. Ducat:"No; 6 per cent is our rate."
On Oct. 18, 1872, said Ducat mailed to said Beach a letter,
of which the following is a copy: "[Letterhead of Chicago general agency.]
"CHICAGO, ILLs., Oct. 18, 1872.
" JAimS A. BEACH, Agt., Bnnker Hill, Ill.:
"DR. Sir, - Yours received. We cannot go under 6j per cent
on Eames & Cooley flour-mill.
"Truly yours,
AniTHuR C. DTCAT, Gent. Agent."
At this point Eames testifies that he received a letter from
Beach, on or about the twenty-second day of October, 1872
(which was destroyed by the fire in the mill, and, therefore,
could not be produced), in which Bedch stated that he had
received an answer from the Home Qompany, lhnd that they
would not take the risk for less than six and a half per cent.

EAMES v. HOME INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

He further testifies that this letter enclosed an application to
the Hartford Insurance Company, partly filled up by Beach,
and sent to him (Eames) to answer some of the questions, and
to be signed by him; that, in a previous conversation between
him and Beach, his complement of insurance not being made
up by the four thousand that the Home would take, and the
three thousand that Phcenix would take, Beach told him that
he was agent for the I-Iartford, but did not know whether they
would take any risk, but that hewould write them, and, if they
would, he would send him (Eames) an application to fill out;
that, in a diy or two after, the letter referred to came, enclosing
the said application to the Hartford, filled up for $2,000, at the
rate of six per cent; that the letter added that he (Beach) had
not heard from the Hartford Company, but as he was goiug to
write to him (Eames) in regard. to the Home proposition, he
enclosed the Hartford application, partly filled up, for Eames to
finish and return, so that, if the Hartford Company would take
the risk, he would have the application ready to send right on.
In answer to this letter of Beach; Eames says he wrote his next
letter, enclosing the application to the Hartford Company, and
accepting the proposition of the Home Company.
It is admitted that he wrote, and that Beach received, the
following letter on or about Friday, the 25th of October, 1872,
enclosing the application referred to, filled up and signed;
namely "STArxTOX, ILL., Oct. 25, 1872.
"Mr. JAMES A. BEACH, Bunker Hill, Ill. :
" DEAR SiR, -I believe I have answered all the questions necessary, and to the best of my knowledge. 6.1 per cent is pretty
heavy, but I guess we will haveto stand it, as I do not know where
we can do better at present.
" Yours, &c.,

EAE

S & COOLEY."

On Monday, the 28th of October, 1872, Beach mailed a
letter to Ducat, the general agent, of which the following is a
copy :"BuwmER HmLa, Oct.
28, 1872.

" Hon. A. C. DucAT.
"No. 105, Staunton Mill, r 61.
"DEAR SiR,- Please send me a ticket for $4,000, ins. on appl'n.
JAxus A. BEACH."
"Yours truly,

Oct. 1876.]

EAMES V. HOME: INS. Co.

Oct. 29, 1872, Beach sent telegraphic message to Ducat, of
which the following is a copy: ,.[Dated Bunker Hill, Ill., 29, 1872; received at Chicago, Oct.
29, 11.20 A.M.]
"To A. C. DUCAT, Home Ins. Co.:
"Do not return ticket for mill insurance: it is burned.

9"JAs. A. BEACH."
Oct. 29, 1872, Ducat mailed to said Beach a letter, of which
the following is a copy : "[Home Insurance Company of New York, general agency for
States of Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. Arthur C.
Ducat, general agent.]
"CHICAGO, ILL., Oct. 29, 1872.
"JAs. A. BEACn, Agt., Bunker Hill, Ill. :
"DEAR SiE -Yours of the 28th, requesting ticket on the Staunton Mill, came duly this morning, and in a few minutes your telegram arrived announcing the burning of the mill. We came very
near being caught, but are glad it is no worse. If we had not demanded the additional J per cent we should have had $4,000 to
pay.
Yours truly,
"1ARTHUR C. DUTCAT."

This is all the correspondence bearing upon the alleged contract, and the first question is, whether the clause in Eames's
letter of Oct. 25, in these words, "Six and a half per cent is
pretty heavy, but I guess we will have to stand it, as I do not
know where we can do better at present," refers to the negotiation with the Home Insurance Company, and was an acceptance of their terms. Eames insists that that was what he
meant by it; and if he did, on or about the 22d of October,
receive a letter from 'Beach of the purport which he states, it
would seem that there could be little doubt on the subject. Mr.
Beach, in giving his testimony, was at first uncertain whether
he wrote a letter or not; he had no recollection of sending such
a letter , .ind his final c6nclusion was, that he handed -he application to the Hartford Company to Eames at Bunker Hill.
Eames, on the contrary, testifies that he did not see Beach
after being informed of the general agent's letter of Oct. 18,
stating that the Home Company could not go under six and a
YOL. IV.

40

EAMES V. HOME INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

half per cent, until after the fire. The presumptions which
apply in such cases are in favor of Eames's account. His testimony as to receiving the letter is affirmative, and his recollection of its contents circumstantial. Beach's is negative: he does
not recollect writing it; and the interview in which he supposes
he gave Eames the application to the Hartford may well be
confounded with the interview they had when an application to
the Hartford was first talked of. And Beach evidently understood the clause referred to in Eames's letter of the 25th as referring to the Home insurance negotiation, or he would not
have written to Ducat for a ticket. He explains this by saying
that he understood the clause as referring to the Hartford application enclosed in the letter, but as also meaning generally
that Eames was willing to give six and. a half per cent, ana,
therefore, he sent for the ticket for the Home insurance. ,.This
is, in effect, an acknowledgment that he understood it as referring to the one as well as to the other. Taking the evidence
all together, we think that Eames's statement is correct, - that
he did receive the letter which he says he did on the 22d; and
that his own letter of the 25th was in answer to it. The form
of language used by him, "I guess we will have to stand it," is
not so ambiguous and uncertain as the appellees' counsel suppose. It is a form of expression bften used in common speech,
in this country, to indicate an affirmative statement. It was so
understood and acted on by Mr. Beach. It is' equivalent to
saying, "We will take the insurance at that rate.' r- And Ducat
evidently understood the negotiation as closed, because. he was
on the point of sending the ticket when h6, received the ,telegram announcing the fire.
Supposing this to be the meaning of the correspondence, the
next question is, whether it had the effect of creating a contract. Eames had put in an application for insurance. It was
made out in the regular form. The property was fully described,
the amount of insurance was named, and the rate of premium
at five and a half per cent was proposed to,-be paid. Every
thing was satisfactory to the general agent, except the rate of
premium. No question was made about any thing else. The
whole subsequent correspondence related to that alone. The
agent required six and a half per cent instead of five and a half;

Oct. 1876.]

EAIES v. HOME INS. CO.

and finally, as we construe the letter of .Eames, he (Eames)
agreed to and accepted -this modification. Supposing all the
parties to be acting in good faith, as they were bound to act,
had he not a right to suppose that the agreement was concluded, and that the risk was taken by the defendant ? We do
iiot well see how this conclusion can be avoided. He had not
paid the premium, it is true; but it is shown that this was not
required until the policy was made out and delivered. It had
not been required of Cooley in 1870; and yet the policy in that
case, when issued, was made to run from the date of the application, some two weeks prior to its issue, and, of course,
covered the risk during that antecedent period.
If parties could not be made secure until all the formal documents were executed and delivered, especially where the insuring company is situated in a different State, the beneficial effect
of this benign contract of insurance would often be defeated
and rendered unavailable. As said by Mr. Justice Field in the
case of The Insurance Company v. Colt4 20 Wall. 567, "It would
be impracticable [for a company] to carry on its business in
other cities and States, or at least the business would be attended with great embarrassment and inconvenience, if such
preliminary arrangements required for their validity and efficacy
the formalities essential to the executed contract. The law,"
he continues, "distinguishes between the preliminary contract
to make insurance or issue a policy, and the executed contract
or policy. And we are not aware that in any case, either by
usage or the by-law of any company, or by any judicial decision,
it has ever been held essential to the validity of these initial contracts ilhat they should be attested by the officers and seal of
the company. Any usage or decision to that effect would break
up or greatly impair the business of insurance as transacted by
agents of insurance companies."'
But it is objected, in the next place, that the contract, if one
was made, was not complete and precise in its terms ; that it
did not state the period of time during which the risk was to
continue, and did not state what kind of a policy (of two or
three different kinds which the Home. Company used) Eames
wished to have. It does appear that the application, which
was signed on the 12th of October, did not (as is usuall:r done)

EAMES V. HOME IN s. 00.

[sup. Ct.

call for a statement of the period of insurance. It was one of
the company's own printed blanks, and the probability is, that
the reason this item was not inserted was the almost universal
practice of taking ordinary insurance against fire for a year.
Nothing else seems to have been in the minds of the parties.
The former insurance on the property had been for that period.
The bill states that Eames applied to Beach for a contract of
insurance and policy on the mill for a year; and this is not denied in the answer: the application to the other companies, the
Phenix and the Hartford, seem to have been for a year. Mlr.
Beach, in his testimony, when asked by the counsel of defendant whether any thing had been said as to the length of time
the complainants wanted insurance in the H~me, 'romptly answered, "If I mistake not, the application states ' for one year;'"
and was only convinced to the contrary after an inspection of
the document. The premium is constantly spoken of by the
witnesses and in the letters as so much per cent absolutely, six and a half per cent, - without adding "per annum; " and yet
we know that a yeal,'s premium was meant. It may be said
that this is the usual mode of speaking when rate per annum is
intended. This is undoubtedly true when an ordinary policy
for a year is the subject of discussion. But when insurance for
a fractional part of a year, or any unusual period, is proposed
or spoken of, it is not the customary mode of speaking. It is
then usual to add, the words "per annum," in order to avoid
mistake. We think it perfectly manifest, from all the evidence
taken together, that the parties meant and intended an insurance for a year, and had nothing else in their minds. This is
the inference to be drawn from-all their conduct, conversations,
and correspondence; and we should be sticking in the bark to
ignore it.
Tie plea that no time for the continuance of the insurance
was stipulated for is evidently a mere afterthought.
There is no difficulty as to the time when the risk was to commence. It was the practice of the defendant, as it is of most, if
not all, other companies, to antedate 'the policy to the time of
making the application; which, in this case, was on the twelfth
day of October, 1872. This practice is more beneficial to the
companies than to the insured. They are not liable until the con-

Oct. 1876.]

EAMES V. HOME INS. Co.

tract is completed, and if a loss occurs before its completion
they have nothing to pay; and yet they get the benefit of the
premium for this period whenever the contract is completed.
As to the plea that the contract does not specify -what kind
of a policy was desired, it does not appear that the complainants had any knowledge or notice that the defendant issued different kinds of policies. As Eames justly said, he supposed (as
he had a right to suppose) that they would get the same kind
of policy which had been issued on the property before. If nO"
preliminary contract would be valid unless it specified minutely
the terms to be contained in the policy to be issued, no such
contract could ever be made or would ever be of any use. The
very reason for sustaining such contracts is, that the parties may
have the benefit of them during thAt incipient period when the
papers are being perfected and transmitted. It is sufficient if
one party proposes to be insured, and the other party agrees to
insure, and the subject, the period, the amount, and the rate of
insurance is ascertaized or understood, and the premium paid if
demanded. It -will be presume. that they contemplate such
form of policy, containing such conditions and limitations as are
usual in such c~ses, or have been used before between the parties. This is the sense and reason of the thing, and any-contrary
requirement should be expressly notified to the party to be
affected by it.
As to the objection that the application. in this. case does not
truly set forth the title of the complainants and the amount and
nature of the incumbrances on the property, land-the-amount of
insurance in other companies, it is sufficient to say that the
evidence abundantly shows that all the facts were fully and
frankly communicated to Beach, the agent of the company,
and were indeed known to him before; and that he wrote down
the answers according to his view of their bearing and legal
effect, Eames relying entirely on his experience in such matters.
There is no reason to suppose that either Eames or Beach did
not act in entire good faith in the transaction. And, indeed, it
cannot be pretended that the facts were not substantially as
represented in the application. The complainants are represented to be the owners of the property, which is stated to be
subject to a mortgage for $6,000. The fact was, that they had

EAMES v.

HOmE

INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

purchased the property for $12,000,-and had paid $6,200 of the
purchase-money, the vendor having a lien for the balance of
$5,800; but no deed had ever been given. So that, in truth, the
complainants did not hold the legal title, although they had an
equitable ne; and h)d not given a mortgage, although the
vendor's lien was equivalent to one. In another answer, however, explaining the mortgagee's interest, it is stated expressly
to be a "lien on mill to secure payment of sale." As the exact
facts were communicated to the agent, and he took the responsibility of stating them in the way he did, leading the applicant
to suppose that it was all right, we think it would be great injustice to turn him out of court now for this inexact method of
statement. According to the views expressed by this court in
Insurance Company v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222, and other more
recent cases, the defendant was concluded by the act of its
agent. The refer'ence to collateral insurances in other companies
is subject to the same consideration. The insurances were being
applied for through this very agent who wrote the answers, and
-who knew the whole facts, and between whom and the general
agent they had been referred to in their correspondence. The
defence on this ground is utterly destitute of equitable consideration.
After giving due attention to the pleadings and evidence in
this case, we are forced to the conclusion that a contract for a
policy of insurance was fairly made, and tliat a decree should
have been rendered for the complainants, declaring them entitled
to a policy of insurance to be issued by the defendant, in the
usual form in such cases, for $4,000 on the mill and machinery
of the complainants, situated at Staunton, in the county of Macoupin, Ill., to run and be in operation for one year from the
twelfth day of October, 1872, at the rate of six and a half
per cent premium; and, as it appears that the said property
was destroyed by fire on tbe twenty-ninth day of October, 1872,
whereby loss and damage accrued to the complainants to the
whole amount of the said insurance, and that due proof and notice
of such loss was given, and that the premium for said insurance
was tendered and refused, it should be further decreed that the
defendant pay to the said complainants the said sum of $4,000
(less the amount of said premium), with interest and costs.

Oct. 1876.]

C0LMISSIONEBS, E-TC., v. THAYER.

See Taylor v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 9 How. 405; Perkins
v. Washington Insurance Co., 4 Cow. (N. Y.) 666; Carpenter
v. Mutual Safety Insurance Co., 4 Sandf. (N. Y.) Ch.410.
-Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to enter
a decree in conformity with this opinion, and to take such
furtherproceedings as law and equity may require.

CofmIssIoN-Fs OF JOHNSON COUNTY v. THAYER.
1. Under the act of the legislature of Kansas, approved Feb. 10, 1865, authorizing the board of county commissioners of any county to, into, through,
from, or near which any railroad is or may.be located, to subscribe to the
capital stock of the company, the'location of the road is not a condition
precedent to submitting the question of subscription to a vote of the qualified electors of the county.
2. A proposition was submitted to the electors of Johnson County, whether the
"
board should be authorized to subscribe capital stock in the name and for
the benefit of Johnson C-unty, in the sum of 5100,000, to aid ip the construction of a railroad commencing at or near the Union Depot, on the south side
and near the mouth of the Kansas River, and near Kansas City; thence to
Olathe, in Johnson County; thence, in a southerly direction, through said
county to the southern boundary of the State of Kansas." Held, that,
under the statute, this was a sufficiently specific description of the route of
the contemplated road, and that it was not necessary to insert the name of
the company constructing it.
. Irregularities or informalities, not involving the question of jurisdiction nor,
affecting the result of the vote, do not impair the validity of the bonds issued
pursuant to the election; and the Curative Act of Feb. 25,1868, was intended
by the legislature of Kansas to reach the bonds *issued before as well as
those after its passage.
4. Notice to one of the trustees appointed by the company in its deed mortgaging
its property, including the county bonds, to secure the payment of its bonds,
issued and negotiated for value to third parties, does not, in a suit by the
trustees to enforce the payment of the county bonds, operate to destroy the
bona ,ide holding of such parties.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
District of Kansas.
This action was commenced by Nathaniel Thayer, F. W.
Palfrey, and George W. Weld, to recover the amount due upon
interest coupons attached to certain bonds, originally issued, to
the amount of .$100,000, by the county of Johnson, in the
State of Kansas, to the Kansas and Neosho Valley Railroad

