Oct. 1876.]

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

V. KELLOGG.

469

This seems to us to be decisive of this motion. The receiver
cannot and does not attempt to appeal from the decree of foreclosure, or from any order or decree of the court, except such
as relates to the settlement of his accounts. To that extent he
has been subjected to the jurisdiction of the court-, and made
liable to its orders and decrees. He has, thereforethe corresponding right to coutend against all claims made against him.
For this purpose he occupies the position of a party to the suit,
although an officer of the court, and after the final decree below
has the right to his appeal here. In this case, the final decree
has been given, and the case is properly here upon the appeal as
prayed and allowed. This will not keep any thing in litigation
but the receiver's accounts. The title tQ the property and the
possession under the sale cannot be in any manner affected.
Every thing can be closed up in the court below, in accordance
with the decree which has been entered in the cause, except
the distribution of the money claimed from the receiver.
It will be time enough to consider whether more of the record
has been brought here than is necessary to the hearing of the
questions presented by the appeal when the cause is reached, or
when application is made to us in that behalf.
Motion to dismis8 denied.

MnMWAU=x

AND SADIT

PAUL RAM.wAY

CoMPANY v.

KELLOGG.
1. As the effect of the statute of Iowa is to make an occupant of land in that
State, who, under color of title thereto, and in good faith, has made valuable
improvements thereon, the owner of the improvements, the question as to
the ownership of the land is immaterial in an action to recover for their
wilful or negligent destruction.
2 Where the subject of a proposed inquiry before a court is not a matter of
science, but of common observation, upon which the ordinary mind is capable of forming a judgment, experts ought not to be permitted to state their
conclusions.
8. The question as to what is the proximate cause of an injury is ordinarily not
one of science or of legal knowledge, but of fact for the jury to determine,
in view of the accompanying circumstances.
4. A finding that negligence, or an act not amounting to wanton wrong, Is the
proximate cause of an injury, is not warranted, unless it appear that the

470

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

v. KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct.

injury was the natural and probable consequence of the negligence or
wrongful act, and that it ought to have been foreseen in the light of the
attending circumstances. Where there is no intermediate efficient cause,
the original wrong must be considered as reaching to the effect, and proximate to it.
6. The finding of the jury in this case, that the burning of the plaintiff's mill and
lumber was the unavoidable consequence of the burning of the defendants'
elevator, which had been caused by their negligence, is, in effect, a finding
that there was no intervening and independent cause between the negligent
conduct of the defendants and the injury to the plaintiff.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

M?. John W. Caryj for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Myron H. Beach, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover compensation for the destruction
by fire of the plaintiff's saw-mill and a quantity of lumber, situated and lying in the State of Iowa, and on the banks of the
river Mississippi. That the property was destroyed by fire was
uncontroverted. From the bill of exceptions, it appears that
the "plaintiff alleged the fire was negligently communicated
from the defendants' steamboat ' Jennie Brown' to an elevator
built of pine lumber, and one hundred and twenty feet high,
owned by the defendants, and standing on the bank of the
river, and from the elevator to the plaintiff's saw-mill and
lumber piles, while an unusually strong wind was blowing from
the elevator towards the mill and lumber. On the trial, it was
admitted that the defendants owned the steamboat and elevator;
that the mill was five hundred and thirty-eight feet from the
elevator, and that the nearest of plaintiff's piles of lumber was
three hundred and eighty-eight feet distant from it. It was also
admitted that there was conflict between the parties plaintiff
and defendant respecting the ownership of the land where the
mill stood and the lumber was piled, both- claiming under a
common source of title. The plaintiff had built the mill, and
he was in the occupation of it, believing he had a right to be
there."
Such ha'dng been the admissions, the court refused to allow

Oct. 1876.]

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO. v.

KELLOGG.

471

the parties to try the title to the land upon which the mill and
lumber had been placed, proof of title being, in the opinion of
the court, immaterial. To this ruling the defendants excepd,
and it is the first error they have assigned. We are unaole to
perceive any reason why the proof offered was not, as the Circuit Court held it to be, perfectly immaterial to the issue between the parties. By the law of the State of Iowa, "where
an occupant of land has color of title thereto, and in good faith
has made any valuable improvements thereon, and is afterwards,
in a proper action, found not to be the rightful owner thereof,"
he is entitled to payment or credit for the value of his in.
provements. Code of Iowa, sects. 1976-1981. The effect of
this statute is to make such an occupant practically the owner
of his improvements, even though he be not the owner of the
land on which they have been made. If, therefore, the title to
the land had been shown to be in the defendants, the proof
would not have affected the right of the plaintiff to recover
3ompensation for wilful or negligent destruction of the buildings and lumber. Nor could it have changed the degree of
prudence and care which the defendants were bound to exercise
in order to gu-ard against injury to that property. The plaintiff is not to be regarded as a mere trespasser, wantonly thrusting himself or his property in the way of danger, - a trespasser
to whom the defendants owed a less degree of caution than
would have been due if he had been the undisputed owner of
the fee-simple of the land on which the mill.stood. We cannot
admit that the defendants owed no duty to the plaintiff, even
if he was occupying their land without their consent. An attempt was made during the argument to maintain that they had
be3n found by the jury glilty only of an act of omission, and
it was insisted that such an act would not give a right of action
to the plaintiff if he was wrongfully in possession of their ]and.
Neither the fact asserted nor the inference drawn from it can
be. conceded. The.verdict of the jury was, 1st, That the elevator "
was burned from the steamer "Jennie Brown;" 2d, that such
burning was caused by not using ordinary care and prudence in
landing at the elevat6r, under circumstances existing at that particular time; and, 3d, that the burning of the mill and lumber
was the unavoidable consequence of the burming of the elevator.

472

MLWAUKTEE, ETC. RAILWAY O. V. KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ot.

The only reasonable construction of the verdict is, that the
fault of the defendants - in other words, their want of ordinary
care and prudence - consisted in landing the steamer at the
elevator in the circumstances then existing, when a gale of
wind was blowing towards it, when the elevator was so combustible and so tall. If this is not the meaning of the verdict,
no act of negligence, of want of care, or of fault has been found.
And this is one of the faults charged in the declaration. It
averred, that, while the wind was blowing a gale from the
steamboat towards and in the direction of the elevator, the defendants carelessly and negligently allowed, permitted, and
counselled (or, as stated in another count, "directed ") the
steamboat to approach and lie alongside of or in close proximity
to the said elevator. This is something more than nonfeasance:
it is positive action, the result, consequence, or outworking, as
the jury have found it, of the want of such care as should have
been exercised.
It has been further argued in support of this assignment of
error that the proffered proof of title should have been admitted,
because it tended to show contributory negligence on the part
of the plaintiff. But we cannot understand how it could have
had any such tendency. Whether the mill stood on the defendants' laild, or on other land equally distant from the steamer
and elevator, and in the same direction, its exposure to the fire
was exactly the same.
A second exception taken in the court below, and here insisted upon, is that the court refused to permit the defendants
to prove by witnesses who were experts, experienced in the
business of fire insurance, and accustomed by their profession
to estimating and calculating the hazard and exposures to fire
from one building to another, and to fixing rates of insurance,
that, owing to the distance between the elevator and the mill,
and the distance between the elevator and the lumber piles, the
elevator would not be considered as an exposure to the mill or
lumber, and would not be considered in fixing a rate thereon,
or in measuring the hazard of mill or lumber.
This exception is quite unsustainable. The subject of proposed inquiry was a matter of common observation, upon which
the lay or uneducated mind is capable of forming a judgment.

Oct. 1876.]

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

V. KELLOGG.

478

In regard to such matters, experts are not permitted to state
their conclusions. In questions of science their opinions are
received, for in such questions scientific men have superior
knowledge, and generally think alike. Not so in matters of
common knowledge. Thus, it has been held that an expert
cannot be asked -whether the time during -which a railroad train
stopped was suffcient to enable the passengers to get off, Keller
v. Railroad Company, 2 Abb. (N. Y.) App. Dec. 480; or
whether it was prudent to blow a whistle at a particular time,
f7l v. Railroad Company, 55 Me. 438. Nor can a person
conversant with real estate be asked respecting the peculiar
liability of unoccupied buildings to fire. -Muloy v.*Insurance
Company, 2 Gray (Mass.), 541. In .Darell v. Bederly, Chief
Justice Gibbs said: "The opinion of the underwriters on the
materiality of facts, and the effect they would have had upon
the premium, is not admissible in evidence." Powell's Evid.
(4th ed.) 103. And in Campbell v. Richards,5 Barn. & Ad. 846,
Lord Denman said: "Witnesses are not receivable to state their
views on matters of legal or moral obligation, nor on the manner in -which others would probably be influenced, if the parties
had acted in one way rather than in another." See also Lord
Mansfield's opinion in Carter v. Boehm, 3 Burr. 1905, 1918,
1914, and Norman v. Biggins, 107 Mass. 494, in which it was
ruled, that, in an action for kindling a fire on the defendant's
land so negligently that it spread to the plaintiff's land and
burned his timber, the opinion of a person experienced in clearing land by fire, that there was no probability that a fire set
under the circumstances described by the witnesses would have
spread to the plaintiff's land, was inadmissible.
The next exception is to the refusal of the court to instruct
the jury as requested, that "if they believed the sparks from
the ' Jennie Brown' set fire to the elevator through the negligence of the defendants, and the distance of the elevator from
the nearest lumber pile was three hundred and eighty-eight
feet, and from the mill five hundred and twenty-eight feet, then
the proximate cause of the burning of the mill and lumber was
the burning of the elevator, and the injury was too remote
from the negligence to afford a ground for a recovery." This
proposition the court declined to affirm, and in lieu thereof

474

MILWAUKEE, Fac. RAILWAY

CO. V. KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ot.

submitted to the jury to find whether the burning of the mill
and lumber was the result na+.urally and reasonably to be expected from the burning of the elevator; whether it was a
result which, under the circumstances, would naturally follow
from the burning of the elevator; and whether it was the result
of the continued effect of the sparks from the steamboat, without
the aid of other causes not reasonably to be expected. All this
is alleged to have been erroneous. The assignment presents
the oft-embarrassing question, what is and what is not the
proximate cause of an injury. The point propounded to the
court assumed that it was a question of law in this case; and
in its support the two cases of Ryan v. The New Yorke Central
Railroad Co., 35 N. Y. 210, and Kerr v. Pennsylvania Railroad
'Co., 62 Penn. St. 353, are relied upon. Those cases have been
the subject of much criticism since they were decided; and it
may, perhaps, be doubted whether they have always been quite
understood. If they were intended to assert the doctrine that
when a building has been set on fire through the negligence of
a party, and a second building has been fired from the first, it
is a conclusion of law that the owner of the second has no recourse to the negligent wrong-doer, they have not been accepted
as authority for such a doctrine, even in the States where the
decisions were made. Webb v. The Rome, Watertown, &
Ogdensburg Railroad Co., 49 N. Y. 420, and Pennsylvania
Railroad Co. v. Hope, 80 Penn. St. 373. And certainly they
are in conflict with numerous other decided cases. Kellogg v.
The Chicago &. North-western Railroad Co., 26 Wis. 224;
Perley v. The .Eastern Railroad Co., 98 Mass. 414; Higgins v.
Dewey, 107 id. 494; Tent v. The Toledo, Peoria, & Warsaw
Railroad Co 49 Ill. 349.
The true rule is, that what is the proximate cause of an injury
is ordinarily a question for the jury. It is not a question of
science or of legal k wledge. It is to be determined as a fact,
in view of the circum. ances of fact attending it. The primary
cause may be the proximate cause of a disaster, though it may
operate through successive instruments, as an article at the end
of a chain may be moved by a force applied to the other end,
that force being the proximate cause of the movement, or as in
the oft-cited case of the squib thrown in the market-place.

Oct. 1876.]

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY 0. V. KELLOGG.

475,

2 BI. Rep. 892. The question always is, Was there an unbroken
connection between the wrongful act and the injury, a continuous operation ? Did the facts constitute a continuous succession
of events, so linked together as to make a natural whole, or was
there some new and independent cause intervening between
the wrong and the injury? It is admitted that the rule is difficult of application. But it is generally held, that, in order to
warrant a finding that negligence, or an act not amounting to
wanton wrong, is the proximate cause of an injury, it must
appear that the injury was the natural and probable consequence of the negligence or wrongful act, and that it ought
to have been foreseen in the light of the attending circumstances. These circumstances, in a case like the present, are
the strength and direction of the wind, the combustible character of the elevator, its great height, and the proximity and
combustible nature of the saw-mill and the piles of lumber.
AMost of these circumstances were ignored in the request for instruction to the jury. Yet it is obvious that the immediate and
inseparable consequences of negligently firing the elevator would
have been very different if the wind had been less, if the elevator had been a low building constructed of stone, if the season
had been wet, or if the lumber and the mill had been less combustible. And the defendants might well have anticipated or
regarded the probable consequences of their negligence as much
more far-reaching than would have been natural or probable in
other circumstances. We do not say that zven the natural and
probable consequences of a wrongful act or omission are in all
cases to be chargeable to the misfeasance or nonfeasance.
They are not when there is a sufficient and independent cause
operating between the wrong and the injury. In such a case
the resort of the sufferer must be to the originator of the intermediate cause. But when there is no intermediate efficient
cause, the original wrong must be considered as reaching to
the effect, and proximate to it. The inquiry must, therefore,
always be whether there was any intermediate cause discon
nected from the primary fault, and self-operating, which produced the injury. Here lies the difficulty. But the inquiry
must be answered in accordance with common understanding.
In a succession of dependent events an interval may always be

476

MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY Co. v. KELLOG.

[Sup. Ct.

seen by an acute mind between a cause and its effect, though it
may be so imperceptible as to be overlooked by a common
mind. Thus, if a building be set on fire by negligence, and an
adjoining building be destroyed without any negligence of the
occupants of the first, no one would doubt that the destruction
of the second was due to the negligence that caused the burning
of the first. 'Yet in truth, in a very legitimate sense, the immediate cause of the burning of the second was the burning of
the first. The same might be said of the burning of the furniture in the first. Such refinements are too minute for rules of
social conduct. In the nature of things, there is in every transaction a succession of events, more or less dependent upon
those preceding, and it is the province of a jury to look at this
succession of events or facts, and ascertain whether they are
naturally and probably connected with each other by a continuous sequence, or are dissevered by new and independent
agencies, and this must be determined in view of the circumstances existing at the time.
If we are not mistaken in these opinions, the Circuit Court
was correct in refusing to affirm the defendants' proposition,
and in submitting to the jury to find whether the burning of
the mill and lumber was a result naturally and reasonably to
be expected from the burning of the elevator, under the circumstances, and whether it was the result of the continued
influence or effect of the sparks from the boat, without the aid
or concurrence of other causes not reasonably to have been
expected. The jury found, in substance, that the burning of
the mill and lumber was caused by the negligent burning of
the elevator, and that it was the unavoidable consequence
of that burning. This, in effect, was finding that there was
no intervening and independent cause between the negligent
conduct of the defendants and the injury to the plaintiff.
The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed.

Judgment affirmed.

