Oct. 1876.]

199.-BARRLS

OF WHISKEY v. UNITED STATES.

91

with, and that he may properly be called upon for explanations
which he has not given.
The evidence, therefore, as we think, clearly justified a
decree of forfeiture upon the first ground alleged in the libel.
It is true that the inspection marks, if spurious, may have been
placed on the barrels while they were in Mexico, and that, so
long as the spirits remained in Mexico, they could not be seized
for any violation of law previous to their removal; but it is
equally true, that, although there could perhaps be no forffeiture
for spurious brands affixed in Mexico, such brands may furnish
evidence to be considered in determining whether the goods
were subject to seizure for what had transpired in respect to
them previous to their removal, and, that when brought again
into the United States duty free, they were subject to seizure for
any cause that existed before their exportation.
In this view of the case, it is unnecessary to consider the
objections raised to a recovery upon any of the other charges
in the libel.
The sworn and examined copies of the papers on file in the
custom-house were admissible in evidence. So far as the bond
and entry are concerned, further proof as to them by the United
States was unnecessary, because they had been already sufficiently established by the testimony in, behalf of tLh cni4plainant. The cancellation certificates were admissible *as
declarations by the complainant in connection with the entry
and the primafaeie case he insists he had made, and they were
required by law to be taken and fled because they were the
identical papers Andre was to produce and deliver to the collector in performance of the conditions of his bond. 1 Stat.
663, sect. 28.
The decree of condemnation was rendered in the District
Court July 21, 1868, and under the rule in The Diana,
3 Wheat. 58, the interest up n the appraised value was properly calculated andadjudged from that date.
Decree affirmed.
NoTEo..-In One Hundred Barrelsof TWidskey v. United States, which was argued
at the same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, 31n. CHIEF
usTrIcE WAITE, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked TIs case differs from the preceding one only in the fact that the barrels were

92

CONSOLIDATED FRuIT-JAR CO. V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

seized at Indianola instead of Galveston, and in that the marshal, instead of delivering to the claimant the whole one hundred barrels upon the order of delivery,
handed over only fifty-five, and paid him the proceeds of the sale of the remaining forty-five barrY's. As these proceeds amounted to more than the appraised
value of the property, for which alone the decree below was rendered, we cannot
see how the claimant can now object, because he did not receive the spirits.
For the reasons given in the other case, the decree in this is
Affirmed

COwSOmDATED FRUIT-JAR ComtPANY v. WHIGHT.
Letters-patent No. 102,913, issued to John L. Mason, May 10, 1870, for an "Improvement in fruit-jars," are void: first, because there was a purchase, sale,
and prior use of the invention more than two years prior to the application
for a patent; second, because at the time of such application the invention had
been abandoned to the public.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Consolidated Fruit-Jar
Company to restrain the alleged infringement by the defendant of letters-patent No. 102,913, issued May 10, 1870, to John
I. Mason, for an "improvement in fruit-jars," and of which
the complainant, by mesne assignments, is the owner. The
court below, upon hearing, dismissed the bill; whereupon the
complainant appealed here.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John . B. Latrobe for the appellant.
Mr. George Gifford, contra.

the opinion of the court.
This is a case in equity brought by the appellants to enjoin
the appellee from infringing a patent issued by the United
States to John L. Mason, on the 10th of May, 1870, "for an
improvement in fruit-jars," of which patent the complainant is
the assignee.
The disclaimer and claim of the patent are as follows: MR. JUSTiCE SwAYNu delivered

"Separately considered, I do not claim a metallic flexible screwring or cap, C, for holding a cover on a preserve-jar, nor an external gasket receiving-shoulder upon preserve-jar, except when such

