REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF

THE

SUPREME COURT 0F THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1876.

WHPMM_

v. SEDWICIEC.

An objection of the defendant that the evidence admitted in the court beiow
tended to prove that he was not solely liable to the plaintiff for one of the
items of the account sued upon, cannot be made for the first time inthis court.

ER on to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an action of assumpsit by the defendant in error,
assignee in bankruptcy of Frederick S. Comstock and James
M Wheeler, formerly partners engaged in business as stockbrokers under the firm name of F. S. Comstock & Co., against
George M. Wheeler, to recover certain moneys claimed to be
due on account of stock operations of said firm on his account.
The case below turned upon the question -whether Comstock
& Co. had authority from Wheeler to make certain purchases
and sales on his account, and, if not, whether he subsequently
ratified them.
Among other items in dispute was an account headed
G. M. W. Chicago and North-western, $6,125.62," which
the bankrupt Comstock testified was one-half of a balance due
the firm in a transaction in which he and Wheeler were
jointly interested. The plaintiff below asked this witness,
"What authority, if any, had you from George M. Wheeler
VOL. IV.

1

WHEELER V. SEDGWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

to make purchases and sales of North-western stock in which
you and he should be jointly interested?" The defendant
objected to this question, and the witness did not answer it.
The witness further testified, in"answer to other questions, to
which no objection was made, that the firm of Comstock & Co.
had certain side transactions in North-western stock for and on
account of George M. Wheeler, and by his authority; that
there was an agreement between witness and defendant, of
which witness's partner was ignorant; that, if the account
showed a profit, witness would take half of the profit when
they closed it up, and, if the account showed a loss, witness
would stand one-half of the loss; that those transactions
extended to Jan. 81, 1868, and resulted in a loss of $12,251.23,
one-half of which was transferred to defendant's individual
account, and the other one-half in like manner to witness's
account. A witness was thereupon called by the plaintiff, who,
without objection, furnished a statement, including the "G. 2M.
W., Chicago and North-western " account; and showing, with
interest on the several items, a net balance of $26,458.90, due
from the defendant.
After the testimony was closed, the defendant asked the
court to direct a verdict for the defendant, on the ground that
there was no proof upon which to maintain the action; but
the court refused so to direct, and thereupon charged, substantially, that if the jury found that Comstock & Co. had
authority from the defendant to buy and sell the stocks
referred to in the testimony, or, if they had no such authority,
that the purchases and sales were subsequently ratified by the
defendant, then the plaintiff was entitled to recover, and that
the amount of that recovery should be $26,458.90.
The defendant thereupon excepted to the ruling that the
plaintiff was entitled to recover $26,458.90.
The jury found, a verdict for that amount in favor of the
plaintiff, and judgment was rendered thereon. The defendant
thereupon sued out this writ, and assigns for error, among
others, the admission in evidence of the account upon which
the defendant below and one of the bankrupts were jointly
liable, and the including of one-half of the amount thereof in
the verdict of the jury.

Oct. 1876.]

.WHEELER
V. SEDGWICK.

Argued by Mr. Thomas H. Wh eeler for the plaintiff in
error, and by hfr. P. N..Bangs, contra.
M1nP. CI

JUSTICE WAITm delivered the opinion of the

court.
We find no error in this record. To say the least, there was
some evidence before the jury tending to prove the items of
the aec.nunt upon which the suit was brought, and the court,
therefore, properly refused to instruct the jury to find for the
defendant.
The jury were not instructed that the plaintiff was entitled
to recover the amount of $26,458.90 at all events, but only in
case, all the questions in dispute were found in his favor. That
there was no controversy as to the amount of the recovery, if
the other questions were settled in favor of the plaintiff, is
evident from the fact that a witness was called, who, without
objection, furnished the jury a calculation of interest upon the
several items of the account as stated. No exception was
taken to the charge as given upon the material points in litigation between the parties.
The attention of the court below was not called to the particular objection now taken to the recovery of one-half the
amount shown to be due upon the account headed, "G. M. W.
Chic. and N. W. account," to wit, that it was a joint account
of the defendant and one of the bankrupts, and that the
defendant could not be sued upon it alone. This being the
case, it is too late to make it now. The exception, as it
appears in the record, is "to the ruling that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover $26,458.90." If it was desired to exEclude
the item of $6,125.62 because of "the non-joinder of another
party originally interested in that part of the account, the
point should have been distinctly and specifically made, and
an appropriate exception taken upon the record. The evidence to prove this item in the account -was not objected to
The question put to the witness Comstock, which was objected
to, was not answered.
We see nothing in the exceptions to the rulings of the court
upon the admissibility of testimony which requires particular
mention, as we are satisfied of their correctness.
Judgment afflrmed.

