BLAKE v. ROBERTSON.

[Sup. C

BLAKE v. ROBERTSON.
ROBERTSON

v.

BLAKE.

1. Reissued letters-patent No. 2,145, granted to Eli W. Blake, Jan. 9, 1866, for an
improvement in machines for crushing stones, and extended June 15, 18t2,
were not anticipated by those granted Sept. 4, 1849, No. 6,690, to Hobbs &
Brown, for crushing ice, nor by those granted Jan. 3, 1854, No. 10,865, to
James Hamilton, for an ore-crusher.
2. The court sustains the validity of said letters-patent to Blake, and finds that
•they have been infringed by the respondent.
8. In an action for the infringement of letters-patent, damages must be proved,
and the burden of proof is upon the complainant.
4. In this case, no license fee charged by the complainant is shown, although
it appears that he made a profit of forty dollars per inch on the width of
the jaws of the machines sold by him. They, however, embraced inventions covered by patents other than that for the infringement of which
this suit was brought. Held, that, in the absence of proof to show how
much of that profit was due to such other patents, and how much was a
manufacturer's profit, he is entitled to nominal damages only against the
respondent.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Hf. T. Blake for Blake.
Hr. B. -E. Valentine, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross-appeals in the same cause. Both involve
questions in mechanics. These being determined, the legal
propositions which apply are so well settled as to admit of no
controversy.
A patent was granted to Blake on tbe 15th of June, -1858, by
the United States, for a stone-breaker. On the 9th of January,
1866, the same authority reissued the patent to him, with
amended specifications. It was extended on the 15th of June,
1872. The bill in this case is founded upon the latter patent.
It charges infringement.
The answer avers that the machine described is of no practica utility, denies the novelty of the invention, ind -also the
alleged infringement.

Oct. 1876.]

BLAKE v. ROBERTSON.

The description in the specification sets forth three things as
the essential characteristics of the nachine: 1. Two jaws, within, which the stones are to be broken.
Their faces are to be so nearly in an upright position that the
stones will descend between them automatically. The jaws are
to be so far convergent that the interspace at the top will be
sufficient to receive the stones, and that at the bottom bnly such
as will allow the fragments to escape when broken of the required size.
2. A revolving shaft, driven by steam or other motive power,
imparting to one of the jaws a continual vibratory movement,
causing it alternately to approach toward and recede from the
other jaw, through a short and definitely limited space, so that,
when a stone is put in, the movable jaw will advance and crush
it, then, receding, liberate the fragments, which again descend,
and, if too large, are rearrested aud crushed again; and so on,
until the fragments have passed out through the open space
at the bottom. The distance between the jaws is to be adjustable at pleasure, so that the stone can bebroken of any desired
size.
3. A fly-wheel is combined with the revolving shaft and
movable jaw, for the purpose of rendering the strain upon the
.power more equal.
The claim is for A combination of a stone-breaking machine of upright converging jaws with a revolving shaft and mechanism imparting
a definite reciprocating movement t6 one of the jaws from the
revolving shaft, the whole being and operating as set forth.
The combination in a stone-breaking machine of the upright
movable jaw with the revolving shaft and fly-wheel, the whole
being and operating as set forth.
In combination with the upright converging jaws and revolving shaft imparting a definitely limited vibration to the mbvable
jaw, so arranging the jaws that they can be set at different distances from each other at the bottom, thus producing fragments
of every desired size.
A moment's glance at the model furnishes a sufficient answer
to the objection of the want of practical value. It would be
passing strange if a machine of that character could have gone

BLAKE V. ROBERTSON.

[Sup. Ct.

through the severe conflicts of litigation which this patent has
en,,ountered, and have come forth victorious from every contest.
It has proved equal to every ordeal to which it has been subjected. The number sold by the complainant, as shown by the
record, is conclusive, upon the subject.
The patent to Hobbs & Brown of the 4th of September, 1849,
and the 1atents to Hamilton of the 80th of January, 1854, and
the 5th of January, 1855, antedate the patent to Blake. It is
insisted that each of them is for a machine substantially the
same with the one described in Blake's patent, and that they
are fatal to his claim of the requisite novelty of his alleged
invention.
The machine of Hobbs & Brown is for "improvements in the
application of well-known mechanical means for the purpose of
crushing ice." . . . The "improvements consist in applying a
hopper with one diagonal fixed side and two parallel sides, to
contain the ice, and compressing the ice by a movable fourth
side, the fixed diagonal side and moving side having within them
dental projections cut or cast on, to operate downward and
prevent the ice from rising in the hopper when compressed,
and also to enter and split the ice."
The machine is operated "by the combination with these
parts of a lever fitted with an eccentric or cai-formed point."
There is in this description neither of the ingredients nor the
compound of the Blake machine. Every element and the combination are wanting. There is no mention of the converging adjustable jaws, of the revolving shaft, nor of the fly-wheel.
The differences are as marked in the mode of operation as in
the structural elements of the machine.
The Hobbs & Brown machine does its work by the downward and sweeping movement of the jaw, and the grasping and
splitting by the teeth. The motive power is supplied and applied by a hand-lever, which gives a motion irregular, and varying with the varying exigencies of the ice during the process to
which it is subjected.
The Blake machine performs its functions by the short,
regular, and unvarying vibrations of the smooth-faced adjustable jaw, driven without intermission by the revolving shaft.
It is obvious that the Hobbs & Brown machine could not be

Oct. 1876.]

BLAKE ). ROBERTSON.

applied with effect to the purpose of breaking stones, without
ossential changes of principle and details.
Hamilton's machine was "for crushing and grinding quartz
or other substances."
In the specification annexed to his original patent, he says: "My invention consists in the use of a cylindrical nut or pestle
in a similarly formed basin, the pestle having a partial rotary and
crushing motion communicated to it by means of a lever attached
thereto.
"'A' is a basin, the lower part of which is made circular, and the
sides parallel to each other. I b ' are flat ends or heads secured
to the basin by bolts.
'C0' is the shaft carrying the cylindrical pestle, 'd.'
"'B' is a lever attached to or formed with the pestle Id,' the
upper end being connected by a joint '2' to ' a' pitman, passing to
a crank, eccentric, or other suitable mechanical contrivance, to give
the arm 'B' an oscillating movement, and the pestle a partial
rotary motion on its shaft IC?"
The claim of this patent is for "the means herein described
and shown for crushing and grinding metallic ores, consisting
of the cylindrical pestle, I d,' provided with grooves in its upper
part to crack the lumps of ore, and set on a shaft, IC,' on which
it has a partial rotary motion, and operating in connection with
the basin, 'A,' in which said pestle moves to grind the ore
into powder by the gradual approach of the sides of said basin
to the cylindrical pestle, said pestle being also provided with
a scraper or agitator, '5,' in its lower surface, to operate-as
specified."
The second patent is declared to "consist in providing means
for keeping the pestle down with sufficient force to pulverize
the material operated on, and also ifo prevent the pestle from
grinding too finely; i.e., to furnirh material for simply cracking.
the ore or other material into small lumps of any desired size,
instead of grinding the same to a powder, thereby adapting the
machine to different characters of metallic oces or other substances."
We have here no reflex or embodiment of either of the ideas
that found expression in the Blake machine. The converging
jaws, the revolving shaft, and the fly-wheel, are all wanting, as

BLAKE V. ROBERTSON.

[Sup. CL

in the Hobbs & Brown machine. Instead, there is a cylindrical
nut or pestle, having a partial rotary and crushing motion communicated to it by means of a lever attached thereto. The
pestle rotates on a central axis within an eccentric concave.
The work is done by this pestle. Thereois nothing of the
vibratory motion of a movable jaw, alternately advancing and
receding, .as in the Blake invention.
The difference is not that of mere mechanical equivalents.
It is radical, and goes to the essence of the organisms. These
considerations are so obvious, that further remarks upon the
subject are unnecessary.
The proofs show that but two of the Hamilton machines
were ever made. Practically, the invention was abandoned.
This brings us to the question' of infringement.
There are numerous points of similarity, and, indeed, of
identity, in the respondent's machine, which are not controverted. It is for breaking stone. It has two upright jaws for
this purpose, one fixed and the other movable. The jaws converge. The breaking is effected by the convergence. The
movable jaw alternately approaches towards and recedes from
the fixed one. This movement is produced by a short and
powerful vibratory motion communicated by a revolving shaft,
with a fly-wheel upon it. There is an opening at the upper
end of the jaws, where the stones are received, and one below,
where they are discharged.
The only point of diversity insisted upon by the respondents,
is, that the vibratory movement in the Blake machine is limited and unvarying, while in the machine of the appellants it
is not of this invariable character.
In the Blake machine, the movable jaw receives its movement from the revolving shaft, through iron rods and levers.
In the respondent's machine, it is communicated from the revolving shaft, through a confined column of water.
In the appellant's model, the revolving shaft is not shown.
In their machine, it works the plunger of the pump, from which
the water is conveyed to a cylinder behind the movable jaw,
whence it is applied to that jaw by means of a ram, the ram
taking the place of the piston in an ordinary engine. Thus
the vibrating arm, the toggle, the toggle-joint, and the pintals

Oct. 1876.]

BLAKE

v.

ROBERTSON.

in the Blake machine are dispensed with, and their place supplied by the hydraulic arrangements we have described.
What is so employed in the appellant's machine is the obvious and exact equivalent of what is so dispensed with in the
Blake machine. The liability of the packed joints to leakage
is a serious objection to such use of water. Any considerable
leakage would stop the machine. It could not be used while
that condition existed. Constant care and vigilance are necessary in such cases to prevent the frequent occurrence of this
evil. Water does not escape from a safety-valve with the
same celerity or effect as steam.
The Blake machine has a decided advantage, in the greater
simplicity and cheapness of its equivalents.
It is difficult to resist the conclusion that the change had no
motive or purpose but evasion.
If there be no extraneous obstruction, the vibratory motion
will be exactly the same in both cases. If there be such
obstruction, the safety-valve in the appellant's machine might
possibly be brought into use with good effect. But if this
were so, the valve would be only an addition and an improvement of the machine. The valve, therefore, is, in any view,
quite immaterial tQ the inquiry we are pursuing.
Where an original machine and an improvement upon it are
both patented, neither patentee can use what does not belong
to him, without the requisite authority from the owner. The
appellants having embodied all the ideas of Blake's invention
in their machine, the valve which supplemented it, whether
good or bad, is outside of the case, and cannot affect the result.
We think the infringement is clearly made out.
It remains to consider the question of damages. A few remarks upon that subject will be sufficient.
The proof is meagre and indefinite.
The infringers made but four machines.
No license fee charged by the complainant is shown. The
burden of proof rests upon him. Damages must be proved;
they are not to be presumed. The complainant made a profit
of forty dollars an inch on the width of the jaws of the numer
ous machines he had sold.
But inventions covered by other patents were embraced in

JEROME V. MCCARTER[

[Sup. Ct.

those machines. It was not shown how much of the profit was
due to those other patents, nor how much of it was manufacturer's profit. The complainant was, therefore, entitled
only to nominal damages. This the court gave him. It was
all the state of the evidence warranted. It would have been
error to give more.
.Decree affirmed, and the costs of each appeal are adjudged
against the party taking it.

JEROME V. McCARTE.
1. Prior mortgagees are not necessary parties to the bill of a junior mortgagee,
which seeks only the foreclosure or the sale of the equity of redemption.
2. Neither the mortgagor nor his assignee in bankruptcy can object to the order
in which the priority of valid and subsisting liens on the mortgaged premises
is fixed by the decree of foreclosure.
8. The subsequent bankruptcy of the pledgor of a negotiable instrument does not
deprive the pledgees of their right to dispose of it upon his default.
4. An objection that leave was not given to file the bill of foreclosure,- the
mortgaged premises being at the time in the possession of a receiver appointed in a former suit in the same court,-if, under any circumstances,
available, will not be sustained, if made a year and a half after the bill was
filed, and when the party objecting had in the mean time appeared, ansivered
it, and cross-examined the witnesses of the complainant.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the c6urt.
Argued by Mr. Hatt. t. Carpenter and Mr. George fforri8
for the appellants.
Mr. George . Edmunds and Mr. Alfred Bussell, contra.

Mr. JUSTICE STRONG aelivered the opinion of the court.
There are no less than twenty-seven assignments of error in
this case, but the subjects of real controversy are few. The
bill is an ordinary one for the foreclosure of a junior mortgage'
covering the canal and franchises of the Lake Superior Ship
Canal, Railroad, and Iron Company, and covering also two
separate bodies of land, each containing two hundred thousand
acres. The mortgage was given expressly subject to two priox

