Oct. 1876.]

HOGAN V. KURTZ.

HOGANw V. ]KURTZ.
1. The act of Congress, approved June 1, 1870 (16 Stat. 146), abolishing all fictions in ejectment within the District of Columbia, does not abolish that
action, nor convert it into a writ of right.
2. Uninterrupted, open, visible, exclusive, and notorious adverse possession by the
defendant, under a claim of title for twenty years, is a good defence, unless
the other party is within some one of the exceptions contained in the Statute of Limitations; aid proof of such possession is admissible under the
general issue.
8. The Statute of Limitations, when it begins to run, will not be arrested by any
subsequent disability; and a party, claiming the benefit of its exceptions, can
only avail himself of the disability which existed when the right of action
first accrued.
4. This action of ejectment was brought more than three years after the passage
of the act of March 3, 1865, the second section whereof (13 Stat. 532) abrogated all exceptions in favor of parties beyond the District of Columbia,
which, under then existing laws, might be replied or relied on in any action
or proceeding brought in said District, with a saving as to actions then pending, or which might be brought within three years thereafter. The exception of those laws in favor of such of the grantors of the plaintiff as were
foreigners and lived beyond seas was no longer in force.

ERrOR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The ease is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Enoch Totten for the plaintiffs in error.
F. Appleby for the
Mr.J. -D. McPherson and I[&. &George
defendant in error.
MR. JusTiCE, CLuTORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Fictions in pleading in actions of ejectment in re courts of
this District are abolished, and the provision is, that "all actions
for the recovery of real estate in the District shall be commenced
in the name of the real party in interest, and against the party

claihning to own or be possessed" of the same.

16 Stat. 146.

Certain described parts of lot numbered. 17, in square 877, according to the recorded plat of the city, were, on the 11th of June,
1870, in the possession of the defendant; and it appears that the

plaintiffs, claiming to own the premises, sued the defendant on

that day to recover the same, alleging that they, on the 12th of
October previous, were lawfully possessed of the premises, and
that the defendant then and there unlawfully entered the

premises and ejected the plaintiffs therefrom, and that she has

HOGAN v. KUBTZ.

[Sup. O

ever since and now does unlawfully detain the same, claiming
both the property and the right to possess the same.
Service was made; and the defendant appeared and filed two
pleas: 1. That she is not guilty in manner and form alleged in the
declaration. 2. That the lot of land described is, and was at
the time alleged, the property of the defendant, and that being
justly entitled to the possegsion thereof she lawfully entered
into the premises.
Issue was duly joined by the plaintiffs; and the parties subsequently went to trial, which resulted in a verdict and final
judgment for the defendant. Exceptions were 'filed by the
plaintiffs, and they sued out the present writ of error.
Six errors are assigned by the plaintiffs, as followi: 1. That
the action is not barred by the limitation of twenty years, the
same having been commenced since the act of Congress abolishing fictions in pleading in actions of ejectment. 2. That the
court erred in admitting evidence to establish adverse possession
by the defendant, the Statute of Limitations not having been
pleaded. 3. That the court erred in admitting in evidence the
record of the former ejectment suit, the same having been commenced before fictions in pleading in such suits had been abolished, and because the holding of the testatrix of the defendant
was in subordination to the heirs. 4. That the court erred in
admitting parol evidence to show that the Orst husband of the
testatrix of the defendant, under whom she claims, was duly
naturalized. 5. That the court erred in refusing the prayer of
the plaintiffs, that the Statute of Limitations did not run against
the four grantors of the plaintiffs who were foreigners, and resident beyond seas. 6. That the court erred in refusing to give
the prayer of the plaintiffs, that they must recover the twofifths of the property which belonged to their two female
grantors, who, having married in 1845, could not be affected
by the Statute of Limitations, it appearing that the second husband of the testatrix disclaimed all title to the premises during
their coverture.
Exceptions not assigned as error will not be examined.
Prior to the passage of the act abolishing fictions in pleading
in actions of ejectment, it is conceded that the limitation in
such cases was twenty years; but the proposition is submitted

Oct. 1876.]

HOGAN V. KURTZ.

by the plaintiffs that the act referred to converts the action,
where it is brought in the name of the real party, into a writ
of right, and that it extends the limitation to the same period
as that which is by law allowed. for remedies in that form of
proceeding. Nothing of the kind is found in the language of
the act, and no authorities are cited in support of the proposition, or which give it any countenance whatever. Fictions are
abolished where the pleading is in ejectment; but the action of
ejectment is not abolished, nor is there any provision in the act
making any other alteration in the form of the action than that
it shall be commenced in the name of the real party in interest,
and against the owner or the party in possession. Jackson on
Real Actions, 284.
State laws abolishing such fictions sometimes provide what
the effect of the new provision shall be, and it is settled law
that the State regulation in that regard is a rule of property
which the Federal courts must follow. Miles v. Caldwell,
2 Wall. 43; Blanchard v. Brown, 8 id. 249.
Alterations of the kind, it is usually held, place the final judgment in ejectment upon the same footing as judgments in other
actions; but there is no trace of authority, either in State legislation or in judicial decision, to show that the provision abolish
ing such fictions in the action of ejectment converts the action
into a writ of right, or that the action, when commenced in the
name of the real party against the owner or the party in possession, falls under any other rule of limitation than the action
of ejectment when commenced in the old form, unless the statute abolishing such fictions contains some provision warranting
such a construction. Barrows v. Kimball, 4 id. 403.
Beyond question, the action is still an action of ejectment, and
the plaintiff must still recover on the strength of his own title,
and not on the weakness of that of his adversary. Watts v.
Lindecy, 7 Wheat. 161; Gilmer v. Poindexter, 10 How. 267.
Evidence to prove adverse possession in an action of ejectment is admissible though the Statute of Limitations is not
pleaded in defence. MoConnel v. Reed, 4 Scam. 124; Stearns
on Real Actions, 241.
Ejectment cannot be maintained, unless it be brought within
twenty years next after the right of efitry accrued; and it

IfOGAN V. IKURM.[up

t
[Sup. CL.

follows that adverse possession in the defendant for twenty
years is evidence of title in the possessor, and constitutes a
good defence to the action. 1 Chitty, P1. (16th Am. ed.) 213;
.fallet v. Forest, 8 Ala. 264; Hammond v. Iidgely, 5 Harr. &
Johns. 151; Jackson v. Brink, 5 Cow. 480; Briggs v. .Prosser,
14 Wend. 227; Jackson v. Harder,4 Johns. 202.
Adverse possession under a claim of right, if uninterrupted,
open, visible, and notorious, may be set up in such an action,
not only as a defence to the cause of action set forth in the
declaration, but to show the nullity of any conveyance executed
by any one out of possession. Bradstreet v. Huntington, 5 Pet.
438; Angell on Lim. (6th ed.) 386; 2 Greeni. Evid. (12th ed.),
sect. 430; Hawk v. aenseman, 6 G. & R. 21.
Two-objections were made to the admissibility of the record
of the former ejectment suit, as follows: 1. Because the parties
were fictitious, the suit having been commenced before fictions
in pleading were abolished in such actions. 2. Because the
defendant, as the plaintiffs allege, held the premises in subordination to the title of the heirs-at-law.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the first
objection is without merit, for the reason that the record was
not offered or admitted as a bar to the present suit, and also
for the reason that it tended to show that the defendant claimed
to hold the premises adversely to the heirs; nor is there any
legal merit in the second objection, as the question whether the
possession of the defendant was or was not adverse to the heirs
was plainly a question of fact for the jury, and must be considered as concluded by the verdict.
By the record, it appears that the testatrix of the defendant
was twice married; that her first husband immigrated here in
the year 1794, married here, purchased the lot in question, and
built a house on it as a family residence; that they never had
any children, and that he died in 1828, leaving her surviving
him; that she married a second husband, whom she survived,
and died testate in 1869, devising the property to her sister,
the defendant in error.
Throughout her life, subsequent to the decease of her first
husband, the testatrix held actual, exclusive, continuous, visible,
and notorious possession of the property, and the evidence is

Oct. 1876.]

HOGAIT V. KURTZ.

full to the point that the defendant, as her devisee, continued
so to hold the same from the death of the testatrix to the present time. Forty-two years elapsed after the death of the first
husband of the testatrix before the present suit was commenced,
the plaintiffs claiming to be collateral heirs or the representatives of collateral heirs.
Where there are no descendants or kindred of the intestate
to take the estate, the law of descents applicable in the case provides that the estate "shall then go to the husband or wife, as
the case may be." Spratt v. Spratt, 1 Pet. 343.
Provision is also made by a subsequent statute, that any foreigner may, by deed or will to be hereafter made, take and hold
land within"this District in the same manner as if he was a citizen; "and the same lands may be conveyed by him, and be
transmitted to and be inherited by his heirs and relations, as if
he and they were citizens." Same v. Same, I id. 844.
Beyond doubt, the first husband immigrated here from Ireland; but the record shows that he filed his declaration of intention to become a citizen July 11, 1801, six years or more after
he arrived here and settled in this District. Documentary proof
that he took out his second papers is wanting; and the plaintiffs
contend that he could not have been naturalized when he purchased the lot in question, because three years from the time
he filed his declaration of intention had not then elapsed, and
they refer to the act of the 29th of January, 1795, in support
of the proposition. 1 Stat. 414.
Tested by that act, the proposition would be correct; but the
act of the 4th of April, 1802, provides that any alion, who was
residing within the limits and under the jurisdiction of the
United States before the 29th of January, 1795, may be admitted to become a citizen on due proof made to some one of the
courts, previously named, that he has resided two years at least
-within and under Federal jurisdiction, and one year at least
immediately preceding his application within the State or Territory where such court is at the time held. 2 id. 154.
Proceedings of the kind are required to be recorded; -but it
was proved or conceded that the records of such proceedings in
this District were destroyed, many years ago; and in view of
that fact, and of the long period between the purchase of the

HOGAN V. KURTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

property and the other evidence exhibited in the record, the
court left the question whether the party was or was not naturalized to the jury, and they found the issue in favor of the
defendant. Seasonable objection was made by the plaintiffs to
the admissibility of the parol evidence, and they now contend
that the court erred in admitting secondary evidence to prove
that that party became a citizen.
Enough appears to show that he possessed every requisite
qualification to enable him to become a citizen at any time, and
that he constantly exercised rights belonging to citizens; and,
in view of the great lapse of time since he acquired the property, the court here is clearly of opinion that the assignment of
error must be overruled.
Suppose that is so, still the plaintiffs contend that the court
erred in refusing the prayer of the plaintiffs that the Statute of
Limitations did not run against the four grantors of the plaintiffs who were foreigners and residents beyond seas.
Persons beyond seas, it is admitted by the defendant, are
within the exceptions contained in the Statute of Limitations
originally applicable in this District. Grant that, still the defendant contends that the case is controlled by the more recent
act of Congress, which provides that all exceptions in favor of
parties beyond the District of Columbia, which may, by existing laws, be replied or relied on in any action or proceeding
brought in said District, "are hereby repealed and abrogated,"
with a saving clause for pending actions, and such as should
be brought within three years from the passage of the act.
13 Stat. 532.
Passed as that act was five years before the present suit was
commenced, it is clear that the plaintiffs are not within the
saving clause, and that the prayer for instruction was properly
refused.
Two of the grantors were females resident abroad, and the
record shows that they were married in 1845 ; and the plaintiffs
contend that the court erred in refusing the prayer of the plaintiffs that they must recover the two-fifths of the property which
belonged to their two female grantors, who, having been married at the time mentioned, could not be affected by the Statute
of Limitations.

Oct. 1876.]

HoGAN T. KURTZ.

Attempt to take their case out of the operation of the rule
applied to the other four grantors is made upon the ground that
the second husband of the testatrix disclaimed the title during
their coverture, but the better opinion is, that his disclaimer did
not in any manner affect the possession and claim of the wife,
and such, it Would seem, must have been the finding of the jury.
Concede that, and it follows that the Statute of Limitations commenced to run seventeen years before the marriage of the two
grantors, which brings their case within the established rule,
that, when the statute has begun to run, it will continue to run
without being impeded by any subsequent disability. Angell
on Lim. (6th ed.), sect. 477; Currier v. Gale, 3 Allen, 328;
Smith v. Clar,, 1 Wils. 134; Demorest v. Wynlcoop, 8 Johns.
Ch.138; Eager v. Com., 4 Mass. 132.
Disabilities which bring a party within the exceptions of the
statute cannot be, piled one upon another, but a party claiming
the benefit of the exception can only avail himself of the disability existing when the right of action first accrued. Mercer's
Lessee v. Selden, 1 How. 37.
Possession of an adverse character, and decidedly hostile to
the claim of the heirs-at-law, was maintained by the testatrix of
the defendant for more than forty years, claiming to own the
premises in her own right; and the court here is inclined to concur with the court below, that the question whether or not her
first husband was ever naturalized is a matter of no consequence,
as her possession was not affected by that consideration. No
such disability attached to the testatrix; and the evidence is
beyond dispute, that she was capable of acquiring an interest
in the premises by any of the methods known to the laws of
the District.
Abundant proofs are exhibited in the record to show that she
had been in the possession of the property from the decease of
her first husband to the time of her own death, claiming to own
it in her own right, and renting it and using it under a claim
that it was her own property. Such a possession so evidenced
usually affords a presumption that the occupant claims the
property, and where it is adverse, open, visible, and continuous
for twenty years, it is sufficient evidence of title to toll the real
owner's right of entry, unless he can prove that he was within

COcHUAxE V.DEENE.

[Sup. Ct.

some one of the exceptions contained in the Statute of Limitations, even in a jurisdiction where those exceptions are still in
force.
Better proof to show that persons claiming title to the premises were notified that her possession was adverse and hostile to
their claim can hardly be imagined than what is exhibited in
the case before the court. Thirty years before the present suit
was commenced, a common-law action of ejectment was instituted for the same premises, in which the father and the grantors
of the plaintiffs were described as the lessors of the fictitious
plaintiff in the suit, and it appears that the suit was defeated
by the testatrix of the defendant, aided by her second husband,
then in full life.
Viewed in any light, we are all of the opinion that there is no
error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

COCnRAN- v. DEENE .
1. The powers and jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
in patent cases, are the same, as well in equity as at law, as those of the
circuit courts of the United States; and whether a case, involving the validity or the infringement of letters-patent, shall be first tried at law is a matter
of discretion and not of jurisdiction.
2. The improvement in processes for manufacturing flour, for which reissued letters-patent No. 6,841 were granted to William F. Cochrane and his assigneea,
April 21, 1874, being a reissue of letters-patent No. 37,817, granted to him
Jan. 6, 1863, does not consist in using drafts or currents of air, but in the
process as a whole, comprising the application of the blast, and the carrying
off the fine impurities whereby the middlings, after being separated from
the other parts, are purified, preparatory to regrinding.
8. A process may be patentable, irrespective of the particular form of the instrumentalities used. If one of the steps of a process be that a certain substance
is to be reduced to a powder, it may not be at all material what instrument
or machinery is used to effect that object, whether a hammer, a pestle and
mortar, or a mill. Either may be pointed out; but, if the patent is not confined to that particular tool or machine, the use of the other would be an
intringement, the general process being the same.
4. A process is a mcde of treatment of certain materials to produce a given result.
It is an act or a series of acts, performed upon the subject-matter, to be
transformed and reduced to a different state or thing. If new and useful, it
is just as patentable as a piece of machinery. In the language of the patent
law, it is an art.

