Oct. 1876.]

DoYL

DOYLE v. Co ,ET

v. COmu uTAL

NTAL

Iis. Co.

I.wSU3AwcE

ComPAwy.

L The court reaffirms the decision in Insurance Company v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445,
that an agreement to abstain in all cases from resorting to the courts of the
United States is void as against public policy, and that a statute of Wisconsin, requiring such an agreement, is in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States.
2. A State has the right to impose conditions, not in conflict with the Constitution or the laws of the United States, to the tranbaction of businesd
within its territory by an insurance company chartered 'by another State,
or to exclude such company from its territory, or, having given a license, to
revoke it, with or without cause.
8. The legislature of Wisconsin enacted that if any foreign insurance company
transferred a suit brought against it from the State courts to the Federal
courts, the secretary of State should revoke and cancel its license to do
business within the State. An injunction to restrain him from so doing,
because such a transfer is made, cannot be sustained. The suggestion that
the intent of the legislature is to accomplish an illegal result, to wit, the prevention of a resort to the Federal courts, is not accurate. The effect of this
decision is that the company must forego such resort, or cease its business
in the State. The latter result is here accomplished.
4. As the State has the right to exclude such company, the means by which she
causes such exclusion, or the motives of her action, are not the subject of
judicial inquiry.
AFPFBAI from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The bill of complaint alleges that the complainant, the Continental Insurance Company of the city of New York, is a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Connecticut, and a citizen of that State.
That prior to the passage of the act of the legislature of the
State of Wisconsin, entitled "An Act to provide for the incorporation and government of fire and inland navigation insurance
companies," approved March 4, 1870, the complaifiant had
established agencies, opened offices, and made considerable expenditures of money in advertising the business of insurance
against loss by fire in the State of Wisconsin. That soon after
the passage of said act complainant complied -with the provisions
of sect. 22 thereof, and procured from the State treasurer and
secretary of State the certificates and license to do business in
said State as therein provided, and did subsequently fully comply with said act; but that, upon filing appointment of an agent

DOYLE v. CONTINENTAL INS.

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

upon whom process of law could be served, complainant was
compelled to add an agreement, on its part, not to remove into
the Federal courts suits brought against it in the State courts,
which agreement to that effect was made. That after the
decision of this court in Insurance Cornpanzy v. Paige, 20 Wall.
445, the complainant removed a suit brought on one of its
policies against it in the State court, into the Federal court.
That because of such removal a demand was made upon the
defendant, Peter Doyle, as secretary of State, to revoke the
certificate or license aiuthorizing the complainant to do business
insaid State of Wisconsin.
That complainant had a large number of agencies in the State
engaged in the conduct of its business, and a revocation of its
license would work great and irreparable injury to the complainant in its business in said State, and the complainant
feared that said defendant would revoke said license, unless
restrained by injunction. A temporary injunction was issued
restraining the defendant from revoking the license of the complainant, because of the removal of said suit from the State to
the Federal court.
A demurrer to the bill was -overruled, and a decree entered
making the injunction perpetual. From this decree the defendant appealed.
Sect. 22, c. 56, Laws of Wisconsin, 1870, provides as follows "That any fire insurance company, association, or partnership,
incorporated by or organized under the laws of any other State of
the United States, desiring to transact any such business as aforesaid, by any agent or agents, in this State, shall first appoint an
attorney in this State, on whom process of law can. be served, containing an agreement that such company will not remove the suit
for trial in the United States Circuit or Federal Courts, and file in
the office of the Secretary of State a written instrument, duly signed
and sealed, certifying such appointment, which shall continue until
another attorney be substituted."
Sects. 1 and 3, c. 64, are in the following words:"SECTioN 1. If any insurance coihpany or association shall make
application to change the venue, or remove any suit or action heretofore commenced, or which shall be hereafter commenced, in any

Oct. 1876.]

DOYLE: v. CONTNENTAL INS. Co.

court of the State of Wisconsin, to the United States Circuit or
District Court, or to the Federal court, contrary to the provisions
of any law of the State of Wisconsin, or contrary to any agreement
it has made and filed, or may make and file, as provided and required by section number twenty-two of chapter fifty-six of the
General Laws of Wisconsin for the year A.D. 1870, or any provi.
sion of law now in force in said State, or may hereafter lie enacted
therein, it shall be the imperative duty of the secretary of State,
or other proper State officer, to revoke -and recall any authority or
license to such company to do and transact any business in the State
of Wisconsin, and no renewal or new license or certificate shall be
granted to such company for three years after such revocation, and
such company shall thereafter be prohibited from transacting any
business in the State of Wisconsin until again duly licensed."
"SECT. 3. If any insurance company or association shall make
application to remove any case from the State court into the United
States Circuit or District Court or Federal court, contrary to the
provisions of chapter fifty-six of the General Laws of Wisconsin for
the year A.D. 1870, or any other State law, -or contrary to any agreement which -such company may have filed in pursuance of said
chapter fifty-six of the General Laws of Wisconsin for the year AD.o
1870, or any other law of the State of Wisconsin, it shall be liable,
in addition, to a penalty of not less than $100 or more than $500 for
each application so made, or for each offence so committed for making such application, the same to be recovered by suit in the name
of the State of Wisconsin; and it shall be the imperative duty of
the attorney-general of the State of Wisconsin to see and attend
that all of the provisions of said chapter fifty-six of the General Laws
of 1870, and the provisions of this act, are duly enforced."

1r. George B. Smith for the appellant.
.

TWilliam Allen Butler, Mr. B. J. Steuens, and Xr. 1

.

S7oat, for the appellee.
Mr. JusTCE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The case of Insurance Company v. lfIorse, 20 Wall. 445, is
the basis of the bill of complaint in the present suit. We have
carefully reviewed our decision in that case, and are satisfied
with it.
In that case, an agreement not to remove any suit
brought against it in the State courts of Wisconsin into the
Federal courts had been made by the company, in compliance
with, the Wisconsin statute of 1870. The company, neverthe-

DOYLE v. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.

[Sup. 0 .

less, did take all the steps required by the United States statute
of 1789 to remove its suit with Morse from the State court into
the Federal courts. Disregarding that action, the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin allowed the action in the State court to
proceed to judgment against the company, as if no transfer had
been made. When the judgment thus obtained was brought
into this court, we held it to be illegally obtained, and reversed
it. It was held, first, upon the general principles of law, that
although an individual may lawfully omit to exercise his right
to transfer a particular case from the State courts to the Federal
courts, and may do this as often as he thinks fit in each recurring case, he cannot bind himself in advance by an agreement which may be specifically enforced thus to forfeit his
rights. This was upon the principle that every man is entitled
to resort to all the courts of the country, to invoke the protection which all the laws and all the courts may afford him, and
that he cannot barter away his life, his freedom, or his constitutional rights.
As to the effect of the statutory requirement of the agreement, the opinion, at page 458 of the case as reported, is in these
words: "On this branch of the case the conclusion is this: "1st, The Constitution of the United States secures to citizens of
another State than that in which suit is brought an absolute right to
remove their cases into the Federal court, upon compliance with
the terms of the act of 1789.
"2d, The statute of Wisconsin is an obstruction to this right, is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and the laws in
pursuance thereof, and is illegal and void.
"3d The agreement of the insurance company derives no support from an unconstitutional statute, and is void, as it would be
had no such statute been passed."
The opinion of a court must always be read in connection
with the facts upon which it is based. Thus, the second conclusion above recited, that the statute of Wisconsin is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and is illegal and
void, must be understood as spoken of the provision of the
statute under review; to wit, that portion thereof requiring a
stipulation not to transfer causes to the courts of the United

Oct. 1876.]

DOYLE V. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.

States. The decision was upon that portion of the statute only,
and other portions thereof, when they are presented, must be
judged of upon their merits.
We have not decided that the State of Wisconsin had not
the power to impose terms and conditions w- preliminary to
the right of an insurance company to appoint agents,_ keep
offices, and issue policies in that State. On the contrary, the
case of Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, where it is held that such
conditions may be imposed, was cited with approval in Insurance Company v. Morse. That case arose upon a statute of
Virginia, providing that no foreign insurance company should
transact business within that State until it had taken out a
license, and had made a deposit with the State treasurer oi
bonds varying in amount from 830,00 to $50,000, according
to the amount of its capital. This court suatained the power
of the legislature to impose such conditions, and sustained the
judgment of the State court, convicting Paul upon an indictment for violating the State law, in issuing policies without
having first complied with the conditions required.
.Ducat v. CMieago, 10 Wall. 410, decided that the statute of
the State of Illinois, requiting a license to be taken out by foreign insurance companies, for which six dollars each should be
paid, and the filing of an appointment of an attorney, with
power to accept service of process, was a legal coiidition ; and
a requirement, that, when such company was located in the city
of Chicago, it should also pay to the treasurer of that city two
dollars upon the one hundred dollars upon the amount of all
premiums received, was held to be legal.
In Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, the
court say:"A corporation created by Indiana can transact business in Ohio
only with the consent, express or implied, of the latter State. 13
Pet. 519. This consent may be accompanied by such conditions as
Ohio may think fit to impose; and these conditions must be deemed
valid and effectual by other States and by this court, provided they
are not repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or inconsistent with those rules of public law which secure the
jurisdiction and authority of each State from encroachment by all
others, or that principle of natural justice which forbids condemnation without opportunity for defence."

DOYLE V. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Neither did Insurance Company v. Morse, supra, undertake
to decide what are the powers of the State of Wisconsin, in
revoking a license previously granted to an insurance company,
for what causes or upon what grounds its action in that respect
may be based. No such question arose upon the facts, or was
argued by counsel oi referred to in the opinion of the court.
The case now before us does present that point, and with
distinctness.
The complainant alleges that a license had been granted to the
Continental Insurance Company, upon its executing an agreement that it would not remove any suit against it from the tribunal of the State to the Federal courts; that in the case of
Drake it did, on the tenth day of March, 1875, transfer his suit
from the Winnebago circuit of the State to the Circuit Court
of the United. States; that Drake thereupon demanded that
the defendant, who is secretary of State of Wisconsin, should
revoke and annul its license, in accordance with the provisions
of the act of 1872; that it is insisted that he has power to do
so summarily, without notice or trial; that the complainant is
fearful that he will -do so, and that it will be done simply and
only for the reason that the complainant transferred to the
Federal court the case of Drake, as above set forth.
The cases of Bank of Augusta v. Earle, Ducatv. Chicago, Paul
v. Virginia, and Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, establish
the principle that a State may impose upon a foreign corporation, as a condition of coming into or doing business within its
territory, any terms, conditions, and restrictions it may think
proper, that are not repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the
United States. The point is elaborated at great length by
Chief Justice Taney in the case first named, and by Mr. Justice Field in the case last named.
The correlative power to revoke or recall a permission is a
necessary consequence of the main power. A mere license by
a State is always revoeable. Pector v. Philadelphia,24 How.
300; People v. Roper, 55 N. Y. 629; People v. Commissioners,
47 N. Y. 50. The power to revoke can only be restrained, if
at all, by an explicit contract upon good consideration to that
effect. Hump hrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244; Tomlinson v. Jessup,
15 id. 454.

Oct. 1876.]

DOYLE

V. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.

A license to a foreign corporation to enter a State does not
involve a permanent right to remain. Subject to the laws and
Constitution of the United States, full power and control
over its territories, its citizens, and its business, belong to the
State.
If the State has the power to do an act, its intention or the
reason by which it is influenced in doing it cannot be inquired
into. Thus, the pleading before us alleges that the permission
of the Continental Insurance Company, to transact its business
in Wisconsin, is about to be revoked, for the reason that it
removed the case of Drake from the State -to the Federal
courts.
If the act of an individual is within the terms of the law,
whatever may be the reason which governs him, or whatever
may be the result, it cannot be impeached. The acts of a
State are subject to still less inquiry, either as to the act itself
or as to the reason for it. The State of Wisconsin, except so
far as its connection with the Constitution and laws .of the
United States alters its position, is a sovereign State, possessing all the powers of the most absolute government in tha
world.
The argument that the revocation in question is made for an
unconstitutional reason cannot be sustained. The suggestion
confounds an act with an emotion or a mental proceeding,
which is not the subject of inquiry in determining the validity
of a statute. An unconstitutional reason or intention is an
impracticable suggestion, which cannot be applied to the affairs
of life. If the act done by the State is legal, is not in violation
of the Constitution or laws of the United Stat~s, it is quite
out of the power of any court to inquire what was the intention of those who enacted the law.
In all the dases where the legislation of a State has been
declared void, such legislation has been based upon an act or a
fact which was itself illegal. Thus, in Crandall v. Nevada,
6 Wall. 85, a tax was imposed and collected upon passengers
in railiroad and stage companies.
In Almy v. State of (ialifornia, 24 How. 169, a stamp duty

was imposed by the legislature upon bills of lading, for gold
or silver transported from that State to any port or place out
of the State.

DOYLE V. CONTINENTAL INS. CO.

[Sup. Ot.

In Brown v. The State of MaryZand, 12 Wheat. 419, a license,
at an expense of $50, was required before an importer of goods
could sell the same by the bale, package, or barrel.
In Henderson v. Mzayor of .New York, 92 U. S. 265, the statute
required the master to give a bond of $300 for each passenger,
conditioned that he should not become a public charge within
four years, or to pay the sum of $1.50.
In the Passengers' Case, 7 How. 572, the requirement was of
a like character.
In all these cases, it was the act or fact complained of that
was the subject of judicial injury, and upon the act was the
judgment pronounced.
The statute of Wisconsin declares that if a foreign insurance company shall remove any case from its State court into
the Federal courts, contrary to the provisions of the act of
1870, it shall be the duty of the secretary of State immediately
to cancel its license to do business within the State. If the
State has the power to cancel the license, it has the power to
judge of the cases in which the cancellation shall be made. It
has the power to determine for what causes and in what manner the revocation shall be made.
It is said that we thus indirectly sanction what we condemn
when presented directly; to wit, that we enable the State of
Wisconsin to enforce an agreement to abstain from the Federal
courts. This is an "inexact statement." The effect of our
decision in this respect is that the State may compel the foreign
company to abstain from the Federal courts, or to cease to do
business in the State. It gives the company the option. This
is justifiable, because the complainant has no constitutional
right to do business in that State; that State has authority at
any time to declare that it shall not transact business there.
This is the whole point of the case, and, without reference to
the injustice, the prejudice, or the wrong that is alleged to
exist, must determine the question. No right of the complainant under the laws or Constitution of the United States, by its
exclusion from the State, is infringed; and this is what the
State now accomplishes. There is nothing, therefore, that
will justify the interference of this court.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.

Oct. 1876.]

DOYLE

v. CONTINENTAL INS.

CO.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, with whom concurred
SwAYNE and MR. JUSTIOE MILLER, dissenting.

MR. JusTICE

I feel obliged to dissent from the judgment of the court in
this case.
The following is a brief statement of the reasons for my
opinion: Though a State may have the power, if it sees fit to subject
its citizens to the inconvenience, of prohibiting all foreign
corporations from transacting business within its jurisdiction,
it has no power to impose unconstitutional conditions upon
their doing so. Total prohibition may produce suffering, and
may manifest a spirit of unfriendliness towards sister States;
but prohibition, except upon conditions derogatory to the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the United States, is mischievous,
and productive of hostility and disloyalty to the general government. If a State is unwise enough to legislate the one,
it has no constitutional power to legislate the other. The
citizens of the United States, whether as individuals or associations, corporate or incorporate, have a constitutional right,
in proper cases, to resort to the courts of the United States..
Any agreement, stipulation, or State law precluding them from
this right is absolutely void, - just as void as would be an
agreement not to resort to the State courts for redress of
wrongs, or defence Of unjust actions; or as would be a city
ordinance prohibiting an appeal to the State courts from
municipal prosecutions.
The questions arising upon these Wisconsin laws have
already been considered by this court in the case of Insurance
Clom any v. Horse, and we held and adjudged that the agreement which the company was compelled to make, not to remove,
a suit into the Federal courts, was absolutely void. In prin
ciple, this case does not differ a particle from that. The State
legislation of 1872, under which,- and in obedience to which,
the license of the appellees is threatened to be revoked, is just
as unconstitutional and just as void as the agreement was in
the former case.
The argument used, that the greater always includes the
less, and, therefore, if the State may exclude the appellees
without any cause, it may exclude their for a bad cause, is not

DOYLE V. CONTINENTAL INS. Co.

L[Sup. at.

sound. it is just as unsound as it would be for me to say, that,
because I may without cause refuse to receive a man as my
tenant, therefore I may make it a condition of his tenancy
that he shall take the life of my enemy, or rob my neighbor of
his property.
The conditions of society and the modes of doing business
in this country are such that a large part of its transactions
is conducted through the agency of corporations. This is
especially true with regard to the business of banking, insurance, and transportation. Individuals cannot safely engage in
enterprises of this sort, requiring large capital. They can only
be successfully carried out by corporations, in which individuals
may safely join their small contributions without endangering
their entire fortunes. To shut these institutions out of neigh'boring States would not only cripple their energie;, but would
deprive the people of those States of the benefits of their enterprise. The business of inaprance, particularly, can only be
carried on with entire safety by scattering the risks over large
areas of territory, so as to secure the benefits of the most
extended average. The needs of the country require that
corporations- at least those of a commercial or financial character - should be able to transact business in different States.
If these States can, at will, deprive them of the right to resort
to the courts of the United States, then, in large portions of the
country, the government and laws of the United States may be
nullified and rendered inoperative with regard to a large class
of transactions constitutionally belonging to their jurisdiction.
The whole thing, however free from intentional disloyalty,
is derogatory to that mutual comity and respect which ought
to prevail between the State and general governments, and
ought to meet the condemnation of the courts whenever brought
within their proper cognizance.
In my judgment, the decree for injunction ought to be
affirmed.

