Oct. 1876.]

CAMMEYER

v.

NEWTON.

We are of the opinion that the claimant was not at a station,
in the sense that he is entitled to public quarters, or to a compensation in the form oJLcommutation for rooms and apartments
or fuel, obtained or supposed to be obtained in lieu of those
expected to be furnished by the government. In making this
allowance, we think the Court of Claims erred.
The briefs submitted contain suggestions of what would be
the result in various cases, which, it is said, may arise under
these regulations. Our judgment is intended to be given upon
the precise case before us, and upon no other. Should other
cases be presented, the Court of Claims will give them the
attention required, as will this court, should they come here.
Both courts have business enough to occupy them, without
anticipating cases which may never be presented.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions -to
enter a judgment awardingthe claimant mileage, and denying him commutationfor quarters andfuel.
NOTE. - In United States v. Chilson, Same v. Rieem, Same v. Lynde, cases in
which the claims for commutation for fuel and quarters by officers ordered to
their homes, under the act of March 3, 1869,-were allowed by the court below,
and which were argued by the same counsel as in that case, MR. JusTICE HUNT

delivered the opinion of the court, reversing the judgment of the Court of
Claims. At the same time and by the saihe counsel as in the preceding cases
was argued United States v. Mears. It involved the question whether an officer

ordered to his home, under the act of March 3,1869, was entitled to his mileage.
Mears, a paymaster, paid mileage to an office.! so ordered. The government disallowed the item in his accounts, and he brought suit to recover :the amount.
The Court of Claims found in his favor; whereupon the United States appealed
to this court. DM. JUSTICE HUNT, in delivering the opinion of the court, re-

marked: The officer was entitled to his mileage, and the payment was rightly
Judgment affirmed.
made.

CAI

E

v. NEWTON.

1. This court finds that letters-patent No. 80,492, granted to William H. Cammeyer, bearing date July 28, 1868, for an improved portable and adjustable
still-water dam, were not infringed by the defendant.
2. The claims embraced by the patent, and tl nature and mode of operation of

the invention which is therein described, and of the machine or apparatus
used by the defendant in alleged violation of the patent, examined.
16
voL. Iv.

