UNITED STATES V. YOUNG.

[Sup. Ct.

Had it before that date been authorized under existing laws by
a vote of the people of that town ? The record shows that a
vote of the people had before that time been taken; but it does
not show that it was authorized by existing laws. There was
no authority for submitting that question to the people; and its
absence in the fifth section of the act incorporating the Paris
and Decatur Company is a strong argument that municipalities
were not intended to be included under the general designation
of corporations.
We have held that a town cannot subscribe for stock in a
railroad corporation unless it has the authority of the legislature
for the act. The legislature usually requires the approval of
the electors of the towil,!at an election for that purpose, as a
condition to such subscription. Doubtless the legislature can
impose or omit conditions, in its discretion. But when the
sanction of a popular vote is required, it must be obtained.
We are, therefore, compelled to hold that the subscription of
the town of East Oakland had not been authorized under
existing laws by a vote of the people prior to July 2, 1870.
We have held that there can be no bona fide holding where
the statute did not in law authorize the issue of the bonds.
The objection in such case goes to the point of power. There
is an entire want of jurisdiction over the subject. It is not
the case of an informality, an irregularity, fraud, or excess of
authority in an authorized agent. Where there is a total want
of authority to issue the bonds, there can be no such thing as a
Judgment reversed
bona fide holding.

UM M STATES v. YOUNhTG.
1. The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial after rendering judgment,
and while an appeal therefrom is pending here, vacates the judgment, and
resumes control of the case and the parties.
2. In such a case, a writ of certiorariwill not be granted to compel that court to
send here the proceedings subsequent to the appeal; but the appeal will be
dismissed.
3. After judgment shall have been finally rendered by the Court of Claims, the
proceedings in which the new trial was obtained may be brought here by
appeal for review.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. YOUNG.

ON motion of the United States to dismiss an appeal fron
the Court of Claims, and of the appellee for a writ of
certiorari.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
"
2fr?
- W. Wf. MicFarlandfor the appellee.
MB. 0B!s JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
During the pendency of this suit in this court the Court 'of
Claims, assuming to act under the authbrity of sect. 1088,
Rev. Stat., has granted a new trial, and' the United States now
ask to dismiss their appeal. This we have often decided they
have the right to do. Lat dm's and Deming's Appeals, 9 Wall.
145. In United States v. Ajre's, 9 id. 610, the motion to dismiss was made by the' appellee and resisted by the United
States; but it was held "that the order granting the newtrial
has the effect of vacating the former judgment, and to render
it n ull and void; " and the appeal' wvas consequently dismissed.
The same principle was recognized in United Seaias r Crusse l,
12 id. 175, Bx parte Russell, 13 id. '664, and z paite United
States, 16 id. 699.
The appellee asks, however, 'that t i'ause may be retained,
and that 'the proceedings under whii the new trialwa'ws granted
may be brought here by writ of certiorari for re-exiamination.
,Uiless this can be done, he admits that'he United States
should be permitted to dismiss their appeal.
We have only such appellate jurisdiction as has been conferred by Congress, and in the exercise of such as has been
confQred we can proceed only in the manner which the law
prescribes. Barry v. lercein,5 How. 119 ; -Durosseauv. United
States, 6 Cranch, 314; United Stdtes v. Curry, 6 How. 113;
Ex parte Vallandigham, I Wall. 251.
From the" judgments of the Court 'of Claims appeals are
alwed to this court (sect. 707, Rev. Stat.), but no proyision
has been made for writs of error. Consequently, we cannot
proceed by Writ of error to review the decisions of that court.
At common law, the writ of certiorari is used for two purposes: 1. As an appellate proceeding for the re-examinatipn of
some action of ar in.ferior tribunal; and, 2. As auxiliary process

TOWN OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

to enable a court to obtain further information in respect to
some matter already before it for adjudication. It is for the
last purpose only that the writ is employed in this court.
In the present case the writ is asked, not to bring here any
part of the record of the Court of Claims as it existed when the
appeal was taken, but to obtain a new record of a new proceeding which has been bad since, and by which the judgment
appealed from has been vacated and a new trial granted in the
court below. The object is to inform us, not of what was done
before the appeal, but of what has been done since. Our action
under the appeal, however, is confined to what was done before;
and, if we act at all upon what has been done since, it must be
in consequence of some new jurisdiction to be acquired. From
what has already been said, it is clear that, for such a purpose,
we have no power to issue the writ.
The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial, has resumed
control of the cause and the parties. This it had the right to
do. Such a power may be somewhat anomalous, but it is
expressly given; and every person, when he submits himself to
the jurisdiction of that court for the prosecution of his claim,
subjects himself to its operation. The proceedings under which
the new trial was obtained are now a part of the record below,
and, after judgment is finally rendered, may be brought here
by appeal for review.
Notion of the United States to dismiss the appeal granted.
Motion for certioraridenied.

Towx OF SOUTH OTTAwA v. PERxINs.
SUPERVISORS OF KENDALT COUNTY v. POST.
1. The Supreme Court of Illinois, by a long course of decisions, has held that,
under the Constitution of 1848, a statute of that State is not valid unless the
legislative journals show that it was passed by a majority of all the members elect in each house of the general assembly.
2. Except where the Federal Constitution and laws are concerned, the courts of
the United States, in passing upon the Constitution and statutes of a State,
conform to the settled construrtion of them by the highest State court;

