RELIEF FIRE INS. 00., ETC., v. SHAW.

[q-.Ct.

and correctly describe, just what he has invented, and for what
he claims a patent.
In consistency with these views, we are of opinion that the appellant in this case has described and claimed a patent for the
process of deodorizing the heavy hydrocarbon oils, and that he
has not claimed as his invention the product of that process.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case, upon
the ground that the invention, when the claim is properly construed, is an invention of the described new manufacture, and
not, as decided by a majority of the court, merely for the
process.

RELIEF FIRE INSURANCE COPA_.y OF NEW YORK v. SYTAW.
1. Unless prohibited by statute or other positive regulation, a valid contract of
insurance can be made by parol.
2. There is nothing in the charter of the plaintiff in error, nor in c. 106, sect. 1,
of the acts of Massachusetts for 1864, which prohibits it from entering into
such a contract in that State.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
Mr. J. G. Abbott for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. P. Hodges, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal question in this case is, whether a parol contract of insurance, made on behalf of the plaintiff in error by
its agent in the city of Boston, was valid.
That a contract of insurance can be made by parol, unless
prohibited by statute, or other positive regulation, has been too
often decided to leave it an open question. That it is not
usually made in this way is no evidence that it cannot be so
made. To avoid misunderstandings in a contract of such importance and complexity, it is undoubtedly desirable that it
should always be in writing; and such is the requirement of
many codes of commercial law. But the very existence of the

Oct. 1876.]

RELIEF FIRE

INS. CO., RTC., V. SHAW.

requirement shows that it was deemed necessary to make it.
The question came before the Supreme Judicial Court of Alassachusetts in 1860, on a contract made under circumstances
very nearly similar to those of the present lcase; and it -was
adjudged that a parol contract of insurance can be made.
Sanborn v. Firemen? Insurance Co., 16 Gray, 448. The court
in that case says: "No principle of the common law seems to require that this contract, any more than other simple contracts made by competent parties upon a sufficient consideration, should be evidenced by a writing.
No statute of Massachusetts contains such a requirement. *Upon
principle, therefore, we can find no authority in courts to refuse to
enforce an agreement which the parties have made, if sufficiently
proved by oral testimony."
This decision being directly in point, and being made by the
highest court of the State where the present contract was made,
is entitled to the highest consideration. The Court of Appeals
of New York held the same doctrine in 1859, in the case of
1 he Trustees of the First Baptist Church v. Brooklyn Fire IJsurance Co., 19 N. Y. 805. Judge Comstock, delivering the
opinion of the court, after briefly and accurately stating the
history of policies of insurance, in regard to this point, says: "The contract, as I have said, had its origin in mercantile law
and usage. It has, however, become so thoroughly incorporated
into our municipal system, that a distinction which denies the power
and capacity of entering into agreements in the nature of insurances,
except in particular modes and forms, rests upon no foundation.
The common law, with certain exceptions, having regard to age,
mental soundness, &c., concedes to every person the general capacity of entering'into contracts. This capacity relates to all subjects
alike, concerning which contracts may be lawfully made, and it
exists under no restraints in the mode of contracting, except those
which are imposed by legislative authority. There is nothing in the
nature of insurance which requires written evidence of the contract.
To deny, therefore, that parol agreements to insure are valid would
be simply to affirm the incapacity of parties to contract where no
such incapacity exists, according to any known rule of reason or of
law." See also May on Insurance, sects. 14-23, and Xelly v. Com
monwealth Insurance Co., 10 Bosw. 82.

iEmLiF FIRE INS. Co., Ena., v. SHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

We have been referred to the case of Cockerill v. Insurance
Company, 16 Ohio, 148, in which it is held that a parol contract of
insurance is not recognized as valid by the commercial law, but
must be expressed in a written policy. We have also been
referred to Duer on Insurance, p. 60, and to Millar on Insurance, p. 30, which are to the same purport as the Ohio case.
On examination of the books on maritime law, on which these
authorities rely, we find that the requirement of a written
policy, though almost if not quite universal in maritime codes,
is always by positive regulation ; and we find those regulations
as far back as the subject of insurance is discussed or legislated
upon. But whilst this is true, the considerations referred to by
Judge Comstock, in the New Ycrk case last cited, are unanswerable. And the numerous cases in which a parol contract for a
policy of insurance has been sustained are conclusive that there
is nothing in the nature of the subject which renders it insusceptible of a parol agreement. And whilst a statutory regulation requiring a writing may be very expedient, in the absence
of such a statute it cannot be held that a parol insurance is
void.
It is contended, however, that the present case is subject to,
and is to be governed by, certain express relations, which take
it out of the general rule of the common law. The charter of
the defendant company is referred to as restraining its power to
enter into contracts of insurance in any other manner than by
a written instrument. The company was formed in 1856, under
the General Fire Insurance Companies Act of New York, passed
in 1853, by which any association proposing to be organized
under its provisions was required to file a copy of its charter in
the office of the comptroller, and therein " set forth the name
of the company, the place where its business should be located,
the mode and manner in which the corporate powers granteo
The company in this case
by the act are to be exercised, &c."
article
of which it was declared
filed such a charter, by the first
as follows: "The name of this company shall be the Relief Fire Insurance
Company. The principal office for the transaction of its business
shall be in the city of New York. Its purpose and business shall
be by instrument, under seal or otherwise, to make insurance on

Oct. 1876.]

RELIEF FIRE INS. Co., ETC., v. SHAW.

dwelling-houses, stores, and all other kinds of buildings, and upon
household furniture and other property, against loss or damage by
fire,' &c.
By art. 5 it is declared that "the president or other officer appointed by the board of directors, for the purposes
aforesaid, shall be authorized, in the name and behalf of the
company, and in and by policy of insurance in writing to be
signed by the president or other officer and secretary of the
company, to make contracts of insurance with any person or persons, or body politic or corporate, against loss or damage by fire,"
&c. It is insisted that these articles are the company's law of
existence, and that it would be ultra vires for it to make parol
contracts of insurance. But it is manifest that the article last
quoted is merely affirmative as to what may be done by tb e
officers in the usual course; and contains no negative clause that
an insurance made otherwise than by a written policy shall be
void. And the clause in the first article, which declares that
the company's "purpose and business shall be by instrument,
under seal or otherwise, to make insurance," admits of a wider
construction than that contended for. The words, "by instrument, under seal or otherwise," may as well mean "by sealed
instrument or otherwise," as to mean "by instrument, either
under seal or otherwise." The substantial power given by law
to an association organized under it, is to make insurance against
loss and damage by fire. The mode and form in which it shall
make its contracts is not prescribed as an essential part of its
being or modd of action. The expressions referred to are not
of that character. They indicate, in language chosen by the
company itself, and not by the legislature, the ordinary mod,
of conducting its business. After having, by its officers and
agents, made a parol contract of insurance, and induced the
insured party, acting in good faith, to rely on its engagements,
it cannot be permitted to shelter itself behind any such ambiguous expressions in its charter, and claim to have a special
statute of frauds for its own benefit. Substantially similar provisions to those now relied on were contained in the charter of
the Firemen's Insurance Company in the casa of Sanborn; but
the court held that they were merely enabling in their characVOL. Iv.

87

578

RELIEF FIRE INS. CO., ETC., v. SHAW.

[Sup. at.

ter, and not restrictive of the general power to effect contracts
in any lawful and convenient mode. "We cannot think," said
Judge Hoar, delivering the opinion of the court, "that a provision in the charter of an insurance company, authorizing contracts authenticated by the signature of a particular officer, and
without any words of restriction, should generally be construed
to limit the powers of the company, and to prevent them from
making contracts within the ordinary scope of their chartered
powers. On the contrary, the phraseology of those statutes
respecting the execution of policies should be regarded as consisting simply of enabling words, not restraining the power
which they confer to make contracts, of which the policies are
the evidence." 16 Gray, 454.
Substantially the same views were expressed by the Court of
Appeals of New York, in the case of First Baptist Church v.
Brooklyn Fire Insurance Co., 19 N. Y. 309-311.
But, besides all this, it is not perceived how the insured can
be affected by these verbal minutiz in the charter of the company,without their being brought to his knowledge. The charter is a document on file in the office of the comptroller of New
York, in the city of Albany. A person dealing with the company, in Massachusetts cannot be expected to know its precise
terms. It holds itself out to be an insurance company, authorized to take risks against losses by fire, and by its officers and
agents assumes to act in the same manner as other insurance
companies do. However it may expose itself to be questioned
by the government which created it, for exceeding the precise
limits of the powers granted, it is estopped from eluding its
obligations, incurred towards those who, in ignorance of these
limits, contract with it in good faith, and upon the basis of the
powers assumed by its recognized agents to exist.
It is contended, however, that there is a statute of Massachusetts which, in effect, requires that all contracts of insurance
shall be in writing; namely, c. 196, sect. 1, of the acts of
Massachusetts for 1864, which provides as follows: "In all insurance againt loss by fire hereafter made by companies chartered or doing business in this Commonwealth, the conditions of insurance shall be stated in the body of the policy; and
neither the application of the insured nor the by-laws of the com-

Oct. 1876.]

RELIEF FIRE INS. Co., ETC., v. SHAw.

pany shall be considered as a warranty, or a part of the contract,
except so far as they are incorporated in full into the policy, and
appear on its face before the signatures of its officers."
It is evident that the object of this statute was, not to prohibit parol contracts of insurance, but to prohibit the practice
of referiing to a set of conditions not contained and set out in
the policy, but embodied in some other paper or document.
The statute was passed for the benefit of the insured, in order
that they might not be entrapped by conditions to which their
attention might never be called, and which they might inadvertently overlook and disregard, if they were not embraced in
their policies. It applies in terms only to policies, that is, to
written contracts of insurance; and has no application whatever to parol insurances. It does not -prohibit them, nor affect
them in any way.
Other points were taken by the plaintiff in error, to the
effect that there was no evidence that the agent ever had authority to make other than a written contract, or that a completed oral contract was ever made as stated in the declaration,
or that the insurance company ever authorized its agent to delegate to another the power to make insurance. An examination
of the bill of exceptions shows that it does not contain all the
evidence which was adduced. Whether the omitted portions
would furnish any light on these points, we are unable to say.
But -wethink that the evidence which is spread upon the record was sufficient to go to the jury, and we see no error in the
charge of the court in this behalf. The agent who acted in
this case had been accredited as the general agent of the com-.
pany in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts from the beginning of 1870, and had, during all that time, been transacting
the business of the company as such agent in the city of Boston. His mode of doing business was not materially different
from that of other agents or companies. He had, during all
that period, been assisted by a clerk or clerks, who attended to
the business in his absence, - which the company must have
known. These and other facts, sufficiently shown by the evidence, entirely justify the charge of the court; and the finding
of the jury is conclusive.
Judgment affirmed.
We see no error in the record.

