NAT. BANK, ETC., V. MECHANICS' NAT. BANK.

Oct. 1876.]

437

The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause be remanded for further proceedings in accordSo ordered.
ance with this opinion; and it is

NATIONA.

BANK OF THfl COmmoNwALTH V. MwEHANICS'

NATIONAL BANK.
1. A depositor in a national bank, when it suspends payment, and a receiver
is appointed, is entitled, from the date of his demand, to interest upon
his deposit.

2. The interest being a liquidated sum at the time of the payment of the deposit,
an action lies to recover it, and interest thereon.

8. The claims of depositors in a national bank at the time of its suspension for
the amount of their deposits are, when proved to the satisfaction of the
comptroller of the currency, placed upon the same footing as if they were

reduced to judgments.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
JIr. ;olicitor-GeneralPhillips for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. William S. Opdyke, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAr3 delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the defendant in error as an original claimant, and as the assignee of other parties.
All the claims have a common origin, and involve the same.
principle.
On the 22d of November, 1873, the Bank. of the Common
wealth refused to pay .its circulating notes on demand, and
became in default. The comptroller of the currency appointed
a receiver, and the bank has since been in his hands. The
Mechanics' Bank and its assignors had funds on deposit. On
the 24th of September, 1873, all the parties demanded payment.
Nothing was paid. Instalments on account of the principal
debts were subsequently paid from time to time to each of the
parties. On the 20th of NoveiAber, 1874, the last instalment
was paid in each case, and the principal debts were thereby
extinguished. At each payment, interest from the 24th of

438

NAT. BANK, ETC., V. MECHANiCS' NAT. BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

September, 1873, on the amount so paid, was demanded and
refused. The other parties assigned to the defendant in error
their claims respectively for such interest. The Mechanics'
Bank instituted this suit. The declaration demands the payment of this interest in all the cases, with interest upon the
aggregate amount from the 20th of November, 1874. The
Bank of the Commonwealth demurred. Judgment was given
against it, and this writ of error was thereupon prosecuted.
Two errors are assigned.
1. That the plaintiff below was not entitled to recover any
interest.
2. If interest was recoverable, as demanded, on each instalment when paid, the plaintiff was not entitled to interest on
the gross amount of such interest from the 20th of November,
1874, the time when the last instalments of the principal were
paid.
There is but one demurrer, and that is ta the whole declaration. The point is, therefore, well taken by the counsel for
the defendant in error, that if any part of the declaration be
good, and divisible in its nature from the residue, the demurrer
must be overruled. 1 Chitty's Plead. 664. But the view which
we take of the case renders it unnecessary to apply this rule.
By the common law, interest could in no case be recovered.
As early as the reign of King Alfred, in the ninth century, it
was held in detestation. Churchmen and laymen alike denounced it. Glanville, Fleta, and Bracton all speak of it in
terms of abhorrence. The first English statute upon the subject was the 37 Hen. VIII. c. 9.
This statute fixed the lawful rate of interest at ten per cent
per annum, and visited receiving more with forfeiture and
imprisonment. Other statutes regulating the subject were
passed in later reigns from time to time, until finally an act
of Parliament in 1854, 17 & 18 Vict. c. 90, swept all the
usury laws in the English statute-books out of existence, and
established "free trade in money." The first impulse to public opinion in this direction was given by Bentham, near the
close of the last century. The final result was doubtless
largely due to his labors.
Thd fiftieth section of the National Banking Act, 18 Stat.

Oct. 1876.]

NAT. BANK,

ETC., v. MECHANICS'

NAT. BANK.

439

113, requires the comptroller of the currency to apply the
moneys paid over to him by the receiver "on all such claims as
may have been proved to his satisfaction, or adjudicated in a
court of competent jurisdiction." The act is silent as to interest upon the claims before or after proof or judgment. Can it
be doubted that a judgment, if taken, would include interest
down to the time of its rendition ? Sect. 996 of the Rev. Stat.
p. 182, declares that all judgments in the courts of the United
States shall bear the same rate of interest as judgments in the
courts of the States respectively where they are rendered.
Interest is allowed by the law of New York upon judgments
from the time they are perfected. Rev. Code of N. Y. (ed.
1859), vol. iii. p. 637.
If these claims had been put in judgment, whether in a court
of the United States or in a State court of that State, the result as to interest upon the judgment would have been the
same. It was unnecessary to reduce them to judgment, because
they were proved to the satisfaction of the comptroller. After
they were so proved, they were of the same efficacy as judgments, and occupied the same legal ground. Hence, they are
within the equity, if not the letter, of these statutes, and bear
interest as judgments would have done. Sedgw. on Constr. 311,
315. This is conclusive upon the first assignment of error.
The rule settled by this court as to the application of payment is, that the debtor or party paying the money may, if
he chooses to do so, direct its appropriation; if he fail, the
right devolves upon the creditor; if he fail, the law will
make the application according to its own notions of justice.
Neither of the parties can make it after a controversy upon
the subject has arisen between them, and a fortiori not at the
trial. United States v. .Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720; United
States v. January, 7 Cranch, 572; .Field v. Holland, 6 id. 8.
In the present case, the appropriation was made unequivocally
by the party from whom the money was received. How it
would have been applied by the law if neither of the parties
had given any direction is a question which we need not, therefore, consider.
The interest lawfully accruing upon each of the claims was as
much a part of it as the original debt. The creditor had the same

440

NAT. BANK, ETC.,

V.

MEdHANICS' NAT. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

right to the payment of the one as of the other. If there had
been a judgment, and the full amount due upon it had not been
paid, an action of debt might have been brought upon it to
recover the balance. 1 Chitty's Plead. 111.
Such balance would have been adjudged to the plaintiff with
interest in the shape of damages for the detention of the debt.
If, in that case, the judgment debtor had chosen to pay only
the principal of the judgment, leaving the interest unsatisfied,
and the suit had been for the balance, consisting of interest
only, the same result would have followed.
We have shown that the claims, when proved to the satisfaction of the comptroller, were upon the same footing as if they
bad been in judgment. The amount in arrear was liquidated,
and as certain as if it consisted wholly of principal instead of
interest. This action was, therefore, well brought. If it had
been in debt, damages would have been awarded for the detention of the debt sued for. The action not being in debt, the
same amount was properly included in the mass of the damages
for which the judgment was rendered.
The compounding of interest, so far as it has occurred, was
due entirely to the fault of the agent of the plaintiff in error.
The principle of estoppel in pais applies. No exception can be
taken upon that ground.
The plaintiff in this action was entitled, ex equo et bono, to
the money sought to be recovered. Where the right to recover
exists in this class of cases, it includes interest as well as principal, unless there is something which would render the payment of the former inequitable.
Kent, C. J., said upon this subject: "Each case will depend
upon the justice and equity arising out of its peculiar circumstances, to be disclosed at the trial. Pearce v. Barbour,8 Caines,
265. See also Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burr. 1087.
In the latter case, Lord Mansfield said: "The interest is an
accessory to the principal; and the plaintiff cannot bring a new
action for any interest grown due between the commencement
of his action and the judgment in it. . . . I don't know of any
court in any country (and I have looked into the matter) which
don't carry interest down to the last act by which the sum is
liquidated."

Oct. 1876.]

CONRO V. CRANE.

The treasury authority fell into an error. There should have
been no discrimination between principal and interest in making
the payments. The creditor had the same right -with respect
to both as if he had been pursuing the defaulting debtor under
other circumstances. The Comptroller should have done just
what the law would have done if the case had not come under
his cognizance.
Numerous cases, both English and American, are to be found
in which compound interest, under special circumstances, was
recovered. It is sufficient to refer to a few of them. .Ex parte
Beavans, 9 Ves. Jr. 223; Coliot v. Walker, 2 Anstr. 495;
1am ilton v. Le Grange, 2 H. Black. 145; KYellog v. Jickock,
1 Wend. (N. Y.) 521; Tyjler v. Yates, 8 Barb. (N. Y.) 222;
Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall. 82; Town of Genoa v. Woodrzff et
al., 92 U. S. 502.
The demand for the interest was properly made upon the
plaintiff in error.
Tudgment affirmed.

CoNRo v. CRNE.
Appeals do not lie to this court from the circuit courta in the exercise of their
supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt laws.
MlOTIO
to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
Fox & Howard were adjudged bankrupts by the District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, June 5,1875. Bradford Hancock was appointed provisional assignee, June 16 ; and,
June 19, an order was entered in the bankruptcy proceedings,
directing him to receive bids for the purchase of certain personal property belonging to the estate of the bankrupts, which
had come into his possession. Under this order, bids were tendered by various persons, and, among others, one by .Jefferson
Hodgkins, for $40,000. All'were reported -by Hancock to the
District Court, July 2, with the recommendation that the one of
Hodgkins be accepted; and thereupon an order was made that
all persons interested show cause by July 9 why this" recommendation should not be complied with. Notice of this order

