UNITED STATES V. JOSEPH.

[Sup. ot.

upon the admissibility of the evidence, it is not important to
consider it.
It is manifest, upon the testimony of the witnesses, that Dr.
Wells, the agent of the company, undertook to construe and
interpret the answers of the applicant, and wrote down and inserted in the application his construction and interpretation of
them, and not the answers themselves. The evidence objected
to was admissible to show that the statement was not that of
the applicant, although signed by her. The statement was
one prepared by the company, for which it was responsible, and
it cannot be set up to defeat its policy. The Insurance Company
v. Mahone, 21 Wall. 152, is a full and satisfactory authority to
this point, as is also The Insurance Company v. Wilkinson, 18
id. 222. In the former case the opinion was given by Mr
Justice Strong, and in the latter by Mr. Justice Miller, and
each of them contains a full and careful consideration of the
precise question before us. These cases are so recent and so
fully in point that further discussion is unnecessary.
The objections to the other questions are of the same char
acter.
Upon the record before us there can be no doubt that the
judgment should be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES v. JOSEPH.
A. settled upon land belonging to the Indians of the village or pueblo of Taos,
- in New Mexico Held, 1. That lie was not liable under the acts of Congress
which prohibit a settlement by any person on land belonging, secured, or
granted by treaty with the United States, to any Indian tribe. 2. That they
have a complete title to their land, and are not an Indian tribe within the
meaning of those acts.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico.
Mr. Solicitor Phillipsfor the United States.
Mr. S. B. -Elkins, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILEPR delivered the opinion of the court.

Sect. 2118 of the Revised Statutes, which was originally

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. JOSEPH.

enacted June 80, 1834, declares that every person who makes a
settlement on any lands belonging, secured, or granted by treaty
with the United States to any Indian tribe, or surveys or attempts to survey said lands, or to designate any of the boundaries by marking trees or otherwise, is liable to a penalty of
$1,000. By sect. 7'of the act of July 27, 1851, it was
enacted "that all laws now in force regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, or such provisions of the same as
may be applicable, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended
over the Indian tribes in the Territories of New Mexico and
Utah."
The case before us was an action brought by the United
States in the proper court in the Territory of New Mexico, to
recover the penalty denounced in the section above recited.
The petition alleges that defendant "did make a settlement in,
and now occupies and is settled on, lands of the pueblo tribe of
Indians of the pueblo of Taos, in the county of Taos, to -wit,
ten acres of land (describing its boundaries), by then and there
Said lands
building houses and making fields thereon. ...
then and there, and at the time of bringing this suit, belonging
to said pueblo tribe of Indians of the pueblo of Taos aforesaid,
and secured to said pueblo tribe of Indians of the pueblo of
Taos aforesaid, by patent from the United States."
A demurrer to this petition was sustained in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and we are called on to decide whether
it was rightfully sustained.
Were the pueblo Indians, and the lands held by them, on
which this settlement was made, within the meaning of the
act of Congress of 1834, and its extension to the Territory of
New Mexico, by the act of 1851? This question resolves itself
into two other: -1. Are the people who constitute the pueblo" or village of
Taos an Indian tribe within the meaning of the statute?
2. Do they hold the lands on which the settlement mentioned
in the petition was made by a tenure which brings them within
its terms?
The first question is not concluded even on demurrer, because the petition calls them "the pueblo tribe of Indians of
the pueblo of Taos;" for if these people, with others of the

UNITED STATES V. JOSEPH.

[Sup. ot.

same character, are a well-known class, whose history, domestic
habits, and relations to the government are matters of public
notoriety, the court, being informed who they are by the
description of them in the petition, as '" pueblo Indians of the
pueblo of Taos," is not bound by the use of the additional
word "tribe " to disregard that knowledge, and assume that
they are tribal Indians within the meaning of the statute regulating the intercourse of the white man with this latter class of
Indians.
The character and history of these people are not obscure,
but occupy a well-known page in the story of Mexico, from the
conquest of the country by Cortez to the cession of this part of
it to the United States by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo.
The subject is tempting and full of interest, but we have only
space for a few well-considered sentences of the opinion of the
chief justice of the court whose judgment we are reviewing.
" For centuries," he says, " the pueblo Indians have lived in
villages, in fixed communities, each having its own municipal
or local government. As far as their history can be traced,
they have been a pastoral and agricultural people, raising flocks
and cultivating the soil. Since the introduction of the Spanish
Catholic missionary into the country, they have adopted mainly
not only the Spanish language, but the religion of a Christian
church. In every pueblo is erected a church, dedicated to the
worship of God, according to the form of'the Roman Catholic
religion, and in nearly all is to be found a priest of this church,
who is recognized as their spiritual guide and adviser. They
manufacture nearly all of their blankets, clothing, agricultural
Integrity and virtue among
and culinary implements, &c.
them is fostered and encouraged. They are as intelligent as
most nations or people deprived of means or facilities for education. Their names, their customs, their habits, are similar to
those of the people in whose midst they. reside, or in the midst
of whom their pueblos are situated. The criminal records of
the courts of the Territory scarcely contain the name. of a
pueblo Indian. In short, they are a peaceable, industrious,
intelligent, honest, and virtuous people. They are Indians
only in feature, complexion, and a few of their habits; in all
other respects superior to all but a few of the civilized Indian

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. JOSEPH.

tribes of the country, and the equal of the most civilized
thereof. This description of the pueblo Indians, I think, will
be deemed by all who know them as faithful and true in all
respects. Such was their character at the time of the acquisition of New Mexico by the United States; such is their character now."
At the time the act of 1884 was passed there were no such
Indians as these in the United States, unless it be one or two
reservations or tribes, such as the Senecas or Oneidas of New
York, to whom, it is clear, the eleventh section of the statute
could have no application. When it became necessary to extend
the laws regulating. intercourse with the Indians over our new
acquisitions from Mexico, there was ample room for the exercise of those laws among the nomadic Apaches, Comanches,
Navajoes, and other tribes whose incapacity for self-government required both for themselves and for the citizens of the
country this guardian care of the general government.
The pueblo Indians, if, indeed, they can be called Indians,
had nothing in common with this class. The degree of civilization which they had attained centuries before, their willing
submission to all the laws of the Mexican government, the full
recognition by that government of all their civil rights, including that of voting and holding office, and their absorption into
the gefneral mass of the population (except that they held their
lands in common), all forbid the idea that they should be
classed with the Indian tribes for whom the intercourse acts
were made, or that in the intent of the act of 1851 its provisions were applicable to them. The tribes for whom the act of
1834 was made were those semi-independent tribes whom our
government has always recognized as exempt from our laws,
whether within or with6ut the limits of an organized State or
Territory, and, in regard to their domestic government, left to
their own rules and traditions; in whom we have recognized
the capacity to make treaties, and with whom the governments,
state and national, deal, with a few exceptions only, in their
national or tribal character, and not as individuals.
If the pueblo Indians differ from the other inhabitants of
New Mexico in holding lands in common, and in a certain
patriarchal form of domestic Life, they -only resemble in this

UNITED STATES V. JOSEPH.

[Sup. Ct.

regard the Shakers and other communistic societies in this
country, and cannot for that reason be classed with the Indian
tribes of whom we have been speaking.
We have been urged by coungel, in view of these considerations, to declare that they are citizens of the United States and
of New Mexico. But abiding by the rule which we think
ought always to govern this court, to decide nothing beyond
what is necessary to the judgment we are to render, we leave
that question until it shall be made in some case where the
rights of citizenship are necessarily involved. But we have no
hesitation in saying that their status is not, in the face of the
facts we have stated, to be determined solely by the circumstance that some officer of the government has appointed for
them an agent, even if we could take judicial notice of the
existence of that fact, suggested to us in argument.
Turning our attention to the tenure by which these communities hold the land on which the settlement of defendant was
made, we find that it is wholly different from that of the Indian
tribes to whom the act of Congress applies. The United States
have not recognized in these latter any other than a passing
title with right of use, until by treaty or otherwise that right
is extinguished. And the ultimate title has been always held
to be in the United States, with no right in the Indians to
transfer it, or even their possession, without consent of the government.
It is this fixed claim of dominion which lies at the foundation of the act forbidding the white man to make a settlement
on the lands occupied by an Indian tribe.
The pueblo Indians, on the contrary, hold their lands by a
right superior to that of the United States. Their title dates
back to grants made by the government of Spain before the
Mexican revolution, -a title which was fully recognized by
the Mexican government, and protected by it in the treaty of
Guadaloupe Hidalgo, by which this country and the allegiance
of its inhabitants were transferred to the United States.
With the purpose of carrying into effect this provision of
that treaty, Congress directed the surveyor-general of New
Mexico to make inquiry into all grants of the Spanish and
Mexican governments, and to report to that body on their

Oct. 1876.j

ERSKME V. MILWAUKEE, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

619

validity. Such reports were made from time to time, one- of
which included, and recommended for confirmation, this claim
of "the pueblo of Taos, in the county of Taos," not the pueblo
Indians of Taos, but the pueblo of Taos; and by an act- of
Congress of Dec. 22, 1858, 11 Stat. 874, the title was confirmed,
and the commissioner of the land-office ordered to "issue the
necessary instructions for the survey of all of said claims, as
recommended for confirmation by the said surveyor-general,
and cause a patent to issue therefor, as in ordinary cases to private individuals: Provided, that this confirmation shall only
be construed as a relinquishment of all title and claim of the
United States to any of said lands, and shall not affect any
adverse valid rights, should such exist."
It is unnecessary to waste words to prove that this was a
recognition of the title previously held by these people, and a
disclaimer by the government of any right of present or future
interference, except such as would be exercised in the case of
a person holding a competent and perfect title in his individual

right.
If the defendant is on the lands of the pueblo, without the
consent of the inhabitants, he may be ejected, or punished
civilly by a suit for trespass, according to the laws regulating
such matters in the Territory. If he is there with their consent
or license, we know of no injury which the United States
suffers by his presence, nor any statute which he violates in
,Judgment affirmed.
that regard.
NOTE. - In United States v. Santistevan,a suit for a similar offence, and brought
here by writ of error to the same court, the same judgment was entered as in the
preceding case.

ERs=nix v. ILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAIL W

CoiPAN'Y.

MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY v. ERSKINB.
A penalty of $1,000 is the only liability incurred by a railroad company for failing
to comply with the provisions of sect. 122 of the internal revenue act of June
0, 1864 (13 Stat. 284), as amended by the act of July 13, 1866 (14 id. 138).

ERroR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.

