Oct. 1876.]

STONE V. WISCONSIN.

For the reasons stated in the opinions in those cases, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Fruw and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.NOTE. - In Southern Minnesola Railroad Company v. Coleman, crio to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, which was "lrgued,
by Mr.H. 3J.
Horn and Mr. G. E. Cole for the plaintiff in error, an. hyffr. B. C.
.Prdmerfor the defendant in error, MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, in d~iivering the
opinion of the court, remarked: This case, in all its essential facts, is precisely
like that of Winona 4- St.Peter RailroadCompany v. Blake, supra. The judgmqnt
of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed upon the authority of that case, and'
for the reasons stated in the opinions which have just been read.

MR.JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUsTIcE STRONG dissented.

STONE V. WISCONSIN1.
As giving a construction to the State Constitution and statute, this court accepts
the decision of the Supx me Court of Wisconsin, that the charter of the Milwaukee and Waukesha Railroad Company, granted by the Territory, is sub.
ject to repeal or alteration, inasmuch as it was not accepted, nor was the company organized, until after the admission of the State into the Union, under a
constitution which continued that act in force, and provided that all laws for
the creation of corporations might be altered or repealed by the legislature at
any time after their passage.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the County of Dane, State of
Wisconsin.
Mr. John W. Cary for the plahitiff in error.
Mr. . 6.Sloan, contra.

,-Edelivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question presented in this case, not decided in
Chicago, Milwaukee, & St. PaulBailroad Co. v. Ackley, Supra,
p. 179, is as to the effect upon the rights of these parties of
the charter of the Milwaukee and Waukesha Railroad Company, passed by the territorial legislature of Wisconsin, March
11, 1847. This provides (sect. 15) that "on the completion of
said railroad, or any portion of the track, not less than ten
miles, it shall and may be lawful for the company to demand
and receive such sum or sums of money for passage and freight
MR.CmIEF JUSTICE W

