Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. PHISTER.

compensation for damages actually sustained can never be
awarded against the United States.
In this case the United States asked the court to find (1) the
amount of damage done to the building.on account of exposure
to the winter storms in its unfinished condition; (2) the amount
resulting from the retention of the skilled labor, &c. ; and (3) the
deterioration in the value of materials. All these were legitimate subjects of inquiry by the court in making up its final
estimate; but we know of no rule of law or practice which
requires a court or jury to specify the elements of the calculation by which it arrives at its final result. In this case the
court was not asked to say whether it included this or that
supposed element of compensation in its judgment; but the
only effort seems to have been to ascertain the items of calculation so as to determine whether the proof supported them.
The whole contest evidently was as to the sufficiency of the
evidence, not as to the liability of the United States if the facts
as claimed were established by the proof.
In the estimation of damages the Court of Claims occupies
the position of a jury under like circumstances. Damages
must be proved. The court is not permitted to guess any more
than a jury, but, lik6 a jury, it must make its estimates from
the proofs submitted. The result of the best judgment of the
triers is all that the parties have any right to expect.
As the record presents the case, we see no error in the court

below.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. PHMSTERER.
1. An officer of the army, who, under the Consolidating Act of March 8, 1869, is
ordered from a military post, at which he is dcing duty, to his home, to await
orders, does not exchange his station, within the meaning of sect. 1117 of the
Army Regulations.

2. The case is governed by sect. 1110 of such regulations; and under it the officer is entitled to an allowance of ten cents for each mile travelled by him
in pursuance of his orders.
8. The home of the officer to which he is ordered is not a military station. A military "station" is merely synonymous with military "post." In each case
it means not an ordinary residence, having nothing military about it, except

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. ot.

that one of its occupants holds a military commission, but a place where
military duty is performed, or stores are kept or distributed, or something
connected with war or arms is kept or done.
4. An officer so ordered is not, when at home awaiting orders, entitled to commutation for quarters and fuel. His home is not a "station," within the
meaning of sect. 1080 of the Army Regulations.

AP:PEAL from the Court of Claims.

Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. Hfalbert B. Paine, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The present case is one of a class of which several are now
pending in this court, and many more, it is understood, are
before the Court of Claims.
The claimant was a captain of infantry in the United States
army, and on the seventh day of January, 1870, by special order
from the Adjutant-General's office, at his own request, was
ordered home to await orders. This was done by virtue of the
Consolidating Act of March 3, 1869. The claimant proceeded
from Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory, where he then was, to
his home in New York City. On the 28th of February, 1870,
he reported as waiting orders at that place, and afterwards as
waiting orders at Littleton, N. J., which was then his home.
The claim now made is for mileage in travelling from Fort
Bridger to New York, and for commutation for quarters and
for fuel while thus awaiting orders.
The Court of Claims allowed the petitioner both for his
mileage and the commutation for quarters and fuel during
the period mentioned. The questions will be separately considered.
1. As to mileage.
Comment is made upon the circumstance that the claimant
reported himself to the department as awaiting orders at the
city of New York, on the 31st of January, 1870, specifying that
place as his home, and that on the 31st of March following he
reported himself at Littleton, N. J., specifying that place as his
home. We see nothing in this that should prejudice the claimant's right of recovery. New York may well have been hishome in January, and Littleton his home in March. It is not

Oct. 1876.]

876.] STATES V. PHISTERER.
Oct.
UNITED

extraordinary nor a ground of suspicion that an officer should
change his place of residence. Whether he resided in New
York or in New Jersey could make no difference in his position
in the army, or in his liability or readiness to respond to any
orders given to him. It was indeed important that he should
keep the department advised of his residence, that he could be
called upon when it was desired. This he did. The department made no objection to this change of residence at the time,
nor does it place its refusal to pay the mileage upon this ground.
We think the circumstan-e quite unimportant.
The effect of the order to proceed to his home and there to
await orders, and the difference between this status and that of
an officer "absent from duty with leave," was considered by
this court in the United States v. Williamson, 28 Wall. 411.
That decision secures to the officer his full pay while thus
awaiting orders, and we find no occasion to correct any thing
contained in it. We are still of the opinion that the officer
was not absent on leave, but that he was awaiting orders at his
home. It results also from this decision, that, in thus proceeding to his home, he was travelling under orders.
The provision relating particularly to the case we are considering is found in sect. 1109 of the Army Regulations,
authorized and confirmed by the act of July 28, 1866. It is
there provided that "1an officer who travels not less than ten
miles without troops, escort, or military stores, and under special orders in a case from a superior, or a summons to attend a
military court, shall receive ten cents mileage." This means
that he shall be entitled to an allowance of ten cents for each
mile thus travelled. It is hardly denied that the claimant was
travelling within the meaning of this regulation.
But it is contended that, under regulation, sect. 1117, the
department was justified in withholding the allowance. That
regulation is in these words : "When officers are permitted to
exchange stations, or are transferred at their own request from
one regiment or company to another, the public will not be put
to the expense of their transportation. They must bear it
themselves." If A. at one station and B. at another desire to
exchange stations or regiments or companies with each other,
and prefer a request to that effect, the provisign assumes that

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. Ot.

the commanding officer may, in his discretion, grant it; but, as
no public interest is advanced by it, and it is consented to for the
advantage, or pleasure of the two officers, they must bear their
own expense of transportation in making the exchange. This
is just and reasonable.
We are inclined to think that it would be too narrow a
construction of this provision to hold that it required that two
officers should be concerned in the exchange. An exchange
from one station to another station by the same officer at 'his
own request, if found compatible with the public service, would
be within the words of the rule, and apparently as much within
its spirit as when the exchange was made by and between two
officers.
But we are of the opinion that Captain Phisterer did not
make an exchange of stations within the meaning of this regulation. In other words, although he left a military station at
Fort Bridger, his home at New York, to which he went, did
not become, and is not to be deemed, a military station. In the
broadest use of language, no doubt the word "station" means a
place or position; and it may be said that wherever a man, in
pursuance of orders, stays or remains, he is stationed, and that
if he is a military man, such place becomes a military station.
This word (station) has a recognized and a different meaning
under different circumstances. It is a technical word in church
regulations, in the science of ecclesiology, in the civil law, in
surveying, in railroad language, and in military science. See
Richardson and Worcester Diet.
A "military station" is merely synonymous with the term
"military post," and means a place where troops are assembled,
where military stores, animate or inanimate, are kept or distributed, where military duty is performed or military protection afforded, - where something, in short, more or less closely
connected with arms or war is kept or is to be done.
In the Army Regulations the two terms are often used convertibly. Thus, in the regulations of 1847, If a post or station should prove unhealthy, the troops may
be removed, &c. 11, par. 57.
Whenever a military post or station shall be abandoned, the
property should be turned over, &c. 11, par. 58.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

Commanding officers of forts and stations on the sea-coast to
aid in quarantine regulations. 11, par. 61.
The military force at any post or station in the Indian Territory shall be employed, &c. 17, par. 91.
Whenever an officer is ordered from one station to another,
or for the performance of any duty, not being with troops, he
shall proceed by the most direct route without unnecessary
delay; nor is he under any pretence whatever, except that of
sudden illness, to apply for leave of absence from the time he
quits the station at which he receives the order until he has
arrived at his place of destination. 45, par. 227.
Whenever such officer shall appear to have made unusual or
unnecessary delay, he shall immediately report the cause to the
commanding officer of the post. 45, par. 228.
It is a misuse of language to designate as a post or a military
station a cottage in a country village, in no way distinguishable in its use or appointments from every other residence in the
village, because one of the persons who lives in it is an officer
in the army. There was no exchange of stations by Captain
Phisterer, and, therefore, nothing to except his case from the
general law which allowed him mileage for his travel in proceeding to his home.
2. The claim for commutation for quarters and commutation
for fuel while at New York and New Jersey is to be considered.
Among the army regulations established by the act of March,
1863, are the following, under the head of quartermaster's department: Sect. 1064. "This department provides the quarters
and transportation of the army, . . .fuel, forage," &c. "Barracks and quarters." Sect. 1066. "Under this head are included the permanent buildings for the use of the army, as
barracks, quarters, hospitals, storehouses, officers' stables."
Sect. 1068. "The number of rooms and amount of fuel for
officers and men are as follows: . . . Captain, two rooms, one
as kitchen; cords of wood, three-fourths or three per month,
according to the season of the year." Sect. 1071. "No officer
shall occupy more than his proper quarters, except by order of
the commanding officer, when there is an excess of quarters at
the station.". . . Sect. 1073. "Fuel issued to officers or troops

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. Ct.

is public property for their use; wha" they do not actually consume shall be returned to the quartermaster, and taken up on
his quarterly return." Sect. 1077. "An officer may select quarters occupied by a junior; but, having made his choice, he must
abide by it, and shall not again at the fort displace a junior,
unless himself displaced by a senior." Sect. 1080. "When
public quarters cannot be furnished to officers at stations without troops, or to enlisted men at general or department headquarters, quarters will be commuted at a rate fixed by the
Secretary of War, and fuel at the market price delivered." . ..
Sect. 1088. " Officers absent from their appropriate duties for
a period exceeding six months, either with or without leave, shall
not receive the allowances" mentioned. Sect. 1084. " Officers
and troops in the field are not entitled to commutation for
quarters or fuel."
The claimant bases his demand upon sect. 1080, above set
forth. To maintain this claim, it must be held that Captain
Phisterer, while at his home in New York and in New Jersey,
was at a station without troops. That he was without troops
is plain enough; but that his home on these occasions was not
a military station, we have undertaken to show when considering his claim for mileage. The same construction of the word
"station," which gives him his mileage, cuts off his claim for
commutation.
We think the regulation we have referred to was not intended
for a case like that we are considering; that is, where an officer
is at his own home awaiting orders, and having no public duty
whatever to perform.
Quarters are expected to be furnished by the government to
its officers;. when it cannot thus furnish, it allows them to be
obtained otherwise, and pays a money compensation therefor,
called commutation. This is upon the assumption, first, that
the officers are actually engaged in the public service; and,
second, that such quarters are necessary to the discharge of
their duty. It is upon the latter idea that commutation for
fuel and quarters is not allowed to officers when in the field.
The duty there is public not only, but of the most necessary
character; still, apartments, kitchen, and offices are not there
necessary, and cannot be commuted for.

Oct. 1876.]

CAMMEYER

v.

NEWTON.

We are of the opinion that the claimant was not at a station,
in the sense that he is entitled to public quarters, or to a compensation in the form oJLcommutation for rooms and apartments
or fuel, obtained or supposed to be obtained in lieu of those
expected to be furnished by the government. In making this
allowance, we think the Court of Claims erred.
The briefs submitted contain suggestions of what would be
the result in various cases, which, it is said, may arise under
these regulations. Our judgment is intended to be given upon
the precise case before us, and upon no other. Should other
cases be presented, the Court of Claims will give them the
attention required, as will this court, should they come here.
Both courts have business enough to occupy them, without
anticipating cases which may never be presented.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions -to
enter a judgment awardingthe claimant mileage, and denying him commutationfor quarters andfuel.
NOTE. - In United States v. Chilson, Same v. Rieem, Same v. Lynde, cases in
which the claims for commutation for fuel and quarters by officers ordered to
their homes, under the act of March 3, 1869,-were allowed by the court below,
and which were argued by the same counsel as in that case, MR. JusTICE HUNT

delivered the opinion of the court, reversing the judgment of the Court of
Claims. At the same time and by the saihe counsel as in the preceding cases
was argued United States v. Mears. It involved the question whether an officer

ordered to his home, under the act of March 3,1869, was entitled to his mileage.
Mears, a paymaster, paid mileage to an office.! so ordered. The government disallowed the item in his accounts, and he brought suit to recover :the amount.
The Court of Claims found in his favor; whereupon the United States appealed
to this court. DM. JUSTICE HUNT, in delivering the opinion of the court, re-

marked: The officer was entitled to his mileage, and the payment was rightly
Judgment affirmed.
made.

CAI

E

v. NEWTON.

1. This court finds that letters-patent No. 80,492, granted to William H. Cammeyer, bearing date July 28, 1868, for an improved portable and adjustable
still-water dam, were not infringed by the defendant.
2. The claims embraced by the patent, and tl nature and mode of operation of

the invention which is therein described, and of the machine or apparatus
used by the defendant in alleged violation of the patent, examined.
16
voL. Iv.

