Oct. 1876.] TowN OP EAST LINCoLN v. DivIMowR.

801

Toww oF EAST LinCOLN v. DA-vprT.
1. In a suit by a hoa fide holder against a municipal corporation to recover the
amount of coupons annexed to bonds issued by it, under authority conferred
by law, questions of form merely, or irregularity, or fraud, or misconduct on
the part of its agents, cannot be considered.
2. Where an act of the legislature, authorizing a town to subscribe to the capital
stock of a certain railroad company, provides, that if a majority of the legal
voters, voting at an election held for that purpose, shall be found to be in
favor of such subscription, it shall be deemed and held that such town had
taken stock in said company according to the proposals made, - Hd, that
the statute makes such a majority/vote equivalent to, and a substitute for,
a subscription by the town upon the books of the company.
8. Where it was provided by a general law, or the charter of the company when
such subscription was made, that the company might donsolidate with other
companies, in order to carry out the object of its charter, and that its franchises, rights, subscriptions, and credits might be .transferred, and where
such consolidation was effected, lind a subsequent transfer by the consolidated company was lawfully made to a new company engaged in the
coistruction of a connecting road, thus forming a continuous line, the stockholders in the former companies becoming.stockholders in the new company,
*-Held, that a delivery by the town to such new company of the bonds
for the payment of the original subscription, and a receipt of a certificate of
stock in it, were warranted by law.

ERnoa to the Circuit Court of the United States for the'
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. J. H. Palmer for the
l.luom for the defendant
plaintiff in error, and by H-r. S.
in error.

Mn. TusTiC HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The question is as to the legality of certain bonds issued by
the town of East Lincoln, bearing date 'of the second day of

April, 1873.
The case shows that the plaintiff below -was the bona fide
owner of the coupons sued upon. Questions of form merely,
.or irregularity, or fraud, or misconduct on the part of the
agents of the town, cannot, therefore, be considered. Whether

the supervisor of the town -signed the bonds during the midnight hours, whether he delivered them at about daylight on
the morning of April 2, 1873, and whether he immediately left
von. Iv.

51"

802

TOWN OF EAST LINCOLN V. DAVENPORT.

[SUP. Ct

the town to avoid the service of an injunction, are matters not
chargeable to the owner of the bonds. The supervisor was not
his agent, but the agent of the town, and if there has been misconduct on his part, the town rather than a stranger must bear
the consequences. There must be authority in the town to
issue the bonds by the statutes of the State. If this cannot
be found, the holder must fail; if it exists, he. is entitled to
recover.
It is denied that a subscription was made by the town to
the stock -of the Havana, Mason City, Lincoln, and Eastern
Railway Company; and it is found as a fact by the judge
who tried the action, that "no subscription was ever made
by the town of East Lincoln on the books of" the railway
company.
The bonds recite that they are issued in pursuance of the
authority given at an election by the voters of said town, held
on the thirty-first day of May, 1870, in pursuance of the authority of two several statutes referred to in said bonds.
The fifth section of the act of March 27, 1869, amendatory
of the act of March 9, 1867 (both statutes are referred to in
the bonds), prescribes the manner in which the election shall
be held, and the record shows that, on the thirty-first day of
May, 1870, an election was held under said act, and that a majority of the legal voters attending and voting at said election
voted in favor of a subscription of $60,000 to the capital stock
of the said company. That section provides "that if a majority
of the legal voters of such town, . . . voting at such election,
shall be in favor of such subscription, then it shall be deemed
and held that said town . . . has taken stock in said railroad
company according to the proposals made in said petition to
said clerk."
We are aware of no legal restriction upon the power of the
legislature to declare what shall amount to a subscription to
stock in an incorporated company, or what shall be the evidence
that the party proposing to take the stock has completed the
contract on its part. It may require such evidence to be in
writing upon the books of the company, under the authority of
the officers of the town, or it may authorize it to be done by an
order or resolution of the county court, or it may authorize an

Oct. 1876.]

TowN

OF EAST LINCOLN

v. DAVENPORT.

engagement to take stock to be made by parol, or, as in the
case before us, it may provide that the expressed -wish of the
voting majority of its inhabitants, at a legally convened townmeeting, shall amount to a subscription, or shall be deemed and
held to be a taking of the stock of the company. Nugent v.
Te Supervisor8, 19 Wall. 241.
We think the statute intended to make a majority vote of
the legal voters of the town who voted at such an election an
equivalent to and substitute for a subscription upon the books
of the company.
The subscription thus authorized has been accepted by the
successors of the said corporation, and, so far as the record
Rhows, by the original corporation.
In our opinion, the subscription thus made was valid.
If valid as a subscription to the original incorporation, has it
lost its force and vitality in consequence of the changes which
have taken place in the organizations concerned in this transaction? The corporation known as the Havana, Lincoln, and
Champaign Railroad Company was organized under the act of
March 9,1867, creating a company to construct a railroad from
Ipava, in Fulton County, to Havana, Lincoln,. Clinton, and
Champaign, and from the latter place to some point on the
Toledo, Wabash, and Western Railway. The corporation was
authorized to unite or connect with any other railroad then or
thereafter running east and west, and full power was given to
lease, purchase, and make all such contracts as would secure
the object of such connection. The act of March 27, 1869,
amended that act by changing the name of the company to
Havana, Mason City, Lincoln, and Eastern Railway Company.
By the acts of Feb. 21, 1861, and Feb. 16, 1865, the Monticello Railroad Company was chartered, with power to build a
road from Champaign, by the way of Monticello, to Decatur,
all in the State of Illinois. It was authorized to transfer all its
stock, property, immunities, and franchises to any other cor-,
poration whose line intersected its road, and who would complete the same. On the twenty-eighth day of June, 1872, this
company and the other above mentioned entered into articles
of consolidation, merging the two companies into one, which
was invested with all the powers, franchises, rights, immunities,

804

TOWN OF EAST LINCOLN V. DAVENPORT.

, [Sup. Ct.

property, and privileges of either or both of the former companies, and transferring all contracts and obligations, certificates, bonds, &c. The consolidation was made with all the
forms and solemnities required by law. The consolidated company assumed the name of one of the companies, - the Havana, Mason City, Lincoln, and Eastern Railway Company.
On the 20th of July, 1869, still another corporation, chartered to construct a railroad from Danville to Pekin, was consolidated with the Indianapolis, Crawfordsville, and Danville
Railroad Company, under the name of the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and Western Railway Company.
In its course to the eastern boundary of the State of Illinois,
this road passed through Urbana and Champaign City, two
places mentioned in the former charters named.
By the seventh section of its charter, this corporation was
given power to unite or connect itself with any other railroad
coinpany in the State, and to lease or purchase such other roads,
and to "become vested with all the rights and franchises of
such road so leased or purchased, in the right of way, maintenance, and construction thereof."
On the twenty-eighth day of June, 1872, the consolidated
company known as the Havana, Mason City, Lincoln, and Eastern Railway Company entered into an arrangement with the
Indianapolis, Bloomington, and Western Railway Company, by
which there was transferred to the latter the railroad rights of
way of said consolidated company, together with all demands,
moneys, subscriptions, things in action, privileges, immunities,
credits, rights, choses in action, especially naming the subscriptions, of which the one in question is a part. Certain covenants
and agreements on the part of the grantee are set forth, of
which the completion of the road from Havana to White Heath
within two years was one; and, upon failure so to complete, it
was agreed that the road should revert to its former owners.
The stockholders of each company were made stockholders in
the new, to the same amount as in the old, company.
This contract was carried into effect without delay, the. roads
were consolidated and completed, as therein provided for; and
assuming that, as the successor and assignee of the Havana
and Mason City Company, the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and

Oct. 1876.]

Toww OF EAST LINCOLN v. DAVENPORT.

Westera Railway Company was entitled to the completion of
the contract of subscription made by the election before described, the supervisor of the town of East Lincoln did, on the
2d of April, 1873, deliver the town bonds for the amount of
such subscription, and receive a certificate of sfock in the latter
company to the same amount.
We hold this action to have been warranted both by a-faii
construction of the statutes and by the decisions of this court
Every substantial result contemplated for the benefit of the
towns by the subscription made has been accomplished. A
continuous line of railway, crossing the State of Illinois from
east to west, beginning at Havana, on the Illinois River, and
reaching Danville, on it$ eastern border, has been completed,
.and is in operation. This part of the road, is as nearly in a
direct course to the east as it could well have been made; and,
commencing at Havana, running easterly, terminates at a point
originally contemplated, and then connects with roads leading
to the east and to the north and south.
The statutes we have referred to indicate that the legislature
supposed that such consolidation and agreements as were here
made might be necessary. If the company first organized could
not of itself build the road, it might combine with any intersecting or connecting road fVom which it could hope for aid.
The arrangement with the Monticello road promised fairly,
and, so far as we can discover, was of service in obtaining the
compl4tion of the road.
If the first arrangement did not affect the purpose of finishing the road, an arrangement, by way of sale or otherwise, to
still another company was authorized. Thus the transfer to
the Bloomington, Indianalolis, and Western Railway Company
was made, and by means of it the great object - the building of
a connecting and operating railroad from Havana to the eastern
boundary of the State - was attained.
All this was provided for n the charter of the original company, to which the town subscription was made, and the subscription was made with the knowledge of the town that new
organizations might be made, and that the subscription was liable
to be,transferred to and its stock to become that of another
company. The statutes were no doubt in accordance with the

SULLIVAN V. PORTLAND,

E. R.tA. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

public wish at the time of their passage, the evident principle

being to give every facility and aid, by the means suggested, to
obtain a line of completed railroad to the eastern boundary of

the State. Subsequent evens have given more prominence to
the question of paying the bonds than it then bad.
The case falls directly within Nugent v. The Supervisors,
supra, which holds that a subscriber is released from his subscription by a subsequent alteration of the organization and purposes of the company only when the alteration is a fundamental
one, not contemplated either by the charter of the company or
thfe general statutes of the State. The statute authorizing the.
alteration of the charter in that case closely resembled the stature
we have above quoted in relation to the roads in question.
To the same general effect are gountu of Callaway v. Foster,
93 U. S. 567, and County of Scottan v. Thomas, supra, p. 682.
The decision in ffarshman v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569, does

not interfere with this principle. The distinction is clearly
shown hy Mr. Justice Bradley, who pronounced the opinion
in- each of the last two cases. The like remarks are applicable
to AIarsh v. Fulton, 10 Wall. 677, and they show that that
decision does not affect the questions here discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

SuLLWiAv

v. PORTLAND

AND

IKmBo

RAHmOAD

A railroad company, on the 80th of April, 1850, mortgaged to trustees a specifically described portion of its road to secure certain certificates of indebtedneis
bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. Subsequent mortgages,
covering the entire line of road, were madv.. As the work progressed, the
company issued certificates of preferred stock, on which dividends of ten per
cent per annum were to be paid. In October, 1852, the company made a proposition to waive, until Nov. 1, 1870, its right to redeem at pleasure the portion
mortgaged, provided the holders of the certificates of indebtedof its road first
ness would, by indorsement thereon, authorize the trustees, after paying the
holders three per cent semiannually on the said certificates, to pay over semiannually to the treasurer of the company, for its use and benefit, the balance
of the income (for interest) which the stockholders were then entitled to
receive, viz., two per cent, to be held'by him, and appropriated, as far as might
be required, or as the same might go, to the payment of interest to such pre
ferred stockholders as should surrender their old certificates and receive new

