Oct. 1876.]

SELDEN v. EQUITABLE TRUST Co.

moved to vacate the order then made. This last motion was
refused, Jan. 15, 1877, and, Jan.,29, this petition was filed by
Loring for a writ of mandamus to the judges of the Circuit
Court, requiring them "to vacate the order setting aside said
nonsuit."
.Mr. Alfred Russell for the petitioner.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. CIE JUSTICE WAI=E delivered the opinion of the
court.
It seems clear to us that the object in this case is to use the
writ of mandamus as a writ of error. This cannot be done.
We may require the Circuit Court to decide in a proper case if
it refuses to act, but cannot control its decision. Here the
court has acted, and given its decision upon a motion made.
We are asked now to require it to reverse that decision. For
that, resort must be had to a writ of error after a final judgment
has been rendered. The writ of mandamus has no such office
Petition denied.
to perform.

SELDEN V. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY.
A corr-oration whose business is confined to the investment of its capital in bonds
secured by mortgage on real estate, and to the negotiation, sale, and guaranty
of them, is not a bank or a bankerwithin the meaning of sect. 3407 of the Revised
Statutes.

Eiuor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by -Ath. Assistant Attorney- General Sinith for the
printiff in error, and by 1r. Augustus Brandegee and Mr.
Jeremiah Halsey, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The Equitable Trust Company is a corporation created by the
laws of the State of Connecticut, and its principal office or place
of business is at New Haven, in that State. Its "only business

SELDEN V. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.

[Sup. Or,

has been and is the investing of its own capital in mortgage
securities on real estate, and selling such mortgage securities
with the company's guaranty. It does not collect or receive, nor
has it ever collected or received, any deposit of money subject
to be paid, or remitted on draft, check, or order ; nor does it re
ceive deposits, issue notes, or make discounts of any description
whatsoever, nor do any other business than above stated." In
"1investing said capital in mortgage securities on real estate as
aforesaid, the manner adopted by the corporation has been and
is as follows: To make loans thereof to individuals, taking from
the borrower a bond, . . . and securing the payment of said

bond by a mortgage deed of real estate, executed by the borrower in conformity with the laws of the State where such real
estate is situated. To the negotiation, sale, and guaranty of
such bonds this company is exclusively devoted, and it incurs
no obligations except those arising from such guaranty." That
such is the character of the company, and that such is the
nature of its business, is stipulated of record; and the only
question presented by the case is, whether a corporation doing
such a business is a "banker" within the meaning of sect.
8407 of the Revised Statutes of the United States relative to
internal revenue.
Clearly, the company is not a banker in the ordinary acceptation of the word. But Congress has defined who shall be
regarded as bankers, for the purposes of taxation under the
revenue laws. Sect. 3407 of the Revised Statutes, p. 673,
enacts that "every incorporated or other bank, and every person, firm, or company haviing a place of business where
credits are opened by the deposit or collection of money or
currency, subject to be paid, or remitted upon draft, check, or
order, or where money is advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds,
bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes, or where stocks,
bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes are received for discount or for sale, shall be regarded as a baiik or
as a banker."
The statute describes three classes of artificial and of natural
persons, distinguished by the nature of the business transacted
by them. and declares that individuals embraced in either of
the classes -shall be considered bankers. The first class is corn-

Oct. 1876.1.

SELDEN V. EQUITABLE TRUST Co.

posed of t iose who have a place of business where c.'edits are
opened-by the deposit orcollection of money or currency, subject to be paid or remitted upon draft, check, or order. It is
not claimed the company engaged in that branch of business,
6r that they are included in this first class. The agreed state
of facts expressly repels any such claim.
The second class are those who have a place of business
where money is advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds, bullion,
bills of exchange, or promissory notes. It is contended on
behalf of the plaintiff in error that the company is included in
this class, because it advances or loans money on bonds. The
case, however, states that all the loans the company makes are
investments of its own capital in mortgage securities on real
estate. It is trde the bonds of the borrowers are taken with
the mortgages, but the bonds are mere evidence of the debt.
The money is advanced or loaned on the security of the real
estate mortgaged, and not on the security of the bond. We
think Congress, in the clause of the act we are now considering,
intended reference to transactions entirely different from loans
or advances made on the personal promise or undertaking of
the borrower. The words used are not technical. They are,
therefore, to e understood in their common and popular sense.
Dwarris on Statutes, 578. - And that, in common understanding,
an advance or loan of money on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of
exchange, or promissory notes -is an advance or loan where those
species of property are pledged as collaterals, or are hypothecated
to secure the return of the advance or the payment of the sum
lent, is unquestionably true. It can be nothing else where the
money is advanced or lent on stocks or bullion; and, by the
statute, bonds, bills of exchange, and promissory notes are placed
in the same catalogue with stocks and bullion. All of them are
alike the subjects on which the advance or loan is made. It is
a fair presumption, therefore, that Congress regarded an advance
or loan on bonds as similar in its character to an advance or
loan on stocks, involving in each case an hypothecation of the
subject on which the advance is made. If not so, if it was
intended to embrace loans generally, there was no necessity
for introducing the qualifying words "on bonds, bills of exchange, or promissory notes." It was, however, not the lending,

SELDEN V. EQUITABLE TRUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

but the- method or mode of operation, which was in view. If it
was mere lending Congress had in contemplation, it is difficult
to conceive of a reason why mortgages of real estate were not
included with stocks, bonds, bullion, &c. But it is a well-known
common usage for banks to make advances or loans on the
hypothecation or pledge of such property, though not upon the
hypothecation or mortgage of real estate. There was a reason,
therefore, for omitting real estate from the catalogue of things
upon which the advances or loans contemplated might be made.
Advances on that are not within the ordinary business of a
banker. To us, therefore, it appears plain that it is the business
of advancing or lending in the mode usual with bankers -that
is, on collaterals or on the pledge of personal property -that,
by the statute, is defined to be banking, within the intention of
Congress, and that lending upon mortgages of real estate is not
intended.
The third class described by the statute comprises those who
have a place of business where stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of
exchange, or promissory notes are received for discount or for
sale. The language is not "where stocks, bonds, &c., are sold,"
or "are held for sale." Surely Congress did not intend that
corporations or persons who have a place of business where they
sell their own stocks, bonds, bullion, bills, or notes should be
regarded as bankers. If they did, a vast proportion of the
corporations and of the merchants and manufacturers of the
country would be included. But the language of the statute
is, "where" such property is "received" "for discount or for
sale." The use of the word "received" is significant. In no
proper sense can it be understood that one receives his own
stocks and bonds, or bills, or notes, for discount or for sale. He
receives the bonds, bills, or notes belonging to him as evidences
of debt, though he may sell them afterwards. Nobody would
understand that to be banking business. But when a corporation or natural person receives from another person, for discount,
bills of exchange or promissory notes belonging to that other,
he is acting as a banker; and when a customer brings bonds,
bullion, or stocks for sale, and they are received for the purpose
for which they are brought, that is, to be sold, the case is presented which we think was contemplated by the statute. In

Oct. 1876.]

DAVIS v.

BROWN.

common understanding, he who receives goods for sale is one
who receives them as an agent for a principal who is the owner.
He is not one who buys and sells on his own account.
The Equitable Trust Company lent its own money, taking
bonds and mortgages therefor. Those bonds it sold with a
guaranty. It sold only its own property, not that received
from other owners' for sale. Such a business, in our opinion,
did not constitute the corporation a banker, as defined by the
revenue laws.
eludgment affirmed.

DAvis v. BRowx.
1. An indorser of a promissory note is a competent witness to prove an agreement in writing made with its holder at the time of his indorsement, that
he shall not be held liable thereon, where the paper has not afterwards been
put into circulation, but is held by the party to whom the indorsement was
made.
2. Bank of United States v. Dunn, 6 Pet. 61, explained and qualified.
8. An agreement like the one mentioned above, and the indorsement, taken
together, are equivalent, so far as the holder of the note is concerned, to an
indorsement without recourse to the indorser.
4. The omission of indorsers on a series of notes, transferred to the holdet in
settlement of their own note held by him, upon an agreement in writing
that they should not be held liable on their indorsement, to set up the
agreement as a defence to an action against them, brought by the holder
on two of the notes, does not preclude them from setting up the agreement
in a second action by the holder on others of the same series of notes.
The judgment in the original action does not operate as an estoppel against
showing the existence and validity of the agreement in the second action.
5. When a judgment in one action is offered-in evidence ina subsequent action
between the same parties upon a different demand, it operates as an estoppel only upon the matter actually at issue and determined in 'the original
action; and such matter, when not disclosed by the pleadings, must be
shown by extrinsic evidence.

EEEOr to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This action was against the defendants, as second indorsers
of certain promissory notes, transferred by them to the Ocean
National Bank of the city of 'New York. The bank having
failed, the notes came into the possession of the plaintiff, as its
receiver. The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of

