Oct 1876.]

MULLER V. Dows.

long line of decisions. I am not prepared to do so. 'If the
eourts of Illinois had been willing to take judicial notice of
the legislative journals in determining what the law of the State
is, there might be some propriety in requiring the people to do
so. But when the courts make the question of overcoming a
prima facie law one of fact, I think the people may do the
same thing, and bring to their protection the same principles
of estoppel which govern them in other cases. For these reasons
I dissent from the opinion which has just been read.
NoTE. - At a subsequent day of the term, counsel for the plaintiffs in error
moved the court for further instructions in these cases to the court below. AIR.
JUSTICa BnADLEY, on behalf of the court, said: " We do not think any further'
directions necessary in these cases. We hold that the estoppel set up by the
plaintiff below'should not be allowed, but that the defendant should be permitted
to show the invalidity of the act relied on by the plaintiff. We recognize the
construction of the Constitution of Illinois adopted by the State court, to the effect
that a law is void if not passed by the requisite majority, and so entered on the
journal. We also hold the existence of a law to be a judicial question, to be
decided by the court, though framed in form as an issue of fact. It follows that
the court below, on retrying the case, must itself be satisfied whether the law in
question was or was not constitutionally passed, and the vote entered on the
journals, and instruct the jury accordingly. The evidence, or means of ascertaining this fact, must be such as is legally applicable to such a case according to
the laws of Illinois. But, strictly speaking, the issue is more properly referable
to the court than to a jury. That it may be so framed the judgment will be
amended, directing the court below to award in each case a venire de novo, or to
allow the parties to amend their pleadings, as they shall he advised,-in order
to refer the trial of the issue to the court instead of the jury."

MnLLER v. Dows.
Stipulations between counsel, relative to the course of proceeding in a cause
pending in this court, cannot be withdrawn by either party without the consent
of the other, except by leave of the court upon cause shown.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
On motion of Mr. Tkomas T. Withrow, for the appellees, to
take up and consider the appeal as submitted under the twentieth rule.

C MMISSIONERS,

ETC., V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CIIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Stipulations between counsel relative to the course of proceeding in a cause pending in this court cannot be withdrawn
by one party without the consent of the other, except by.leave
of the court upon cause shown. The counsel in this case stipulated in writing, on or before July 5, 1876, to submit the cause
on printed arguments, under rule 20, during the first ninety
days of this term. This stipulation was filed here July 5; but,
Oct. 21, the counsel for the appellants notified the counsel for
the appellees that he withdrew his agreement.
The counsel for the appellees having filed a printed argument
within the ninety days, now asks that the cause be taken up
and considered by the court as submitted under the rule.
This we might with propriety do, as, if the desired withdrawal
is not assented to, application for the vacation of the stipulation
ought to be made here in time to have it disposed of before the
expiration of the ninety days. But as we have never before
been called upon to settle the practice- applicable to this class
of cases, it is now ordered that the appellants cause a printed
argument to be filed in their behalf on or before March 6, next,
or show good cause why the stipulation for submission made by
their counsel should not be enforced agiinst them; and, in default, that the cause be taken up and considered as submitted
under the rule, without argument by the appellants.

0OI3MSSIONERS OF MARION COUNTY V. CLARK.
1. A court is not required to submit evidence to the jury, unless it be of such a
character as would warrant a verdict for the party producing it, and upon
whom the burden of proof is imposed.
2. Where the title of the original holder of negotiable instruments, which are
infected with fraud, invalidity, or illegality, is destroyed, that of every subsequent holder which rests on that foundation, and no other, falls with it.
3. Where the first indorsee, without notice of any prior equities between the
original parties, purchases, for value, a negotiable instrument, the second
indorsee, who acquires it before it is due, and for value, takes a good tide,
although he had notice of such equities.
4. Bonds issued, pursuant to legislative authority, by a municipal corporation in
aid of a railroad company are negotiable instruments.
5. Town of Colomra v. Eaves (92 U. S. 486) cited and approved.

