UNITED

STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot

cure a cancellation of the mutual releases and of the transfer
of the stock to the corporation. Cancelling an executed contract is an exertion of the most extraordinary power of a court
of equity. The power ought not to be exercised except in a
clear case, and never for an alleged fraud, unless the fraud be
made clearly to appear; never for alleged false representations,
unless their falsity is certainly proved, and unless the complainant has been deceived and injured by them. We think no such
case is now presented. The fundamental averment of fraud is
not sufficiently sustained by proof. The bill must, therefore, be
dismissed.
Decree reversed, and cause remitted with instructionsto dismiss
the bill.

MTR. JusTIcE C-FoRD dissented.

UMTrn

STATES V. SMTH.

1. By reason of its improper suspension of the work of a contractor, who had
agreed to supply the skilled labor and the materials necessary for the erection of certain buildings for its use, the United States is liable in the Court
of Claims for such damages as lie has actually sustained.

2. The finding of facts by the Court of Claims, in the nature of a special verdict,
is conclusive here, unless impeached for some error in law appearing in the
record.
3. That court, in estimating damages, must be governed by the proofs submitted;
but it is not required to set forth the elements of the calculation by which
it arrives at its final result.
4. That court may, however, be asked by either party to state whether a particu-

lar item of charge or of damage is included in its finding, and, if so, to what
amount.

from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit by the appellee to recover damages for the
suspension of his contract with the United States. By the
contract the parties agreed: First, The said Joseph Smith, his heirs, executors, and administrators, agrees to superintend or cause to be superintended,
and assist the soldiers in the erection of buildings at post of
Beaver, Utah, according to plans and specifications; and agrees,
APPEALJ

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

also, to supply or cause to be supplied all the skilled labor and
material necessary for the .erection of the buildings, in conformity with said plans and specifications.
Second, It is agreed that, for and in consideration of the
faithful fulfilment of the above stipulations in all their parts,
the party of the second paAt shall be paid by the United States,
at the office of the A. A. Q. M., at post of Beaver, Utah, as
follows, viz: Sixty-nine thousand one hundred and seventy-seven dollars
($69,177), provided that the United States is not liable for
any amount beyond the sums appropriated for such purpose
during the fiscal years in which the services are rendered.
Payment to be made in instalments at completion of each
separate building, or as soon thereafter as funds may be received for that purpose. The buildings to be inspected and
accepted by the United States.
The Court of Claims found the following facts:L On the 1st December, 1873, while the buildings were
in progress of constiaction, the contractor was stopped by
order of the post-commander, with the approval of the commander of the department, and all work under the contract was
ordered to be suspended. The contractor objected to the work
being stopped, and requested that he be released from his agreement, unless the work could go on. The matter was referred
to the Quartermaster-General, and by him submitted to the
Secretary of War. Pursuant to orders of the latter, the contractor was allowed to resume work. The period of suspension
was from the 1st December, 1873, to the 3d February, 1874.
The defendants have paid for the work done under the contract, but have not paid the damages occasioned by the suspension of the work.
I. On the 30th October, 1874, General Ord, commanding the
Department of the Platte, referred the contractor's claim for
damages caused by the suspension to the quartermaster of the
post of Beaver, who had had entire charge of the work from
the beginning to the completion thereof, with instructions to
report as to the damages caused by "the unexpected stoppages
and delays inflicted on the contractor, Smith, by the orders
from Washington and department head-quarters; the exposed

UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

and unfinished condition in which he was compelled to leave
the buildings during winter storms; the remoteness of the place
of building, where all skilled labor had to be provided from a
great distance, and which was left sometimes unoccupied and
unpaid for on the contractor's hands ; the deterioration in value
of material left exposed while waiting for orders to continue
the work." The post quartermaster, under these instructions,
reported the contractor's losses at $8,000, and the department
commander approved the recommendation. The court finds
the claimant's damages for the same to be $5,000. "
III. During the progress of the work the contractor furnished
and performed certain additional or extra work not required by
his contract. But, on the inspection of the buildings before the
final payment, it was found by the inspecting officer that the
contractor had omitted to furnish and perform certain work
required by the contract. It was subsequently agreed between
the contractor and the defendant's officers that the extra work
furnished should be received and stand in the place of that
omitted by the contractor, and under and in pursuance of such
agreement or compromise the contractor was paid the balance
remaining due of the contract price.
Upon the foregoing findings the court decided as conclusions
of law,1. The officers of the government charged with the care and
supervision of the building to be erected by the claimant bad
no right to hinder or delay him in the proper p&rformance of
his work: and for the suspension thereof, ordered by such officers in the supposed interest of the government, the claimant
should recover such damages as were the necessary consequence
of the suspension ; that is to say, such damages as would place
him as nearly as possible in the same condition as he wodla
have been in if he had been allowed to proceed without such
interference, excluding therefrom, nevertheless, any loss or injury to his materials, which might have been prevented by the
exercise of reasonable care and prudence on his part, in the
storing, custody, and preservation thereof.
2. The estimate or allowance of damages for the suspension
of the work made by the post quartermaster, under the instructions of the commanding officer of the department, does not

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. S1I TH,

determine the amount thereof, and should be excluded by the
court iii making a computation of damages.
3. The extra work on the buildings done by the claimant in
addition to that required by the terms of his contract, and the
deficiencies under the contract, as determined by the inspecting
officer who inspected the work before acceptance by the government, as provided by the contract, were proper subjects of
compromise and set-off, and, having been so compromised and
set off against each other before final payment, the claimant is
concluded from seeking a recovery for the former.
Judgment was rendered for the claimant for $5,000, where
upon the United States appealed here.
13fr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the appellant.
IM'. James Lowndes, contra.
M .. Cns JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only questions presented in this case relate to the liability of the United States for damages growing out of the
suspension of the work under the contract sued upon. In
effect, the contract bound Smith to furnish the materials and
erect the buildings, the labor being performed by the soldiers
at the fort, except to the extent that skilled workmen were
necessary. There was no time specified within which the work
must be done, neither was there any power reserved by the
United States to direct its suspension. Under such circumstances, the law implies that the work should be done within a
reasonable time, and that the United States would not unnecessarily interfere to preventthis.
In Clark's Case, 6 Wall. 546, it was decided that the United
States were liable for damages resulting from an improper
interference with the work of a contractor; and in Smoot's
Case, 15 id. 47, that the principles which govern inquiries as
to the conduct of individuals, in respect to their contracts, are
equally applicable where the United States are a party. The
same rules were applied in the case of the Amosceag Company,
17 id. 592. Here the work was stopped by order of the United
States. Smith asked to be released from his contract, unless he
could go on. This was refused until the expiration of sixty

UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

days, when he was allowed to resume. As between individuals,
certainly, this would be considered an improper interference,
and damages would be awarded to the extent of the loss which
was the necessary consequence of the suspension. The United
States must answer according to the same rule. In this respect,
we cannot consider this case different in principle from that of
Clark, supra.
The Court of Claims has found the amount of the damages
to have been $5,000; that is-to say, that sum, in its opinion,
from the evidence before it, was necessary to place Smith in
the same condition he would have been in if he had been
allowed to proceed without interference, and not allowing any
thing for loss or injury to his materials, which he might have
prevented by the exercise of reasonable care and prudence.
This rule of damages, as an abstract proposition, is clearly
right. Unless, therefore, there appears in the record some
error growing out of the estimation of the amount, the judgment
below should be affirmed.
By our rules in reference to appeals from the Court of Claims,
rule 1, sect. 2, that court sends here its finding of facts as
"established by the evidence, in the nature of a special verdict."
The evidence is not sent up. This finding is conclusive, unless
impeached for some error in law appearing in the record.
Here, in effect, the error complained of is, that the court refused
to state the items of its account of damages. This we have not
required; and while, under the practice we have established,
liberal provision should be made for the review of questions of
law, it seems to us that in this case the claim of the United
States goes beyond any thing we ought to grant. The court
might with propriety have been asked to state in a finding
whether a particular item of claim or of damage was included
in its estimate, and, if so, what amount. To such a finding
exception might in proper form be taken, and then we could
be called upon to decide whether such an item was legally the
subject of compensation in an action for damages. The United
States can be required to make compensation to a contractor
for damages which he has actually sustained by their default in
the performance of their undertakings to him; but this is the
extent of their liability in the Court of Claims. More than

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. PHISTER.

compensation for damages actually sustained can never be
awarded against the United States.
In this case the United States asked the court to find (1) the
amount of damage done to the building.on account of exposure
to the winter storms in its unfinished condition; (2) the amount
resulting from the retention of the skilled labor, &c. ; and (3) the
deterioration in the value of materials. All these were legitimate subjects of inquiry by the court in making up its final
estimate; but we know of no rule of law or practice which
requires a court or jury to specify the elements of the calculation by which it arrives at its final result. In this case the
court was not asked to say whether it included this or that
supposed element of compensation in its judgment; but the
only effort seems to have been to ascertain the items of calculation so as to determine whether the proof supported them.
The whole contest evidently was as to the sufficiency of the
evidence, not as to the liability of the United States if the facts
as claimed were established by the proof.
In the estimation of damages the Court of Claims occupies
the position of a jury under like circumstances. Damages
must be proved. The court is not permitted to guess any more
than a jury, but, lik6 a jury, it must make its estimates from
the proofs submitted. The result of the best judgment of the
triers is all that the parties have any right to expect.
As the record presents the case, we see no error in the court

below.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. PHMSTERER.
1. An officer of the army, who, under the Consolidating Act of March 8, 1869, is
ordered from a military post, at which he is dcing duty, to his home, to await
orders, does not exchange his station, within the meaning of sect. 1117 of the
Army Regulations.

2. The case is governed by sect. 1110 of such regulations; and under it the officer is entitled to an allowance of ten cents for each mile travelled by him
in pursuance of his orders.
8. The home of the officer to which he is ordered is not a military station. A military "station" is merely synonymous with military "post." In each case
it means not an ordinary residence, having nothing military about it, except

