MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

[s1 p. t

MFERRILL V. YEOMANS.
Letters-patent No. 90,284, issued to Joshua Merrill May 18, 1869, for improved
manufacture of deodorized heavy hydrocarbon oils, construed and held to be
good for the superheating coil, with its steam-pipe, &c., referred to in the
second claim of the specification, and for the described process by which the
oil is deodorized, but not for the product of that process.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This is a suit by Joshua Merrill, for an infringement of
letters-patent No. 90,284, issued to him May 18, 1869, for improved manufacture of two deodorized heavy hydrocarbon oils.
The court below found that there was no infringement by the
respondents, and dismissed the bill; whereupon the complainant
appealed here.
Mr. Charles H. Reed and Mr. Chauncey Smith for the appellant.
Mr. Causten Browne, contra.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant' in this case, who was complainant in the
Circuit Court, obtained a patent, in May, 1869, for a new and
useful invention, which relates to the heavy hydrocarbon oils;
and he sued the appellees, who were defendants in that court,
for an infringement of his patent.
The defendants were dealers in oils, and not manufacturers
.of them. If the appellant's patent was for a new oil, the product of a mode of treating the oils of that character which he
describes in his application, the defendants may be liable; for
they bought and sold, without license or other authority from
him, an oil which is proved to be almost if not quite identical
with the one which he produced. If, however, appellant's patent is only for the mode of treating these oils invented and
described by him, -in other words, for his new process of making
this new article of hydrocarbon oil, - then it is clear the defendants have not infringed the patent, because they never used that
process, or any other, for they manufactured none of the oils
which they bought and sold.

Oct. 1876.]

MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

The counsel for appellant here maintain that his patent is
for the new article, and is not for the process, though he de-.
scribes it fully, by which that article is produced. The appellees insist, with equal earnestness, that the patent is exclusively
for the process by which the new oil ismade.
The issue thus presented must be decided solely upon a
correct construction of the plaintiff's patent, and the accompanying specifications, in which, as required by the act of Congress, he makes the statement of his invention.
No such question could have arisen if appellant had used
language which cleatly and distinctly points out what it i5 that
he claims in his invention.
We use the word "claim" as distinct from" description." It
must be conceded that the appellant's specification describes with
minuteness and precision both the instrumentality and the process by which he makes the oil in question. And in regard to
a part of the apparatus which he uses, he makes a distinct claim
for its invention ; and that is not in dispute here. He also
describes with fulness and accuracy the process of distillation
by which he produces this oil. He gives the temperature to be
used, the mode of heating, the degree of rapidity or delay to be
used in distilling, the introduction, and the advantage of that
introduction, of superheated steam into contact with the oils to
be distilled during the process.
He also describes, though in short terms, the article produced,
the main feature of which he declares to be its freedom from
-the offensive odor which, before his invention, seemed to be an
inseparable quality of those oils; ,and he mentions some of the
more important uses'to which thii deodorized oil is applicable
in the arts.
It is fairly to be inferred from this statement, that, if all which
is described as new in these specifications is really so, the inventor has a right to a patent for three inventions: 1. For a modification or improvement in the distilling ap.
paratus.
2. For a new process or mode of distilling heavy hydrocarbon
oils, by which they are deprived of their offensive odors.
8. For the product of this new process of distillation; namely,
the deodorized heavy hydrocarbon oils fitted for use in the arts.

MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

[Sup. Ct-

When a man supposes he has made an invention or discovery
useful in the arts, and therefore the proper subject of a patent, it
is, nine times out of ten, an improvement on some existing article,
process, or machine, and is only useful in connection with it.
It is necessary, therefore, for him, in his application to the Patent Office, to describe that upon which he engrafts his invention,
as well as the invention itself; and, in cases where the invention
is a new combination of old devices, he is bound to describe
with particularity all these old devices, and then the new mode
of combining them, for which he desires a patent. It thus occurs that, in every application for a patent, the descriptive part
is necessarily largely occupied with what is not new, in order to
an understanding of what is new.
The act of Congress, therefore, very wisely requires of the
applicant a distinct and specific statement of what he claims
to be new, and to be his invention. In practice, this allegation
of the distinct matters for which he claims a patent comes at
the close of the schedule or specification, and is often accompanied by a disclaimer of any title to certain matters before
described, in order to prevent conflicts with pre-existing patents.
This distinct and formal claim is, therefore, of primary importance, in the effort to ascertain precisely what it is that is
patented to the appellant in this case.In this part of his application he makes two separate claims,
the second of which relates to a modification of the distilling
apparatus, and is not in dispute here. Turning our attention
to the first claim, we are compelled to say that the language is
far from possessing that precision and clearness of statementwith which one who proposes to secure a monopoly at the expense of the public ought to describe the thing which no one
but himself can use or enjoy, without paying him for the privilege of doing so. It is as follows "I claim the above-described new manufacture of the deodorized heavy hydrocarbon oils, suitable for lubricating and
other purposes, free from the characteristic odors of hydrocarbon oils, and having a slight smell like fatty oil, from hydrocarbon oils, by treating them substantially as is hereinbefore
described." The word "manufacture" in this sentence is one
which is used with equal propriety to express the process of

Oct. 1876.]

MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

maldng an article, or the article so made. "The manufacture
of hydrocarbon oils" means primarily the making of hydrocarbon oils. It may mean the thing made also. Are there
other words in the sentence calculated to throw light on the
meaning of this one?
"I claim the above-described new manufacture of hydrocarbon oils, . . . by treating them substantially as hereinbefore
described." It seems to us that the most natural meaning of
these words is, that "I claim this new mode of manufacturing
hydrocarbon oils, by treating them as hereinbefore described."
This is the meaning which would first suggest itself to the
mind. If the product is meant, the words "by treating them
substantially as hereinbefore described" are useless. They are
not only useless, but embarrassing; for, by the well-settled
rules of construing all instruments, some importance must be
attached to them; and, if they are to be regarded at all, they
must either refer to the process of making the oils for which
the applicant is claiming a patent, or they are intended to limit
his claim for a patent for the product to that product only,
when produced by treating the oils in the manner before
described.
The counsel for appellant disclaim this latter construction,
and allege that the patent covers the oil described, by whatever mode it may be produced. It is necessary to insist on
this view, because it is made to appear in the case that the oils
sold by defendants were produceai by a process very different
from that described by appellant.
We can see no reason why the applicant for the patent, if
he had i his mind a claim for the article produced, should
have intended so to limit his claim. If the article was the discovery which he sought the exclusive right to make, use, and
sell, he was entitled to that monopoly, however produced.
If, however, he had in his own mind only a claim for the
process of manufacture by which the article was made, then
his reference to the mode of treating the oils from which it
came was evidently proper and intelligible.
But the language in the specifications aids us in construing
the claim. In the sentence next preceding this claim, he says:
"It will also be evident to those skilled in the art that my

MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

[Sup. Ct.

invention will be used, if the above-mentioned process be
worked, to produce the deodorized heavy oils above described
from distilled hydrocarbon oils," &c. It is very clear that
'what he here calls his invention is a thing which produces the
deodorized oils, and not the oil itself. So again he says: "From
the above it will be obvious that my invention consists in producing heavy hydrocarbon oils, suitable for lubricating and
other purposes, and free from the"characteristic odor, by distilling from them the volatile matter from which objectionable
odors arise." Again he says: "In carrying on my new manufacture of deodorizing heavy oilswith this apparatus, I place
the oil to be deodorized in the still, and heat it by the fire beneath to the required temperature to commence the operation,
the isteam being shut off from the coil, and the outlet cock
being opened to admit of the expulsion of any water from within the coil." Here the word "manufacture " is used in the
sense of the word "process," - a word which could be substituted for it, without a shade of change in the meaning. As it
can here mean nothing else but process, we have a definition of
the meaning to be attached to it in -other parts of the same
paper, if that meaning were otherwise doubtful.
But, apart from these verbal criticisms, - all of which are
just, and tend strongly to show what was the in-iention claimed
by appellant, - it is impossible to, read the four printed pages
of specificatioifs, in which appellant minutely describes his invention, without observing that they are almost wholly directed
to the apparatus, the mode of using it, and the peculiar process
of distillation, by which the more volatile parts of the heavy
oils, which contain the offensive odors, are separated from the
main body of the oil, pass over in that process, and leave the
remainder free from this great drawback in its use in the arts.
Why should this be so, if the applicant for the patent was only
looking to the products as his invention, - the deodorized
heavy hydrocarbon oils? If the oil alone was to be patented,
by whatever process made, this elaborate description of one
particular process was unnecessary.
A strong appeal is made by counsel to give the appellant the
benefit of a liberal construction in support of the patent.
Cases are cited in which this court has held that, rather than

Oct. 1876.]

MERRILL V. YEOMANS.

defeat a patent where it appears that a valuabl invention has
really been made, this court, giving full effect to all that is
found in the application on which the Patent Office acted, will
uphold that which was really invented, and which comes within any fair interpretation of the patentee's assertion of claim.
We are not disposed to depart from this rule in the present
case. There is no question here but that the patent is good
for the second claim, - for the superheating coil, with its
steam-pipe, &c.; and we are all of opinion that it is good for
the process of distillation described in the specifications, by
which the heavy hydrocarbon oils are deodorized. It is, therefore, a valid patent for two important matters, well set forth
and described. If the patentee is also entitled to a patent for
the product of this distillation, and has failed, as we think he
has, to obtain it, the law affords him a remedy, by a surrender
and reissue. When this is done, the world will have fair notice
of what he claims, of what his patent covers, and must govern
themselves accordingly.
The growth of the patent system in the last quarter of a
century in this country has reached a stage in its progress
where the variety and magnitude of the interests involved require accuracy, precision, and care in the preparation of all the
papers on which the patent is founded. It is no longer a
scarcely recognized principle, struggling for a foothold, but it
is an organized system, with well-settled rules, supporting itself
at once by its utility, and by the wealth which it creates and
commands. The developed and improved condition of the
patent law, and of the principles which govern the exclusive
rights conferred by it, leave no excuse for ambiguous language
or vague descriptions. The public should not be deprived of
rights supposed to belong to it, without being clearly told what
it is that limits these rights. The genius of the inventor, con
stantly making improvements in existing patents,- a process
which gives to the patent system its greatest value, - should
not be restrained by vague and indefinite descriptions of claims
in existing patents from the salutary and necessary right of
improving on that which has already been invented. It seems
to us that nothing can be more just and fair, both to the patentee and to the public, than that the former should understand,

RELIEF FIRE INS. 00., ETC., v. SHAW.

[q-.Ct.

and correctly describe, just what he has invented, and for what
he claims a patent.
In consistency with these views, we are of opinion that the appellant in this case has described and claimed a patent for the
process of deodorizing the heavy hydrocarbon oils, and that he
has not claimed as his invention the product of that process.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case, upon
the ground that the invention, when the claim is properly construed, is an invention of the described new manufacture, and
not, as decided by a majority of the court, merely for the
process.

RELIEF FIRE INSURANCE COPA_.y OF NEW YORK v. SYTAW.
1. Unless prohibited by statute or other positive regulation, a valid contract of
insurance can be made by parol.
2. There is nothing in the charter of the plaintiff in error, nor in c. 106, sect. 1,
of the acts of Massachusetts for 1864, which prohibits it from entering into
such a contract in that State.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
Mr. J. G. Abbott for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. P. Hodges, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal question in this case is, whether a parol contract of insurance, made on behalf of the plaintiff in error by
its agent in the city of Boston, was valid.
That a contract of insurance can be made by parol, unless
prohibited by statute, or other positive regulation, has been too
often decided to leave it an open question. That it is not
usually made in this way is no evidence that it cannot be so
made. To avoid misunderstandings in a contract of such importance and complexity, it is undoubtedly desirable that it
should always be in writing; and such is the requirement of
many codes of commercial law. But the very existence of the

