BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. O .

have no power of review, because only such judgments of that
court can be re-examined here. Rev. Stat., sect. 691. We
think it is not; and, as the general subject has been so recently
before us in Wiswall et al. v. Campbell et al., Assignees, we content ourselves with a reference in support of this conclusion to
the opinion in that case, following, as it does, that in Sanduslc1
v. National Bank, supra.
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BARNEY v. KEOKUX.
1. In order that the passage-ways of commerce and navigation might be subject
to public authority and control, the title to the land under water and to the
shore below ordinary high-water mark, in navigable rivers and arms of the
sea, was, by the common law, vested in the sovereign for the public use and
benefit.
2. In England, tide-waters only were regarded as navigable. Hence the rule as
to property was often expressed as applicable to them only, although the
reason of it would make it apply to all navigable waters.
3. The form, instead of the substance, of the rule has been adopted in many of the
States of this country ; and in them the public title to the beds and shores
of navigable streams is confined to tide-water.
4. From the same cause, the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States was for
a long period restricted to tide-water.
5. Since the decision of this court in The Genesee Chief, in 1851 (12 How. 443),
declaring all the great lakes and rivers of the country navigable that are
really such, there is no longer any reason for thus restricting the title of
the State, except as a change in that respect might interfere with vested
rights and established rules of property.
6. In Iowa, the true rule has been adopted; and it is held that the bed of the
Mississippi7River and its banks to high-water mark belong to the State, and
that the title of the riparian proprietor extends only to that line.
7. This rule applies as well where the land was granted to bound upon the river
generally (as in the case of tile Half-breed Sac and Fox reservation), as
where it was granted according to surveys run along the bank by a meandering line. Hence it applies in the city of Keokuk, which is on that
reservation.
8. The public authorities, therefore, have the right, in Iowa, to build wharves
and levees on the bank of the Mississippi below high water, and make other
improvements thereon, necessary to navigation, or public passage by railways or otherwise, without the consent of the adjacent proprietor, and
without making him compensation.
9. Although no permanent obstruction, like a depot building, can be erected on
the streets of a toi n, it is held in Iowa that they may, by public authority,

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

be occupied by railway tracks without the consent of the adjacent proprietor, and without compensation, whether the fee of the streets be in him (as
in the city of Keokuk) or in a third person.
10. There is no substantial difference between streets in which the legal title is
in private individuals and those in which it is in the public, as to the rights
of the public therein

EnRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff
against -the city of Keokuk and several railroad companies and
a steam-packet company, to recover the possession of certain
premises occupied by them with railroad tracks, buildings, and
sheds on the bank of the Mississippi River, in the city aforesaid. The plaintiff, in his petition, described the premises as
follows: "All the land lying and being in front of lots 5 and 6,
in block 3, in the city of Keokuk, Lee County, Iowa, and extending from the front line of said lots to the Mississippi River
the full width of said lots." The petitioner states that he is
the owner in fee-simple of the premises, subject only to the
right of the public to use that part of them embraced within
the limits of Water Street as a public highway, and is entitled
to possession as against the defendants, that the city of Keokuk claims to be the proprietor, and the other defendants
occupy as its tenants.
The city, by its answer, admitting that the plaintiff is owner
of lots 5 and 6, in block 3, states, in substance, that all the
land in front of them down to the Mississippi River was in
1840 dedicated to public use as a street and levee, and, as such,
has been used and improved ever since under the possession
and control of the city, by virtue of its charter, and has, at
its expense, been extended out about two hundred and fifty
feet by depositing earth and stone in the river, in order to
make the wharf and levee more convenient, safe, and useful.
Other defences were interposed, which it is not necessary to
specify.
The other defendants claim under authority of the city.
The cause was tried by the court, and a special finding of the
facts and the law was made.
From these findings, it appears thab the city of Keokuk issituated upon a tract of land lying between the Mississippi and

826

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ct.

the Des Moines Rivers, in Lee County, Iowa, known as the
"Half-breed Sac and Fox reservation," which, by treaty with
the Sac and Fox tribes of Aug. 4, 1824, 7 Stat. 229, was
granted to the half-breeds of those tribes, to be by them held
in the same manner as other Indian titles are held. The fee,
with power of alienation, was subsequently vested in them.
Numerous parties became interested in the tract by purchase,
and a town was laid out and lots sold as early as 1837; but no
regular town plat, having the requisites of the town-plat law of
1839, seems to have been filed or recorded in the recorder's
office of the county. One Galland, who seems to have been a part
owner, made out such a plat, and filed it; but there is no proof
that he had authority for his acts from the other proprietors.
In 1840, suit for a partition of the tract was commenced, and
regular proceedings were had, resulting, in October, 1841, in a
final decree of partition, made according to the report of commissioners, and embodying a plat or map of the town of Keokuk. Said lots 5 and 6, in block 3, are exhibited on this map,
and were drawn by the parties under whom the plaintiff claims
title. In its findings of fact, the court sets forth portions of the
decree, and, amongst other things, the following: "In describing each of said shares, the commissioners appointed
by the court say, among other things: ' The lots upon Water Street
include all the land in front of them to the Mississippi River.'
"And, after describing all the shares, they say:"'In describing the boundary of the town-lots situated on Water
Street in the towns of Keokuk and Nashville, we have made them
to include all the land in 'frontof them to the Mississippi River, by
which we mean in front of them, facing the river, parallel with the
streets running from Fourteenth Street to Water Street.'
"And in describing the plat of Keokuk, the commissioners' report, among other things, says : "' Plat of Keokuk, in the county of Lee, Territory of Iowa, upon
the half-breed tract, the outlines of which were designated and
marked by Jenefer T. Spring in his survey as town reservation, ...
Water Street is of unequal and irregular width at the points where
the dotted lines pass across the same.
"' The street is of the width in feet as is represented by the figures
set on said lines.' ' Water Street extends the whole front on river
side of the town, or from the intersection of Orleans Street with the

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

Mississippi River, down the right bank of the river, with the meanders thereof, to the intersection of Cedar Street with the Mississippi
River."'
The Galland map was produced on the trial, also a fragmen't
of another map, which bears date August, 1840, found in the
recorder's office. By these, as well as the map embodied in
the decree, the space between the front of the lots and the
river is designated as Water Street, and appears to have been,
at that time, about one hundred feet wide.
As to the occupation of Water Street in front of the plaintif's lots, and its extension on the river side, the court
found :"The city of Keokuk has, since the year 1865, caused the space
originally covered by water on the river side of Water Street, in
front of said lots, to be filled in with earth and stone for a space of
over two hundred feet beyond the original water-line to ordinary
high-water mark, and about three hundred and fifty-two feet to low
water mark, said filling having been done by said city. That part
of the space between the front of said lots and the liver at ordinary
high-water mark is occupied as follows: "1. By the freight-house or depot of the defendant, the Keokuk
and Des Moines Railway Company,... a permanent and substantial frame building. It has been standing a good many years,..
is used for storing freight by said railroad company, is two hundred
and three feet long and twenty feet wide, and one story high, and
covers the whole of the front of said lots-5 and 6, block 3.
"2. By the railroad tracks used by the defendants, the Keokuk
and Des Moines Railway Company, the Mississippi Valley and Western Railway Company (now St. Louis, Keokuk and North-western
Railway Company), the Toledo, Peoria, & Warsaw Railway Company, and the Toledo, Wabash, and Western Railway Company.
Altogether there are ten railroad tracks between the front of said
lots and high-water mark.
"3. By the building known as the Keokuk Northern Line Packet
depot,... a permanent and substantial building, one hundred feet
long and fifty feet wide, formed of substantial timbers, and about
fourteen or fifteen feet high. It was built by said packet company
for its own use in carrying on its business as a common carrier by
steamboats on the Mississippi River, and is used by it in connection
with its transpcrtation business for the temporary storage of freight

828

BARNEY v. KEoKUKm

[Sup. 0t.

carried or to be carried by said company, and also for the business
offices of said company at Keokuk. Said building has five large
doors through which teams are driven in delivering or receiving
freight, and which doors are closed at night. The building is one and
a half stories high, with office rooms on second floor, and the groundfloor is of heayy two-inch lumber laid on sills about two feet apart."
The map shows that this building stands on the newly made
ground below original high water.'
The court further found : "That none of the defendants so occupying said ground, nor the
city, has caused any condemnation, nor asked Pr obtained the permission of plaintiff; nor paid him any damages'in compensation for
the use of said ground. But they all and severally hold the same
under the license or permission of the city of Keokuk only."
As conclusions of law under the foregoing facts, the court
found: "1. There was no completed statutory dedication of Water
Street under the town-plat act of 1839 prior to the decree of partition, for the reason, among others, that all of the proprietors, i.e., the
half-breed owners and their grantees, did not join in making a plat,
or in selling lots according to the Galland or other plat. What was
done prior to the decree was at most a common-law dedication by
those who platted or recognized the plat, and it was therefore competent for the decree of partition to provide, as it did, I that the lots
on Water Street should include all the land in front of the lots to
the Mississippi River.'"
This leaves the fee of the land constituting Water Street in
the plaintiff, subject to the rights of the public.
"2. The additional ground made byfilling in Water Street outside
of the original water-line partakes of the same character as the original street. The fee of the newly made ground in front of the plaintiff's
lots is in the plaintiff, but it is subject to the same public uses as the
original street.
"8. Under the law of Iowa, as construed by the Supreme Court
of the ftate, railroad companies, certainly, with the assent of the
municipal authorities, have the right to lay down their tracks in the
streets of, a city, whether they were dedicated under the statute or
as at common law; that is, whether the fee is in the city or in the
adjoining pr6prietor.

Oct. 1876.]

O ARNEY

V.

KEOKUK.

"4. This, however, does not give the railway company, even with
the assent of the municipality, the right to erect a permanent and
substantial depot-building in the street.
"5. Inview of the location and situation of Water Street and the
presumed intention of the dedication thereof to the public, and
guided by the view of the Supreme Court of the State in this regard
in Haight v. The City of -Heokuk, and the power of the city as to
wharves, and the use of Water Street for that purpose, given to the
city of Keokuk by the act of the legislature of 1858, Water Street
may be used for levee and wharf purposes under municipal management and control.
"The building erected by the packet company under the contract
with the city, Qf March 28, 1870, for the purposes therein mentioned,
for the receipt and temporary shelter and storage of goods, &c.,
subject to municipal control, is a reasonable use of Water Street as
a wharf or levee as incidental to the requirements of navigation and
shipping, and does not infringe the plaintiff's rights."
The provisions of the charter of the city, of Keokuk, which
bear upon the case, are set out in the opinion of the court.
There was a judgment for the defendants, and the plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
7fr. George WF. McCrary for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff is, by the decision of the court below, the owner
in fee of Water Street and the ground in front of it, and they
could not, without his consent and without compensation, be
taken and devoted by the city to the use of railroad companies,
to be covered with tracks for the passage of engines and cars.
Bailroad Company v. Seiurmeir, 7 Wall. 272.
Even if the fee was vested in the city, the latter could not
appropriate it to any use or purpose which would depreciate
the value of the premises of an adjoining owner. Railroad
Company v. &c1trmeir,supra; 1 Redfield on Railways, sect. 8,
p. 812; Dillon on Mun. Corp., sects. 558, 576.
The legislature cannot authorize the appropriation of a street
for railroad purposes, without compensation to the bwner of the
fee. Wagner v. Troy Union Railroad Co., 25 lN. Y. 626; 16
id. 97; 24 id. 655, 658; Bolling v. City of Petersburg,
8 Rand. 4Va.) 663; 13. Conn. 809; 3,id. 90; 5 id. 805; Imlay
v. Union,Branch Bailroad Co., 26 Conn'. 255; Pord-v. Uhlcago
N. F. Railroad Co., 14 Wis. 616 ; Pomeroyv. C. & ff Rai.
N

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ct.

road Co., 16 id. 640; Perley v. Chandler, 6 Mass. 453; 21 Wis.
602; 14 id. 609; Cooley on Const. Lira., pp. 546 et seq., 548
and note 2; Dillon on Mun. Corp., sects. 558 and note, 573
and note, 575-577; Redfield on Railways, pp. 299 and
note, 809, 311; 14 Ohio St. 548; 7 id. 459; 7 Ind. 479;
Haynes v. Thomas, 3 Hill, 567; Mahin v. Railroad Company,
24 N. Y. 658; Bissel v. Railroad Company, 23 id. 61; Clark
v. Blackmas, 47 id. 150; s. r. Railroad Company v. Reed,
41 Cal. 256; Harringtonv. Railroad Company, 17 Minn. 215224; Gray v. Railroad Company, 13 id. 315; Williams v.
Plank-road Company, 21 Mo. 580; Fletcherv. Railroad Company, 25 Wend. (N. Y.) 462.
In this case there is no pretence of express legislative authority, and the only question is, whether, under a power to regulate streets, the city may, against the objection of the owner
of the fee, authorize their use for this purpose. The following
authorities hold that the city has no such power: Mfagner
v. Troy Union Railroad Co., 25 N. Y. 526; Williams v.
I. Y. Central Railroad, 16 id. 97; PresbyterianSociety of
Waterloo v. Auburn Railroad Co., 3 Hill (N. Y.), 567; Lade
v. Sheppard, 2 Str. 1004; Inhabitants of Springfield v.
Conn. River Railroad Co., 4 Cush. (Mass.) 63; Ford v. Chicago
._ N. W. Railroad Co., 14 Wis. 663; Ifeisbold v. Chicago J.
N. W. Railroad Co., 21 id. 602; Lackland v. North No. Railroad Co., 31 Mo. 180; Creig v. Rochester City &. Br. Railway,
39 Barb. (N. Y.) 494; Warren v. State, 5 Dutch. (N. J.) 393;
F'eazie v. Penobscot Railroad Co., 49 Me. 119; Brown v.
1)uplessis,14 La. Ann. 842; Pomeroy v. J'fills, 3 Vt. 279; Dillon
on Mun. Corp., sects. 521, 558; Flemingsburgv. Wilson, 1 Bush
(Ky.), 203; State v. Railroad Company, 3 Zabr. (N. J.) 360.
It has never been held by the Supreme Court of Iowa that
any statute of that State atthorizes a municipal corporation to
devote one of its streets to the use of a railroad company for
laying its tracks and operating its road thereon, without the
consent of the owner of the fee, and without comppnsation where
that owner is a private person. The cases of Lffilburn v. Cedar
Rapids, 12 Iowa, 246; Clinton v. Cedar Rapids .4- io. Railroad Co., 24 id. 455; Slatten v. Railroad Co., 29 id. 148; Cook
v. City of Burlington, 30 id. 94; City of Davenport v. Stevenson,

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY

V. KEOKUK.

34 id. 225; Ingraham v. Railroad Company, id. 249; Cook v.

City of Burlington, 36 id. 357; Chicago, &c. Railroad Co.
v. Mayor of Newton, id. 299, relied upon by the court below
in support of its decision, do not sustain the converse of this
proposition.
The decree in the partition suit passed in 1841 vested the
fee of the ground between the lots on Water Street and the
Mississippi River in the owners of said lots. Hfaight v. ThIe
City of Keokcuk, 4 Iowa, 199; Milburn v. Cedar Rapids, supra.
The ground in front of plaintiff's lots, in so far as it was evei
dedicated to any public use, was dedicated as "Water Street,"
and this would not authorize its use for levee and wharf purposes. Pearsoll v. Post, 20 Wend. (N. Y.) 131; Same v. Same,
22 id. 425; Prosserv. Tiapallo County, 18 Iowa, 338; Presser
v. Davis, id. 367 ; Railroad Company v. Shurmeir,7 Wall. 289;
Pi kin v. Wynus, 2 Dev. (N. C.) L. 402, 404; State v. Wilson,
42 Mle. 27; Chicago v. Lafflin, 49 Ill. 172; .Eisminger v. The
People, 47 id. 384; TFetmore v. Gas-Light Co.,.A2 N. Y. 384;
.Denton v. Polk County, 9 Iowa, 596; Trustees v. Railroad
Company, 3 Hill (N. Y.), 569; Cartelyou v. Van )Srundt,
2 Johns. (N. Y.) 356.
The decision of the court below, so far as it is adverse to the
plaintiff, ignores, and in effect destroys, his rights and property
as a riparian proprietor. -Duttonv. Strong, 1 Black, 1; Yates
v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Angell on Tide-Waters, p. 171;
Z'aut v. Crawford, 18 Iowa, 553.
The authorities cited by the defendants' counsel to show that
the title to the bed of the Mississippi is in the State do not
sustain his proposition, that where the bank is extended by
either natural or artificial means, so as to raise the bed of the
river and make it dry land, it; still remains the property of the
State. He does not attempt to maintain by any authority that
such made land may, by the State or city, be conveyed to private persons for their exclusive use, thus destroying the riparian
rights of individuals. When the original bank of the river is
filled in, the made ground partakes, not of the nature of the bed
of the stream, but of the shore to which it is added. The moment the land was filled in, by whomsoever done, it became the
plaintiff's. Nichols v. Lewis, 15 Conn. 137; New Orleans v.

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. CL

United States, 10 Pet. 622; 12 Curtis, 299. Atlee v. Packet
Company, 21 Wall. 389, is in perfect harmony with this doctrine.
The question there was not whether Atlee could be cut off
from the navigable channel and his river-front by filling in, as
'in the case at bar, but whether, without license or authority,
except such as arose from his ownership of the adjacent shore,
le could lawfully build a pier in that channel.
.Much of the argument on the other side may be answered by
the simple suggestion that the plaintiff is not suing for the bed
of the river, but for high and dry land, occupied by railroad tracks
and buildings. Counsel seems to realize this, for in his brief
there is no attempt to answer the conclusive suggestion of the
court below, that "the additional ground made by filling in
Water Street, outside of the original water-line, partakes of the
same character as the original street."
Counsel insists upon the power given to the city of Keokuk
Ly its charter to construct a wharf, and to use Water Street for
that purpose, but omits to state the important fact that this
authority was coupled with an explicit provision that just compensation should be made for private property taken for this
purpose. As the charter makes this requirement, there is no
foundation for the claim that it authorized the city to take the
plaintiff's propierty without compensation.
M1Tr. Robert C. Ingersoll for the defendants in error.
By the dedication of Water Street, the legal title to the
demanded premises was vested in the city, and not in the
adjacent lot-owners. Hall v. The City of -Des XlIoines, supra;
Hilburn v. Cedar Rapids, 12 Iowa, 249; Fulton v. City of
-Davenport,17 id. 408; Yast v. Leonard, 84 id. 15; Jackson v.
Hathaway, 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 448 ; Tyler v. Hammon, 11 Pick.
(Mass.) 193; O'Lindar v. Lathrop, 21 id. 292; Gebhardt v.
Reeves, 75 Ill. 304. The plaintiff, as the pretended owner of
the street, has, therefore, no right to the possession, or to damages. But, if he were the owner, the use of the street for a
purpose not intended by the original dedication would not
entitle him to recover. Warren v. The llayor of Lyons City,
22 Iowa, 351; Cook et al. v. The City of Burlington, 30 id. 94;
Pettingillv.Devin, 35 id. 355; Carpenter v. 1ooers,26 Ill. 162
Alvis et al. v. Morrison et al., 63 id. 182.

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

Plaintiff claims the fee of the made land, on the ground of
alleged riparian- proprietorship. The Mississippi was, by law,
a public" highway. The treaty of 1824 with the Sacs and
Foxes, reserved the tract whereQn. Keokuir is situate for the
use of the half-breeds, to be held as other Indian titles. In
1832, "the Indian right was extinguished. In 1834, the United
States vested the fee of the tract in the half-breeds; but no
title to the land below high-water )oaark was conveyed to them.
The United States did not own the bed of the river, but, claiming and possessing jurisdiction and sovereignty over that region
of country, established, by an act of March 3, 1839, the eastern
boundary of the Territory of Iowa as "the middle of the channel of the Mississippi River." When the State was admitted,
the same boundary was recognized. It follows that her right
to all the land beneath high-water mark was not affected by the
grant to the half-breed*, and is as full and complete in front of
the site of the city of Keokuk as at any other point on the eastern boundary of the State.
By the American Revolution, the people 6f each State, in
their sovereign character, acquired the absolute right to all
their navigable waters and the soil under them. That right
was not granted by the Constitution to the United States, but
was reserved to the States respectively. And new States have
the same right of sovereignty and jurisdiction over the navigable waters within their limits as the original ones. Martin'v.
Waddle, 16 Pet. 367;- Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 471; Pollard's Lessee v. Hogan t al., 8 id. 212; Pollardv. Kibbe, 14 Pet.
353; With4ers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84; County of St. Clair v.
Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46; Attorney- eneral v. City of Eau
Claire et al., 37 Wis. 447.
The State, having the complete and absolute right of property
from high-water mark to the middle of the channel of the river,
holds it for public uses, subject only to the power of_ Congress
to regulate commerce among the several States and with foreign
cManus v. Carmichael, 3 Iowa, 57, and cases there
nations.
cited; Hfaight v. The City of Keokuks, 4 id. 213; -Prosserv.
Davis, 18 id. 371.
The city, when it was organized, had its eastern boundary
at low-water mark, and became the riparian proprietor of the

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ot.

soil in front of Water Street. The State conferred upon it the
right to control the wharf privileges and the landing of boats
there, but retained, and still retains, in trust for the public at
large, the title to the land underneath the channel of the river.
As the Mississippi is navigable, it follows that the rule in
regard to the ownership of the bed of navigable waters governs
this case. La Plaisance Bay Harbor Co. v. City of Monroe,
Walk. Ch. 168; Carsonv. Blazer, 2 Binn. (Pa.) 475; Rundle v.
Del. J. Raritan Canal Co., 14 How. 80 ; Commonwealth v. Alger,
7 Cush. (Mass.) 94.
'The plaintiff, having no grant from the State, acquired in the
soil of the river and its banks no jus Trivatum, and none of the
riparian rights arising therefrom. Atlee v. Packet Company,
21 Wall. 889, recognizes the distinction between jus publicum
and jus privatum. While affirming the right of cities and
towns to build wharves and -project piers into navigable rivers, it declares that a riparian proprietor can exercise such a
right only when it has been conferred upon him by express legislative authority. This doctrine is based on the familiar principle that the State, as the absolute owner of the navigable
waters within its borders, can dispose of them to the exclusion
of riparian owners. People v. Tibbetts, 19 YN.Y. 523; People
v. Canal Appraisers, 33 id. 487 ; Mumford v. Wardwell, 6 W- U.
436; Angell on Tide-Waters, 199; Hudson River Railroad Co."
v. Loeb, 7 Robt. (N. Y.) 418.
As the grantors of the plaintiff were never proprietors of the
land to the margin of the river, no question of accretions by
either alluvion or artificial means can arise. Bates v. Illinois
Central Railroad Co., 1 Black, 204; Johnston v. Jones et al.,
id. 209; In re Hull & Selby Railway Co., 5 M. & W. 827;
Kraut v. Crawford, 18 Iowa, 551; Cook v. The. City of Burlington, 80 id. 97.
The right of the State, or the city as its authorized agent, to
appropriate the lands between high and low water mark for
railway tracks, without compensation to the plaintiff, can hardly
be considered an open question. Gould v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 12 Barb. 628; Getty v. Same, 21 id. 628; Gould v.
Same, 6 N. Y. 543; illinois, &c. Canal Co. v. St. Louis, 2 Dill.
78; Railroad Company v. Stevens, 10 Am. Law Reg. 168;

Oct. 1876.]

OANEY v. KEOKU.

.PennsylvaniaRailroad Co. v. New York 46 Long Branck Rail.
road (o., 23 N. J. Eq. 159.
The plaintiff assuming that the track of a railroad is an
additional burden, not contemplated in the original dedication,
insists that the riilrohd companies have no right to lay their
tracks upon Water Street, without compensation to the adjoining lotowners. This is not true, whether the fee of the street
is in-the corporation, or in him. The use of streets is in the
public, no matter who holds the fee, and a railroad, being an improved highway, is within the scope of the public puyposes forwhich they were laid out. In Iowa, the lot-owner has no exclusive right to use them. The city is responsible for the condition of the sidewalks, because they are under its control as
part of the streets. It can use the entire surface of the street,
pave, curb, gutter, build sewers, lay water and gas pipes, permit
the erection of telegraph poles and the construction of horse
railways. The running of a railway car, whether propelled by
horse or steam power, is not a permanent obstruction of the
street. The track itself, when laid down by the railroad companies, under the direction of 4t1e proper authorities, and properly planked or paved, so as not to obstruct materially the passage of persons and vehicles over it, is not a burden for which
compensation should be claimed. If it was so considered, a city
having the fee of streets would be entitled to compensation for
laying such tracks -without its consent. But in Iowa, where if'
holds the naked title for public use, no such right accrues. So
with the abutting lot-owner, in case of a common-law dedication.
The use of a street for railway tracks makes no change in the
title. Only a license or an easement is secured, which is no
more a nuisance or a purpresture to him, than the laying of gaspipes or the building of sewers.
The State has, by statute, given to railway companies the
right to run upon highways and across streams, and subjected
lands used for public purposes to the easement of railway
tracks. Iii such cases the fee abides in the owner, whereas,
in condemnation, he is divested of 'his title, and the public or
the State takes his entire interest. We insist, therefore, that
an individual has no right to compensation for such use of
the street as in this instance the municipality has authorized.

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[sup. Ct.

If he has sustained some special damage, he can recover
for it, but for none other. Ingram et al. v. C. D. & N1. Railroad
Co., 88 Iowa, 675; Gear v. The C. C. & D. H. Railroad Co., 39
id. 25; Casby v. Owensboro' & Russellville Railroad Co., 10
Bush (Ky.), 291; Tompkins v. odgson et al., 2 Hun (N. Y.),
148; Warren v. Grand Haven. 30 Mich. 28; Chicago, Rock
Island, & Pacife Railroad Co. v. City of Joliet, 2 West. Jurist,
667.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We agree with the court below that the dedication of the
streets of Keokuk was a dedication at common law, and not
under the statute; and that, in making this dedication, the original proprietors of the tract reserved the title to the soil in the
street, particularly in Water Street; and that this title went
with the several lots fronting on the street, and extended to
the Mississippi River. Whether, under the laws of Iowa, it
also attached to the new ground formed by filling in upon the
bed of the river is not so clear. It appears to be the settled
law of that State that the title of the riparian proprietors on
the banks of the Mississippi extends only to ordinary highwater mark, and that the shore between high and low:.water
mark, as well as the bed of the river, belongs to the State.
This is also the common law with regard to navigable waters;
although, in England, no waters are deemed navigable except
those in which the tide ebbs and flows,. In this country, as a
general thing, all waters are deemed navigable which are really
so; and especially it is true with regard to the Mississippi and
its principal branches. The question as to the extent of the
riparian title was elaborately discussed in the case of 2ilanus
v. Carmichael,3 Iowa, 1. .The above conclusion was reached,
and has always been adhered to in that State. H~aight v. The
City of Keokuk, 4 Iowa, 199; Tomlin v. Dubuque, &c. Railroad
Co., 32 id. 106.
The peculiar origin of the title to the "Half-breed Sac and
Fox reservation," in the peninsula lying between the rivers
Mississippi and Des Moines, did not take it out of the general
rule. This was so held in JHaight v. The City of Keokuk, supra.

Oct. 18-70.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

That case was nearly identical with the present as respects the
claim of the adjoining proprietor to the title of the land in
Water Street and on the river bank. Haight contested the
right of the city to control the wharf along said street, claiming, by virtue of his fee-simple title, the right to erect a private
wharf and to receive the emoluments thereof. His claim was
overruled, and on the question of title the court said :"According to the case of .cManus v. Carmichael,then, Haight
owns the soil to high water only. But here is interposed the argument, that this land is not held under the United States by the
usual manner of grants, that is, by patent, after a survey, and
described by section, town, and range. This is true; but yet it
will not affect the extent of the complainant's right. The grant to
the half'breeds was to them as persons and not as a political body.
The political jurisdiction remained in the United States. Had the
grant been to them as a political society, it would have been a
question of boundary between nations or States, and then the line
would have been the medium filum aquw, as it is now between
Iowa and Illinois.... The grant was to them as individuals, - as
tenants in common,- and is to be construed as any other grant or
sale to individuals."
The court then goes on to refer to various cases to show
that the government cannot convey the land between high
and low water on the public or navigable rivers, but that this
space belongs to the State; citing-Mayor of OJobile v. J 7slava,
'9 Port. 578; 16 Pet. 234; Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How.
212.
It is generally conceded that the riparian title attaches tosubsequent accretions to the land effected by the gradual and
imperceptible operation of natural causes. But whether it
attaches to land reclaimed by artificial means from the bed of
the river, or to sudden accretions produced by unusual floods,
is a question which each State decides for itself. By the common law, s before remarked, such additions to the land on
navigable waters belong to the crown; but as the only waters
recognized in England as navigable were tide-waters, the rule
was often expressed as applicable to tide-waters only, although
the reason of the rule would equally apply to navigable waters
voL. IV.

22

88.

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ct.

above the flow of the tide; that reason being, that the public
authorities ought to have entire control of the great passageways of commerce and navigation, to be exercised for the public advantage and convenience.
The confusion of navigable
with tide water, found in the monuments of the common law,
long prevailed in this country, notwithstanding the broad
differences existing between the extent and topography of the
British island and that of the American continent. It had the
influence for two generations of excluding the admiralty jurisdiction from our great rivers and inland seas; and under the
like influence it laid the foundation in many States of doctrines
with regard to the ownership of the soil in navigable waters
above tide-water at variance with sound principles of public
policy. Whether, as rules of property, it would now be safe to
change these doctrines where they have been applied, as before
remarked, is for the several States themselves to determine.
If they choose to resign to the riparian proprietor rights which
properly belong to them in their sovereign capacity, it is not
for others to raise objections. In our view of the subject the
correct principles were laid down in Martin v. WTaddell, 16 Pet.
867, Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, and Goodtitle v.
.Kibbe, 9 id. 471. These cases related to tide-water, it is true;
but they enunciate principles which are equally applicable to
all navigable waters. And since this court, in the case of The
Genesee Chief, 12 id. 443, has declared that the Great Lakes and
other navigable waters of the country, above as well as below
the flow of the tide, are, in the strictest sense, entitled to the
denomination of navigable waters, and amenable to the admiralty jurisdiction, there seems to be no sound reason for adhering to the old rule as to the proprietorship of the beds and
shores of such waters. It properly belongs to the States by
their inherent sovereignty, and the United States has wisely
abstained from extending (if it could extend) its survey and
grants beyond the limits of high water. The cases in which
this court has seemed to hold a contrary view depended, as
most cases must depend, on the local laws of the States in which
the lands were situated. In Iowa, as before stated, the more
correct rule seems to have been adopted after a most elaborate
investigation of the subject.

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

The exhaustive examination of this question by the Supreme
Court of Iowa in 1856' in the case of HcManus v. Carmihdel,
8 Iowa, 1, really leaves nothing to be said. The precise point
was directly before the court, - namelywhether the title of the
riparian proprietor extendi below high water, in the Mississippi
River; and it was decided that it does not. This decision has
been followed by subsequent cases, especially the cases of
Hfaightv. Ie City of Keokuk, 4 id. 199; and Tomlin v. Dubuqup
Railroad Co., 32 id. 106.
But whatever may be the true rule on this vexed question,
and whether we rightly comprehend the Iowa decisions or not,
we have no doubt that the city authorities of Keokuk, representing the public, had the right to widen and improve Water
Street to any extent on the river side, by filling in below high
water, and building wharves and levees for the public accommodation. By the charter of the city, passed Dec. 13, 1848, it
was provided, " SECT. 14. That the city council shall have power . . . to
establish and constitute landing-places, wharves, docks, and basins
in said city, at or on any of the city property, and fix the rates of
landing, wharfage, and dockage of all steamboats, boats, rafts, and

other water-crafts, and of all goods, wares, merchandise, produce,
,and other articles that may be moored at, landed on, or 'taken fiom
any landing, wharf dock, or basin belonging to said city."
to
"SECT. 16. That the city council shall have power ...
license and establish ferries across the Mississippi River from said
city to the opposite shore, to fix the rates of the same." . . .
" SECT. 22. The city council shall have exclusive power to establish and regulate the grade of wharves, streets, and banks along the
Mississippi River, within the corporate limits of said city."
And by a supplement, passed Jan. 22,1853, it was provided, "SECT. 7. The said city of Keokuk shall have the power to
establish and regulate wharf or wharves in said city, and more particularly to use the whole of Water Street for said purpose." ...
Although it should be conceded that the title of the plaintiff
attached to the ground reclaimed and filled in by the city outside of the original high water, it was a bare legal title, subject
to the public eassment and use, not only for street purposes,

BARNEY v. KEOKUK.

[Sup. Or.

but for the purposes of wharves, landings, and levees. A street
bordering on the river, as this did, according to the plan of the
town adopted by the decree of partition, must be regarded as
intended to be used for the purposes o'f access to the river, and
the usual accommodations of navigatioii in such a connection.
This subject is discussed in Haight's ease, where the court
said, "One further thought, presented by the petitioner, should be
noticed. It is, that if this ground is dedicated to the public, it is
as a street only; and that if his rights are subject to the public
uses, they are so subject to the use of it only as a street or highway, and not as a wharf, and that it is named and called a street
and not a wharf. He claims that the object of a street is for passage, for travelling over, and not to land or deposit goods upon.
This is taking a very narrow and close view. The streets of a town
are fairly subject to many purposes to which a highway in the
country would not be. More regard should be paid to the object
and purpose than to the name.- The ways of a town would be of
comparatively little use if the citizens and traders could not deposit
their goods in them temporarily, in their transit to the storehouse;
and so of other things, and so it is of the wharf If goods cannot
be deposited upon it in preparation for shipping them, or unladen
upon it from boats and vessels, why is a town located near the river
upon land which, in other respects, is inconvenient, and is expensive to grade, to bring into form and order, and to keep in repair,
instead of upon an even prairie, requiring no such trouble and
outlay ?"
On the general question as to the rights of the public in a
city street, we cannot see any material difference in principle
with regard to the extent of those rights, whether the fee is
in the public or in the adjacent land-owner, or in so-me third
person. In either case, the street is legally open and free for
the public passage, and for such other public uses as are neces.
sary in a city, and do not prevent its-3use as a thoroughfare,
such as the laying of water-pipes, gas-pipes, and the like; and,
according to the laws of Iowa (which must be taken to govern
'the case), it may be occupied by those improved iron ways
for public passage which modern skill has devised, and -vhich
the advance of general improvement requires. It cannot be

Oct. 1876.]

BARNEY V. KEOKUK.

denied that horse-railroads have contributed immensely to the
public convenience in furnishing a rapid, cheap, and convenient
means of communication between different parts of large towns,
and have greatly promoted their increase and growth in wealth
and population. By the accommodation which they afford, the
citizen can reside miles from his shop or place of business.
Though attended with some 'inconveniences, they have greatly
added to the efficiency of the public thoroughfares, and have
more than doubled their capaci.ty for travel and transportation.
So other railways coming to cities add greatly to their population and wealth, and furnish greatly increased facilities of
communication with other portions of the country.
In Iowa, by the act called the "Right of Way Act," found in
the Code of 1851, sect. 735, it is declared that, "C
The county court may also grant licenses for the construction of
any canal or railroad, or any macadamized or plank-road, or any other
improvement of a similar character, or any telegraph line, to keep
the same up for a period not exceeding fifty years, and to use for
this purpose any portion of the public highway or other property,
public or private, if necessary: Providd,such use shall not obstruct
the highway." Iowa Revision of 1860, p. 206.
By the construction given to this act by the Supreme Court
of the State, railroads, especially when located and constructed
under municipal regulation and control, are not regarded as
obstructions to a highway in the legal sense, nor as creating,
when laid thereon, any injury to the proprieiors of the adjacent
lands, for which they are entitled to compensation. The cases
referred to by the Circuit Court (which are given below)
abundantly demonstrate this conclusion, and no elaborate discussion of the §ubject is required from us. See Milburnv. Cedar

Rapids,12 Iowa, 249-260; Clintonv. CedarRapids & Mo. Bailroad Co., 24id. 455; Tomlin v. DubuqueBailroad Co., 82 id. 106 ;
Chicago, Newton, & S. W. Railroad Co., 86 id. 299; Cook v.
City of Burlington,id. 857; Clinton v. Olinton & Lyon Railroad
Co., 37 id. 61; Ingraham et al. v. Chicago, -Dubuque, . Minn.
Railroad Co., 38 id. 669.
The cases cited, it is true, are generally those in which the
fee of the streets was in the cities respectively, as is commonly

BARNEY

V. KEOKUK.

[Sup. CL

the case in Iowa. But in Haight's case, in 4 Iowa, the very
street now in question was under consideration, and the plaintiff
had the same title as that of the plaintiff in the present case;
and the principles laid down in all the later cases apply as well
where the title of the soil is in the adjacent proprietor as where
it is in the city or a third party. And, as before remarked, we
can perceive no well-founded difference in principle between
the one and the other as to the rights of the public.
The Circuit Court is clearly correct, however, in holding
that the construction of a permanent freight depot in Water
Street was an unauthorized and improper occupition of that
street. It was a total obstruction of the passage; and this, as
we have said, cannot be created or allowed. It is subversive of,
and totally repugnant to, the dedication of the street, as well as
to the rights of the public.
We also concur in the view taken by the Circuit Court as to
the reasonableness of the erection of the packet depot in the
place where it is located. It is a necessary adjunct to the
steamboat landing, and the use of the wharf and levee for
the purposes of navigation, and does not occupy any portion of
the original street. It is a public use of the river bank, which
is absolutely necessary to the use of the river as a navigable
water. The erection of levees, wharves, and other accommodations on the very ground appropriated to such purposes by
the original plot of the town, or, stronger still, on ground made
and reclaimed from the bed of the river adjoining the street
thus appropriated, and in enlargement thereof, is clearly within
the powers of the city authorities -as laid down in the cases
Judgment affirmed.
referred to.
MR. JusTIcE MJfLR did not sit in the case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

