FORBES v. GRACEY.

[Sup. Ct.

1 C. B. w. s.287; Sistermans v. Field, 9 Gray (Mass.), 837;

Brush v. Scribner, 11 Conn. 390.
Tested by these several considerations, it is clear that there
Judgment affirmed.
is no error in the record.

FORBES v. GRACEY.
1.Although the title to mineral lands may remain in the United States, tne ores,
when dug or detached from the lands under a mining claim, are free from
any lien, claim, or title of the United States, and, becoming personal property, are, as such, subject to State taxation in like manner as other personal
property.
2. The words "mines or mining claims" in the sixth section of the act of the
legislature of Nevada of Feb. 28, 1871, imposing a tax upon such ores, and
making it "a lien on the mines or mining claims from which the ores or
minerals bearing gold or silver are extracted for reduction," were evidently
intended to distinguish between cases in which the miner is the owner of
the soil, and therefore has a perfect title to the mine, and those in which he
works under a mining claim, the title to the land remaining in the United
States. In the first case, the tax is a valid lien on the mine itself; but in the
second, only upon his possessory right, under existing laws and regulations,
to work and explore the mine.
8. Such a claim is property in the fullest sense of the word. It is subject to a
lien for taxes, and may be sold for the non-payment of them, without infringing the title of the United States.

APPFAT from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr.Hall McAllister for
the appellant, and by Mr. W. E. F. Deal for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by appellant to enjoin the collector
of taxes for Story County, Nevada, from collecting a tax imposed by the law of that State upon the property of the Consolidated Virginia Mining Company, the appellant being a
stockholder in the company and an alien subject of the Queen
of Great Britain. The tax is, by the State statute, imposed
upon the proceeds of the mine worked by the corporation, and
is resisted on the ground that the title to the land from which

Oct. 1876.]

FoaBms v. GRAcEY.

the mineral is taken is in the United States, and is not for that
reason liable to State taxation.
The case is prepared and submitted to us on printed arguments in the very last days of the term, and we are urged to
decide it on the ground that it involves a question of vast interest to all the mining operations in the Pacific States, and is
of vital importance to the State of Nevada, as it affects her
largest source of revenue. In view of its importance we should
postpone the decision until next term, if the questions presented
were either doubtful or difficult of solution. We think a very
few words - all we can give to the subject at this late day
will show that it is neither.
It is very true that Congress has, by statutes and by tacit'
consent, permitted individuals and corporations to dig out-and
convert to their own use the ores containing the precious metals
which are found in the lands belonging to the government,
without exacting or receiving any compensation for those ores,
and without requiring the miner to buy or pay for the land.
It has gone further, and recognized the possessory rights of
these miners, as ascertained among themselves by the rules
which have become the laws of the mining districts as regards
mining claims. See' Revised Statutes, title xxxii. chap. 6,
sects. 2818-2352. But in doing this it has not parted with the
title to the land, except in cases where the land has been sold
in accordance with the provisions of the law on that subject.
If the tax of the State of Nevada is, in point of fact, levied on
this property-right of the United States, we are bound by our
previous decisions and by sound principle to hold that it is void.
If,.on the other hand, it is levied on property of the miner, and
may be collected without affecting or embarrassing the title of
the United States to property which belongs to that government, then there is no ground for interference with the pro.
cesses of the State in its collection. A few extracts from the
statute of Nevada, showing the nature and character of the
property on which the contested tax is imposed, and the man-ner of its enforcement and collection, will enable us.to decide
whother it belongs to the one or the other of these classes. We
copy here the important sections of the act of Feb. 28, 1871,
imposing this tax:

FORBES V. GRACEY.

[Sup. Ut

"SEcTo. 1. All ores, tailings, and mineral-bearing material of
whatever character shall be assessed for purposes of taxation for
State and county purposes in the following manner: From the gross
yield, return, or value of all ores, tailings, or mineral-bearing material of whatever character, there shall be deducted the actual cost
of extracting said ores as minerals from the mine, the actual cost of
saving said tailings, the actual cost of transportation of said ores,
mineral-bearing material, or tailings to the place of reduction or
sale, and the actual cost of such reduction or sale, and the remainder shall be deemed the net proceeds, and shall be assessed
and taxed as provided for in this act: Provided, that in no case
whatsoever shall the whole amount of deductions allowed to be
made in this section from the gross yield, return, or value of said
ore, 'mineral-bearing material, or tailings exceed the percentage
of gross yield, value, or return of such ore, mineral, or tailings, as
hereinafter specified ; on all ores, tailings, or mineral-bearing material the gross yield or value of which is $12 per ton or less, the
whole amount of deductions shall not exceed ninety per cent of
such gross yield, return, or value; on all ores, tailings, or mineralbearing material, the gross yield, value, or returns of which is over
$12 and under $30 per ton, the whole amount of deductions shall
not exceed eighty per cent of such gross yield, value, or return;
on all ores, tailings, or mineral-bearing material, the gross yield,
return, or value of which is 6ver $830 and less than $100 per ton,
the whole amount of deductions shall not exceed sixty per cent
of such gross yield, value, or return; on all ores, tailings, or inineralbearing material, the gross yield, return, or value of which is $100
per ton or over, the whole amount of deductions shall not exceed
fifty per cent of such gross yield, return, or value: Provided,
that an additional exemption of $15 per ton may be allowed on
all ores, tailings, or minerals worked by the Freiburg process.
"SSECT. 2. It shall be the duty of the several county assessors
within this State to compare and complete quarterly, on or before
the second Monday in February, May, August, and November, in
each year, a tax list or assessment roll of the proceeds of the mines,
alphabetically arranged, in a book furnished them by the board of
county commissioners for that purpose, in which book shall be listed
or assessed the proceeds of all mines in their respective counties, as
provided in this act."
"SCcST. 6. Every tax levied under the authority or provision of
this act on the proceeds of the mines is hereby made a lien on the
mines or mining claims from which ores or minerals bearing gold

Oct. 1876.]

FoRBES v. GRACEY.

or silver, or either or any other valuable metal, is extracted for reduction, which lien shall attach on the first days of January, April,
July, and October of each year, for the quarter year commencing
on those days respectively; and shall not be satisfied or removed
until the taxes, as provided in this act, on the proceeds of the mines,
are all paid, or the title to said mines or mining claim is absolutely
vested in a purchaser, under a sale for the taxes levied on the proceeds of such mines or mining claims."
"SECr. 10. The collection of the tax authorized to be levied
under this act shall be enforced in the same manner in which the
tax on any other kind of personal property is enforced and collected."
What is this manner of enforcement is to be found in sect.
110 of a previous statute, which reads as follows: "At any time while the assessment roll of any quarter is in the
hands of the assessor for collection, the assessor may seize upon the
personal property, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy
the taxes and costs, of any person, firm, corporation, association, or
company who shall neglect or refuse to pay such taxes for one week
after such demand of the assessor or his deputy, and shall post a
notice of such seizure, with a description of the property, and the
time and place where'on it will be sold, in three public plaues in the
township or precinct where it is seized, and shall, at the expiration
of five days, proceed to sell at public auction, at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, to the highest bidder for cash, a sufficient
quantity of such property to pay the taxes and costs incurred."
From the first section of the statute we ascertain what it, is
that is taxed; namely, all the ores, tailings, or mineral-bearing
material of whatever chaxacter, after deducting the actual cost
of extracting said ores as mineral from the mines, and other
expenses, such as transporting them to the place of reduction, &c.
From this it is clear that it is the ore after it has been separated from the bed in which it is found, and its proceeds and
products, which are taxed, and not the ore or mineral in the
earth. Indeed, this latter idea is not advanced by anr one, and
it would be preposterous.
As we construe the statutes of the United States and the
recognized rule of the government on this subject, the moment
this ore becomes detached from the soil in which it is embedded
it becomes personal property, the ownership of which is in the

FORBEs v. GRACEY.

[Sup. Ct

man whose labor, capital, and .skill has discovered and developed the mine and extracted the ore or other mineral product.
It is then free from any lien, claim, or title of the United
States, and is rightfully subject to taxation by the State as any
other personal property is.
The truth of this proposition is too obvious to need or admit
of illustration or elaboration, and, as we have already said, the
pressmi-e of business does not admit of it.
In regard to the taxing of this personal property, and the
mode of collecting it by sale as provided in the section last
cited, it does not seem to us that there can be any reasonable
ground for asserting that the United States has any interest
in the tax or in the sale of the property taxed. It is, however, urged with more show of reason that sect. 6, which
makes this tax "a lien on !he mines or mining claims from
which the ores or minerals bearing gold or silver are extracted for reduction," is an interference with the right of
property of the government in the lands in which the mineral
remains are extracted.
An examination of the language we have quoted will show
that it was carefully prepared to avoid this objection, and we
think it does.
The use of the words "mines or mining claims" is evidently
intended to distinguish between the cases in which the miner
is the owner of the soil, and therefore has perfect title to the
mine, and those in which the miner does not have title to
the soil, but works the mine under what is well known in the
mining districts, and what is, as we have said, recognized by
the act of Congress, as a mining claim. In the first case, the
statute makes the tax a lien on the mine, because the title to
the mine is in the person who owes and should pay the tax.
In the other, the tax is a lien only on the claim of the miner;
that is, on his possessory right to explore and work the mine
under the existing laws and regulations on the subject.
In the former case, of course, the United States has no
interest to be protected, and the State is at liberty to declare
and enforce such a lien for her taxes. In the latter, also,
such right as the mining laws allow and as Congress concedes
to develon and work the mines, is property in the miner, and

Oct. 1876.]

L1PPINCOTr V. MITCHELL.

propert-y of great value. That it is so, is shown most clearly
by the conduct of the mining corporation in whose interest
this suit is brought, which, for the purpose of evading this
tax, permits its investment in this mine, said to be worth
from fiT to a hundred millions of dollars, to rest on this
claim, this mere possessory right, when it could, at a ridicu.
lously small sum compared to the value of the mine, obtain the
government's title to the entire land, soil, mineral, and all.
Those claims are the subject of bargain and sale, and constitute
very largely the wealth of the Pacific coast States. They are
property in the fullest sense cf the word, and their ownership,
transfer, and use are governed by a well-defined code or codes
of law, and are recognized by the States and the Federal government. This claim may be sold, transferred, mortgaged, and
inherited, without infringing the title of the United States.
Why may it not also be made subject to a lien for taxes, and
the claim, such as it is, recognized by statute, be sold to enforce the lien? We see nothing in principle or in any interest
which the United States has in the land to prevent it.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of appellant on demurrer was right. It is,
Affirmed.
therefore,
MR. JusTicE F ELD took no part in the decision of this case.

LIPPINCoTT v. MITcB=.
A conveyance of lands in Alabama to a married woman, "to have and to hold
to the sole and proper use, benefit, and behoof of her, her heirs and assigns
for ever," vests in her, under the laws of that State, a statutory separate
estate; and a mortgage of the lands, executed by her and her husband to
secure the payment of his debts, is void.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A.. J:Hubley Askton for the appellant.
Hr. Percy Walker for the appellee.

