STEWART V. SALAMON.

[Sup. Ot.

STEWART V. SALAMON.
1. Whe. 0 a promissory note for dollars, made in Georgia, in January, 1863, is
shown to have been solvable in Confederate treasury notes, the sum thereby
payable in actual money must be ascertained by the value in coin or legal
currency of the United States, at the time when and the place where the
note was made, of such treasury notes, equal in nominal amount to tile
number of dollars specified.
2. Where a payment is indorsed in the same monetary terms which are used in
the note itself, the presumption is that it was intended to be credited in the
same circulating medium. If the parties intended otherwise, some proof on
the subject should be presented.
S. Accordingly, where a promissory note for dollars, shown to be solvable, at the
time it was made, in Confederate treasury notes, had a receipt for a specified number of dollars indorsed upon it, it was held that, in the absence of
proof, the principal designated on the face of the note was reduced only by
the amount specified in the receipt.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
Mr. Alexander

. Stephens for the appellants.

Mr. P. Phillips and Hr. W. H. Phillips, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an original suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and was not transferred from the State court. The bill
does, it is true, refer to two suits in the State court, -one
at
law, commenced by Mordecai, to foreclose, under the statute of
Georgia, the same- mortgage in controversy here; and the other

in equity, commenced by Stewart against Mordecai,-

both of

which were transferred to the Federal court; but all that the

bill asks with respect to them is, that t-he parties may be
enjoined from their further prosecution, and be required to

litigate with the complainants here.

So far, then, as the

present case is concerned, it does not matter whether the transfer from the State court of the two suits was before a trial or

hearing was had in them, or after the judgments rendered had
been reversed. There is no plea of other suits pending, nor
any action asked with respect to the two suits mentioned,
except as stated.

This case is brought to foreclose a mortgage executed by one
James Stewart, now deceased, upon certain real property situ-

Oct. 1876.]

STEWART V. SALAMON.

ated in the State of Georgia, to secure his promissory note for
644,000, and for the sale of the mortgaged premises to pay the
amount due thereon. It does not differ from ordinary suits of
foreclosure in equity, except in making tenants of the property
parties, to prevefit them, pending the litigation, from paying
over rents to the administrator, or to the heirs of the deceased,
among whom, it is alleged, the administrator has unlawfully
partitioned the premises. The note of Stewart bears date on
the 8th of January, 1863, and is payable to the order of Allen
S. Cutts, in twelve months after date, with interest. It was
made for the accommodation of Cutts, who indorsed it to Mordecai, to whom also the. mortgage was executed, upon the purchase of certain bonds of the Georgia and Pensacola Railroad
Company. In March, 1866, $15,325 were credited upon the
note. Subsequently, the note and mortgage were assigried to
the complainants. The point of contention is, whether the note
was originally solvable in Confederate currency, or in the legal
ciurrency of the United States. The Circuit Court must have
held that it was solvable in legal currency, and was so intended
by the parties, for its decree is for the full amount claimed.
In its ruling in this respect, we think the court erred. It seems
to us that the evidence abundantly justifies the conclusion that
the transaction, for which the note was in part given, was' in
Confederate currency. At the time the railroad bonds were
purchased, Jan. 6, 1863, the treasury -notes of the Confederate government constituted the principal currency of Georgia,
in which business transactions were conducted. It was to them
that reference was always made when dollars were mentioned,
unless coin was specified. This condition of things appearing,
the presumption is, that, in the purchase of the railroad bonds,
the parties had those notes in contemplation. Tlorivgton v.
Smith, 8 Wall. 1; The Confederate 1Note Case, 19 id. 548; Tfilmington &- Weldon Railroad Co. v. King, 91 U. S. 3. And
the testimony of Cutts, and of others cognizant of the transaction, except Mordecai, is positive that such was the case. The
conceded facts respecting the transaction lead to the same conclusion. The value of the bonds was estimated at the time
in Confederate currency; they were sold for eighty cents on
the dollar in that currency. The cash payment of over $12,000

STEWART V. SALAMON.

[Sup. Ct.

was in the same currency. The $50,000 note given at the time
was paid a few months afterwards in that currency. It is
highly improbable that an exceptional distinction was made
with reference to the balance for which the note of Stewart
was executed. Certainly, the presumption is strong the other
way. The transaction and testimony together leave no doubt
in our minds on the subject.
The sum, therefore, in actual money, which the note of
Stewart represented, and which he promised to pay, must be
determined by the value in coin or legal currency of the United
Staites, at the time the note was made, and at the place where
,t was made, of Confederate treasury notes, equal in nominal
amount to the number of dollars specified. And as the payment
is indorsed on the note in the same monetary terms which are
used in the note itself, the presumption is, that the payment
was intended to be credited in the same scale of values. If the
parties intended otherwise, some proof on the subject should
have been presented. The credit was made without any explanation; and there is no evidence that the value of the dollars mentioned in the receipt was different from the value of
the dollars mentioned in the note. As the matter is presented
to us, the principal designated on the face of the note is only
reduced by the amount specified in the receipt. The true rule,
therefore, for aocertaining the rights of the parties in the case,
is to calculate the interest on the principal of the note up to
the time of the payment, and, having then deducted the payment, to treat the balance as the debt then due ; the amount in
money to be determined by the value in Georgia of Confederate
notes in coin or the legal currency of the United States at the
time the note was made. Interest should be calculated on this
balance to the date of the decree. The note, with interest,
amounted, when the payment was made, to 853,787; the credit
of $15,325 reduced it to $38,462. This amount, scaled by the
value of Confederate curreney in Georgia at the date of the
note, - three to one, - would make a balance due in lawful
money, March 17, 1866, of $12,820. This amount, with interest, will constitute the sum which should be adjudged due, and
for its payment the proceeds of the mortgaged premises when
sold should be applied.

NAT. BANK, ETC., V. MECHANICS' NAT. BANK.

Oct. 1876.]

437

The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause be remanded for further proceedings in accordSo ordered.
ance with this opinion; and it is

NATIONA.

BANK OF THfl COmmoNwALTH V. MwEHANICS'

NATIONAL BANK.
1. A depositor in a national bank, when it suspends payment, and a receiver
is appointed, is entitled, from the date of his demand, to interest upon
his deposit.

2. The interest being a liquidated sum at the time of the payment of the deposit,
an action lies to recover it, and interest thereon.

8. The claims of depositors in a national bank at the time of its suspension for
the amount of their deposits are, when proved to the satisfaction of the
comptroller of the currency, placed upon the same footing as if they were

reduced to judgments.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
JIr. ;olicitor-GeneralPhillips for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. William S. Opdyke, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAr3 delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the defendant in error as an original claimant, and as the assignee of other parties.
All the claims have a common origin, and involve the same.
principle.
On the 22d of November, 1873, the Bank. of the Common
wealth refused to pay .its circulating notes on demand, and
became in default. The comptroller of the currency appointed
a receiver, and the bank has since been in his hands. The
Mechanics' Bank and its assignors had funds on deposit. On
the 24th of September, 1873, all the parties demanded payment.
Nothing was paid. Instalments on account of the principal
debts were subsequently paid from time to time to each of the
parties. On the 20th of NoveiAber, 1874, the last instalment
was paid in each case, and the principal debts were thereby
extinguished. At each payment, interest from the 24th of

