Oct. 1876.]

DAVIS v.

BROWN.

common understanding, he who receives goods for sale is one
who receives them as an agent for a principal who is the owner.
He is not one who buys and sells on his own account.
The Equitable Trust Company lent its own money, taking
bonds and mortgages therefor. Those bonds it sold with a
guaranty. It sold only its own property, not that received
from other owners' for sale. Such a business, in our opinion,
did not constitute the corporation a banker, as defined by the
revenue laws.
eludgment affirmed.

DAvis v. BRowx.
1. An indorser of a promissory note is a competent witness to prove an agreement in writing made with its holder at the time of his indorsement, that
he shall not be held liable thereon, where the paper has not afterwards been
put into circulation, but is held by the party to whom the indorsement was
made.
2. Bank of United States v. Dunn, 6 Pet. 61, explained and qualified.
8. An agreement like the one mentioned above, and the indorsement, taken
together, are equivalent, so far as the holder of the note is concerned, to an
indorsement without recourse to the indorser.
4. The omission of indorsers on a series of notes, transferred to the holdet in
settlement of their own note held by him, upon an agreement in writing
that they should not be held liable on their indorsement, to set up the
agreement as a defence to an action against them, brought by the holder
on two of the notes, does not preclude them from setting up the agreement
in a second action by the holder on others of the same series of notes.
The judgment in the original action does not operate as an estoppel against
showing the existence and validity of the agreement in the second action.
5. When a judgment in one action is offered-in evidence ina subsequent action
between the same parties upon a different demand, it operates as an estoppel only upon the matter actually at issue and determined in 'the original
action; and such matter, when not disclosed by the pleadings, must be
shown by extrinsic evidence.

EEEOr to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This action was against the defendants, as second indorsers
of certain promissory notes, transferred by them to the Ocean
National Bank of the city of 'New York. The bank having
failed, the notes came into the possession of the plaintiff, as its
receiver. The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of

DAVIS v. BRowN.

[Sup. ot.

the court. The defendants obtained judgment, and the plaintiff brought the case here.
Argued by Mr. f. C. Miller for the plaintiff in error, and

submitted by Mr. U. P. Smith and Mr. Stephen Sibley for
the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE FrELD delivered the opinidn of the court.

This was an action against the defendants, as sec6nd indorsers
upon ten promissory notes of one .McOmber, made at Saratoga
Springs, in the State of New York, in June,- 1870, each for
$6500, and payable to his order in from thirty-two to forty-one
months after date.
The defence set up to defeat the action was that the notes in,
suit were transferred in June, 1871, with other notes of the
same party of like amount and date, to the Ocean National
Bank by the defendants, in part satisfaction of a note of their
own then past due, the balance being paid in cash, and were
indorsed by the defendants as a mere matter of form, upon an
agreement in writing of the bank that they should not be held
liable on their indorsements, or be sued thereon.
On the trial, Harvey Brown, one of the defendants, was
called as a witness to prove the matters thus set up as a defence, and was permitted, against the objection of the plaintiff,
to testify to the settlement of the note of the defendants, the
transfer for that purpose to the Ocean National Bank of the
MeOmber notes, and their indorsement by the defendants
under the agreement of the bank not to hold them liable as indorsers; and ihat this agreement was in writing, and was
destroyed in the great fire at Chicago, in October, 1871.
To meet and repel the defence founded upon this agreement,
the plaintiff produced and gave in evidence a record of a judgment, recovered by him against the same defendants upon two
other notes of the same party, of like amount and date as those
in suit, except that they became due at an earlier day, which
were part of the series of notes transferred by the defendants
to the bank, and indorsed by them, in settlement of their own
note, as already mentioned, and were included in the agreement
as part of the same transaction.
The questions presented for our determination relate to the

Oct. 1876.]

DAvIs v. BRowN.

competency of the witness Brown, and the admissibility of
the evidence of the alleged agreement of the bank, and to the
operation of the judgment mentioned as an estoppel against the
defendants setting up any defence founded upon the agreement.
The objection to the witness arose from his being a party to
the notes, and, as such, it is contended that he was incompetent to impeach or discredit the same, or to show that his liability was not such as his indorsement imported. The case of
The Bank of the United States v. Dunn, reported in the 6th
of Peters, is cited in support of this position. There, the indorser of a note had been pe'mitted by the court below to testify, against the objection of the plaintiff in the action, to a
verbal understanding with the cashier and president of the
bank which took the note, that he was not to incur any responsibility, or, at least, would not be held liable on the note, until
the security pledged for its payment had been exhausted. The
admission of the witness this court considered erroneous, holding that no one who was a party to a negotiable note could be
permitted by his own testimony to invalidate it, which, in that
case, meant that no one could be permitted to show that a note
indorsed by him was void in its inception, or that his indorsement did not impose the liability which the law attached to it.
The opinion which announces the decision proceeds upon tvo
grounds: 1st, That the evidence would contradict the terms of
the instrument, or change their legal import; and, 2d, that it
would be against public policy, as tending to destroy the credit
of commercial paper, to allow one who had given it the sanction of his name, and thus added value and currency to the
instrument, to testify that it was executed or indorsed by him
under such circumstances as to impair his obligation upon it.
This last position was supported by reference to the celebrated case of lWalton v. Shelley, 1 T. R. 296, decided in 1786,
where the indorser of a promissory note was held by the
King's Bench to be inadmissible as a witness, on groumds of
public policy, to prove the note void for usury in its incep.
tion; Lord Mansfield observing, that it was "of consequence
to mankind that no person should hang out false colors to
deceive them, by first affixing his signature to a paper, and
then afterwards giving testimony to invalidate it." Aside

DAVIS v. BRowN.

[.Sup. Ot.

from the assumed estoppel of the parties from their position on the paper, the maxim, of the Roman law, that no one
alleging his own turpitude shall be heard (nemo allegans suam
turpitudinem est audiendus), was cited to justify the decision.
That maxim was plainly misapplied here by the great Chief
Justice; for it is not a rule of evidence, but a rule applicable to
parties seeking to enforce rightp founded upon illegal or criminal considerations. The meaning of the maxim is, that no one
shall be heard in a court of justice to allege his own turpitude
as a foundation of a claim or right; it does not import that a
man shall not be heard who testifies to his own turpitude or
criminality, however much his testimony may be discredited
by his character.
The doctrine of Walton v. Shelley maintained its position in
the courts of England only for a few years. In 1798, it was
by the same court overruled in the case of Jordaine v. Eashb? uo ce, 7 id. 601, Lord Kenyon having succeeded Mansfield as
Chief Justice. Since then, the rule hds prevailed in the courts
of that country, that a party to any instrument, whether negotiable or not, if otherwise qualified, is competent to prove any
fact affecting its validity ; the objection to the witness, from his
connection with the making or circulation of the instrument,
only going to his credibility, and not to his competency. In
this country, there has been much diversity of opinion upon
the point, some of the State courts following the rule of Walton
v. Shelley, while others have adopted the later English rule.
The general tendency of debisions here is to disregard all objections to the competency of witnesses, and to allow their position and character to affect only their credibility. This
diversity of opinion could not have existed, unless there were
grave reasons for doubting the soundness of the original decision. Be that as it may, it has led those courts which, on considerations of commercial policy, adopted the rule of Walton v.
Shelley to qualify the rule, so as to limit its application strictly
to cases arising on negotiable bills and notes, and to cases
where the transaction affecting the validity of the paper was
not between the parties in suit. The holders of commercial
paper, who enter into agreements or transactions with the
makers or indorsers, affecting its validity or negotiability, can-

Oct. 1876.]

DAVIs v. BaowN.

not invoke protection against the infirmity which they have
aided to create. There are no considerations of commercial
policy which can exclude the parties in such cases from testifying to the facts. Thus, in Fox v. Whitney, 16 Mass. 118, the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, which had previously recognized the rule in Walton v. Shelley, held that the rule applied
only to a case where a man, by putting his name to a negotiable
security, had given currency and credit to it, and did not apply
to a case between original parties, where the paper had not
been put into circulation, and each of the parties was cognizant
of all the facts. This decisiodi meets our concurrence, and, if it
qualifies the decision in the case of Bane v. Dunn, we think
the qualification a just and proper one.
These considerations dispose of the objection to the competency of the witness Brown. The notes of .McOmber were
never put into circulation by the Ocean National Bank. No one,
therefore, has been misled by the indorsement of the defendants; no false colors have been held out by them. No credit
or currency has been given by their name. The receiver has,
with reference to the notes, no greater right than the bank has:
he stands in its shoes. If the bank could not have enforced a
liability upon the defendants against its agreement that they
shold not be held liable, the receiver cannot enforce it. The
agreement itself is not immoral nor illegal. The defendants
by their act ran the risk of being charged upon the notes;
they would have been liable had the notes been put into circulation. But beyond this risk they were protected by the
agreement; upon that they could rely, so long as the bank held
the notes.
The objection that the agreement -was inadmissible because
it tended to vary and destroy the legal effect of the indorsement is not tenable. The agreement, being in writing, is to be
taken and considered in connection with the indorsement, and
the two are to be construed together. So far as the bank was
concerned, the agreement made the indorsement equivalent to
one without recourse to the indorsers.
The next question for determination relates to the operation
of the judgment recovered by the plaintiff against the defendants, as an estoppel against their setting up the defence founded

DAVIS v. BI oWN.

[Sup. t

upon the agreement. The action in which that judgmei t was
recovered was brought in the same court as the present ac'ion,
against the defendants as second indorsers upon two not s,
which were part of the series of McOmber notes, transferred 'o
the bank of the defendants in settlement of their own note;
and their indorsement was embraced in its agreement. The
defendants pleaded the general issue; but the court finds that,
by the advice of counsel learned in the law, they defended the
action in good faith solely upon the ground that their liability
had not been fixed as indorsers by due prosecution of the makers
of the notes, as required by the laws of Illinois ; and that this
defence was not sustained, for the reason that it appeared that
the makers of the notes resided in the State of New York, and
that the indorsement was made there. "The agreement of the
bank not to hold them liable as indorsers was not pleaded nor
relied upon; yet it is contended by counsel, that, inasmuch as it
might have been thus pleaded and relied upon, therefore the
judgment is an estoppel against the setting up of that agreement as a defence in a subsequent action between the same
.parties upon other notes, equally as if its validity and efficacy
had been litigated and determined.
In taking this position, counsel have confounded the operation of a judgment upon the demand involved in the action, in
which the judgment was rendered, with its operation as an estoppel in another action between the parties upon a different
demand. So far as the demand involved in the action is concerned, the judgment has closed all controversy; its validity is
no longer open to contestation, whatever might have been said
or proved at the trial for or against it. The judgment is not
only conclusive as to what was actually determined respecting
such demand, but as to every matter which might have been
brought forward and determined respecting it; and that is all
that the language means which is quoted by counsel from opin:
ions in adjudged cases, in seeming consonance with his position.
When a judgment is offered in .evidence in a subsequent
action between the same parties upon a different demand, it
operates as an estoppel only upon the matter actually at issue
and determined in the original action; and such matter, when
not disrlosed by the pleadings, must be shown by extrinsic

Oct. 1876.]

MCCLURE v. TOWNSHIP OF OXFORD.

evidence. We have recently had occasion, in the case of Cromwell v. County of Sac, supra, p. 851, to go over this ground and
point out the distinction mentioned; and it is unnecessary to
repeat what we there said. See Bigelow on Estoppel; Note to
the case of the Duchess of Kingston, in Smith's Lead. Cas.;
and Robinson's Practice, vol. vii. The position of counsel is
clearly untenable.
As to the objection of want of authority in the president of
the bank to make the agreement with the defendants, the finding of the court is conclusive. Iis authority was a fact to be
determined by the court, under the stipulation waiving a jury,
and we do not sit in review of questions of fact.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Cy.ronD dissented.

McGLun

v. TowsmP oF Oxrou.

1. A municipality must have legislative authority to subscribe to the capital
stock of a bridge company before its officers cal, bind the body politic to the
payment of bonds purporting to be issued on that account.
2. If any of the essential proceedings prescribed by law for investing municipal
officers with power to subscribe for stock, and issue bonds in payment
thereof, be dispensed with, the bonds will be invalid in the hands of all
who amnnot claim protection as bo, a.fide holders.
S. Every dealer in municipal bonds, which, upon their face, refer to the statute
under which thcy were issued, is bound to take notice of all its requirements.
4. Where. upon their face, the coupons refer to the bonds to which they were
attached, and purport to be for the semiannual interest accruing thereon,
the purchaser of thiem is charged with notice of all which the bonds contain.
5. The bonds issued by the township of Oxford, Kansas, bearing date April 15,
1872. and reciting that they are issued under an act of the legislature of
Kanmas, approved March 1, 1872, authorizing the township to subscribe for
stock in the Oxford Bridge Company, and, in pursuance of a vote of the
qualified electors of said township, at an election held therein, April 8, 1872,
are void, because, as that act by its terlns took effect only from its publica.
tion in tile " Kansas Weekly Commonwealth," and it was not published
until March 21, the election was not held pursua't to a notice of thirty
days, as required by the act.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United -States for the
District of Kansas.

