COUNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOMAS.

[Sup.'Ct.

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOmAS.

L The fourteenth section of article 11 of the Constitution of Missouri, adopted
in 1865, which declares that "the general assembly shall not authorize any
county, city, or town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to,
any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be
held therein, shall assent thereto," prohibits any subsequent legislative
grants to any municipal corporation, of authority to become a stockholder
in, or to loan its credit to, a company, except upon the prescribed conditions;
but it does not purport to take away any authority already granted.
2. The Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company was incorporated under an
act of the general assembly of Missouri, approved Feb. 9, 1857, which provided that "it shall be lawful for the county court of any county, in which
any part of said road may be, to subscribe to the stock of said company,"
and issue its bonds therefor. The laws of the State reserved to the general
assembly the right to amend the charter, and the company was, pursuant
to the authority conferred by the act of March 2, 1869, consolidated with a
corporation in Iowa, having like authority from that State; but the general
direction of the road was not thereby changed. The road of tne company
passes through the county of Scotland; and the county court, in the absence of any election by the qualified electors of that county, subscribed, in
August, 1870, to the capital stock of said consolidated company, and issued
the bonds of the county in payment therefor. Held, 1. That the power of
the county to subscribe for stock in the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company was the right and privilege of the company, and passed, with its
other rights and privileges, into the new conditions of existence which it
assumed under the consolidation. 2. That the subscription made by the
court was the act of the county, and binding upon it, and that the bonds so
issued are valid.
8. Harshman v. Bates County, 92 U. S.569, is not in conflict with the rulings in this
case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was a suit brought upon certain coupons attached to
bonds, purporting to have been issued by the county of Scotland, in the State of Missouri.
The bonds were in the words and figures following, except
that each bond had a separate number: -

"1,000.]

UNITED STATES OF A -nIicA.

[No. 65.

"Eight-er-cent Railroad Bond.

[Twenty-five years.
"County of Scotland.]
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Scotland, in
the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted to the Kissouri,

Oct. 1376.]

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND

v. THioSAS.

Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company, a corporation existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the States of Missouri and Iowa,
formed by consolidation of the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company (formerly Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company) of the State of Missouri, and the Iowa Southern Railway
Company of the State of Iowa, in the sum of $1,000, which sum
the said county hereby promises to pay to the said Missouri, Iowa,
and Nebraska Railway Company, or bearer, at the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company in New York, on the thirty-first day of December, A.D. 1895,'together with interest thereon fi'om the thirty-first
day of December, 1870, at the rate of eight per dent per annum,
which interest shall be payable annually, in the city of New York,
on the thirty-first day of December in each year, as the same shall
become due, on the presentation of the coupons hereto annexed.
This bond being issued under and pursuant to an order of the
county court of said Scotland County, for subscription to the stock
of the Missouri, Iowa, and Tebraska Railway Company, as authorized by an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri,
entitled "An Act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company," approved Feb. 9, 1857.
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Scotland has executed
this bond by the presiding justice of the county court of said county,
under the order of said court, signing his name hereto, and the
clerk of said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same, and
affixing thereto the seal of said court. This done at the town of
Memphis, in the county of Scotland, in the State of Missouri, this
first day of September, A.D. 1870.
"Attest:

"WmLixr DAwsox,
"Presiding Justice of the County Court of Scotland County, Mo.
M

SCOTLAND COUNTY COURT,
MISSOURI, SEAL.

STERLING MCDOXOLD,

"Clerk of the County Court of Scotland County, .3o."

To each of which bonds were annexed twenty-five interest
coupons, each for the sum of 880, maturing annually for the
interest thereon. - These bonds were delivered, before the 21st
of December, 1871, to the "Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company," with the interest coupons attached, in payment
of the subscription to the capital stock of the company; and
such of them as had attached to them the coupons sued on
were, before the maturity of the second maturing coupons;
together with all the coupons except the ones first maturing,

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND

v.

THOMAS,

[Sup. Ct.

sold for value, and transferred by delivery to the plaintiff, who
is the holder and owner thereof. The plaintiff caused the
coupons sued on to be presented for payment at maturity, and
payment was not made.
The petition alleged, in addition to the foregoing facts, that
by an act of the general assembly of Missouri, entitled "An
Act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company," approved Feb. 9, 1857, the said company was incor
porated, and thereafter was duly organized under said act of
incorporation; that the tenth section of said act of incorporation provides as follows "The said company shall in all things be subject to the same
restrictions, and entitled to all the privileges, rights, and immunities
which were granted to the North Missouri Railroad Company, by
an act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the North Missouri Railroad
Company,' approved March 3,1851, so far as the same are applicable to the company hereby created, as fully and completely as if
the same were herein re-enacted."
The fourteenth section of the said act of March 3, 1851, contains the following provision, to wit :"It shall be lawful for the county court of any county, in which
any part of the route of said railroad may be, to subscribe to the
stock of said company (North Missouri Railroad Company), and it
may invest its funds in the stock of said company, and issue the
bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock thus subscribed,
and to take proper steps to protect the interest and credit of the
county."
That a part of the route of the road of the "Alexandria and
Bloomfield Railroad Company" was within the county of Scotland, as designated in the act of incorporation.
That in pursuance of an act of the general assembly of Missouri, entitled "An Act to amend an act entitled ' An Act to
incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company,
approved Feb. 9, 1857,' approved Feb. 19, 1866," authorizing
the Alexandria and Bloomiield Railroad Company to change
its name, and to extend its road from Luray, in Clark County,
Mo., to Nebraska City, in Nebraska Territory, the said company did change its corporate name to that of the "Alexandria
and Nebraska City Railroad Company."

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOmAS.

The defendant demurred; but, before the demurrer was submitted, it was stipulated between the parties that the question
of subscribing to the stock of the "Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company" had never been submitted to a
vote of the qualified voters of Scotland County; and that, in
determining the questions raised by the demurrer, the court
might consider this fact as if it had been averred in the complaint.
It was further agreed that the articles of consolidation between the Iowa Southern Railway Company and the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company, entered into March
26,1870, and the orders of the county coilit of Scotland County,
should be taken and considered by the court, as facts admitted
in determining the questions raised by the demurrer.
By those articles, it was provided that the consolidated
company should bear the name of the Missouri, Iowa, and
Nebraska Railway Company; that its capital stock should be
$13,000,000, to be divided into one hundred and thirty thousand shares of $100 each; that the directors might increase it
when necessary, upon the approval of a majority of the stockholders; that the line of the railway should extend from the
city of Alexandria, in Missouri, on the Mississippi' River, to
Centreville, Iowa, thence west to the Missouri River; and that
the company should assume and pay all debts owing, and all
contracts or agreements entered into, by either of the companies. The company was also authorized to borrow money to
an amount not exceeding two-thirds of its capital stock, issue
bonds, and secure their payment by mortgage on all the property of both companies.
The material parts of the act of March 2, 1869, under which
the "Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company," and
the "Iowa Southern Railway Company," a corporation created
under the laws of Iowa, entered into articles of consolidation
are as follows:
"SECTION 1. That any railroad company organized under the
general or special laws of this State, whose track shall, at the line
of the State, connect with the track of the railroad of any company
organized under the general or special laws of any adjoining State,
is hereby authorized to make and enter into any agreement with

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND

v.

THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct

such connecting company, for the consolidation of the stock of the
respective companies whose tracks shall be so connected, making
one company of the two, whose stock shall be so consolidated, upon
such terms and conditions and stipulations as may be mutually
agreed between them, in accordance with the laws of the adjoining
State in which the road is located with which connection is thus
formed."
Sect. 2 requires that the consolidation shall be approved by
the holders of a majority of the stock in each of the old companies.
Sect. 3 provides, that when the terms of consolidation shall
have been agreed upon, &c., "it shall be competent for the
boards of directors in each of said connecting companies to
carry the same into effect, and adopt by a resolution a new corporate name for the company, which shall be formed by the
consolidation; and to call in the certificates of stock then outstanding in each company, and exchange them for stock in the
new company, as may have been agreed by the terms of the
consolidation; and a copy of the said consolidation agreement,
and the resolutions of edihsolidation, and the name adopted for
the new company, shall be filed with the secretary of State," &c.
"SECT. 4. Any such consolidated company shall be subject to all
the liabilities and bound by all the obligations of the company
within this State which may be thus consolidated with one in the
adjacent State, as fully as if such consolidation had not taken place;
and shall be subject to the same duties and obligations to the State,
and be entitled to the same franchises and privileges under the
laws of this State, as if the consolidation had not taken place."

The demurrer was overruled, and judgment rendered -for
the plaintiff; whereupon the county sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. George W. McCrary and Xr. J 0. Broadhead for the
plaintiff in error.
1. The plaintiff below is not an innocent purchaser of the
bonds sued on, without notice.
(a.) Because the defect complained of is a want of power,
and not an irregular exercise of an admitted power.
(b.) Because the act under which the right to issue the

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND V. THOMAS.

bonds in suit is claimedis set out in the bonds themselves, and
the purchaser was pift upon inquiry, and had notice of all the
facts.
2. The validity of the bonds can only be sustained by showing that the county was authorized by the law as it stood
prior to July, 1865,.when the constitutional prohibition took
effect, to subscribe to the stock of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, and to the stock of any company that
might be formed by consolidation with it.
8. Whatever might be claimed if ,the old company, by its
charter or the law in force prior to that date, had been vested
-with the power to consolidate, it is clear that, in the absence
of that power, the right of the county thereafter to subscribe
was a right to subscribe to the original corporation, and no
other. Parshmanv. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569.
4. If the intent of the act of 1869 was, as claimed, to authorize 'a newz company to be formed by consolidation of the
Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company, and the
Iowa Southern Railway Company, and to empower Scotland
County to subscribe, without a vote of the people, to the stock
of this new company, then that act is so far unconstitutional
and void.
5. The consolidation effected by changing the Alexandria
and Bloomfield Railroad Company into the Alexandria and
Nebraska City Railroad Company, and consolidating the latter
-with the Iowa Southern Railway Company, by which was
formed the Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska Railway Company,
was a fundamental alteration of the charter of the first-named
company, not provided for or contemplated by either the charter itself or the general laws of the State, as they stood when
the Constitution of 1865 was adopted.
Mr. A. J Baker and Mr. P. T. Hughes, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the coutt.

This action was brought by plaintiff below (the defendant in
error) to recover the amount of certain interest coupons attached to certain bonds issued by order of the county court of
Scotland County,' Mo (the defendant below), on behalf-of the
county, to pay for a subscription of sfeck to the Missouri, Iowa,

COUNTY OP SCOTLAND v. THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct.

and Nebraska Railway Company. The county contests the
validity of the bonds, on the ground that the question of subscribing to the stock was never submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of the county, as required by the Constitution of the
State adopted in 1865, the subscription being voted and the
bonds being issued in 1870. The plaintiff answers this objection by showing that the power to make the subscription was
conferred in 1857, in the charter of a company called the
Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, before-the Constitution was adopted, and that this company, by consolidation
with other companies, formed the Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska
Railway Company, and brought to it all its own privileges
and powers, - and, amongst others, that of receiving county
subscriptions to its capital stock. The county replies to this
argument, that however valid it may be to sustain subscriptions
made - to the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company
itself, had that company remained distinct, as originally chartered, it cannot avail to support a subscription to the stock of
a new and different company, having a much greater amount
"of capital stock, and a much longer and different route of railroad, running into another State. The question was raised in
the court below by demurrer to the petition, and judgment was
given for the plaintiff.
The clause of the Constitution on which the defendant relies
is the fourteenth section of art. 11, and is as follows: "The general assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or town to
become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any company,
association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be held therein, shall assent thereto." This prohibition, it will be observed, is against the legislature's authorizing
municipal subscriptions or aid to private corporations: it does
not purport tp take away- @.ny authority already granted. It
only limits the, po-er 'of the legislatire in granting such authority for the time to come. This. has been settled by the
Supreme Court of Missouri in several well-considered decisions.
See The State v. Sullivan County, 51 Mb. 522; Dag State v.
Greene County, 54 id. 540. Iih the former case, the court say:
"Power conferred on counties to take and subscribe stock

Oct. 1876.]

CoUNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOMAS.

689

without a submission to a vote of the people, before the Con
stitution went into operation, remained unaffected by that
instrument." The same view was taken by this court in the
recent case of County of Callaway v. Foster, 98 U. S. 567.
See also State v. Maysville & Lexington Railroad Co., 13

B. Mon. (Ky.) 1.
The specific question in the present case, therefore, is,
whether the authority given to counties and towns in 1857 to
subscribe to the capital stock of the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company has become extinguished by the subsequent
consolidatioZ of that company with other companies, irrespective of the constitutional provision referred to. Tthe Constitution does not itself, as we have seen, interfere with authority
given previous to its adoption.
That simple consolidation with another company does not
extinguish the power of the counties to subscribe, or the privilege of the company to receive subscriptions, was decided in the
case of The State v. Greene County, 54 Mo. 540. In that case,
the Kansas City, Galveston, and Lake' Superior Railroad Company was chartered in 1857, with power to construct a branch
road from Kansas City to the southern boundary of the State;
and power was given to the county courts of any county
through which the road or any of its branches might rim, to
subscribe to the stock of the company, and issue its bonds
therefor. The company afterwards changed. its name, and, in
1870, consolidated with the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad
Company; and the latter company continued the work of constructing the branch road referred to, which had been begun
by the Kansas.City company. The branch was built under a
separate organization created by the patent company, called
the Kansas City and Memphis Railoe Company, but under
the control and with the aid of the I arent company. The
county court of Greene County, in 1870, subscribed to the
capital stock of the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, issued to aid in building and equipping the branch road,.
which ran through the county. The Supreme Court of Missouri decided that the subscription was valid, and that the
power to subscribe, originally given, still mfbsisted, unaffected
by the consolidation. The cases decided by this court of Th.
VOL. IV.

44

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND V. THOMAS.-

[Sup. Ct.

Philadelphia & Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 10
How. 376, and Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, were
cited and relied on, for the purpose of showing that where a
consolidation is effected between two railroad companies, and
nothing to the contrary is indidated, the rights and privileges,
as well as the duties and liabilities, of each continue to exist as
before in the hands of the new organization. It seems to us
that this decision in the Greene County case governs the present case. It is true the court laid considerable stress on the
fact that the branch road in that case was a distinct interest
from that of the main line, and was not liable for its obligations or liabilities, and the holders of the stock in the branch
road had the right to control its affairs; and this feature was
not changed by the consolidation. This fact, undouLtedly,
prevents the case from being an exact precedent for the present
one. But the close and intimate relations which in other respects connected the branch with the main line in that case
give to the decision a good deal of importance. The principles
adopted were substantially the same as those involved in the
present case. The facts are not very fully stated in the report;
but it would appear from the statement of the dissenting judge,
p. 557, that the stock subscribed for in that case was the stock
of the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company. As such,
thougfi it may have been special stock applicable to the branch
road, it made the holder a member of the parent company, entitled to vote for its directors, and no doubt in other ways
connected with its fortunes.
In that case, as in this, the power to consolidate was given
after the original charter was granted, and after the Constitution went into effect. But that was not regarded as affecting
the power. By general laws of the State, in force when the
original charter was granted, the legislature had reserved the
power to alter, suspend, and repeal all charters of incorporation, and had specially reserved this power in the general railroad act. See Rev. Stat. of Mo., 1855, pp. 371, 438. It
would seem clear, therefore, that alterations of the charter were
admissible, and would not affect rigbts of the company untouched thereby, nor a pdwer t6 subscribe to its stock previously existing. See County of Calaway v. Poster, 93 U. S.
567.

Oct. 1876,]

CouNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOMAS:

The power to amend thus existing, the amending acts in this
case do not subvert the original purposes of the charter, but
rather carry them out and perfect' them. The railroad authorized by it was "a railroad from the city of Alexandria, in the
county of Clark, in the direction of Bloomfield, in the State of
Iowa, to such point on the northern boundary line of the State
of Missouri as shall be agreed upon by said company, and a
company authorized on the part of the State of Iowa, to construct a railroad to intersect the road authorized to be constructed by the provisions of this act, at the most practicable
point on said State line." Bloomfield was a small town in
Iowa, evidently not intended as the final objective point of the
proposed line, which is only required to be "in the direction of
Bloomfield." A connection with a continuous road in Iowa
was the declared object of the road proposed. It was evidently
the purpose to bring Alexandria, a port of Missouri on the
Mississippi River, in connection with the rich region of southern and western Iowa, by means of the road then being, chartered, and a road to connect therewith, running into the State
of Iowa. This purpose will be most effectually attained by
the construction of the continuous line contemplated by the
consolidated companies. The general direction of the road is
not changed. It does not pass through Bloomfield, it is true;
but it does not pass it by so far as to be a substantial departure
from the route originally indicated. The amending act, therefore, which authorized a consolidation with the Iowa Southern
Railway Company, and thereby constituted the Missouri, Iowa,
and Nebraska Railway Company, was in perfect accord with
the general purpose of the original charter of the Alexandria
and Bloomfield Railroad Company; and, if the other rights and
privileges of the latter company passed over to the consolidated
company, we do not see why the privildge in question should
not do so, nor why the power given to.the county to subscribe
to the stock should not continue in force.
The decision of this court in the case of 17arshmanv. Bates
County, 92 U. S. 569, is urged against this view of the case;
but we do not think it applicable. In that case, the question
was, whether authority given to the. county court by the electors of a township to subscribe in its -behalffor stock in a certain

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND

v.

THOiMIAS.

[Sup. Ct.

railroad company, continued to exist after the company had
ceased to exist, by being absorbed in another company by consolidation ? We held that it did not. The county court was
regarded as being the mere agent of the township, having no
discretion to act beyond the precise terms of the power given.
The powers of an agent or attorney, authorized to act for
another, are very different from those possessed by a person
acting in his own behalf. Had the charter of the Alexandria
and Bloomfield Railroad Company authorized foreign corporations to subscribe to its stock (supposing that by the general
law of Missouri they had no such power), they would undoubtedly have retained that power after the consolidation; it being
in their discretion to exercise it or not. But if any such foreign
corporation had, before the consolidation, sent an order to a
firm in St. Louis to subscribe stock for it in the original company, the firm could not have made the subscription after the
consolidation, without consulting their principals. Such a material change of circumstances would have rendered the subscription an excess of the power given to them. Authority
given to a person,, to be exercised for his own benefit and at his
own discretion, may be exercised by him under changes of circumstances that would amount to a revocation of a power given
to an attorney, unless it expressly conferred discretion. A recurrence to the opinion in the Harshman case will show that
this distinction underlies the reasons given for the judgment in
that case. The county court of Scotland County, in the present
case, acted as the representative authority of the county itself,
officially invested with all the discretion necessary to be exercised under the change of circumstances brought about by the
consolidation in question. For, as before remarked, the county
courts, in reference to the subscription in question, represented
the counties themselves, as their officially constituted authorities.
This is distinctly stated by the Supreme Court of Missouri in
the case of The Hannibal S1. Jo. Railroad Co. v. 31arion
County, 36 Mo. 303. The power given to the county courts
intersected by the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad to subscribe to its stock, was given to them as representing the
counties. When they subscribed for the stock, it was the
county that subscribed. It was discretionary with them whethei
'

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND v. THOMAS.

to subscribe or not, and (within the limits imposed by the act)
how much they should subscribe.
But the case has other aspects, which it is necessary to take
into consideration. If we look at the subject in a broad and
general view, it will be still more manifest that th6 power in
question was intended to exist, notwithstanding the consolidation. The project of the railroad promised a great public improvement, conducive to the interests of Alexandria and the
counties through which it would pass. Its construction, however, would greatly depend upon the local aid and encourage
ment it might receive. The interests of its projectors.and of
the country it was to traverse were regarded as mutual. The
power of the adjacent counties and towns 'to subscribe to itp
stock, as a means of securing its construction, was desired n
only by the company, but by the inhabitants. Whether the
policy was a wise one or not is not now the question. It was
in accordance with the public sentiment of that period. The
power was sought at the hands of the legislature, and was given.
It was relied on by those who subscribed their private funds to
the enterprise. It was involved in the general scheme as an
integral part of it, and as much contributory and necessary to
its success as the prospective right to take tolls. Why it should
not still attach to this portion of the road, as one of the rights
and privileges belonging to it, into whose hands soever it comes,
by consolidation or otherwise, it is difficulb to see. The principles laid down in the case of .the Philadelphia, Wilmington,
& Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 10 How. 376, and
Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, and recently reaffirmed
in Branch v. City of Charleston, 92 U. S. 677, seem to us directly
applicable. Subscription to the stock was not only a power of
the county, but a privilege of the company,- being a portion
of the rights and privileges which it obtained by translation
from the charter of the North Missouri Railroad Company. It
was expressly so held by the Supreme Court of Missouri in the
case of Smith v. County of Clapk, 54 Mo. 58; and the same
principle had been adopted in the earlier case of The Hfannibal
& St. Jo. _ailroad Co. v. Marion County, 36 id. 294, 304. The
latter company was by its charter "entitled to all the privileges, rights, and immunities which were granted to the Louis.

COUNTY OF SCOTLAND

v. THOMAS.

[Sup. Ct.

iana and Columbia Railroad Company, so far as applicable," &c.
The right to receive county subscriptions was held to be one
of these privileges, rights, and immunities. The court said: "It was under this section that the [county] court proceeded
when the stock was first taken and the notes issued. The legislature gives the company all the rights, privileges, and immunities
contained therein, the same as if it had been re-enacted. The
language seems broad enough, by reasonable construction, to fully
sustain the acts of the county court." 36 id. 304.
In Smith v. County of Clark, the same views were held with
regard to the charter now in question. The court say""The power thus conceded to the courts or other municipal
bodies may well be termed a privilege to the corporations, and we
see no substantial objection to a transfer of such a privilege by
simply, in general terms, embodying the section of the original
act which granted it into the new law. That such was the intention of the legislature and of the railroad company is clear; and, if
the word 'privilege' admits of the narrow construction claimed,
the practical construction it has received in this State, as may be
seen by reference to the decisions of our courts, would preclude any
inquiry into the subject now. These provisions were the principal
means by which this and other roads were built, and without them
the charters would have been of no value." 54 id. 67.
The power of the counties to subscribe being thus held to be
a right and privilege of the company, in our opinion, passed
with its other rights and privileges into the new conditions of
existence which the company assumed under the consolidation.
The argument sought to be drawn from the distinction, that
the company with which the consolidation was effected belonged to another State, we fail to appreciate. If the legislature of Missouri authorized it, what difference can it make
whether the connecting company belongs to Missouri or to
Iowa ? There is no difference in principle. The Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, in its consolidated form, combined the roals and charters of three different
States; and yet it was held to be invested with the rights and
privileges of each, as applicable to the several parts of the line.
See also, to the same purport, the case of Hanna v. The Cinl.
cinnati, Fort Wayne,
Chicago Railroad Co., 20 Ind. 30.

Oct. 1876.]

CAWOOD PATENT.

Other points were raised on the argument, which it is unnecessary to discuss, as this was the principal one relied on, and
presented the only serious difficulty in the case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE Mnxm dissented.
Mn. JUSTiCE FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in the decision.

CAWOOD PATENT.
IL

ois CFNTRAL RAILROAD Co _A_," v. TuRniRmL;

IoH-

IGAN SOUTHEN AND NORTHERS INDIANA RAIROAD
CoNrPANY v. SA~t; CHICAGO AND ALTON RAIROAD
COMPANY
QUINCY

v. SAAE ; OHICAGO, BRLInTGTOi,
AND
RAILROAD COiPANY- v. SAME; PITTSBURGH,

FORT WAYNE, AND CHIOAGO

RAILWAY

ComPANY v.

SAME.
1. This court, in affirming the v.alidity of the letters-patent No. 15,687, granted
to Joseph D. Cawood Sept. 9, 1856, for "an improvement in the common
anvil or swedge-block for the purpose of welding up and re-forming the ends
of railroad rails when they have been exfoliated, or become shattered from
unequal wear occasioned by the inequalities of the road," &c., which were
before it in Turrill v. Michigan Southern, 6-c. Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 491, holds,
in addition to what was declared in that case, that they embrace a bottom support for the rail on the anvil; and that they are infringed, by the
machines known as the "Illinois Central," the "Etheridge," and the " Whitcomb," but not by those known as the "Bayoneb vise," the "Michigan
Southern," and the "Beebe and Smith."
2. Where an account for the infringement of letters-patent is prayed for and
decreed, the record filed here should set it forth. This court should not be
called upon to perform the duties of a master.
8 Considering the number of feet of rails mended by the respondents in the use
of the machines covered by said letters-patent, and of those which infringe
thm, the gain in mending, compared with the cost of mending on the common anvil, and the saving- in fuel and labor, the damages decreed by the
courthelow are not excessive.
4 In settling an account between a patentee and an infringer of his letters-patent,
the question is not what profits the latter made in his business, or from his
manner of conducting it, but what advantage he derived from his use of the
patented invention.

APPAis from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.

