Oct. 1876.]

DuTorEa V. WRIGHT.

The plaiutiff in error now contends in his eleventh point
that Dickson was not the owner of the tobacco. This point
cannot be raised here. No request or exception was made
which involves the question. The ownership was assumed
throughout the trial, in the charge of the judge, not disputed
in the requests to charge, and if a subject of doubt in any
form, must be considered as settled by the verdict. The only
suggestion of a denial of ownership is in the request to charge,
that, if the tobacco was in the possession of Trent, as agent of
Dickson, or otherwise, then the delivery to him or his order
was lawful. To hold this to be a denial of the ownership of
Dickson, or a claim of ownership by Trent, would go far
beyond any reasonable construction.
We see no error in the rulings at the trial, and are of the
opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

DUToRm

v. W=RGHT.

1. In computing the four months before filing the petition in bankruptcy, within
which time the assignment of his property by an insolvent debtor, with a
view to give a preference to any creditor, is void,'the day upon which the
petition is filed must be excluded.
2. "Toofet al. v. Martin, 13 Wall. 40, and Buchanan v. Smith, 16 id. 277, cited, and
the doctrines therein announced applied to the facts of this case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
fr. W. P. Zynde for the appellant.
fIr. E. Mariner, contra.
I. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Transfers of property by an insolvent debtor, within four
months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against
such debtor, with a view to give a preference to any creditor,
is forbidden by the Bankrupt Act; and the provision is to the
effect that if any such insolvent debtor, within that period and
with that view, procures or suffers his property, or any part

DUTCHER V. WRIGHT.

[sup. C .

thereof, to be attached, sequestered, or seized on execution, or
makes any payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or convey-,
ance of his property, within that period and with that view,
the attachment or seizure and the payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance shall be void, if the person receiving the same, or to be benefited thereby, had reasonable
cause to believe that such debtor was insolvent, and that such
attachment, payment, pledge, assignment, or conveyance -was
made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act. 14 Stat.
534; Rev. Stat., sect. 5128.
Congress has also defined the meaning of certain terms employed in the Bankrupt Act, and has regulated the mode of
computing time "in all cases in which any particular number
of days is prescribed by the act, or shall be mentioned in any
rule or order of court, or general order which shall at any
time be made under the same, for the doing of any act or for
any other purpose," the rule enacted being that the computation "shall be reckoned, in the absence of any expression to
the contrary, exclusive of the first and inclusive of the last day,
unless the last day shall" be dies non within the judicial sense.
Rev. Stat., sect. 5013, p. 974.
Most of the matters of fact material to the decision of the
case are either admitted, or so fully proved that they may be
rcgarded as without dispute. Peterson, being insolvent, was,
on the 8th of April, 1870, adjudged bankrupt, pursuant to his
own petition filed in the District Court for the District of
Minnesota. Prior to that time he had long been engaged in
trade, doing business as a merchant in Rochester, in that State.
Sufficient appears also to show that the respondents were engaged in trade, doing business as wholesale merchants under
the firm name of Dutcher, Ball, & Goodrich, at Milwaukee, in
the State of Wisconsin; that the said Peterson, on the 8th
of December next before the time he was adjudged bankrupt,
and long before that time, was insolvent, and largely indebted
to the respondents for goods, wares, and merchandise theretofore sold and delivered to the bankrupt at his aforesaid place
of business; and that the bankrupt did then and there, to wit,
on the said 8th of December, with the knowledge, assent,
and procurement of the respondents, assign, transfer, and con-

Oct. 1876.]

DUTCHER v. WRIGHT.

555,

vey to the said respondents certain portions of his property,
consisting of promissory notes, securities, mortgages, and other
evidences of indebtedness, with a view to give a preference
to the respondents over the other creditors of the bankrupt,
and in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
Proof of a satisfactory character is exhibited in the record
to show that the assignment, transfer, and conveyance of the
said securities and property were made to the respondents with
a view to secure to them a preference over the other creditors
of the bankrupt; and that the respondents had reasonable cause
to believe that the -assignor, transferrer, and grantor was then
and there insolvent, and that the assignment, transfer, and
conveyance of the securities and property were made in fraud
of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act and to prevent the said
securities and property from coming to the possession of the
assignee of the bankrupt debtor for distribution among his
creditors, as required by law.
What the complainant charges is, that the securities and
property transferred, assigned, and conveyed to the respondents
belonged to him as the assignee of the bankrupt; and he prays
for an account, and that the moneys collected be paid to him
as such assignee, and that the securities uncollected be turned
over to him, for the benefit of the creditors of the bankrupt.
Process was served; and the respondents appeared and pleaded
the following defences: 1. That the securities and property
were not transferred, assigned, and conveyed within four
months next before the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
2. That the respondents were not served with process within
two years from the time the cause of action accrued.
3. That the District Court for the District of Minnesota had
ixclusive jurisdiction of the cause of action set forth in the
bill of complaint.
Instead of replying to the plea, the complainant under the
rule in that behalf obtained an order setting it down for hearing at the next term; and the parties at the time appointed
were fully heard, and the court overruled the several defences
set up in the plea.
Pursuant to leave, the respondents filed an answer to the

effect following, reference being first made to the admissions

DUTCHER V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

which the answer contains: 1. They admit that the iinsolvent
debtor was adjudged bankrupt on the day alleged in the bill
of complaint, and that the complainant was duly appointed
the assignee of the bankrupt's estate, as therein alleged; that
an assignment of his estate was in due form made to the complainant, as assignee of the bankrupt's estate, and that the
same became duly vested in him as such assignee; that the
bankrupt was, on that day, indebted to the respondents in
the sum of $1,741.12, for goods, wares, and merchandise which
their firm had previously sold to the bankrupt.
None of these facts are controverted; and it is also admitted
that one of the respondents, on the same day, had an interview
with--the bankrupt at the office of an attorney in the town
where the bankrupt resides, in relation to his indebtedness to
their firm, for the purpos6 of adjusting his indebtedness; and
that the bankrupt on that day gave the, respondents' firm a note
for the amount of his indebtedness to the firm, and that he assigned to the firm the notes and accounts against his customers
specified in the schedule exhibited in the record, and placed
the same in the hands of the said attorney for collection as collateral security for the note given to the firm, the balance, if
any, after paying the note and the expense of collecting the
collaterals, to be paid over to the bankrupt.
These collaterals, it is admitted, greatly exceeded the amount
of the bankrupt's indebtedness to the respondents; but they
allege as matter of defence that they had no reasonable cause
to believe, at the time of taking the same, that their debtor was
insolvent or unable to pay his debts, and aver that their partner, when he made the arrangement, acted in good faith, and
in the full belief that the bankrupt had assets sufficient to
pay all he owed, and leave him a surplus of $12,000 to
$13,000; that he was then in the possession of a valuable
stock of dry-goods and groceries; and that, from inquiries
their partner made of the debtor and the attorney with whom
the collaterals were deposited for collection, he, the .partner,
believed that the debtor had sufficient available assets to pay
all his debts, and to leave him a good surplus.
Beyond all doubt, the debtor was then insolvent; aad it does
not appear that the respondents or the active partner made any

Oct. 1876.]

DUTcHER v. WifGHT.

inquiries as to his pecuniary standing, except of the national
bank, where he was owing $1,700, and of the debtor and
the depositary of the notes and accounts assigned as collaterals; and they admit in the answer that their partner, in
order to perfect the arrangement, found it necessary to hold
out the inducement to the debtor, that, if he did not pay or
secure what he owed the firm, they would be obliged to sue
their claim, and collect the same by due process of law. Aided
by such inducements, the partner succeeded, and was permitted
to take enough of the debtor's notes and accounts to pay the
claim of the firm in full, and the expenses of collecting the
notes and accounts, with the understanding that the excess, if
any, should be delivered back to the debtor. Times became
hard with the debtor early in May preceding the arrangement,
as appears by the correspondence exhibited in the record, from
which it may reasonably be inferred that the firm were resolved to obtain security, or to enforce payment by legal proceedings.
Insolvency, in the sense of the Bankrupt Act, means that the
parT whose business affairs are in question is unable to pay
his debts as they become due, in the ordinary course of his
daily transactions; and a creditor may be said to have reasonable cause to believe his debtor to be insolvent when such a
state of facts is brought to his notice respecting the affairs and
pecuniary condition of his debtor as would lead a prudent man
to the conclusion that the debtor is unable to meet his obligations as they mature, in the ordinary course of his business.
.Buchananv. Smith, 16 Wall. 808; Toof et al. v. Martin,18 id. 40.
Reasonable cause for such a belief cannot arise unless. the
fact of insolvency actually existed; but if it appears that the
debtor giving the preference was actually insolvent, and that
the means of knowledge were at hand, and that such facts and
circumstances were known to the creditor securing the preference as clearly ought to have put a prudent man upon inquiry,
it must be.held that he had reasonable cause to believe that the
debtor was insolvent, if it appears that he might have ascertained the fact to be. so by reasonable inquiry. Seammon v.
Cole, 5 N. B. Reg. 263 ; Wilson v. City Ban7, 17 Wall. 487.
Witnesses were examined, the parties were heard, and the

DUTCHER V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ot.

court entered a decree in favor of the complainant; and the
respondents appealed to this court.
Certain important findings of fact are set forth in the interlocutory decree, as follows: 1. That the debtor, on the 8th of
December, 1869, was insolvent. 2. That the respondents then
and there had reasonable cause to believe that he was insolvent,
and that the assignment of notes and accounts set forth in the
answer was made by the debtor when insolvent, and with a
view to give a preference to the respondents as his creditors,
and that they then and there had reasonable cause to believe
that the assignment was made in fraud of the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act.
Suffice it to say that the proofs and the admissions contained
in the answer are suffcient to show that the findings of the
Circuit Court are correct, and that the decree there rendered
should be affirmed, unless the defences set up in the plea, or
some one of them, can be sustained. Defences of the kind
are not waived by filing an answer to the merits. They were
all presented in one plea, but they will be separately considered in the reverse order from which they are set forth in the
plea.
1. Suits may be ifistituted and prosecuted to final judgment
by an assignee in bankruptcy to recover the assets of the bankrupt in the Circuit or District Court in a district other than
that in which the decree in bankruptcy was entered, which is
all that need be said in response to the objection that the District Court, where the suit in this case was commenced, had no
jurisdiction to maintain the suit. Shear;nan v. Binglhanz, 7 N. B.
Reg. 490; Lathrop, Assignee, v. Drake et al., 91 U. S. 516.
2. Assignees have two years from the time the cause of
action accrued within which to enforce such a claim, and, inasmuch as the suit in the court below was instituted within that
time, the plea of limitation must be overruled. 14 Stat. 518.
8. Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the respondents
that the notes, accounts, and property were not assigned to
them within four months before the petition in bankruptcy was
filed in the District Court by the insolvent debtor. Both
parties agree that the petition in bankruptcy was filed April 8,
1870, and it appears both by-the bill of complaint and the plea

Oct. 1876.]

DUTcAER V. WRIGHT.

filed by the respondents that the notes, accounts, and property
were assigned by the bankrupt to the respondents the 8th of
December of the preceding year. Undisputed as the facts are,
the decision must turn upon the construction of the Bankrupt
Act. 14 Stat. 534; Rev. Stat., sect. 5128.
Taken literally, it might be suggested that the phrase, "fo u r
months before the filing of the petition," would exclude the day
the petition was filed, fractions of a day being forbidden in
such a computation; nor would it benefit the .respondents if
the rule prescribed by sect. 6013 of the Revised Statutes
should be applied, which is, that in all cases in which any particular number of days is prescribed in that title, or shall be
mentioned in any rule or order of court, or general order, which
shall at any time be made under the same for the doing of any
act, or for any other purpose, the same shall be reckoned, in
the absence of any expression to the contrary, exclusive of the
first and inclusive of the last day.
Where the phrase to be construed does not contain any expression to the contrary, the enactment is that that rule shall
apply, leaving it to be understood that the phrase to be construed may contain words prescribing its own rule in that regard, and that if it contains any inconsistent expression to the
contrary, that the rule prescribed in that section shdll not neccessarily control the meaning of the phrase to be construed.
Apply that qualification to the rule prescribed in sect. 5013,
and still it might be suggested that the meaning of the phrase,
"within four months before the filing of the petition," is entirely consistent with that rule.
Unless the day when the notes,-accounts, and property were
assigned, and the day when the petition in bankruptcy was
filed, are both included in the computation, the defence fails,
and the complainant is entitled to an affirmance of the decree.
Neither argument nor authority is found in the brief of the respondents supporting any such rule of construction, and it is
belie ied that no decided case can be referred to, where such a
theory was ever adopted. Decided cases may be found in which
it is held, where an act is required by statute to be done a certain number of days at least before a given event, that the time
must be reckoned, excluding both the day of the act and that of

DUTCHER V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. O

the event. The Queen v. The Justices, 8 Ad. & E. 178; Mitcel
v. Poster,12 id. 172; Zouch v. _Empsey, 4 B. & Ald. 522.
Search has been made in -vain for a decided case in which it
is held that both the day of the act and the day of the event
shall be included in the computation, in order to ascertain the
specified period of time. Cases may be found in which it is
held, that, where the computation is to be made from an act
done, the day on which the act is done is to be included. Arnold v. United States, 9 Cranch, 120.
Exceptions undoubtedly exist to that rule, and it must be
admitted that there are many cases in which it is held that the
last day is included and that the first is excluded.
Speakitig of the conflict of judicial decision upon the subject,
Lord Mansfield said that the cases for two hundred years had
only-served to embarrass a point which a plain man of common
sense and understanding would find no difficulty, in construing,
and he came to the conclusion that courts of justice ought to
construe the words of parties so as to effectuate their deeds and
not destroy them, and that "from the date" may, in popular
use and even in strict propriety of language, mean either inclusive or exclusive. Pugh v. Leeds, Cowp. 714.
Special reference was made to that decision in the case of
Griffith v. Bogert, 18 How. 158, in which this court held to the
effect that the general rule is to treat the day from which the
period of time is to be calculated, or terminus a quo, as inclusive,
and they applied that rule in the decision of that case; but
they remarked in the opinion that "every case must depend on
its own circumstances." Thirty years before that, the Supreme
Court of New York decided that it was the practice of that
court, where an act is to be done within a specified number of
days, to consider the day on which notice is given and the day
on which the act is to be done, the one inclusive and the other
exclusive, without any particular design ation that the one or
the other shall be exclusive. Gillespie v. White, 16 Johns.

(N. Y.) 120.
Three of the courts of England,- to wit, the King's Bench,
the Common Pleas, and the Exchequer,- forty-five years ago,
adopted the following rule to regulate the practice in those
courts: "That, in all cases in which any particular number of

Oct. 18T6.]

i]ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE.

days, not expressed to be clear days, is presciribed by the rules
or practice of the courts, the same shall be reckoned exclusively of the first day and inclusively of the last day, unless
the last day shall happen to" be dies non in legal contemplation.
8 Bing. 307.
Repeated attempts have been made to settle the question,
but different rules still prevail in different jurisdictions.
Due weight in every case should be given to the words of
the phrase to be construed, and by so doing many of the reported
cases otherwise seemingly inconsistent may be satisfactorily
reconciled.. Still it must be admitted that it is difficult, if not
impossible, to deduce from the reported decisions any rule which
will apply in all cases, nor is it necessary to make the attempt
in this case, as the court is unanimously of the opinion that the
day the petition in bankruptcy was filed must be excluded in
making the computation, and that the decree of the Circuit
Decree affirmed.
Court is correct. Rev. Stat., sect. 5013.

BT2TA Lum IwsuRAwcE ComPAxy v. FRAC0.
1. The relationship between a party and another for whose benefit he effects an
insurance upon his life, if a good and valid consideration in law f6r any gift
or grant, furnishes no ground for the imputation that the transaction was
by way of cover for a wager policy.
2. A. policy of insurance, taken out by a man upon his life for the benefit of his
sister, who has no insurable interest in his life beyond that of relationship,
is not void; and it is immaterial what is the arrangement between them for
the payment of the premiums.
3. Where, as in this case, the policy makes the declaration, the questions set
forth in the proposal and the answers to them, a part of the contract, and
declares, that, if they are found in any respect to be false and fraudulent,
it shall be void, the cour below did not err in charging the jury, that,
where the answers were qualified by the statement of the applicant that
they were as nearly correct as he could remember, the right to recover
would not be defeated, unless the jury were satisfied that the answers, or
some of.them, were untrue in any respect materially affecting the risk, and
that the assured knew of their incorrectness. .

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the ourt.
:36
VOL. IV.

