Oct. 1876.]

ATLANTIC DELAMN

ATLATo DLA=u

00. V. JAMES.

CompAwy v. JAmES.

The power of a court of equity to cancel an executed contract ought not to be
exercised, unless the fraud and false representations set up as the ground for
relief are clearly proved, and the complainant has been thereby deceived and
injured.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.AI. William H. Evarts and Hrk. A. Payne for the appellant.
Hr&. C. H. . il for the appellee.

Mr. JUsTICE

STROxG

delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill was originally filed by Charles T. James against the
Atlantic Delaine Company, George W. Chapin, and Lyman.B.
Frieze ; and, after the death of the complainant, it was revived
by his administratrix. Its object is to obtain a cancellation of
a release of James's interest in the capital stock of the company,
together with a retransfer of the stock, and an account. The
history of the transaction sought to be annulled is as follows,
so far as it is necessary now to refer to it: On the second day
of September, 1851, James made a general assignment of all his
property, for the benefit of his creditors, to Lyman B. Frieze.
Among the properties thus assigned was an interest in the capital stock of the company, for which certificates had never been
issued, but which, it is alleged, in equity belonged to the complainant. - The release sought to be cancelled was made by the
assignee. It was dated March 2, 1853, and acknowledged on
the 11th of the same month. Concurrently with it, the company executed a release to the assignee and tb the complainant
of all claims and demands, actions and causes of action whatsoever held by it against the complainant or his assignee, or
against the assigned estate. These mutual releases were intended as a settlement of mutual claims. The company was a
large creditor of General James. It held his mortgages, and
among them one upon his right to the capital stock and propertyof the corporation; and it had other claims against him,
and claims also against his assignee, as such, growing out of the

ATLANTIc DELAINE CO. V. JAMES.

[Sup. Ct

assignment. On the other hand, General James had claims
against the company, which passed by his deed of assignment
to his assignee. An arrangement was then made between the
assignee and the company, by which the latter accepted, in full
settlement of the claims it held against James and his assignee,
a conveyance of all the right, title, and interest which James
had at the date of his assignment, and which the assignee then
held, in and to the capital stock and property of the corporation; and mutual releases were exchanged. It is this transaction, and the assignee's release, which the complainant seeks to
have set aside, alleging that the release and conveyance were
obtained by fraud.
It is obvious, at first sight, that most of the allegations of the
bill have little, if any, relevancy to that subject. At most, they
are matters of inducement, introductory to the one important
averment upon which alone the bill can rest. That averment
is, in substance, that untrue and incorrect statements of the
condition and affairs of the company were exhibited to the complainant's assignee, with intent to deceive him; statements by
which he was deceived, and induced to consent to the settlement that was made, and to execute the release of the stock.
Unless this allegation has been sustained by proof, the complainant's suit must fail. It is admitted in the appellee's brief
that the case turns upon it.
We shall spend no time, therefore, in considering the introductory averments. Most of. them are unsustained by the evidence; and, were they all true, they would confessedly be of
no importance, if the principal averment is not proved.
The case exhibits but a single statement of the condition and
affairs of the corporation, made or furnished to either the complainant or to his assignee, and it is that one which is now
charged to have been false and fraudulent. The accuracy and
good faith of that alone is assailed. The circumstances that preceded its being furnished to Mr. Frieze, the assignee, were the
following: On the 5th of February, 1853, George W. Chapin,
the treasurer of the company, and the trustee in the mortgages
which James had given to secure the payment of $75,000 borrowed by him, and long past due, by virtue of a power contained
in the mortgages, advertised for sale the property described in

Oct. 1876.]

ATLANTIC DELAINE Co. V. JAMES.

209

-them, including General James's interest in the capital stock of
the Delaine Company. The times appointed for the sales were
the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth days of the same month;
but the sale of the stock was advertised for the twenty-sixth.
On the 15th of February, Frieze, the assignee of General.James,
sent the following note to Chapin "Pnovmn.NcE, Feb. 15, 1853.
"GnonGn W. CHEPnr, trustee for Hill, Carpenter, & Co., and others,
and treasurer of the Atlantic Delaine Company:
"DEAR Sm, - I feel it my duty to demand of you a statement
of the condition, standing, and accounts of the Atlantic Delaino
Company, so that I may be able to represent the delaine stock, &c.,
which you have advertised, as trustee, to be sold on the 25th and
26th instant, in its true light and value, and make it sell for what,
Wery truly yours,
it is worth.
"L. B. FnnzEE,
"Assi~,ee of Charles T. James."

The note upon its face explained for what the statement was
wanted. It -was that the assignee might know, so far as the
account would show, the -value of the stock, and that he might
guide his action by that knowledge. Before, however, any statement was made out and furnished, in answer to this demand, the
sale of the stock was enjoined; but, on the 26th of the month,
Chapin made out and sent to Mr. Frieze the following : Statement of the Atlantic 1Delaine Company, Jan.1, 1853.
. . . .
......
$410,615.39
.........
Bills payable ...
90,026.19
. . . . .
Due agents for advances on goods .
.
.
.
..
.
51,404.44
.
on
account
Due various persons
* . . . . . 237,495.53.
.........
Capital stock ...
$789,541.55
Crecit.
Cash and bills receivable, on hand ....
Cost of real estate, cassimere department, and amount
paid Charles T. James's contract account . *
.
S. .
.
Dud from Lyman B. Frieze, assignee .
*
. ,.
......
Due froni sundry persons .
. . .
Wool, cotton, and supplies at mill ....
. . .
Delaines, cassimeres, on hand . ......
............
Balance ....
•, .

8,584.92
310,006.04

53,314.77
2,061.38
190,692.17
149,516.74
70,365.53
$789,541.55

VOL. IV.

210.

ATLANTIC DELAINE CO. v. JAiES.

[Sup. Ct.

"I would state that our directors estimate that $50,000 or more
of the above balance accrued from the non-fulfilment of the contract with Charles T. James, which they shall prosecute against him
or his assignee.
"The above is a true copy from the books.
" (Signed)
GEORG:E W. CHAPix, Treasurer.
"PROVIDENCE, Feb. 26, 1853."
The Circuit Court was of opinion that this statement was
false and fraudulent, and that it was furnished with the intent
to deceive and defraud, by promoting a settlement prejudicial to
General James, and more favorable to the corporation than truth
and justice would admit. With this opinion we cannot concur.
A careful and thorough examination of all the evidence submifted has failed to convince us that there wos any substantial
error in the statement, or that it did not truly exhibit the condition, standing, and accounts of the company when it was given.
There are not many particulars in which it is now alleged the
exhibit was untrue. We shall notice all that are alleged.
1. It is said, on behalf of the complainant, that the item on
the debit side, "$410,615.39, bills payable," includes promissory notes amounting to $76,000, given by the company to their
agents in exchange for accepted drafts drawn upon the agents,
on account of manufactured goods consigned to them. Admitting such to be the fact, we do not perceive that it shows any
inaccuracy in the items. It is abundantly proved, and it is beyond all doubt true, that the sum of the company's notes outstanding at the time was exactly what it was stated to be, and
the company was liable for them all. The notes for $76,000,
equally with the others, were to be paid, either in money or out
of the proceeds of the goods in the agents' hands, if, from the
latter, the value of the goods would be correspondingly decreased.
But it is not denied that the statement credits the company with
the full value of the goods in the agents' hands, without making
any deduction for the drafts drawn against them. Besides, the
evidence is that the drafts, in exchange for which the notes for
$76,000 were given, were not in fact drawn against the consignments. They were accommodation acceptances. It is impossible, therefore, to conclude that this item on the debit side of
the statement, to which the complainant now objects, was not

Oct. 1876.]

ATLANTIo DELAINE CO. V. JAMES.

strictly accurate. No other inaccuracies in the debit side are
alleged.
2. The next allegation of falsehood in the statement refers
to the second item on the credit side, which is "cost of real
estate, cassimere department, and amount paid Charles T.
James's contract account, 8310,006.40." This sum was made
up of three items of expenditure, the first two not belonging
to the contract with James for building the mill; namely,
213,140.60 paid for the real estate, $40,250.33, the cost of the
cassimere department, and $256,615.11, the sum paid and
charged to General James on his contract for building the
mill. These items are admitted to have been correct. They
amount to the sum set out in the statement. But it is argued
the mill had cost more. It id said there was still due to General James ,on his contract the sum of $29,000, and he had a
claim for extra work, it is said, amounting to $79,000 more.
These two sums, it is argued, should have been added to the
$310,006.40, to show the true value of the real estate, cassimere
department, and mill. Yet it is obvious, had that been done,
it would have been necessary to carry the two sums to the
other side of the account, as debts due from the company, and
charge them there. Thus the apparent indebtedness of the
corporation would have been increased equally with the apparent increase of its assets, and the balance of the account would
have remained as stated. But the objection made to the item
misstates it ormisapprehends it. Mr. Chapin, the treasurer, did
not undertake to give the cost of the mill or its value. He
had no better means for estimating the value of the mill or its
cost than General James himself had, or than his assignee had.
James had undertaken to build it, and to furnish it with all
the machinery needed. He knew what the contract price for
building it was, and he knew what extra work had been done.
So did his assignee, who by the assignment had been directed
to go on and complete what the assignor had undertaken to do.
And when Mr. Frieze demanded a statement, it was a statement of the condition, standing, and accounts of the company.
'What was given in answer to the demand was not an estimate
of the value of the mill (which was not demanded), but a true
statement of the cost of the real estate and of the cassinere

ATLANTIC DELAINE CO. V. JAMES.

[Sup. Ct.

department, together with the amount paid General James on
his contract for completing the mill. The statement undertook to give nothing more, and there is no just reason for saying
that in this particular the statement was in the least degree
either fraudulent, imperfect, or untrue.
3. It is next contended that the fifth and sixth items on the
credit side were incorrect, and fraudulently so. Those items
are "wool, cotton, and supplies at mill, $190,692.17," and
"delaines, cassimeres on hand, $149,516.74." But we do not
find any considerable error in these sums, and certainly there
is no evidence that the very small error we do find was intentional. In addition to the number of cases of delaines which
the company had in the hand§ of Day, Owen, & Co. there
appears to have been a mistake of eleven cases, of the value of
$1,120. This is easily accounted for without imputing fraud.
It was simply a clerical omission of one column in adding, a
very common error in transcribing and footing up accounts.
And the error is too small and too unimportant to justify any
inference that it was not accidental. Apart from this, nothing
has been adduced to show that the quantity and value of the
wool, cotton, and supplies- at the mill, together with the delaines and cassimeres on hand, including those in the hands of
agents of the company, were not -truly represented in the
statement furnished to Frieze. No evidence whatever has been
given to prove that there was any greater quantity; and that
the valae was not under-estimated plainly appears in the fact
that the goods were very shortly afterwards sold, and brought
less at the sales by several thousand dollars than the sum at
which they have been estimated. Moreover, the correctness of
the items assailed is vindicated by their correspondence with
the inventory of the company, taken Dec. 31, 1852. It is said
that the items do not correspond with the exhibition made by
the trial balance of Dec. 31, ai.1 this is true; but the fact is
unimportant, for the trial balance exhibited the cost, while
the statement, corresponding with the inventory, exhibited what
was supposed to be the market value.
These are all the particulars in which it has been contended
the statement made to Frieze, the complainant's assignee, by
the treasurer of the corporation, is -false or fraudulent. Unsup-

Oct. 1876.]

ATLANTIC DELAINE CO. V. JALES.

ported as the attack upon the statement is, in our judgment, by
any considerable proof, its substantial correctness is vindicated
by convincing evidence. Not only.does the testimony of Mr.
Chapin, the treasurer of the company, prove it, but so also does
that of Mr. Blodget, an experienced book-keeper, and that of
Mr. Balch, an"eett
-selected for the complainant to examine
the books. Each of these witnesses affirms to the accuracy of
the statement. And the complainant has produced no evidence
to show that the Company had more property, or property of
greater value, or that its liabilities were less than represented
to him.
It is true, as has been urged upon our attention, that the
statement furnished concluded'with the following: "The above
is a true copy from the books," and this was not strictly correct. It was not a copy. There was in fact no such statement
on the books. But most of the items were there, and the books
were sufficient to enable the treasurer to make it up. If those
items were correctly extracted, it was of no importance whether
the statement was literally a copy or not. 'All that was probably meant was, that the particulars of the statement were taken
from the books. Yet, if not, if the representation that the
statement was a true copy from the books must be regarded as
intentionally untrue, it cannot be said to have been hurtful to
the complainant or to his assignee. What was asked for and
what was needed was a statement of the condition and affairs
of the compapy, to enable AIr. Frieze to estimate the value of
the stock, and to take measures to have it bring its value at the
impending sale. If the statement he got in response to his
demand was a true representation of the condition of the company (which we think it substantially was), he cannot be said to
have been deceived or defrauded by it ; and his testimony in this
case is that he doei nct tbi-nk he was deceived. -He submitted
the statement to a judicious friend ; -and, acting on. the advice of
that friend, as well as on his own judgment, he agreed to the settlement that was made, - a settlement in which, as it seems to
us now, he obtained all that the stock Nvas then worth. It was
not until nearly six years afterwards -no complaint of unfairness having been made to the defendants in the mean time
that this bill was filed to undo -what had been done, and to pro-

UNITED

STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot

cure a cancellation of the mutual releases and of the transfer
of the stock to the corporation. Cancelling an executed contract is an exertion of the most extraordinary power of a court
of equity. The power ought not to be exercised except in a
clear case, and never for an alleged fraud, unless the fraud be
made clearly to appear; never for alleged false representations,
unless their falsity is certainly proved, and unless the complainant has been deceived and injured by them. We think no such
case is now presented. The fundamental averment of fraud is
not sufficiently sustained by proof. The bill must, therefore, be
dismissed.
Decree reversed, and cause remitted with instructionsto dismiss
the bill.

MTR. JusTIcE C-FoRD dissented.

UMTrn

STATES V. SMTH.

1. By reason of its improper suspension of the work of a contractor, who had
agreed to supply the skilled labor and the materials necessary for the erection of certain buildings for its use, the United States is liable in the Court
of Claims for such damages as lie has actually sustained.

2. The finding of facts by the Court of Claims, in the nature of a special verdict,
is conclusive here, unless impeached for some error in law appearing in the
record.
3. That court, in estimating damages, must be governed by the proofs submitted;
but it is not required to set forth the elements of the calculation by which
it arrives at its final result.
4. That court may, however, be asked by either party to state whether a particu-

lar item of charge or of damage is included in its finding, and, if so, to what
amount.

from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit by the appellee to recover damages for the
suspension of his contract with the United States. By the
contract the parties agreed: First, The said Joseph Smith, his heirs, executors, and administrators, agrees to superintend or cause to be superintended,
and assist the soldiers in the erection of buildings at post of
Beaver, Utah, according to plans and specifications; and agrees,
APPEALJ

