808

MACKALL V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL CO.

IIACKAL V. CHESAPEAKE ANiD

[Sup. Ct.

OHIO CAAL CoM-

PANY.
1. The canal and other works of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
situate in the District of Columbia, having, by an act of Congress of March
3, 1825 (4 Stat. 101), been exempted from taxation, a sale in 1864 of any
part thereof, on account of taxes alleged to be due thereon, was void.
2. The question of the company's forfeiture of their right to hold, free from taxation, property after they ceased to use it for canal purposes, can be judi.
cially determined only in a direct proceeding by the public authorities. It
cannot be made an issue for the first time in the trial of a question of private right between other parties.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action of ejectment for a part of Square No. 8,
in the city of Washington. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company, plaintiff below, proved a complete paper title to the
land, and a continuous occupation of it for thirty years prior to
1867. The defendant entered that year.
Proof was made of an act of the legislature of Virginia,
approved Jan. 27, 1824, entitled "An Act incorporating the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company," the 'ninth section of
which provides, "That for and in consideration of the expenses,
the said stockholders will be at . . . the said' canal and all
other works aforesaid, &c., shall be vested, &c., and be for ever
ex empt from the payment of any tax, imposition,, or assessment
whatsoever;" and also of an act of. Congress approved March
8, 1825 (4 Stat. 101).
It appeared from the proof that the land in dispute had not
been used for canal purposes since the year 1830, but had been
leased or rented to various parties. The defendant below
thereupon offered to show that it had been regularly listed and
entered for taxation, and sold in 1864 for the non-paymeit of
taxes assessed against it; and that he was in possession, claiming under a deed from the authorities of the District pursuant
to such sale. The court excluded the evidence.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and a judgment
was rendered thereon. The defendant then sued out this writ,
and assigns for error the action of the court below in excluding
the evidence offered by him.
ERRorI

Va .1876.]

FULLER v. YENTZER.

cuit judge, it would seem that the complainants did not claim
that the respondents had constructed improvements not within
their patent, but that they, the'complainants, could claim under
their patent every form of mechanism by which a creaser is
attached or adjusted to a sewing-machine, by which unity of
adjustment is accomplished, which is plainly an erroneous
construction of their patent.
Viewed in the light of all the proofs, the court is of the
opinion that the apparatuses constructed and sold by the
respondents were constructed in conformity to the patents
under which they justify in their answer.
Five of the claims of the patent, to wit, the first, second,
fifth, sixth, and eighth, are involved in the charge of infringement in the third suit, which is the second suit under consideration in this case. Enough has already been remarked to
show what the opinion of the court is in respect to the construction of the patent, and that the decision of the case
depends upon the question of infringement. What has already
been remarked is sufficient to explain the views of the court as
to the nature and character of the apparatus of the complainants, and its mode of operation, and it will be sufficient to refer
to the opinion just delivered for a full exposition of the views
of the court as to the nature, character, and mode of operation
of the patent under which the respondents justify in their
answer. Better means of comparison and decision need not be
required than is foand in the respective specifications of these
patents. Careful comparison of the two instruments has been
accordingly made, and the court is unhesitatingly of the opinion that the charge of infringement is not proved, atid that
there is no error in the record.
Decrees affirmed.

nI. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE MMLER, Mn.
JUSTICE STRONG, and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissented.

306,

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct,

complainants, and the burden of proof is upon them to sustain
the charge. Beyond doubt, it is established in these cases that
all the elements or ingredients of the patented apparatus are
old, and that the invention consists in the combination or
arrangement of the several- devices of which the apparatus is
composed.
Differences exist in the answers filed in the two cases; but
the respondents in both aver and allege that all the tuckmarkers or creasers coustructed, used, or sold by them were
constructed under the patents to Enoch S. Yentzer, and in
conformity therewith, and that they have in no respect in
fringed or violated the rights of the complainants. Coming to
that proposition, it is _ plain that it involves two questions:
1. Whether the respondents have constructed, used, or sold
apparatuses not constructed in conformity with the patent
under which they seek to justify all their acts. 2. Whether
the apparatuses which they have constructed, used, or sold
infringe the patent described in the bill of complaint.
Some difficulty attends the solution of the first question,
because all the evidence applicable to the three cases was taken
together, to. save expense. It consists of depositions, admissions, documents, models, and other exhibits; but, in view of
the whole, the court is of the opinion that the apparatuses constructed and sold by the respondents were constructed in
conformity with the patents under which they profess to act.
Support to -that view is also derived from the opinion of the
circuit judge exhibited in the record, in which he admits that
the 'complainants would be entitled to a decree if their construction of the Rose patent was correct. Damages are
claimed in that case for an alleged infringement of the sixth
claim of the patent, which is for tuck-creasing mechanism such
as described, having its upper and lower parts connected, and
together adjustable as to its relation with, the needle of a
sewing-mad.ilie, and operated by the sewing-machine, as set
forth.
Nothing can be plainer than the proposition that the claim
there made is for the previously described apparatus, when arranged in a sewing-machine, as the motive power for operating
the patented apparatus. Judging from the opinion of the cir-

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZEM.

feeding device of the sewing-machine, fs already sufficiently
explained, the work of sewing being performed during the same
operation of the feeding device.
Detailed description is given of the elements of the apparatus, from which it plainly appears that the invention does not
include any described means of attaching the apparatus to the
sewing-machine. Particular means of the kind are neither
described nor claimed, nor are they shown in the drawings in
a way to justify the conclusion that the means of attaching the
apparatus to the motive power are any part of the invention.
Instead of that, the patentee states that motion may be imparted to the apparatus in any convenient manner; nor is
there any thing in any one of the eight claiais of the reissued
patent which would afford any support to a different theory.
Fuller's patent for his own invention preceded that of Rose
by several years; but it is evident from a comparison of the
two that they are substantially different in many respects, so
that the latter may be considered as valid to the same extent
that it would have been if the first invention had never been
made.
Improvements in an apparatus of the ind may be valid if
new, and if they accomplish a new and useful result, even
though all the elements of the same are old, provided the combination or arrangement of the elements is new and of such a
character that it involved invention to construct the combination or arrangement. When a subsequent apparatus is substantially the same as -one which precedes it, the former is not
the proper subject of a patent; but if it be substantially different in construction and mode of operation, then it is as much,
the proper subject of a patent as if nothing of the kind hadever before been invented.
Tested by these rules, it is clear that the Rose patent is not
superseded by the Fuller patent, which preceded it in point of
time.
Two of 'the defences set up by the respondents, to wit, the
first and second, must also be overruled, for the reason that
they are not sustained by the proofs exhibited in the record.
They also deny infringement, and the decision in the case
must turn upon that issue. Infringement is charged by the
VOL. Iv.

20

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct.

rise and open by the elasticity of the springs, the fabric being
advanced by the feeding mechanism of the sewing-machine.
Movements of the kind are continued and the pinching process
repeated until the cloth is fed through the machine, causing a
well-defined ridge to be formed in the fabric by the creaser at
the same time that a seam is sewed in the folded part of the
same, forming a tuck.
Eight claims are appended to the specification, and the
charge is that the respondents have infringed the first, second,
fifth, sixth, and eighth, five in all, substantially as follows:
1. 'The mechanism as 4escribed for forming a Hidge or ridges
on fabrics to be afterwards folded'in the line of such ridge.
2. The method of nipping or pinching the fabric to form ridges
or creases thereon by means of jaws opened and closed at intervals to seize and pinch the fabric when at rest, and then
release it as the same is moved along intermittently by a suitable feeding mechanism. 3. The combination of the creasing
device or devices of a tuck-marker with a jointed lever, for the
purposes set forth. 4. A tuck-creasing mechanism, such as
described, having its upper -and lower parts connected, and together adjustable, as to its relations -with the needle of a sewing-machine, and operated by the sewing-machine, as set forth.
5. The combination with a tuck-marker having upper and
under parts connected, and together adjustable as specified, of
the lever and spring, for the purposes set forth.
Argument to show that a result is not patentable is not necessary, as that proposition is decided in the opinion in the preceding case, as ivell as in many other cases to which reference
might be made. Apply that rule to the several claims of the
patent in this case, which it is alleged the respondents have
infringed, and it is clear that they are all for the apparatus, or
certain portions of the apparatus, described in the specification
of the patent set forth in the bill of complaint.
Whether tested by the descriptive portion of the specification or by the specific claims appended to the same, it is clear
that the invention consists of a described apparatus intended to
be attached to a sewing-machine for the purpose of making a
mark, ridge, or crease in cloth by a succession of "nips or
pinches thereof" while it has motion imparted to it by the
-

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

and removal of the work; and this spring-branch shown in the
drawings is made to hold the outer jaw away from the inner
one when in the normal position there exhibited.
Creases are to be made in the fabric, and the design is that
the creasing action shall take place as nearly as possible in front
of the needle, and in line with the arm of the sewing-machine;
and, to secure that, an extension-plate is provided extending out
laterally fr'om the base-plate in line with the movement of the
feeding device, which supports the material under the jaws, andreceives their impinging action in the operation of making the
crease. By that arrangement the creasing devices are brought
across the presser-foot in the proper location with respect to
the needle for performing the creasing operation:
Upper and under devices are employed, on opposite sides of
the cloth, to effect the patented result, and a particular description is given of the means and mode of operation of the same,
by which the jaws seize the fabric, and double up and compress
the same so as to produce the described creases by the apparatus when attached to a sewing-machine. When properly
attached, the several parts of the apparatus are so arranged
that the lever is immediately under the arm of the sewingmachine, and the arm, when the machine is operated, will
strike the lever and actuate the creaser or tucker.
Tucking may also be done by the apparatus when attached
to a sewing-machine; but, in order to accomplish that, a fold
must first be made, by hand, in the fabric, the gauge being
fastened by a set-screw to make the seam the proper distance
from the edge of the required tuck. Fit means are also shown
in the drawings for adjusting the apparatus in such relation to
the needle that the distance from the needle to the jaws will
be at least double the distance between the needle and the gauge.
Suffice it to say that one movement or alteration of either
part will adjust the whole tucker with respect to the needle, as
the upper part is permanently connected with the under part,
and when hdjusted as required the fabric is placed in the machine with the folded edge against the gauge, and the machine
being started, the lever carries down the spring-branch and
with it the jaws to the surface of the fabric, which- operate as
before explained. On the upward motion of the arm the jaws

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct.

of the fabric and compressing the same tightly, the fabric at
the same time being properly supported against the descending
force of the jaws, and which operation, being repeated while the
fabric is moved along, produces the required ridge or crease, in
the line of which the fabric will naturally fold, to facilitate the
forming of the tuck for future operations.
Said invention also comprises certain details of construction,
arrangement, and combination to adapt tuck-markers for use
in connection with sewing-machines, forming a tuck-creasing
mechanism having an upper and under part adjustable as to its
relation with the needle of a sewing-machine, and to be operated
by the sewing-machine. Reference is made to the drawings for
the different views of the apparatus when properly arranged in
a sewing-machine in operation, to effect the described result.
Detailed description is also given of the various elements or
ingredients of the apparatus and of their mode of operation.
Mention is first made of the base-plate, which has an upright
standard firmly secured thereto, so as to form a permanent part
of the apparatus. To the upper end of the standard a lever is
jointed which carries a spring-branch, buckled at its lower end
with the blade that forms one of the jaws for seizing and
crimping the fabric. Freedom of motion to. and from the fabric
is insured by the lever, jointed as before explained, the suggestion being that the stiffness of the leather prevents any lateral
motion of the creasing device; and the statement is that the
lever is a!so designed to receive the force of the arm or other
moving part of the sewing-machine, and that it transmits the
motion directly to the jaws through the spring-branch, which is
carried by the lever jointed to the upper end of the standard.
Besides the base-plate there is a plate called the bed-plate,
with a small upright projection, to which is permanently fixed
a spring-blade having its front end bent downward, and which
forms a mate to the jaw already described. These jaws are
hinged together, as shown in the drawings, their lower ends
being sharp or serrated, in order more readily to seize the
fabric.
Effectual means are provided to cause the marking device to
react after each creasing action, and follow the upward motion
of the needle-arm, in order to give room for the free insertion

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

tuck-creaser, independent of the creasing devices, and that the
respondents, since the first day of May, 1872, have infringed
the same, as more fully set forth in the bill of complaint.
Process was served; and the respondents 'appeared and filed
an answer, setting up the following defences, which it is important to notice: 1. That the supposed improvement was not
patentable, because it had been in public use more than'two
years before the inventor applied for a patent. 2. That it was
not patentable, because it was well known and had been in
common use long before the alleged invention. 8. They deny
the charge of infringement, and justify all their acts under a
patent granted to Enoch S. Yentzer, dated May 28, 1872, for
an improvement in tuck-markers for sewing-machines.
Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the Circuit Court
entered a decree in each case, dismissing the bill of complaint.
Immediate appeal was taken by the complainants in each case
to this court, and the questions here are the same as those
considered and decided in the Circuit Court.
Previous to that invention the statement of the inventor is
that fabrics were marked or creased by a protuberance or point
and a notch or indentation caused to impinge upon opposite
sides of the fabric, and the patentee states that that mode of
marking or creasing the fabric is open to the objection that fine
goods will sometimes be cut by the marking operation, while in
heavy or flimsy goods the crease is often insufficiently defined.
Instead of the point and notch, the present invention forms
marks, ridges, or creases in the fabric by a succession of nips or
pinches of the same while it has motion imparted to it, in line
with the crease. Motion is usually given to the fabric, by the
feed-mechanism of a sewing-machine, in which it is intended it
shall be used as an attachment; but the motion may be imparted
to the fabric in any other manner.
Objections, it is said, exist to other modes of forming creases
for the described purpose, and that the process of nipping or
pinching i5 designed to obviate those objections to other tuckmarkers, and to produce a more efficient instrument. Devices
called jaws are provided for the purpose, which are caused to
descend while open, with more or less force or pressure, on the
fabric, and then in being closed are capable of seizing a portion

FULLE.R V. YENTEB.

[Sup. Ot

Hr. B. B. Barnum and Hr. E. N. Dickerson for the appel.
lants.
Hfr. Walter B. Scates, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Modifications or alterations in an invention consisting in a
combination of old ingredients, which merely substitutes another old ingredient for one of the ingredients in the patented
combination, is an infringement of the patent, if the substitute
performs the same function and was well known at the date of
the patent as a proper substitute for the one omitted from the
patented invention; but the rule is otherwise if the ingredient
substituted is a new one, or performs a substantially different
function, or was not known at the date of the patent as a proper
substitute for the one omitted from the patented combination.
Both of these suits were instituted by Henry W. Fuller, who
b 3came, by certain mesne conveyances, the owner of the invention by assignment in due form. Since then, Isaac W. Barnum,
having become the owner of the patent, was, on motion of the
respondents, made a party complainant in each of the two
suits.
Sufficient appears to show that Israel M. Rose was the supposed inventor of the improvement; that the original patent
was granted to James Wilcox, assignee of the inventor; that
the first-named complainant, having subsequently become the
owner of the patent, surrendered the same; and that the reissued
patent, bearing date Dec. 1, 1868, on which the present suits
are founded, was granted to the rightful owner of the invention
at the date of the reissued patent.
Remarks respecting the title of the complainants are unnecessary, as it is not questioned by the respondents, nor is it
necessary to enter into any comparison of the reissued patent
with the original, as the means for such comparison are not
exhibited in the record.
Briefly stated, the allegation is that the patented invention
consists of a new and useful improvement in mechanism for
marking cloth in a sewing-machine, or for a new method of
marking a crease in cloth by what is known as the pinching
process, and for other improvements in the mechanism of P

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER . YENTZEs.

employed in the apparatus of the respondents, and the difference is at once seen to be material and obvious; as, for example,
the bar which holds the cloth to the bed-plate in the latter
apparatus is attached to one end of the bed-plate, and extends
lengthwise of it, and is rigidly fastened to the marking-blade,
forming a different combination from that exhibited in the
other apparatus, inasmuch as the bar which holds the cloth to
the bed-plate is made to bear harder thereon when the springarm is brought down on the blade than when the needle-arm is
ascending. Detach the bar from the bed-plate in the respondents' apparatus and no marking can be done, but the marker
will continue to perform its function in the complainants'
apparatus, even though the smooth plate were detached from
the device fastened to the presser-foot.
Differences of equal importance might be continued at
much greater length, but the court is of opinion that those
already pointed out are amply sufficient to* show that the
decision of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of. complaint
is correct, and there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

MR. CmIMF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE MM1LER, MR.
JUSTICE STRONG, and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
SA.UI

v. GOODRICH.

1. Reissued letters-patent No. 8,218, granted Dec. 1, 1868, to Henry W. Fuller,
assignee, by mesne assignments, of Israel M. Rose, for an improvement in
a tuck-creasing attachment in sewing-machines, were not superseded by letters-patent No. 28,633, issued June 5, 1860, to Henry W.Fuller and Anthony
W. Goodell.
2. The court holds that the apparatus constructed, used, and sold by the respond.
ents do not infringe ,the complainants' patent.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Or,

the complainants' apparatus are moved on the bar projecting
out from the frame attached to the presser-foot of the sewingmachine, the bar projecting out from the needle-arm necessarily
strikes the spring-arm at another point on the bar, showing that
the two devices operate on distinct principles, as they are controlled and regulated by different mechanical means.
Wide differences also exist in the operation of the markingpoints, when one apparatus is compared with the other. Suitable means for adjusting the marking-point are shown in the
complainants' patent, but the marking-point in the respondents' apparatus is stationary. In the complainants' apparatus
it is adjustable in a slot made in the bed-plate, so that it
may be moved longitudinally to correspond with the notches
or bearings in the end of the spring-arms when the latter are
adjusted, it appearing that one marking-point in that apparatus
projects up from the bed-plate, and that the other markingp~oint extends down from one of the spring-arms; that the
point in the bed-plate operates in a bearing or notch in one of
the spring-arms, and that the other spring-arm has a point
operating in a bed in the slot made- in the bed-plate, which
sho*s that either spring-arm, with its respective marker, may
perform the same functions substantially as the other springarm.
From these remarks, it follows- that the point or bar tor
marking, in the complainants' apparatus, must necessarily be
adjusted in the bed-plate to a distance corresponding to the
movement of the spring-arms. Unlike that, the marking-point
in the respondents' apparatus is stationary, and in that particular is entirely different, as all must admit who have given
the matter any examination whatever.
Besides, there is in the patented apparatus a curved or
movable plate attached to a horizontal arm or frame-piece
fastened to the presser-foot, the function of which plate is the
holding of the cloth smooth on the bed-plate as it passes
through the apparatus. One end of the movable plate is elevated above the bed of the machine, while the other end is
curved, and broaght nearly or quite to the bed-plate of the
marker, and operates independently of the other mechanism.
Compare those means for holding the cloth with the means

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

different from the one which preceded it. Gill v. WFells, 22
Wall. 14.
Such an invention, if it produces a new and useful result, is
the proper subject of a patent, and such a patent is valid and
operative; but the'right of the patentee under it differs in one
respect from those of 'a patentee for an inventidn which consists
of an entire machine, or of a new and useful device, as the
rights of a patentee for a mere combination of old ingredients
are not infringed, unless it appears that the alleged infringer
made, used, or sold the entire combination. Gould v. Rees,
15 Wall. 194; Prouty v. Buggles, 15 Pet. 341; Vance v. Canpbell, 1 Black, 428.
Beyond doubt, that rule is correct; but the mere substitution
of another old ingredient for one of the ingredients of a patented
invention is not a good defence for an infringer, ii the substitute performs the same function as the ingredient for which it
was substituted, and was well known at the date of the patent
as a proper substitute for the omitted ingredient; but the rule
is otherwise if the ingredient substituted was a new one, or
performed a substantially different function, or was not known
at the date of the patent in question as a proper substitute for
the one omitted, as in that event the defendant does not infringe. Boberts v. .arnden, 2 Cliff. 504.
Substantial differences between the apparatus of the respondents and the patented improvement of the complainants other
than those referred to may also be pointed out, which of themselves are quite sufficient to show that the charge of infringement is not established.
By the patent of the respondents it appears that their apparatus contains an additional device, consisting of a, slide-guide,
the function of which appears to be to regulate the width of the
tuck, the scales being marked on the bed-plate to be used as a
guide for that purpose. Plainly no such device is shown in the
appa4atus of the complainants. Instead of that, they adjust
the spring-arms which are on the bar projecting out from the
framework or bridge attached to the presser-foot.
When the slide-guide in the respondents' apparatus is moved,
th6 needle-arm still continues to strike the spring-lever or
spring-arm on the same place; but when the spring-arms in

FULLER

v. YmENTZER.

[Sup. Qk.

to the double blade or marker, nor is the double blade attached
to any horizontal bar projecting out from the presser-foot, as i4
the apparatus of the complainants.
Without more, the differences suggested are sufficient to
warrant the conclusion that the construction and mode of operation employed by the respondents is substantially different
from the means and mode of operation described in the specification of the complainants' patent.
Expert witnesses testify that the bar projecting out from the
frame attached to the presser-foot, the spring marker-arm, and
the bed-plate are all necessary in the apparatus of the complainants to perform the function described in the specification, and
the court, without hesitation, concurs in that conclusion; and
the witnesses also state that if any one of those devices -be omitted the apparatus will be wholly inoperative, except that perhaps one marker instead of two might answer the purpose to
some extent, as set forth in the specification.
Beyond doubt, all those devices must co-operate to effect the
described result; and it is equally clear that neither those devices nor any of them can be substituted by any device in the
respondents' patent or apparatus without reconstruction and
invention, nor would any thing short of invention enable the
constructor to successfully use the devices shown in either apparatus in the other, so as to render" the apparatus operative
to effect the result described in the complainants' patent. None
of the elements of the patented apparatus are new, and it follows that the patent consists in the described apparatus or in
the combination of the old elements of which the apparatus is
composed.
Valid letters-patent undoubtedly may be granted for an inveiition which consists entirely in a new combination of old
elements or ingredients, provided it appears that the new combination of the ingredients produces a new and useful result;
but the rule is equally well settled that the invention in such
a case consists merely in the new combination, and that a suit
for infringement cannot be maintained against a party who
constructs or uses a substantially different combination, even
though it includes the exact same elements or ingredients, if
the combination is in fact new and useful, and substantially

Oct. 18T6.]

FULLER v. YENTZER.

vided with two slides or markers, - one being a point operating
in an elastic bed fastened to the plate of the marker, and the
other being a point or sharp device fastened to the bed-plate
and operating on an elastic bed .attached to one of the described
spring-arms. Attached to the needle-bar is the arm which supports the pencil, and in the downward movement of the bar it
comes in contact with the spring-arms and causes the described
points to mark the cloth.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
distinct features of the invention consist in the elevated bar
projecting out of the frame attached to the presser-foot, the
described spring-arm, the bar projecting out from the needlearm with the described points, and the bed-plate on which they
strike.
Turn from that to the patent of the respondents, or to the
apparatus which they make, use, and sell, and it appears beyond
all doubt that the apparatus of the respondents is substantially
different in many respects from the patented improvement of
the complainants. There is no framework in the respondents',
apparatus, projecting out from the presser-foot, nor any horizontal bar projecting out from the framework, nor are there
any spring-arms .attached to any horizontal bar, nor is there any
horizontal bar projecting out from the needle-arm to operate
any such spring-arms as those described in the complainants'
specification.
Instead of that there is, in the apparatus of the respondents,
a pivoted double-spring blade operating on both sides of an
upwardly projecting point. Effective means for operating that
blade are also shown, and it appears that they consist in a
spring-arm attached to the bed-plate of the marker which extends over the double blade, and that a vertical slot is made in
the spring-arm through which the needle passes, and allows the
lower end of the needle-arm\to force the spring down on to the
-double blade while the cloth passes under,the blade and over
the sharp point, by which the elasticity of that portion of the
cloth is lessened so that it will readily bend to form a tuck at
the marked place.
Other differences are also apparent; as, for example, the
spring-arm in the apparatus of the respoidents is not attached

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ct

expert evidence exhibited in the record; and the court is of
the opinion that the invention of the complainant, when the
patent is properly construed, is not embodied in the apparatus
constructed, sold, or used by the respondents, as charged in the
bill of complaint.
Two distinct devices are shown in the complainants' patent
-vhich operate upon the cloth when being sewed in a sewingmachine, so as by the one to leave a mark, and by the other to
make a crease in the cloth to indicate where it should be folded
for the future operation. Briefly described, one of the devices
consists of a pencil arranged as before explained, and the other
consists of the notch and the point fitting into it, called the
markers, and placed on opposite sides of the cloth, and which
are operated by the needle-arm, and so arranged in their connections as to vibrate in unison with the needle to press the
cloth in the notch while the needle is in the cloth, thereby
forming a crease in the same parallel to the line of sewing, for
the purpose of indicating the place for the next fold.
Creases of the kind are made by the point and notch, but the
pencil is employed to make a mark on the cloth when the cloth
is moved under it, as a guide for folding the cloth, as before
sufficiently explained. No such device as the pencil or its
equivalent is found in the respondents' apparatus, nor any thing
which will perform the same function, or which has or can be
made to have the same mode of operation. Nothing of the
kind is exhibited in their apparatus, nor is any thing of the
kind described in the patent under which they profess to work,
nor are there any means or mechanism exhibited or described
whereby such a device can be employed in the apparatus or be
made to operate to mark the cloth in any manner so that the
same could be evenly folded.
In the complainants' apparatus the pencil is fastened to a bar
which projects out from the needle-arm in nearly a horizontal
direction, entirely unlike any thing shown in the respondents'
apparatus. Projecting outward from the presser-foot, and fastened to it, is a substantial frame-piece, called a bridge by one
of the witnesses, which supports a bar running parallel with
the bed of the machine and nearly parallel with the needle-arm,
which eupports one or more spring-arms, the same being pro-

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

presser-foot of the sewing-machine may be fitted in any convenient manner; but where a holder or arm to the presser-foot
is used in the manner shown, the hole into which the bar sets
may pass through the same and be provided with a clampingscrew, so that the bar attached to the presser-foot can be inserted
from the other side, and in that case the plate also should stand
on the other side of the needle, a second slot being provided for
the purpose. Change to the other side must also be made in
the arm of the apparatus, extending from the needle-arm of the
sewing-machine to the marking-point first described and the
device to regulate the distance for the second line of stitching.
Corresponding variations must be made in the manner of
attaching the apparatus to the sewing-machine, and the patentee states that the vibrating motion may be given to the
markers by the needle-bar, or by any other suitable device.
Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the Circuit Court
entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint, and the complainants appealed to this court.
Want of novelty in the supposed invention, and the denial
of infringement by the respondents, constitute the two defences
set up in the answer; but the evidence to overcome the prima
facie presumption that the patentee is the original and first
inventor being insufficient for the purpose, the first defence
must be overruled.

Cammeyer v. Newton, supra, p. 225.

Grant that, and it follows that the decision in the case before
the court must depend upon the question of infringement.
Without more, the remarks already made are sufficient to show
that the patented improvement is a combination of old elements
constituting an apparatus for effecting the results described in
the specification.
Intentional infringement is alleged by the complainants, and
the burden is upon them to prove the allegation, as the charge
imputes a wrongful act to the respondents.
Where the invention is embodied in a machine, the question
of infringement is best determined by a comparison of the machine or apparatus constructed or used by the respondent -with
the mechanism described in the specification of complainant's
patent. Comparison of the kind has been carefully made
by the court in the case under consideration, aided by the

FULLER V. YENTZER.

rSup. ct.

as springs are also provided, so that the marking-point amd the
marking-notch are raised from the cloth, except when acted on
by the arm of the apparatus. Springs are also used in conneetion with the adjustable marking-arms, so as to yield in case of
inequality in the thickness of cloth and not to interfere with
the full stroke of the needle-bar.
Enough appears to show that the apparatus is attached to the
bed of a sewing-machine, to which a plate is screwed which
carries another adjustable marking-point, formed somewhat
similar to the marking-point previously described, and the device or its equivalent employed to regulate the distance of the
second line from the one being sewed.
Two marking-points are particularly described; and the representation is that they are both made thin, round, blunt, and
chisel-formed, so as not to injure or catch on the cloth, and that
the one shown in the third figure of the drawings may be fitted
,to slide in a groove to render the same adjustable at the desired
distance from the needle, or that several such points may be
formed or attached permanently at short distances apart.
Speaking of the device to regulate the distance for the second
line of sewing, the patentee states that it may be adjustable,
and that it will form a crease for the marking-point, and that
it may be set in a small metal holder, or it may be constructed
of sufficient length to comprise the whole distance to which the
marking-point may be adjusted.
Three marking-points and the notch are mentioned in the
specification ; and the statement is that the one first mentioned
and the device employed to regulate the distance for the second
line produce a downward crease, and that the notch and the
other marking-point shown in the third figure of the drawings
produce an upward crease when the cloth is exposed to the
action of these parts by passing between the same.
In order to give motion to these markers, the bar or arm of
the apparatus strikes on the spring part of the adjustable
marking-arms, which extend from the bar attached to the
presser-foot, pressing the surfaces together, and cramping or
creasing the cloth.
For tucking, the markers should extend on the other side of
the needle-arm, and for that purpose the bar attached to the

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

Concede that a result is not patentable, which is clearly
shown to be true by the preceding remarks, and two things follow as a necessary consequence: 1. That the invention described in the first claim is merely the described apparatus for
forming one, two, or more creases in cloth by means of markers
on opposite sides of the cloth, for the purpose and in the manner
and by the means therein described, it being clearly understood
that the patentee does not claim the described means of attaching the patented apparatus to a sewing-machine. 2. That the
invention described in the second claim is merely the described
apparatus for marking a line on the surface of cloth or other
material sewed on a sewing-machine, by means of a pencil or
similar article pressed upon the surface of the cloth at the time
the needle perforates the same, for the purpose and in the manner and the means described, excluding the means by which
the patented apparatus is attached to a sewing-machine.
Special reference is made to the principal features of a sewing-machine; but inasmuch as the apparatus may be attached
to any such machine, it is not deemed necessary to cuter into
those details, especially as the patentee states to the effect that
the sewing is to be performed by the needle of the machine to
which the apparatus is attached, in connection with a shuttle,
looper, or other similar device.
Particular mention is. made of the operative devices of the
patented apparatus for marking lines parallel to the line of
sewing and for forming the creases in the cloth, as shown in
the drawings. Briefly stated, those devices are as follows:
1. An arm extending from the needle-arm or bar, and vibrating
with the same. 2. -A pencil, chalk, or point adjusted on the
arm of the apparatus so that in its vibrations the point shall
press upon the cloth and make a mark thereon for the second
line of stitches at the required distance from the line of sewing
and parallel to the same. 3. Both the specification and the
drawings also show a bar which, as the patentee states, may be
attached to the presser-foot, so as to be raised up with it, or that
it may be sustained in any other convenient manner. 4. Adjustable marking-arms are also shown, which extend from the
bar of the apparatus, and which are provided, one with a marking-point, and the other with a marking-notch. Arms formed

FULLER V. YENTZER.

[Sup. Ot.

ing may be guided, which will become useful in quilting, or in
performing any straight, curved, or parallel lines of stitching.
Superadded to that, he also represents that if the marl ing-points
are at right angles to the feed, from the needle, the marking
will be at a given distance from the sewing and parallel thereto,
regardless of the curved or zigzag form in which the sewing is
performed.
Sufficient appears in the preceding description of the invention and of the principal devices of which it is composed,
including the arrangement of the same and their mode of operation, to render it unnecessary to reproduce the minute references in the specifications to the representations exhibited in
the different figures of the drawings.
Throughout the description it is apparent that the patented
apparatus is to be attached to an organized sewing-machine; and
the patentee states that the manner of effecting the attachment
must be varied as circumstances may require, in view of the
structure of the particular sewing-machine and the kind of
work to be performed, and he adds that the vibrating motion
may be given to the marker by the needle-bar or any other
suitable device. Gauges, it seems, are employed for spacing off
the width of the folds, tucks, or plaits; but the patentee states
that. he does not claim those devices, though he is of the opinion that the devices which he employs work better than any he
has before known.
1. What he claims is the forming one, two, or more creases
in cloth by means of markers on opposite sides of the cloth, one
of which is connected with the bed of the machine, and the
other operates simultaneously with the vibrations of the needle
in a sewing-machine, whereby the crease or creases are formed
in the cloth itself, parallel to the line of sewing, in such a manner that the clotli is ready for doubling over at the creases for
the next line of sewing.
2. He also claims marking a line on the surface of cloth or
other material sewed in a sewing-machine, by means of a pencil
or similar article pressed upon the surface of the cloth at the
time the needle perforates the same, and is raised therefrom
when the feed takes place, so as to produce a series of marks
parallel to and simultaneouX with the line of sewing.

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER V. YENTZER.

and patented by the complainant, and he charges that the respondents have infringed the exclusive privilege secured to him
by the letters-patent, and he prays that they may be decreed
to account for the gains and profits which they have made by
the infringement, avcl for an injunction. Process was served;
and the respondents appeared and filed an answer, setting up
several defences, two of which it will be important to examine
in disposing of the case.- 1. That the complainants are not
the original and first inventors of the patented improvement.
2. That the respondents have never infringed the complainants'
patent, as alleged in the bill of complaint.
Before describing the nature of his invention, the patentee
refers to figure 1 of the drawings, as showing the main features
of the patented improvement when arranged in a sewing-machine for the purpose of accomplishing the results described in
the specification, and he proceeds to state that the invention
consists in a vibrating marking instrument which moves in unison with the neecte of the sewing-machine, so as to crease the
cloth at giveii distances from the needle, the marking instrument not pressing on the cloth except while the needle is in
the cloth, which prevents the cloth from being obstructed in
the movement by the feed, and allows the marking to be made
at any distance from the sewing without wrinkling the even
surface of the cloth.
By the use of a point vibrating in unison with the needle, and
acting on the upper surface of the cloth in connection with a
notch or an elastic surface or pad below the cloth, a crease will
be made whose ridge is below the cloth; and by the use of one,
two, or more of these up or down markers, or one up and one
down marker, the crease or ridge can be made exactly at the
required distance from the line of sewing, and either upward or
downward, according to the way in which the cloth is to be
folded for the subsequent operations.
Where more than one line of sewing is required, the crease or
creases for the next fold are made in the same way; and the
patentee states that the device is especially useful in all kinds
of tucking, and in plaiting shirt-bosoms and other similar work,
and he represents that, by the use of a vibrating pencil or chalk,
a line of marks may be made by which a second line of stitchVOL. IV.

19

FULLER V. YENTZEtt.

[Sup. Ct.

Other cases, too numerous for citation, have been decided by
this court to the same effect, but suffice it to say that we are
all of the opihiion that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

FULLER v. YENTZER.
1. The alleged new and useful improvement in mechanism for marking cloth in
sewing-machines, for which letters-patent No. 28,633, bearing date June 6,
1860, were issued to Henry W. Fuller and Anthony W. Goodell, consists
only of a combination of old elements or ingredients constituting an apparatus for effecting the results described in the specification.
2. The rights of the holder of such a patent are not infringed, unless it appears
that, without his authority, the entire combination is made, used, or sold.
8. The apparatus used by the respondents, and that for which said letters-patent
were awarded, described, and the conclusion reached, that they essentially
differ in their construction and mode of operation.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

Mr. E. B. Barnum and Mr. E. N.
lants.
Mr. Walter B. Scates, contra.

_Diaerson for

the appel-

MR. JuSTiCE CIi'FoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
:Patents for a machine will not be sustained if the claim is for
a result, the established rule being that the invention, if any,
within the meaning of the Patent Act, consists in the means or
apparatus by which the result is obtained, and not merely in
the mode of operation, independent of the mechanical devices
employed; nor will a patent be held valid for a principle or
for an idea, or any other mere abstraction. Burr v. Duryee,
1 Wall. 531.
Where the claim immediately follows the description of the
invention, it may be construed in connection with the explanations given in the description; and, if the claim contains words
referring back to the specification, it cannot 'properly be construed in any other way. Seymour v. Osborne, 11 id. 516.
Improvements in mechanism for marking cloth in a sewingmachine, it is alleged in the bill of complaint, were invented

Oct. 1876.]

COiiSSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

in this case impose no pecuniary obligation upon the county,
in consequence of the defects and irregularities in the proceed
ings of the municipal authorities, and the frauds and misrepresentations of the officers and agents of the railway company.
In conducting the defence at the trial, the defendant pro.
ceeded upon the ground that the plaintiff had knowledge of the
supposed defects, irregularities, frauds, and misrepresentations;
but the finding of the jury under the instructions of the court
negatives every such imputation, and shows that the plaintiff
is a hona fide holder of the instruments, having purchased the
same in the usual course of business before due and for value.
That such is the legal effect of the verdict cannot be doubted;
and it appears by the recital of the bonds that they were issued
in payment for two thousand shares of the capital stock of the
railway company subscribed by the county, in pursuance of an
order of the county commissioners, made and entered in their
minutes.
Bonds of the kind executed by a municipal corporation to
aid in the construction of a railroad, if issued in pursuance of a
power conferred by the legislature, are valid commercial instruments, and, if purchased for value in the usual course of business before they are due, give the holder a good title, free of
prior equities between antecedent parties, to the same extent
as in case of bills of exchange and promissory notes. Such a
power is frequently conferred to be exercised in a special
manner, or subject to certain regulations, conditions, or qualifications; but if it appears that the bonds issued show by their
recitals that the power was exercised in the manner required
by the legislature, and that the bonds were issued in conformity
to the prescribed regulations and pursuant to the required
conditions and qualifications, proof that any or all of the
recitals are incorrect will not constitute a defence to the corporation in a suit on the bonds or coupons, if it appears that it
was the sole province of the municipal officers who executed
the bonds to decide whether or not there had been an antecedent compliance with the regulations, conditions, or quali.
fications which it is alleged were not fulfilled. St. 7oseph
Township v. Bogers, 16 Wall. 659; Town of Coloma v. -Eaves,
92 U. S. 484.

COMMISSIONERS,

ETC.,

V. CLARK.

[Sup. ot.

sumption and invalidate the title of the holder, as inferred
from his actual custody of the instrument. Goodman v. lHarvey, 4 A. & E. 780; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 367;
Uther v. Bich, 10 A. & E. 784; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1 A. &
E. w. s. 498.
None of these propositions can be controverted; and it follows that where the first indorsee purchases the instrument
before due and pays value, without notice of any prior equities,
the second indorsee holding under the first takes a good title,
even though he had notice of such prior equities, if he pur
chased the instrument in the regular course of business before
it became due, for the reason that he took a new and independent title under another indorser. Bailey v. Bidwell, 13
M. & W. 15.
Notice of such prior equities cannot affect the title of the
second holder, if he acquired title from a prior holder who had
no such knowledge. Byles on Bills (5th Am. ed.), 118; Story
on Notes, sect. 196; Story on Bills, sect. 220.
Suffice it to say, without pursuing the inquiry, the court is
unhesitatingly of the opinion that the exception to the third
instruction must also be overruled.
IV. Proof was offered by the defendants to show that the
charter of the railway company was amended subsequent to
the subscription to the stock, so as to include branches four
hundred and fifty miles in length, in addition to the original
line, without the knowledge or consent of the county commissioners or of the directors of the railway company resident in
the county: but the plaintiff objected to the evidence, and it
was excluded by the court; to which ruling the defendants then
and there excepted, which presents the same question as that
which arises from the exception taken to the fourth instruction
given to the jury, as follows: that the amendment of the
charter is no defence to the action if the bonds were purchased
by the bank before due and for value.
Counties, if duly organized under the law of the State, are
certainly vested with the power to subscribe for stock in a
railway company, and to issue the bonds of the county to pay
for such subscription. Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by
the defendants that the bonds delivered to the railway company

Oct. 1876.]

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

Jewell v. Parr, 13 C. B. 916; Toorey v. Railway, 8 C. B.
w . s. 150; Wheelton v. ifardisty, 8 El. & B1. 276; Schu
chardt v. Allen, 1 Wall. 869; Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15
id. 369.
III. Due exception was also taken to the third instruction,
which presents a questioi of commercial law. Standard authorities show that, where a negotiable instrument is originally
infected with fraud, invalidity, or illegality, the rule is, that the
title of the original holder being destroyed, the title of every
subsequent holder which reposes on that foundation and no
other falls with it. Byles op Bills, p. 118.
Where the theory that the plaintiff paid value for the
instrument depends solely upon the prima facie presumption
arising from the possession of the instrument, the defendant
may, Y the pleadings admit of such a defence, prove that the
instrument originated in illegality or fraud; and the rule is, if
he establishes, such a defence, that a presumption arises that
the subsequent holder gave no value for it, Lnd it is also true
that such a presumption will support a plea that the holder is
a holder without consideration, unless the presumption is rebutted by proof that the plaintiff paid value for the instrument, in which event the plaintiff is still entitled to recover.
Fitch v. Jcf-nes, 5 El. & Bl. 288; Smith v. flracne, 16 Q. B.
244; Hall v. Featherstone,3 H. & N. 287; 2 Pars. on Bills
and Notes, 438.
But the rule is different when the question is whether the
indorsee and holder had notice of the prior equities between
the antecedent parties to the instrument. Holders of such
instruments, under such circumstances, are n6t obliged to show
that they paid value for the instrument until the other party
has clearly proved that the consideration was illegal, or that it
was fraudulent in its inception, or that it has been lost or
stolen before it came to the possession of the holder. Wheeler
v. Guild, 20 Pick. 551; Collins v. Martin, 1 Bos. & Pul. 648;
Miller v. Race, 1 Burr. 452; Peacock v. Rhodes, 2 Doug. 632.
Possession, even without explanation, is primafacie evidence
that the holder is the proper owner or lawful possessor of the
instrument; and the settled rule is, that nothing short of fraud
-

not even gross negligence -

is sufficient to overcome the pre-

COMMISSIONRS, ETC., V.

CLARK.

[Sup. ot.

Kansas 1872, sect. 2, p. 111; Thayer v. Hontgomery County.
8 Dillon, 389; Marcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the second
objection to the admissibility of the bond is without merit, as
there is no excess in time beyond thirty years if the computation be made as it should be, from the time the bonds were
actually executed, issued, and delivered. Laws Kansas 1872,
sect. 2, p. 111.
Where a municipal corporation has power to borrow money,
they may make the principal and interest payable when they
please, which is a sufficient answer to the third objection.
Meyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wall. 891.
Viewed in the light-of these suggestions, it is clear that the
bond was properly admitted in evidence, and that the exception
to the first instruction given to the jury must be overruled.
I. Matters of fact are involved in the exception to the second
instruction. Judges are no longer required to submit a case to
the jury merely because some evidence has been introduced by
the party having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of
such a character that it would warrant the jury to proceed in
finding a verdict in favor of the party introducing such evidence.
lyder v. Wombwell, Law Rep. 4 Exch. 39.
Decided cases may be found where it is held that, if there is
a scintilla of evidence in support of a case, the judge is bound
to leave it to the jury: but the modern decisions have established a more reasonable rule; to wit, that, before the evidence
is left to the jury, there is or may be in every case a preliminary question for the judge, not whether there is literally no
evidence, but whether there is any upon which a jury can
properly proceed to find a verdict for the party producing it,
upon whom the burden of proof is imposed. Law Rep. 2 Priv.
Council Apps. 335 ; Improvement Co. v. -Munson,14 Wall. 448 ;
Pleasants v. Pant, 22 id. 120; Parks v. Boss, 11 How. 873;
Merchants' Bank v. State Banc, 10 Wall. 637; Hficcman v.
Jones, 9 id. 201.
Apply that rule to the question before the court, and it is
clear that the ruling of the Circuit Court was correct, as there
is no evidence reported in the transcript which would have
warranted the jury in finding the issue for the defendants.

Oct. 1876.]

CommissIoEmms, ETC., V.

CLARK.

National Bank had notice, at or prior to the purchase of the
bonds, of the fraudulent character of the representations made
by the railway company which induced the authorities of the
county to accept the bond given by the company to complete
the railway, as stipulated in the proposition submitted to the
qualified voters of the county. 3. That if the bank gave value
for the bonds and purchased them before due, without notice
of the fraud set up and relied on by the county in respect to
the bond given in evidence, and sold the bonds in suit to the
plaintiff, he is entitled to recover on the bonds, though he had
notice when he obtained them that the county claimed they
were fraudulent, and that a suit was pending contesting their
validity, the record of which had been introduced in evidence.
4. That the amendment of the charter of the railway company
is no defence, if the bonds in suit were purchased by the bank
before due and for value.
Seasonable exceptions were taken by the defendants to the
several instructions given to the jury and to the rulings of
the court iqadrnatting and' excluding evidence in opposition to
the objections made by the defendants, and they sued out a writ
of error, and removed the -cause into this court.
Provided the bond was properly admitted in evidence, it is
too plain for argument that the first instruction is entirely
correct, an& the better opinion is, that the exception to it was
only taken 'to exclude the conclusion that the objections previously made to the admissibility of the bond were not
waived.
I. All of the bonds recite on thdr face that the county has
caused the same "to be signed in their behalf by the chairman
of the board of county commissioners, attested by the county
clerk, a-Ad the seal of said county affixed." They bear date
the 3d of September, 1872, but they were not issued and delivered until the 4th of November following. Instruments of
the kind must be tested in that regard by the law of the jurisdiction where they are executed; and by the law of the State in
force at that time it is provided that "such bonds, if issued by
a county, shall be signed by the chairman of the board of county
commissioners, and be attested by the county clerk," which is
all that need be said in response to the first objedtion. Laws

COMMISSIONERS,

ETC., V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

Before the bonds were issued and delivered by the. county
the. railway company did execute a bond to the county in the
sum of $200,000, conditioned that the company should fully
complete and- stock the railway, and put the same in running
order, as required in the recorded conditions of the subscription.
Both parties agree that bonds to the amount of $100,000, and
no more, were issued by the county and delivered to the company; but the defendants insist that the authorities of the
county were induced to issue and deliver the same by the
misrepresentation and fraud of the railway company.
Two suggestions in that regard are exhibited in the answer
and in the assignment of errors: 1. That the railway company,
when they applied for the bonds, concealed from the authorities of the county the fact that the company had been reincorporated with an amended charter. 2. That the company,
when they applied for the bonds, falsely and fraudulently
represented that the sureties were good for the amount of the
bond, and the defendants introduced evidence tending to show
that the sureties were insolvent.
They also gave evidence tending to show that the charter of
the company was amended, and the nature and extent of the
amendment made, before the company applied for the bonds,
and that they gave no notice to the authorities of the county
of the meeting of the directors of the company when those
amendments were adopted.
Three other defences set up in the answer should be briefly
noticed: 1. That the bonds were illegal, because issued for a
longer time than thirty years. 2. That they were illegal,
because the interest is payable semi-annually instead of annually, as stipulated in the proposition submitted to the qualified
voters. 3. That the plaintiff is not a bona fide holder of the
bonds, because he did not pay value for the same before they
became due, without knowledge of the facts set up in these
defences: all of which is expressly denied by the plaintiff in
his reply to the answer.
Instructions were given by the court to the jury in substance
and effect as follows: 1. That the plaintiff, when he introduced
the coupons in evidence, made out a primafacie case. 2. That
there is no evidence to go to the jury to show that the First

Oct. 1876.]

COMUSSIONERS, MnC., V. CLARK.

the separate defences as set up in the answers may be omitted,
as the questions to be re-examined sufficiently appear in the
bill of exceptions.
Questions of fact were submitted to the jury; and the transcript shows that the verdict and judgment were for the plaintiff, in the sum of $6,703.54, and that the defendants excepted
to the rulings and instructions of the court.
Two thousand shares of the stock were subscribed; but the
bonds were issued in shares of $1,000, with interest coupons
attached. On the trial of the cause, the plaintiff, to maintain
the issue on: his part, offered one of the bonds in evidence, with
an overdue coupon attached; and the defendants objected to its
admissibility, upon three grounds: 1. Because it was signed
only by the chairman of the county commissioners. 2. Because
it was made due and payable thirty years and twenty-seven
days after date. 3. Because the interest coupons attached
provide for the payment of interest semi-annually instead of
annually. But the court overruled the objections, and the bond
with the coupon attached was admitted, subject to the objections of the defendants. Coupons of a similar character, to
the number of one hundied and ninety-four in all, were also
introduced in evidence by the plaintiff, subject to the same
objections.
Exceptions were duly taken by the defendants to the rulings
of the court in admitting the bond and coupons, and the plaintiff rested his case in the opening. Evidence was then introduced by the defendants, consisting, in the first place, of the
deposition of the plaintiff and a certified copy of the record of
a suit previously instituted in the County Court to cancel the
zonds issued by the county and to restrain the First National
Bank from transferring the same to the railway company.
They also introduced a copy of the proposition submitted to
the qualified voters of the county to subscribe for the capital
stock of the railway company, in payment for which the bonds
in question were executed and delivered, to which reference has
already been made; but it also provides, that, before any county
bonds should be issued an&delvered, the.railway company shall
execute to the county a good and sufficient bond that the
company will complete the railway-as therein represented and
proposed.

280

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

f,8up. Ct.

with annual interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum;
and the proposal was that the bonds should be delivered to the
railway company as follows: 1. That, on the completion of the
grading of the railway from the northern line of the county to
Marion Centre, one-half of the bonds should be due and deliverable under the contract. 2. That, upon the completion of the
railway from Marion Centre to the village of Peabody, other
bonds to the amount of $75,000 should be due and deliverable
as a second instalment. 3. That, upon the completion of the
railway to the south line of the county, the residue of the stipulated amount of the bonds should be due and deliverable.
Due canvass of the qualified votes cast at the election was
made by the county commissioners, and they made the proper
entry in their records that the subscription of the stock was
then and there made by their board for and in behalf of the
county; and it appears that the board did then and there elect
one of their number to make the subscription, and that the
member so elected entered the same in the books of the railway company.
Beyond all doubt, the subscription was legally made; and it
is not controverted that the railway company graded their line
of railway from the north line of the county to Marion Centre,
and that the authorities of the county executed and delivered
to the railway company the bonds of the county to the amount
of $100,000, in pursuance of the terms of the subscription, with
coupons attached for the payment of interest at the rate of
seven per cent semi-annually.
Purchases of the bonds with coupons annexed to a large
amount were made by the plaintiff from the First National
Bank of Junction City, where they were deposited for sale.

Payment of the interest coupons being refused, the praintiff, as
the owner and holder 6f the same, instituted a suit in the Circuit Court to recover the amount. Two other suits were subsequently instituted by him for a similar purpose; and the three
suits in the course of their prosecution were consolidated, the
claim of the plaintiff being for the amount of one hundred and
ninety-four coupons, each for the sum of thirty-five dollars.
Service was made, and the defendants appeared and set up the
several defences exhibited in the answer. Special reference to

Oct. 1876.]

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. CLARK.

ErmO to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
Mr. A. L. Williams for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Alfred Ennis, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Power is vested by law in the constituted authorities of
counties and other municipal corporations to subscribe for and
take stock in any railway company duly organized under the
law of the State or Territory, or to loan the credit of the municipality to such a railroad company, subject to the condition
that the majority of the qualified voters of the same, voting at
the election, shall, at a regular or a special election to be held
therein, first assent to the proposal for such subscription; and
the provision is that it shall be the duty of the municipal authorities, when the terms of the proposal are so approved, to
make subscription to the stock of the railway company. Laws
Kansas 1869, 108.
Sufficient appears to show that the railway company became
duly incorporated for the purpose of constructing a railway
from the northern to the southern line of the State through
Davis, Marion, and other counties named in the certificate pf
incorporation. Tax-payers and citizens of the County of Marion
petitioned the county commissioners of the county to submit a
proposition to the qualified voters of the county to subscribe
for two thousand shares of $100 each of the capital stock of the
railway company, to be paid for in thirty-years seven-per-cent
bonds of the county. Pursuant to the prayer of those petitioners, the county commissioners submitted that question to
the qualified voters of the county, at a special election held at
the time and place appointed in the order of the county commissioners ; and it appears by the record that the election was
duly held at the time and place appointed, and that a majority
of the votes cast at the election were in favor of the subscription by the county for two thousand shares of the capital stock
of the railway company.
By the terms and conditions of the proposition submitted
and adopted, the stock to be subscribed was to be paid for in
the bonds of the county, payable thirty years after their date,

C MMISSIONERS,

ETC., V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CIIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Stipulations between counsel relative to the course of proceeding in a cause pending in this court cannot be withdrawn
by one party without the consent of the other, except by.leave
of the court upon cause shown. The counsel in this case stipulated in writing, on or before July 5, 1876, to submit the cause
on printed arguments, under rule 20, during the first ninety
days of this term. This stipulation was filed here July 5; but,
Oct. 21, the counsel for the appellants notified the counsel for
the appellees that he withdrew his agreement.
The counsel for the appellees having filed a printed argument
within the ninety days, now asks that the cause be taken up
and considered by the court as submitted under the rule.
This we might with propriety do, as, if the desired withdrawal
is not assented to, application for the vacation of the stipulation
ought to be made here in time to have it disposed of before the
expiration of the ninety days. But as we have never before
been called upon to settle the practice- applicable to this class
of cases, it is now ordered that the appellants cause a printed
argument to be filed in their behalf on or before March 6, next,
or show good cause why the stipulation for submission made by
their counsel should not be enforced agiinst them; and, in default, that the cause be taken up and considered as submitted
under the rule, without argument by the appellants.

0OI3MSSIONERS OF MARION COUNTY V. CLARK.
1. A court is not required to submit evidence to the jury, unless it be of such a
character as would warrant a verdict for the party producing it, and upon
whom the burden of proof is imposed.
2. Where the title of the original holder of negotiable instruments, which are
infected with fraud, invalidity, or illegality, is destroyed, that of every subsequent holder which rests on that foundation, and no other, falls with it.
3. Where the first indorsee, without notice of any prior equities between the
original parties, purchases, for value, a negotiable instrument, the second
indorsee, who acquires it before it is due, and for value, takes a good tide,
although he had notice of such equities.
4. Bonds issued, pursuant to legislative authority, by a municipal corporation in
aid of a railroad company are negotiable instruments.
5. Town of Colomra v. Eaves (92 U. S. 486) cited and approved.

Oct 1876.]

MULLER V. Dows.

long line of decisions. I am not prepared to do so. 'If the
eourts of Illinois had been willing to take judicial notice of
the legislative journals in determining what the law of the State
is, there might be some propriety in requiring the people to do
so. But when the courts make the question of overcoming a
prima facie law one of fact, I think the people may do the
same thing, and bring to their protection the same principles
of estoppel which govern them in other cases. For these reasons
I dissent from the opinion which has just been read.
NoTE. - At a subsequent day of the term, counsel for the plaintiffs in error
moved the court for further instructions in these cases to the court below. AIR.
JUSTICa BnADLEY, on behalf of the court, said: " We do not think any further'
directions necessary in these cases. We hold that the estoppel set up by the
plaintiff below'should not be allowed, but that the defendant should be permitted
to show the invalidity of the act relied on by the plaintiff. We recognize the
construction of the Constitution of Illinois adopted by the State court, to the effect
that a law is void if not passed by the requisite majority, and so entered on the
journal. We also hold the existence of a law to be a judicial question, to be
decided by the court, though framed in form as an issue of fact. It follows that
the court below, on retrying the case, must itself be satisfied whether the law in
question was or was not constitutionally passed, and the vote entered on the
journals, and instruct the jury accordingly. The evidence, or means of ascertaining this fact, must be such as is legally applicable to such a case according to
the laws of Illinois. But, strictly speaking, the issue is more properly referable
to the court than to a jury. That it may be so framed the judgment will be
amended, directing the court below to award in each case a venire de novo, or to
allow the parties to amend their pleadings, as they shall he advised,-in order
to refer the trial of the issue to the court instead of the jury."

MnLLER v. Dows.
Stipulations between counsel, relative to the course of proceeding in a cause
pending in this court, cannot be withdrawn by either party without the consent
of the other, except by leave of the court upon cause shown.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
On motion of Mr. Tkomas T. Withrow, for the appellees, to
take up and consider the appeal as submitted under the twentieth rule.

TowN OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

missoners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 545, where,
using the language of Ch. B. Jervis in Royal British Bank v.
Tarquand, 6 El. & Bi. 527, it was said: "We may now take it for granted that the dealings with these
companies are not like dealings with other partnerships, and that
the parties dealing with them are bound to read the statute and the
deed of settlement. But they are not bound to do more. And
the party here, on reading the deed of settlement, will find, not a
prohibition from borrowing, but a permission to do so on certain
conditions. Finding that the authority might be made complete
by a resolution, he would bave the right to infer the fact of a resolution authorizing that which, on the face of the document, appeared
to be legitimately done."
It is unnecessary to refer to the numerous cases which 'have
come up since. While some of them have gone further than
the English court did in that from which the quotation was
made, none have fallen short of it. We need not go further in
this. The purchasers of thege bonds were bound to read the
statute under which they were issued, but they were not bound
to do more. Finding it upon the statute-book, apparently in
force, they had the right to infer that it was actually in force,
and govern themselves accordingly.
It must be remembered that this is not a case of construction.
The question is not whether a law admitted to be in force
confers the necessary power, but whether a law which does
confer the power, and is apparently in force, can be shown not
to have been in fact passed according to the requirements of
the Constitution, after parties have acted upon the faith of it
and changed their condition. When the question is one of
construction alone, all parties stand upon an equal footing, and
each can judge for himself. If a mistake occurs, it is one of law
and not of fact. Here it is one of.fact. The bonds on which
this suit is brought are primafacievalid; and, as between these
parties, I think the law will not admit the testimony offered to
show that they are void. In the absence of proof they stand.
The question is one of evidence. It is not whether the law
was passed, but whether testimony can be introduced to show
that it was not. I think it cannot. To admit it would ignore
a principle of commercial honor upon which we have made

Oct. 1876.]

TowN oF

SOUTH

OrTAwA v. PERNns.

275

whether a prima facie statute had been constitutionally passed
one of fact, to be established by "legitimate proof" when a
contest arises. This may operate to glve an apparent statute
effect under one state of circumstances, and not under another;
but with that we have nothing to do. Our duty is ended when
we have discovered and complied with the rule which the
appropriate tribunal has established.
Under the operation of this rule the plaintiff below made out
his case, when he proved the execution of his bonds and put
them in evidence; and, in the absence of proof by the defendant, he was entitled to his judgment, even though the law
might not have been constitutionally passed: because it was
no part of the duty of the court "to explore the journals for
the purpose of ascertaining the manner in which a law duly
certified went through the legislature."
The question then is, -whether, under the circumstances of
this case, the defendant can be permitted to make the proof.
This does not depend upon the constructiQn of the Constitution,
but upon the general principles of commercial law applicable
to the Constitution as construed. The issue is made upon the
fact of the passage of the law. Primafade it was passed, and
it was apparently in force. Both parties acting upon this
primafacie case, and supposing it to be true in fact, have become bound: one has borrowed and the other lent. The lender
has performed his part of the contract and deliveredfthe money,
and the simple question to be determined now is, whether, under such circumstances, the borrower can refuse to pay, because,
upon further investigation, he has ascertained that the legislative journals do not contain the necessary evidence to establish
the fact of the due enactment of the law. Reverse the case.
Suppose the town had subscribed for the stock and paid the
subscription, could the railroad company keep, the money and
refuse to issue the stock because, after the transaction, it had
ascertained that a vote had not been taken by ayes and noes in
one of the houses upon.the final passage of the bill? Certainly
not; and the reason is obvious. Under such circumstances, the
law estops the party from asserting the falsehood of that which
appears to be true. This rule has, from the beginning, been
applied here to this class of cases. It.was first stated in Corn-

TowN

OF SOUTH OTTAWA v. PERKINS.

[SUp. Ot.

And again, during the same year, 1867, in Grob v. Cushman,
45 id. 124, where the question was as to the jurisdiction of the
La Salle County Court, in a case which was brought before
the Supreme Court for examination upon a writ of error, this
language is used: "It is insisted that the La Salle County Court did not have
jurisdiction of the subject-matter of this cause ; that the act of the
legislature under which the jurisdiction is claimed never became
a law in the mode prescribed by the Constitution. And counsel, in
their argument, refer to the journals of the house in support of this
position. On the trial below, no evidence from the journals was
introduced. But it is now urged, that, as they are public records,
the court will take judicial notice of them, and not require them to
be embodied in the evidence. It is true that they are public records,
but it does not follow that they will be regarded as within the
knowledge of the courts, like public laws. Like other records and
public documents, they should be brought before the courts as evidence. But when offered, they prove their own authenticity.
Until so produced, they cannot be regarded by the courts."
Both these cases were decided two years before the bonds
now in suit were issued.
Later, in 1871, in the case of The People v. De ylfe, 62 id.
258, an application was made for a mandamus requiring a justice of the peace to issue an execution upon a judgment recovered before him. In his return, he stated that the act under
which he assumed jurisdiction when he gave the judgment had
never in fact been constitutionally passed, and gave the particulars of his claim in that behalf. In delivering the opinion,
the court clearly considered the question presented as one of
fact, for they say "It appears by the return, which is not traversed, and is to be
taken as true, &c. .

.

. Our decision is predicated solely upon the

state of facts as set forth in the return in this case, without an inspection of the journals of the Senate, and we pass upon the validity
of the act in questionno further than as affects the present application in view of the admitted facts in the case."
It is difficult to see what could b6 done to manifest more
clearly the determination of the court to make the question

Oct. 1876.]

TowN

OF Sou

OTTAWA v. PERKmNs.

unless the contrary clearly appears." And, again, no longer
ago than last year, in Larrison v. Peoria,Atlanta, & -Decatur
RTailroad Co., 77 id. 18, "If we find a law signed by the
speakers of the two houses, and approved by the governor, we
must presume that it has been passed in conformity to all the
requirements of the Constitution, and is valid until the presumption is overcome by legitimate proof."
This law was enrolled; signed by the speakers of the two
houses; approved by the governor; deposited in the office of.:
the Secretary of State; published by him with the requisite
certificate among the laws passed at the session of the legislature in 1857; acquiesced in by the people of the State as a
valid law for more than thirteen years after its publication;
accepted and acted upon by the inhabitants of South Ottawa
in October, 1866, when they voted under it for a subscription
to the stock of the railroad company, and authorized the issue
of the bonds of the township in payment; recognized as a valid
and existing law by the legislature of the State, March 27,
1869, and April 20, 1869, when laws were passed referring t6
it as in force, and amending it; and finally acted upon by the
officers of the township, when, in obedience to the vote of
the inhabitants, they subscribed to the stock of the railroad
company, and issued the bonds authorized by the act in payment.
In this condition of things the courts were bound to take
judicial notice of it as a law in force. This was expressly
decided in .llinois Central Railroad Co. v. -Wren, supra,where
it was said, "Although we take judicial notice of all acts of
the legislature signed by the governor and found in the office
of the Secretary of State, and although for some purposes we
may take judicial notice of the legislative journals, yet it is not
our province, at the suggestion or request of counsel, to undertake to explore these journals for the purpose of ascertaining
the manner in which a law duly certified went through the.
legislature:and into the hands of the governor. If counsel say,
the journal shows a law to have been passed withotit calling
the yeas and nays, let them make the requisite proof of that
fact by means of the legislative journals, and introduce the
proof into the record."
18
VOL. IV.

TOWN OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

with the same force and effect (and no other) which they have
at home. But when a court of the United States is held in any
State, it is bound to know the laws of such State the same as
the domestic courts are.
Judgments reversed, and records remanded with directions to
award in each case a venire facias de novo.
MR. CIIF JUSTICE WAITE, with whom concurred MI.
JUSTICE CLIFFORD, MR.JUSTICE SWAYNE, and MR.JUSTICE

STRO.NG, dissenting.

I am unable to agree to the judgment which has been rendered in this case. There is no doubt but that the construction
which the courts of Illinois have uniformly given the Constitution of the State is binding upon us as a rule of decision. The
difference between me and the majority of my brethren is as to
the construction that has been given, not as to its effect when
ascertained. After a careful consideration of all the cases to
which our attention has been directed, I am forced to the
conclusion that the question has been made by the courts of
Illinois one of fact and not of law. The majority of this court
think it has been'made one of law. Such a construction might
and probably would be more logical; but our duty is to ascertain
what has been decided, not what should have been.
The case of Spangler v. Jacoby, 14 Ill. 297, is the first of a
long series of cases in which this question has been considered;
and, so far as I have been able to discover, little has been done
since, except to reaffirm and apply what was there decided.
Looking, then, to that case, we find that prima facie an act
enrolled, signed by the speakers of the two houses, approved by
the governor, deposited in the office of the Secretary of State,
and published under his superintendence among the laws certified by him, is a valid law. The language of the court is:
"The act in question was signed by the speakers of the two
houses, and it received the assent of the executive. Prima
facie, therefore, it became a law." Afterward, in Illinois
Central Railroad Co. v. Wren, 43 'id. 79, it, is said, "The
laws certified by the Secretary of State, and publish6d by the
authority of the State, must be received as having passed
the legislature in the manner require'd by the Constitution,

Oct. 1876.]

271

Towx OF SOUTHr OTTAWA v. PERKINS.

to subscribe to the capital stock of said railroad in manner as
provided in said act, except as hereinafter provided. The act
then proceeds to designate the portions of towns referred to.
The same observations apply to this act which have been
made in regard to the act of March 27, 1869. It does not profess or purport to give any new force or validity to the supposed
act of 1857, or to validate any proceedings had under that act.
It takes for granted -

mistakenly, as we have seen

-

that the

act was duly passed, and does nothing more.
The last-mentioned act could not, in any event, by any prospective effect, aid the holders of the bonds in suit; for the
elections called to authorize their issue were held before this
act was passed, as appears by the recitals in the bonds themselves. Indeed, the election authorizing the Ottawa bonds was
held in 1866,- long before the passage of either of the acts
referred to; and, in the absence of any expression in the laws
themselves, evincing such an intention, it can hardly be claimed
that these laws gave any retroactive validity to elections which
were without authority, and void, when they were held.
It is to be observed that these statutes were before the
Supreme Court of Illinois when deciding the case of Miller &
.Paddoc7 v. Goodwin, being set up and relied on in the answer
of the defendants in that case; but the court evidently did not
regard them as having the effect claimed. The bonds were
held to be void, and the collection of taxes to pay them was
perpetually enjoined.
We do not perceive that the act of Congress, prescribing the
mode in which the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
in each State shall be authenticated so as to take effect in every
other State, has any-bearing whatever on the case. The authentication thus provided for was intended as evidence only of the
existence of such acts and records, and not to give them any
greater validity or effect than that which they had in the State
from which they we're thus accredited. The act expressly declares that i when thus authenticated, they shall have such faith
and credit given to them in every court within the United
States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State
from whence they are taken. It merely provides a mode of
proving public records, leaving them, when proved, invested

TowN OF SOUTH OTTAWA v. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

that this act of March 27, 1869, embraces the town of South
Ottawa, or the county of Kendall, whose bonds are the subject
of the present suits. But it is urged that the reference to the
act of 1857 is such a recognition of that act as to give it validity,
if it had none before. This was certainly not the purpose of
the act of 1869, nor do we think that such was its effect. The
legislature could not thus, in 1869, give validity to a void act
as an act passed in 1857, which was not constitutionally passed
in that year; for that would be an evasion of the Constitution.
It could at most give it vitality as a new act from the date of
the act of 1869. But this it does not profess to do: it only
adopts its provisions for the purposes of the act then passed.
And if the legislature' of 1869 could have validated all proceedings had under the supposed act of 1857, it did not do so. It
did not profess to do it. No such purpose is indicated in it.
The most that can be said is, that, in referring to the act of
1857, the legislature inadvertently supposed that it had been
regularly passed. Whether such inadvertence was the result
of a false suggestion by interested parties, or otherwise, is of
no consequence. No intent to validate and establish the act
of 1857, as a law, can be gathered from the terms of the act
of March 27, 1869. To give to such a reference in a subsequent
act, as is here relied on, the effect of validating or reviving or
vitalizing a void or repealed statute, when no such intention is
expressed, would be dangerous, and would lay the foundation
for evil practices. The legislature might in this way be entrapped into the enactment or re-enactment of laws when it
had no intention, or even suspicion, that it was doing so.
The other act relied on was passed on the twentieth day of
April, 1869, and is entitled "An Act to amend an act entitled
'An Act authorizing certain cities, counties, towns, and townships to subscribe to the stock of certain railroads,' in force
Feb. 18, 1857;" being the act in question, if the words "in
force" are construed to refer to the date of its supposed passage.
This amendatory act declares that in addition to the cities,
counties, towns, and townships agthorized by the said act to
which this is an amendment, to subscribe to the stock of the
Ottawa, Oswego, and Fox River Valley Railroad, the following
portions of cities, counties, towns, and townships be authorized

Oct. 1876.]

TowN oF SouTa OTTAwi v. PEimIs.

answer to such question; always seeking first for that which in
its nature is most appropriate, unless the positive law has
enacted a different rule." 6 Wall. 511.
Of course, any particular State may, by its Constitution and
laws, prescribe what shall be conclusive evidence of the existence or non-existence of a statute; but, the question of such
existence or non-existence being a judicial one in its nature,
the mode of ascertaining and using that evidence must rest in
the sound discretion of the court on which the duty in any
particular case is imposed.
Not only the courts, but individuals, are bound to know the
law, and cannot be received to plead ignorance of it. The
holder of the bonds in question can claim no indulgence on
that score, and can take no advantage from the allegation that
he is a bona fide purchaser without notice. He would, it is
true, be precluded from doing so on another ground; namely,
the want of any legislative authority in fact in the town to
issue the bonds in question. Want of such authority is a fatai
objection to their validity, no matter under what circumstances
the holder may have obtained them.
Thus far we have not adverted to the argument attempted to
be drawn by the defendants in error from the faqt that the act
in question was referred to in two subsequent acts of the
legislature as an existing law. One of these was passed on the
twenty-seventh day of March, 1869, entitled "An Act to
amend an act, entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Ottawa,
Oswego, and Fox River Valley Railroad Company."' This
act authorized the company to build a railroad from the town
of .Wenona to the city of Peoria; and, by the second section, it
was enacted "that-any city,' county, town, or township near to
or through which said road is now or may hereafter be located
is hereby authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of said
railroad, upon the terms and conditions prescribed in an act
entitled ' An Act to authorize certain cities, counties, towns,
and town~hips to subscribe to the stock of certain railroads,' in
force Feb. 18, 1857." The title here recited is not the title of
the act in question. It differs from it in several respects, though
this was probably the one that was intended to be referred to.
Supposing it to have been the one referred to, it is not pretended

TOWN OF SOUTH OTTAwA v. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct,

If, therefore, the law in question had never been passed upon
by the State courts, the courts of the United States would
nevertheless be bound to give to the Constitution of Illinois the
same construction which the State courts give to it, and to
hold a pretended act of the legislature void and not a law
which the State courts would hold to be so. Otherwise, we
should have the strange spectacle of two different tribunals,
having co-ordinate jurisdiction in the same State, differing as
to the validity and existence of a statute of that State, without
any power to arbitrate between them. In speaking, however,
of their jurisdiction as being co-ordinate, it is only meant that
one has no power to enforce its decisions upon the other. As a
matter of propriety and right, the decision of the State courts
on the question as to what are the laws of the State is binding
upon those of the United States.
But the law under consideration has been passed upon by
tb Supreme Court of Illinois, and held to be invalid. This
ought to have been sufficient t6 have governed the action of
the court below. In our judgment it was not necessary to
have raised an issue on the subject, except by demurrer to the
declaration. The court is bound to know the law without
taking the advice of a jury on the subject. When once it
became the settled construction of the Constitution of Illinois
that no act can be deemed a valid law, unless, by the journals
of the legislature, it appears to have been regularly passed by
both houses, it became the duty of the courts to take judicial
notice of the journal entries in that regard. The courts of
Illinois may decline to take that trouble, unless parties bring
the matter to their attention; but, on general principles, the
question as to the existence of a law is a judicial one, and must
be so regarded by the courts of the United States.
This subject was fully discussed in Gardnerv. The Collector.
After examining the authorities, the court in that case lays
down this general conclusion, "that whenever a question arises
in a court of law of the existence of a statute, or of the time
when a statute took effect, or of the precise terms of a statute,
the judges who are called upon to decide it have a right to
resort to any source of information which in its nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear and satisfactory

Oct. 1876.]

TOWN OF SOUTH OTAwA v. PERKINS.

the holder of the bonds was a bona fide purchaser of them
without notice of any objection to their validity; that the first
instalment of interest was paid at maturity; and, therefore,
that the defendant was estopped from offering any evidence to
show that the act was not passed, the same having been duly
published among the printed statutes as a law, and being therefore primafadce a valid law: in other words, that although the
act might not have been duly passed, the town, under the circumstances of the case, was estopped from denying its passage.
We cannot assent to this view. There can be no estoppel in
the way of ascertaining the existence of a law. That which
purports to be a law of a State is a law, or it is not a law,
according as the truth of the fact may be, and not according to
the shifting circumstances of parties. It would be an intolerable state of things if a document purporting to be an act
of the legislature could thus be a law in one case and for one
party, and not a law in another case and for another party; a
law to-day, and not a law to-morrow ;-a law in one place, and
not a law in another in the same State. And whether it be a
law, -or not a law, is a judicial question, to be settled and
determined by the courts and judges. The doctrine of estoppel
is totally inadmissible in the case. It would be a very unseemly state of things, after the courts of Illinois have determined that a pretended statute of that State is not such, having
never beei constitutionally passed, for the courts of the United
States, with the same evidence before them, to hold otherwise.
It is declared by the Judiciary Act as a fundamental principle
"that the laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall otherwise
require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law in the courts of the United States in
cases where they apply." Sect. 34. And this court has always
held that the laws of the States are to receive their authoritative
construction from the State courts, except where the Federal
Constitution and laws are concerned; and the State Constitutions, in like manner, are to be construed as the State courts
construe them. This has been so often laid down as the proper
rule, and is in itself so obviously correct, that it is unnecessary
to refer to the authorities.

TowN oF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct,

and Fox River Railroad Company, upon the ground that the
act under which the bonds were issued, that of Feb. 18, 1857
(the same which is now under consideration), had not been
enacted in conformity with the requirements of the Constitution. At the hearing in the court below it was proved that the
journal of the Senate did not show that the bill had ever passed
that body. Upon this proof, the court, recognizing the authority of Spangler v. Jacoby and other cases which followed it,
granted the injunction asked for. In the Supreme Court, on
appeal, it was insisted that the decree ought to be reversed,
because the bondholders had not been made parties. The
objection was overruled, and the action of the court below
affirmed.
Following this is the case of Miller & Paddock v. Goodwin,
7 Chicago Legal News, 294, not yet reported in the regular
series of the reports of the State. It being shown in this case,
as in Ryan v. Lynch, that the journals did not contain the
requisite evidence of the passage of the law, it was again
adjudged invalid. This was in January, 1875. An effort was
made in this last case to impeach the transcript of the legislative journals; but it was unsuccessful. The court repeated
what it had said in the case of Ryan v. Lynch, using this language: "The bill never became a law, and the pretended act
conferred no power. It follows that the bonds were not merely
voidable, but that they were absolutely void, for want of power
or authority to issue them; and consequently no subsequent
act or recognition of their validity could so far give vitality to
them as to estop the tax-payers from denying their legality."
This opinion, it is true, was delivered after the trial of the case
now before us. But it goes to show that, up to the very moment
of that trial, there had been no vacillation in the State court
as to the construction and effect of the Constitution of Illinois.
When the cases now under consideration came on for trial
in May, 1874, the defendants below offered to prove, by the
journals of each house of the legislature, that there was no
entry in the same of the passage by the Senate of the act of
Feb. 18, 1857. The testimony was objected to, and ruled out.
Substantially the same questions were raised by demurrer to
a plea. The ground of this decision seems to have been, that

Oct. 1876.]

Town OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

law supposed to have been passed Feb. 14, 1851, but which
the journals showed had never in fact passed either branch of
the general assembly. Accordingly, the court held, upon the
authority of Spangler v. Jacoby, that the second appraisal was
invalid, and that the parties had the right to purchase under
the first.
In the case of Mhe Supervisors of Schuyler Gounty v. The

rPeo-

ple, 25 id. 181, which came before the court in 1860, it was
objected that the Senate journal did nob show that the bill incorporating the railroad company was read three times in that body
before it was put on its final passage; but the court, while still
approving Spanglerv. Jacoby, held that,the Constitution did not
require the fact that the bill had been read three times to be
entered on the journals, and, consequently, that the validity of
the law could not be impeached on that ground.
In 1864, in the case of The People ex rel. Barnes v. &tdrne,

35 id. 121, an application was made for a mandamus to compel
the treasurer of the State to countersign, register, and pay a
warrant issued upon him in favor of Barnes, the relator, by the
auditor of public accounts. The warrant was issued upon the
authority of what was supposed to be a statute of Illinois,
approved Feb. 14, 1863, as compensation for transporting and
bringing home certain wounded soldiers belonging to the State;
but it being shown that the journal of the House of Representatives did not contain entries to the effect that the bill was
passed by a majority of the members elect, or that the vote
was taken by ayes and noes upon the final passage, the mandamus was refused. In the opinion of the court the authorities
are extensively reviewed, and the rulings in the previous cases
reaffirmed.
These cases were all decided before the issue of the bonds
sued on in this case. But since that time two cases have
arisen under the very law now in question, in which the
Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that it was never passed,
and is not an act of the legislature of that State. The first of
these cases Ryan v. Lynch, 68 id. 160, was decided in 1873.
Certain tax-payers of the town of Ottawa sought to enjoin the
tax-collector fr-om collecting a tax which had been levied to
pay interest upon bonds issued in aid of the Ottawa, Oswego,

TOWN OF SOUTH OTrAWA v. PEmNS.

[Sup. Ct.

sage of a law. The presumption, indeed, is, that an act thus
verified became the law, pursuant to the requirements of the
Constitution; but that presumption may be overthrown. If
the journal is lost or destroyed, the presumption will sustain the
law, for it will be intended that the proper entry was made on
the journal. But when the journal is in existence, and it fails
to show that the act was passed in the mode prescribed by the
Constitution, the presumption is overcome, and the act must
fall."
This case was followed,- in 1855, by Turley v. County of Logan, 17 id. 151. There, a law was supposed to have been passed
at the session of the legislature in 1853, for the removal of the
seat of justice of Logan County, by a vote of the people. In
the fall after, a vote was taken, which resulted in favor of the
removal. Turley and his associates then filed their bill to restrain the county officers from erecting county buildings at the
new location, on the ground that, as appeared by the journal,
the act had not been read in the House of Representatives the
full number of times required by the Constitution, and so was
no law. The fact being as alleged, the injunction was, in the
first instance, allowed, but afterwards, in February, 1854, the
same legislature met in extra session, and, on recollection of
members, and by the manuscript notes of the clerk, the House
of Representatives amended its journal so that it showed the
bill had been read the requisite number of times. Thereupon
the Supreme Court, when the case came there, while recognizing fully the authority of Spangler v. Jacoby, affirmed a decree
dissolving the injunction and dismissing the bill, for the reason
that it was within "the power of the same legislature, at the
same or a subsequent session, to correct its own journals,
by amendments which show the true facts as they actually
occurred."
The same question was also considered by the same court
in Prescott v. The Trustees of the. illinois & Michigan Canal,
19 id. 324, decided in 1857. There, Prescott and Arnold were
entitled to purchase, at the appraised value, certain lots in Chicago, which had been appraised twice; and the point to be
decided was, whether they should pay according to the first or
second appraisal. The second appraisal was made under a

Oct. 1876.]

TowN OF SOUTH OTTwA

v. PERKNS.

"SECT. 3. Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings,
and publish them...."
"SECT. 21.. . .On the final passage of all bills, the vote shall
be by ayes and noes, and shall be entered on the journal; and no.
bill shall become a liw without the concurrence of a majority of all
the members elect in each house."

The Constitution also provides that all bills passed shall be
signed by the speakers of the two houses, and approved and
signed by the governor, or, in case of his refusal, shall be repassed by a majority elected to each house. The general laws
of the State provide for depositing all acts of the legislature,
and the original journals of the two houses, in the office of the
Secretary of State, who is charged with having them printed;
and the printed statute-books are made evidence of the acts
contained therein.
In the construction of the constitutional provisions aboye
recited, the Supreme Court of Illinois, by a long course of
decisions, has held that it is necessary to the validity of a
statute that it should appear by the legislative journals that
it was duly passed in the manner required by the Constitution.
As early as 1853, it was decided, in Spangler v. Taco6y,
14 Ill. 297, that it was "competent to show from the journals
of either branch of the legislature that a particular act was
not passed in the mode prescribed by the Constitution, and
thus defeat its operation altogether. The Constitution requires
each house to keep a journal, and declares that certain facts,
made essential to the passage of a law, shall be stated therein.
If those facts are not set forth, the conclusion is that they did
not transpire. The journal is made up under the immediate
direction of the house, anid is presumed to contain a full and
complete history of its proceedings. If a certain act received
the constitutional assent of the body, it will so appear on the
face of its journal. And when a contest arises as to whether
the act was pass&Id, the journal may be appealed to to settle it.
It is the evidence of the action of the house, and by it the act
must stand or fall. 'It certainly was not the intention of the
framers of the Constitution that the signatures of the speakers
and the executive should furnish conclusive evidence of the pas-

TOWN OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. (t.

ance of an election held in said town, on the eighth day of October,
1q66, under and by virtue of a certain act of the legislature of the
State of Illinois, approved Feb. 18, 1857, entitled ' An Act authorizing certain cities, counties, incorporated towns and townships to
subscribe to the stock of certain railroads,'

. . .

at which election a

majority of the legal voters participating in the same voted ' for
subscription' to the capital stock of said railroad in the sum of
820,OO, and to issue the bonds of said town therefor; and the said
election was by the proper authorities duly declared carried 'for
subscription,' previous application having been made to the townclerk of the town, and said clerk having called said election in accordance therewith, and having given-due notice of the time and place
of holding the same, as required by law and the act aforesaid."
The second action was brought on a bond issued by the
county of Kendall, in Illinois, bearing date the fourth day of
May, 1869, in aid of the same railroad, and by virtue of the
same act of the legislature, and containing substantially the
same recitals, mutatis rautandis,as those in the Ottawa bonds,
except that the election authorizing the issue of the bonds is
stated to have been held on the thirtieth day of March, 1869.
The facts in the two cases are, in other respects, substantially
the same.
The only authority claimed for issuing these bonds is the
act referred to in the above recital therein. If no such act was
ever passed by the legislature of Illinois, the bonds are void.
A municipal corporation cannot issue bonds in aid of extraneous objects without legislative authority, of which all persons
dealing with such bonds must take notice at their peril. Pendleton County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 297; Kenicott v. The Supervisors, 16 id. 452; St. Joseph Township v. Rogers, 16 id. 644;
Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U.. S. 484.
It is insisted on the part of the plaintiffs in error in these
cases that the law relied on for authority to issue the bonds in
question was never passed, no entry of its passage appearing on
the journal of the Senate of Illinois.
The Constitution of Illinois, adopted in 1848, contains the
following provisions: " ART. 3, SECT. 1. The legislative authority of the State shall
be vested in a general assembly, which shall consist of a senate and
house of representatives, both to be elected by the people.'

Oct. 1876.]

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

TowN OF SOUTH OTTAWA v. PERKINS.

261

and, when the latter holds a pretended act of the lgislature to be void and
not a law, the courts of the United States are bound to hold accordingly.
Any State may, by its Constitution and laws, prescribe what shall be conclusive evidence of its statutes; but, on general principles, the question as
to the existence or non-existence of a statute is a judicial one, and, though
framed in form as ah issue in fact, must, when it arises in the courts of the
United States, be decided by them, on evidence legally applicable under the
laws of the State, without taking the advice of a jury on the subject.
A municipal corporation cannot, without legislative authority, issue bonds in
aid of an extraneous object. Every person dealing in them must, at his
peril, take notice of the existence and terms of the law which, it is claimed,
conferred the power to issue them, no matter under what circumstances he
may obtain them.
The plaintiffs in error, municipal corporations in Illinois, having issued the
bonds in suit, by virtue of a pretended act of the general assembly, approved
Feb. 18, 1857, which was duly published among the printed statutes of that
State as a law, and, therefore, prima fade valid, were not estopped from
denying its passage, notwithstanding the holder of the bonds was a boaafide
purchaser without actual notice.
The Supreme Court of Illinois has decided, in two cases, that that act was
never passed, and is not an act of the legislature of that State. This court
concurs in that view, and also holds that no subsequent legislation has given
any new force to the act, or any validity to the bonds issued, or the proceed.
ings had, under it.
The act of Congress, prescribing the mode in which the public acts, records,
and judicial proceedings in each State shall be authenticated, so as to take
effect in every other State, has no bearing upon this case.

ERon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Argued by Mr. P. _Phillips and Mr. T. Z'yle Dickey for the
plaintiffs in error, by Mr. C. S. -Eldridgefor Perkins, and by
Mr. 1). T. hittler and Mr. H. Greene for Post.
MR. JUSTICE BADLEYi delivered the opinion of the court.
The first of these actions was brought by Perkins, the plaintiff below, to recover the amount due upon two negotiable bonds
of the town of South Ottawa, in the usual form, for $1,000 each,
made payable to the Ottawa, Oswego, and Fox River Valley
Railroad Company, or bearer, in three years from July 1, 1869,

with coupons for the semi-annual payment of interest attached.
They each contained recitals as follows :
"This bond is one of a series of twenty bonds, bearing even date
herewith, each for the sum of $1,000,. . . and is issued in pursa.

TOWN OF SOUTH OTTAWA V. PERKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

to enable a court to obtain further information in respect to
some matter already before it for adjudication. It is for the
last purpose only that the writ is employed in this court.
In the present case the writ is asked, not to bring here any
part of the record of the Court of Claims as it existed when the
appeal was taken, but to obtain a new record of a new proceeding which has been bad since, and by which the judgment
appealed from has been vacated and a new trial granted in the
court below. The object is to inform us, not of what was done
before the appeal, but of what has been done since. Our action
under the appeal, however, is confined to what was done before;
and, if we act at all upon what has been done since, it must be
in consequence of some new jurisdiction to be acquired. From
what has already been said, it is clear that, for such a purpose,
we have no power to issue the writ.
The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial, has resumed
control of the cause and the parties. This it had the right to
do. Such a power may be somewhat anomalous, but it is
expressly given; and every person, when he submits himself to
the jurisdiction of that court for the prosecution of his claim,
subjects himself to its operation. The proceedings under which
the new trial was obtained are now a part of the record below,
and, after judgment is finally rendered, may be brought here
by appeal for review.
Notion of the United States to dismiss the appeal granted.
Motion for certioraridenied.

Towx OF SOUTH OTTAwA v. PERxINs.
SUPERVISORS OF KENDALT COUNTY v. POST.
1. The Supreme Court of Illinois, by a long course of decisions, has held that,
under the Constitution of 1848, a statute of that State is not valid unless the
legislative journals show that it was passed by a majority of all the members elect in each house of the general assembly.
2. Except where the Federal Constitution and laws are concerned, the courts of
the United States, in passing upon the Constitution and statutes of a State,
conform to the settled construrtion of them by the highest State court;

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. YOUNG.

ON motion of the United States to dismiss an appeal fron
the Court of Claims, and of the appellee for a writ of
certiorari.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
"
2fr?
- W. Wf. MicFarlandfor the appellee.
MB. 0B!s JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
During the pendency of this suit in this court the Court 'of
Claims, assuming to act under the authbrity of sect. 1088,
Rev. Stat., has granted a new trial, and' the United States now
ask to dismiss their appeal. This we have often decided they
have the right to do. Lat dm's and Deming's Appeals, 9 Wall.
145. In United States v. Ajre's, 9 id. 610, the motion to dismiss was made by the' appellee and resisted by the United
States; but it was held "that the order granting the newtrial
has the effect of vacating the former judgment, and to render
it n ull and void; " and the appeal' wvas consequently dismissed.
The same principle was recognized in United Seaias r Crusse l,
12 id. 175, Bx parte Russell, 13 id. '664, and z paite United
States, 16 id. 699.
The appellee asks, however, 'that t i'ause may be retained,
and that 'the proceedings under whii the new trialwa'ws granted
may be brought here by writ of certiorari for re-exiamination.
,Uiless this can be done, he admits that'he United States
should be permitted to dismiss their appeal.
We have only such appellate jurisdiction as has been conferred by Congress, and in the exercise of such as has been
confQred we can proceed only in the manner which the law
prescribes. Barry v. lercein,5 How. 119 ; -Durosseauv. United
States, 6 Cranch, 314; United Stdtes v. Curry, 6 How. 113;
Ex parte Vallandigham, I Wall. 251.
From the" judgments of the Court 'of Claims appeals are
alwed to this court (sect. 707, Rev. Stat.), but no proyision
has been made for writs of error. Consequently, we cannot
proceed by Writ of error to review the decisions of that court.
At common law, the writ of certiorari is used for two purposes: 1. As an appellate proceeding for the re-examinatipn of
some action of ar in.ferior tribunal; and, 2. As auxiliary process

UNITED STATES V. YOUNG.

[Sup. Ct.

Had it before that date been authorized under existing laws by
a vote of the people of that town ? The record shows that a
vote of the people had before that time been taken; but it does
not show that it was authorized by existing laws. There was
no authority for submitting that question to the people; and its
absence in the fifth section of the act incorporating the Paris
and Decatur Company is a strong argument that municipalities
were not intended to be included under the general designation
of corporations.
We have held that a town cannot subscribe for stock in a
railroad corporation unless it has the authority of the legislature
for the act. The legislature usually requires the approval of
the electors of the towil,!at an election for that purpose, as a
condition to such subscription. Doubtless the legislature can
impose or omit conditions, in its discretion. But when the
sanction of a popular vote is required, it must be obtained.
We are, therefore, compelled to hold that the subscription of
the town of East Oakland had not been authorized under
existing laws by a vote of the people prior to July 2, 1870.
We have held that there can be no bona fide holding where
the statute did not in law authorize the issue of the bonds.
The objection in such case goes to the point of power. There
is an entire want of jurisdiction over the subject. It is not
the case of an informality, an irregularity, fraud, or excess of
authority in an authorized agent. Where there is a total want
of authority to issue the bonds, there can be no such thing as a
Judgment reversed
bona fide holding.

UM M STATES v. YOUNhTG.
1. The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial after rendering judgment,
and while an appeal therefrom is pending here, vacates the judgment, and
resumes control of the case and the parties.
2. In such a case, a writ of certiorariwill not be granted to compel that court to
send here the proceedings subsequent to the appeal; but the appeal will be
dismissed.
3. After judgment shall have been finally rendered by the Court of Claims, the
proceedings in which the new trial was obtained may be brought here by
appeal for review.

Oct. 1876.]

ToWNSHIP OF"EAsT OAMLND V. SKINNER.

257

corporations. -It confers no po.ver on municipal corporations to
subscribe for such stock. The provision manifestly refers to
private corporations when it authorizes agents to subscribe. It
does not refer to counties, cities, towns, or townships, and cannot be held to embrace them. No power is conferred to call
the election, or for the town officer to make the subscription, or to issue these or any other bonds." We have not
been furnished with a copy of this decision, but it is referred
to in the briefs of both parties. While its effect or conclusiveness is a subject of difference, the decision itself is not
denied.
If the Supreme Court of a State gives construction-to the
language of a statute, and there have been no conflicting decisions, this court, as a general rule, follows the construction
thus given. Township of Elmwood v. Mfarcy, 92 U. S. 289.
It is said that this decision was exparte,and that the decision was
given on a made-up case, - that the contest was not a real one.
There is no evidence of the truth of these assertions, and we do
not well see how evidence of that character could be produced
to us. If the decision is to be attacked on such grounds, the
proceeding must be had before the court that made it, and upon
notice to all interested.
We are, however, all of the opinion that the unreported case
to which we have referred was rightly decided, and, as an
original question, we concur in the opinion given by the
Supreme Court of Illinois. We think the authority to "the
agent of any corporate body" to subscribe for stock in the railroad company was not intended to include, and did not include,
municipal corporations. It meant private and money-making,
trading or business, corporations. It did not intend to give
authority to any township, however remote from the road, to
become one of its stockholders.
A provision of the Constitution of the State of Illinois, which
took effect on the second day of July, 1870, positively prohibited a subscription to the capital stock of a railroad corporation
by any county, city, township, or other municipality, unles3
such subscription had been authorized under existing laws by
a vote of the people prior to the date mentioned.
The subscription in question was made after July 2, 1870.
VOL IV.

17

256

TOWNSHIP OF EAST OAKLAND V. SKINNER.

[Sup. Ct.

111r. do An M. Palmer for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. S. Greene, 1Mr. D. T. Littler, and iMr. James C. Robinson, cotra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois
against the township of East Oakland, to recover the amount of
certain interest coupons issued with certain bonds by Charles
Clement, supervisor, and as the agent of the said town, upon
a subscription to the stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad
Company.
The Paris and Decatur Railroad Company is a corporation
of the State of Illinois, organized under an act of the general
assembly of said State, entitled "An Act to incorporate the
Paris and Decatur Railroad Company," approved Feb. 18, 1861,
-with authority to construct, maintain, and operate a railroad
from the town of Paris to the town of Decatur, in said State.
By the fifth section of said act it is provided that "said corporation shall cause books to be opened for subscriptions to the
capital stock thereof, to be divided into shares of fifty dollars
each, at such times and places as they may choose, and shall
give at least thirty days' notice thereof by publication in a
newspaper published in the town or city where said books may
be opened; and if there be no newspaper published therein,
then in the nearest newspaper thereto. It shall be lawful for
all persons of lawful age, or for the agent of any corporate
body, to subscribe any amount to the capital stock of said company."
It was by the authority of this section that the subscription
we are considering was made, and the bonds and coupons issued
in payment therefor. Did this language, "the agent of any
corporate body," give power to a municipal organization to
subscribe and to issue its bonds as was here done?
In the recent case of Campbell v. The Paris J Decatur Rai7road Co. (not yet reported), the Supreme Court of Illinois
passed upon the effect of this statute. After quoting the section as given above, the court say: "This is the only provision
in the charter in reference to subscriptions by either persons or

'Oct. 1876.]

TOWNsHiP

OF EAST OAKLAND V. SKINNER.

255

mistake, we have no hesitation in deciding that the failure of
this appellant to perfect its appeal has been because of its failure to comply with a rule of practice which has been rigidly
enforced for more than forty years. In addition to this, we are
not satisfied, from the showing made, that at least one of the
counsel for the appellant did not have actual knowledge of the
existence of the rule; and it is very clear that if, after the agents
of the appellant were advised of the demand for security of
some sort, they had exercised any diligence whatever in ascertaining what was actually required of them in the premises,
they would have at once -received the necessary information.
li/otion denied.

TowNsm

OF EAST -OAKLAND V. SHIN-XR.

1. This court concurs in opinion with the Supreme Court of Illinois, that the
fifth section of the act of the general assembly of that State, approved Feb.
18, 1861, conferred no authority upon a municipal corporation to subscribe
to the capital stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company.
2. The township of East Oakland subscribed to that capital stock without being
thereunto authorized, and its bonds, bearing date April 20,1871, and reciting'
that they are issued in payment of such subscription, are void.
3. Where there is a total want of authority.to issue municipal bonds, there can
be no lonafide holding of them.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit on fifty-four coupons cut
from certain bonds issued by the township of East Oakland,
Ill., in payment of its subscription- of $75,000 to the capital
stock of the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company.
The election authoizing the subscription was held Feb. 1,
1870, and the subscription made Aug. 15 of that year. The
bonds bear date April 20, 1871. The other facts and the pro
visions of the statute applicable to the case are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
The case was tried by the court below without a jury, and
resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff for $9,207.32 and costs.
The township thereupon brought the case here.

254

SELMA, ETC.

R.R. Co. v.

LA. NAT. BANK., ETC.

[SUp. Ct.

appellant (on docketing a cause and filing the record) shall
enter into an undertaking to the clerk, with security to his
satisfaction, for the payment of his fees, or otherwise satisfy
him in that behalf." 91 U. S. vii.
In Owings v. Tiernan's Lessee, 10 Pet. 447, a transcript of the
record was lodged with the clerk, Oct. 24, 1835; but he refused
to file it or docket the cause until the fee bond was given, as
required by the rule of 1831. At the January Term, 1836, the
defendant in error moved that the cause be docketed and dismissed, and the plaintiff in error, that the transcript be filed
and the cause docketed without the bond. The motion of the
plaintiff in error was overruled, but leave was given him to
docket the cause upon giving the bond; and it was ordered that
if this was not done by March 1, the motion of the defendant
in error to docket and dismiss be granted. Afterwards, in
Van Rensselaer v. Watts, 7 How. 784, a record was lodged with
the clerk early in 1848, but no fee bond given. At the January Term, 1849, the counsel for the appellant, having then
filed the necessary bond, moved the court to direct the clerk to
docket the cause as of the day the record was received by him;
but this was refused, Mr. Chief Justice Taney saying, "This
court consider the practice established by the decision in Owings v. Diernan, 10 Yet., and do not wish to disturb it."
The transcript in this case was lodged with the clerk Oct. 5,
1875, but no fee bond was given and no appearance of counsel
entered. An attempt has been made to show that neither the
appellant nor its counsel knew that the security was required;
but it does appear that as early as Nov. 25, 1875, both counsel
and appellant did understand that $200 was required by the
clerk for some purpose, and the agents of the appellant who
had the appeal in charge were advised that they "would do
well to attend to it without delay." No heed was given to
this suggestion; and three months afterwards, Feb. 24, 1876,
a motion to docket and dismiss was made and granted. The
court continued in session until May 8, and no attention was
given to the case by the appellants previous to the adjournment.
Without undertaking to determine what he might do in a
case where an appeal had been dismissed through our own

Oct. 1876.],

SELMA, ETC.

R.R. Co. v. LA.

NAT. BANK, ETC.

258

SELMA AND MERInIAIT RAILROAD CON2AxY v. LoUSITA
NATIONAL BANK OF NEw ORmAx s.
Where, by reason of the failure of the appellant to enter into an undertaking
to the clerk for the paynient of his fees, or otherwise satisfy him in that

behalf, the appeal has, upon motion of the appellee, been docketed and dismissed, the court will not, on motion of the appellant, at a subsequent term,

set aside the order of dismissal, and grant leave to file the record and docket
the cause.

MoTIOO for leave to set aside an order dismissing an appeal
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama, under the ninth rule at the last term, and
for leave to file the record and docket the cause at the present
term.
Mr. Philip Phillips for the appellant, in support of the
motion.
Mr. Thomas J. -Jurant,contra.

MR. CmmF JUSTICE W&rE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The appeal in this cause was taken June 16, 1875. It was
the duty of the appellants, therefore, under rule 9, par. 1, to
file a transcript of the record with the clerk, and docket the
cause within the first six days of the last term. The same rule
provides, par. 3, that upon the filing of the transcript the
appearance of counsel for appellant shall be entered. This
was promulgated at the December Term, 1867, and has been
in force since that time. 6 Wall. v. As early as the February
Term, 1808, it was "ordered that all parties in this court, not
being residents of the United States, shall give security for the
costs accruing in this court, to be entered on record," 4 Cranch,
537; but at the January Term, 1831, this was amended so as to
read as follows: "In all cases the clerk shall take of the plaintiff a bond with competent security, to respond to the costs, in
the penalty of 8200, or a deposit of that amount to be placed
in bank subject to his draft." 5 Pet. 724. This last order
was continued in force substantially as originally promulgated
until May 8, 1876, during the last term, when it was amended
so as to read as follows: "In all cases the plaintiff in error or

EX PARTE JORDAN.

[sup. ot.

It is true that the petitioners were not parties to the suit
until after the bill wap taken as confessed; but it is clear that
a decree pro confesso did not end the case, because before the
final decree was rendered it was found necessary to have a reference to a master, "to compute, ascertain, and report." Before
the master could comply with this order proof had to be taken;
and the original time given him to report was extended for
that purpose. When this reference was made, the petitioners
were-defendants and actors in respect to the litigation. They
certainly had the right to contend before the master, and to
except to his report. This they did; and their exceptions were
overruled. Even the report of the master did not put the case
in a condition for a final decree. The amount due upon the
bonds and coupons had still to be ascertained. That was done
by the court, and stated in the decree. Against these findings,
certainly, the petitioners were in a condition to contend, and, if
to contend below, to appeal here. It will be time enough to
consider what relief they can have under their appeal when
the case comes up.
While complaint is made of interlocutory orders entered in
the progress of the cause, the appeal lies and was asked only
from the final decree. Whatever comes heze comes through
such an appeal. When the case gets here, the petitioners may
not be allowed to go behind orders actually made by the court
as to the administration of the property before they were admitted to defend, but the case was certainly open to them, when
they came in, as to all other matters involved.
The exceptions of the petitioners were not filed until after
the expiration of one month from the time of filing the master's
report. Under equity rule 83 the complainants could have
insisted upon a confirmation of the report by reason of this default at the next rule-day after it occurred. But they did not
see fit to do so. The exceptions were received out of time
without objection, and acted upon by the court. This was a
waiver of the default.
A writ of mandamus will be issued directing the Circuit
Court to allow the appeal asked for, as of Oct. 2, 1876, and it
is so
Ordered.

Oct. 1876.]

Ex PARTE JORDAN.

finding the amount due upon certain detached coupons, upon
the bonds and attached coupons, and upon the receivers' certificates, and directing the mortgaged property to be sold,
and the proceeds applied to the payment of the sums so found
due.
The present petitioners, claiming to be aggrieved by certain
specified orders made in the cause previous to their admission
asA defendants, and also by so much of the final decree as directs
the payment of certain designated coupons, and of the receivers'
certificates, and by certain other provisions of the decree which
are specially stated, on the second day of October, 1876, in
open court, prayed an appeal to this court " from so much and
such parts of the decree" as they claim to be aggrieved by.
This was denied, for the reason that the court was of the opinion "that the said defendants cannot appeal from the decree,
because the bill of complaint herein and the supplemental bill
have been taken as confessed as against them." '
Afterwards the petitioners again applied to the circuit judge
for the allowance of an appeal from the same parts of the
decree, and tendered good and sufficient security to perfect the
appeal; but it was refused:
Thereupon this application was made for a mandamus directing the Circuit Court to allow the appeal as asked for. Hr.F. N. .Bangsfor the petitioners.
31fr. William H .Evarts, contra.
M

.CIrFw JUSTICE WAm delivered the opinion of the

court.

We think that an appeal should have been allowed in this
case. The petitioners were defendants in the suit when the
final decree was rendered. They were directly interested in
-what was then decided. The allowance of an appeal under
sect. 692, Rev. Star., follows of course, if prayed for by one
who has the right to it. The language of the statute is,
"small be allowed," which means "qnust be allowed," when
asked for by one who stands in such relation to the cause that
he can demand it. The question upon such an application is
not what will be gained by an appeal, but whether the party
asking it can appeal at all.

EX PARTE JORDAN.

[Sup. ot.

the original and supplemental bills as defendants having or claiming
an interest: Provided, that said petitioners all appear by the same
solicitor or solicitors. This order to be without prejudice to proceedings already had; but this is not to be construed as depriving the
petitioners of leave to apply for a rehearing or review of any order
heretofore made, upon due notice to the parties interested."
About the same time a similar petition was presented by
John E. Williams and Theodore Houston, and they were
admitted upon the same terms.
July 13, 1875, the cause coming on for hearing, the complainants submitted a proposed form of final decree, and the
defendants' various amendments thereto. The hearing was
postponed until Aug. 4, when a further postponement took
place until Sept. 15, and the master was directed "to compute,
ascertain, and report to the court, on or before the eleventh day
of September, 1875," among other things, "the amount of
certificates of indebtedness and notes issued by the receivers
under the authority of the court, classifying them so as to show
the dates of and authority for their issue, and the purpose of
such issues respectively, and to whom issued by the receivers,
and the aggregate amount of principal due thereon, with interest computed to Sept. 15, 1875; . . . also what leases have
been made to the mortgagor or receivers, and the dates and
terms thereof; also what rents have accrued under the terms
of such leases and have not been paid."
The time for taking proof by the master having been extended, his report was not made until Nov. 13. To this report
exceptions were filed by Jordan, James, Houston, Williams, tivingston, Amy, and Crosby, Jan. 5, 1876. These exceptions
related to the amounts allowed for outstanding receivers' certificates, and to different railroad companies on account of their
leases.
The cause at last came on for final hearing, Oct. 2, 1876,
among other things, upon the exceptions to the master's report
"filed by defendants Conrad N. Jordan and others on the 5th
of January, 1876," and after argument, among others, by "Mr.
F. N. Bangs, of counsel for the defendants, Conrad N. Jordan,
Henry Amy, John P. Crosby, Edward Livingston, Frederick
P. James, and Nathaniel A. Cowdrey," a decree was entered

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE JORDAN.

July 1, 1869, executed a mortgage on its railroad, &c., to
secure an issue of bonds amounting to $8,000,000. Stevens,
Opdyke, & Hewitt, trustees under this mortgage, on or about
Nov. 1, 1873, commenced a suit for its foreclosure in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York. To this suit the railroad company, Delos DeWolf, trustee, William H. Macy, trustee, and the Mercantile
Trust Company, trustee, were originally the only defendants.
Receivers were appointed Nov. 18; 1873; and on the same day,
for the purpose of providing money to pay debts owing to
employ6s, and for certain other specified objects, the receivers
were authorized to issue from time to time certificates of
indebtedness to an amount not exceeding in the aggregate
$1,425,000, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, and, unless previously discharged, to be paid out of the
moneys realized upon the foreclosure equally with any other
liabilities incurred by them in the administration of their
receivership. Dec. 23, 1873, a further issue of like certificates
was authorized, for the purchase of equipment and the payment
of rental on leased lines.
In due time an order was regularly entered, taking the bill
as confessed. The receivers from time to time filed their
accounts; and these were referred to a master, who reported

thereon April 29, 1875.

Upon the filing of this report the

following, direction was given by the circuit judge: "The
report may be confirmed, but a. present I think no further
order should be entered."
June 29, 1875, Conrad N. Jordan, Henry Amy, Edward
Livingston, Frederick P. James, John P. Crosby, and Nathaniel A. Cowdrey, holders, or the representatives of holders, of
bonds secured by the mortgage, filed a petition for leave to
intervene in the prosecution or defence of the suit, for the
protection of the interests they represented. Upon this petition the following order was made, June 30, 1875: "It is hereby ordered that the said petitioners have leave, and
leave is hereby granted to them, to intervene.in this suit for their
own interests, and the interests of those whom they represent, and
to that end to appear in the suit within three days, as defendants,
in the same manner and with like effect as if they were named in

Ex PARTE JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

act as regards ship-owners and consignees, it is an invasion of
the rights of persons outside of these classes. If such a monopoly, sustained by such sanctions, may be validly given to the
master and wardens, why may they not also, at prices not
agreed upon by the parties, nor according to the market value,
but at rates arbitrarily fixed by law, be authorized exclusively
to load and unload ships, to furnish them with all needful supplies, and to perform all the services of consignees, commission
merchants, and ship-brokers, touching incoming and outgoing
cargoes ? Each of these imagined cases is a parallelism to the
case before us, and only another step in the same direction.
We hold the statute to be void.
In expressing these views, we have no purpose to impugn
any thing heretofore said by this court as to the power of the
States to establish inspection, quarantine, health, and other
regulations, within the sphere of their acknowledged authority.
The constitutional validity of such regulations is as clear as the
power of Congress to establish regulations of commerce. It is
no objection to the former that both operate upon the same
subject. Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Ex parte
McNeil, 13 id. 236.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

Ex PARTE JORDANV.
Subsequently to a decree pro confesso, additional parties were, by leave of the
court, permitted to intervene as defendants, in the same manner and with like
effect as if named in the original and supplemental bills. The case was then
referred to a master, who computed, ascertained, and reported the amount of
indebtedness, &c.; whereupon the court, after finding certain facts and overruling the exceptions of such intervening parties to his report, passed a final
decree, but denied their right t; an appeal therefrom. Held, 1. That they had
that right. 2. That, to enforce it, a mandamus lies from this court.
APPLICATION

for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Southern District of New York, to
compel the allowance of an appeal from its. decision.
The New York, Oswego, and Midland Railroad Company,

Oct. 1876.]

FoSTE.R v. MASTER,

ETC. OF NEW ORLEANS.

247

been and is engaged in acting as, and performing the duties
which belonged to, the master and wardens of the port.
An injunction was prayed for. It was granted by the lower
court, and the Judgment was affirmed by the- Supreme Court of
the State. A writ of error was thereupon sued out by Foster,
and the case is thus brought before this court for review.
The defendants in error have failed to enter their appearance,
and no brief in their behalf has been submitted. We shall,
therefore, devote but fev remarks to the case.
The Constitution of the United States, art. 1, sect. 8, gives
to Congress the power "to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
That the provisions of this act are regulations of both -foreign
and inter-state commerce is a proposition which requires no
argument to support it. They are a clog and a blow to all
such commerce in the port to which they relate. Their enactment involved a power which belongs exclusively to Congress,
and which a State could not, thefefore, properly exercise. In
Steamship Company v. Port Wardens, 6 Wall. 81, it Was held
that a statute of a State* enacting that the master and wardens of a port within it should be entitled to demand and
receive, in addition to other fees, the sum of five dollars,
whether called on to perform service or not, for every vessel
arriving in that port, was a regulation of commerce, and was
unconstitutional and void. Ifthe constitutional objection was
well taken there, a multo fortior;i is it-fatal here. The act is
not, in the sense of the Constitution, an inspection law. The
object of such laws is to certify the quantity and value of the
articles inspected, whether imports or exports, for the protection of buyers and consumers. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203;
Brown v. Maryland,12 id. 419; Clintsman v. , orthrup,'8 Cow.
46 ; Bouv. Law Dict. "Inspection;" Story's Const. sects. 1017.
1024; Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods, 290. The purpose of this
act is to furnish official evidnbe for the parties immediately
concerned, and, where the goods are .damaged, to provide for
and regulate their sale. Master and Wardens v. iShip Hawes,
6 La. Ann. S90.
Besides the unreason and the oppressive character of the

246

FOSTER

FOSTER V. MASTER, ETC. OF NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

V. MASTER AND WARDENS OF THE PORT OF

NEW

ORLEANS.
The act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved March 6, 1869, in relation to the
survey of the hatches of every sea-going vessel arriving at New Orleans, and
of the damaged goods coming on board of her, &c., being a regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, is in violation of
the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed 'arguments by Mr. H. J. Leovy for the
plaintiff in error. No counsel appeared for the defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This controversy has arisen out of an act of the legislature
of Louisiana, approved March 6, 1869. By the first section it
-was made the duty of the master and wardens of the port of
New Orleans to offer their services to make a survey of the
hatches of all sea-going vessels which should arrive at that por ,
and a penalty was prescribed for the neglect of this duty. The
second section declares "that it shall be unlawful for any
person other than the said master and wardens, or their legally
constituted deputy, to make any survey of the hatches of seagoing vessels coming to said port of New Orleans, or to make
any survey of damaged goods coming on board of such vessels,
whether such survey be made on board or on shore, or to give
certificates on orders for sale of suoh damaged goods at auction,
or to do any other of the acts and things prescribed by law for
said master and wardens to do and perform; and the person
doing such illegal and forbidden acts, his instigators and encouragers, shall be liable and bound to pay in solido to the said
master and wardens $100, with damages and costs, tor each of
said illegal and forbidden acts so done."
The petition avers that Foster resides in the city of New
Orleans, and has been and is continually violating the provisions of the act by making surveys of the hatches of sea-going
vessels arriving at that port, and of damaged goods, and hav

Oct. 1876.]

INMAN STEAISHIP

Co. v. TmE.

577. See also Steamship Company v. Port Wardens, 6 id. 81,.
and Peete v. M4organ, 19 ia. 581.
The tax imposed is not merely a mode of measuring the compensation to be paid. The answer to this suggestion is, that it
is exacted where there is nothing to be paid for, and has no
reference to any circumstance in this connection but the tonnage of the vessel and the class to which it belongs.
The commerce clauses of the Constitution had their origin in
a wise and salutary policy. They give to Congress the entire
control of the foreign and inter-state commerce of the country.
the
They were intended to secure harmony and uniformity in
regulations by which they should be governed. Wherever such
commerce goes, the power of the nation accompanies it, ready
and .ompetent, as far as possible, to promote its prosperity and
redress the wrongs and evils to which it may be subjected. It
was deemed especially important that the States should not impose tonnage taxes. Hence the prohibition in the Constitution,
without the assent of Congress previously given. The confusion and mischiefs that would -ensue if this restriction were
removed are too obvious to require comment. The lesson upon
the subject taught by the law before us is an impressive one.
How the charges, which it is conceded the State may impose,
must be shaped in order to be valid, is a subject which it is
not within our province to consider, and in regard to which it
would not be proper for us to express any opinion. We decide
only the point before us.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to proceed
in conformity to this opinion.

Mr. CHIF JUSTICE WAITE did not sit in this case, nor take
any part in its decision.

INMAN STEAMSHIP

Co.

v. TINKER.

[Sup. Ct.

tonnage duty, its character as such could not appear in a stronger
light. But the name is immaterial: it is the substance we are
to consider.
It does not advance the argument in behalf of the appellee to
maintain that the regulations prescribed by the act are necessary
and proper in the port for which they are provided. It is not our
purpose to examine them, except as to the proposition in hand.
It may be that, aside from the imposition of this tax, they contain nothing exceptionable, and that in all other respects they
are wise andwell considered. Similar provisions, varying according to local circumstances, exist at all important points throughout the world whither marine commerce finds its way. They
are indispensable to those engaged in that business. They
fence out many evils, and promote largely the convenience and
the welfare of those engaged in this field of enterprise. Perhaps it is hardly too strong language to say, they are well
nigh vital to commerce itself. It may be conceded, also, that
foreign steamships and other vessels visiting the ports of a
State for business purposes may be made liable by the laws of
such State for all reasonable and proper port charges. This is
but a fair return for the benefits received. But such charges
must not be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
Any conflict is fatal to them. The warrant for such competent legislation may be found in that immense mass of police
and other powers which the States originally possessed, which
they have not parted with, and which still belongs to them;
or it may in some cases be found among those which the States
may exercise, but only until Congress shall see fit to act upon
the subject. The authority of the State then retires, and lies
in abeyance until the occasion for its exercise shall recur.
-Ex parte fcNeil, 13 Wall. 236.
"Powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or to the people." Const. amend. 10.
The State, in passing this law imposing a tonnage duty, has
exercised a power expressly prohibited to it by the Constitution. In that particular the law is, therefore, void. This view
is sustained by the rulings of this court in the State Tonnage
Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 204, and Cannon v. New Orleans, 20 id.

Oct. 1876.]

INMAN STEAMSHIP CO. v. TINKER.

Tonnage, in our law, is a vessel's "internal cubical capacity
in tons of one hundred cubic feet each, to be ascertained" in
the manner prescribed by Congress. Act of May 6, 1864,
13 Stat. pp. 70, 72; Rev. Stat. U. S. 804,  4158. "Tonnage
duties are duties upon vessels in proportion to their capacity."
Bouv. Law Dict., "Tonnage."
The term was formerly applied to merchandise. Cowel, in
his Law Dictionary, published in 1708, thus ilefmnes it: "Tonnage (tonnagium) is a custom or impost paid to the king
for merchandise carried out or brought in ships, or each like
vessels, according to a certain rate upon every ton, and of this
you may read in the statutes of 12 Edw. IV. c., 3; 6 Hen. VIII.
c. 14," &c. The vital principle of such a tax or duty is that
it is imposed, whatever the subject, solely according to the rule
of weight, either as to the capacity to carry, or the actual
weight of the thing itself.
In this law of the State there are several important points
that must not be overlooked. The charge is not exacted for
any services rendered or offered to be rendered. If the vessel
enter the port and immediately take her departure, or load or
unload, or make fast to any wharf, either of these things disjunctively brings her within the act, and makes her liable to
the burden prescribed.
The charge is applied wholly irrespective of the ad valorem
principle.
If either of the three vessels of the appellant was new and
making her first voyage, and another of the same tonnage was
making her last trip before being broken up, and the former
were of many tines the value of the latter, the act would apply
the same procrustean rule to both. The rate of payment, and
the amount to be paid, would, in both cases, be the same.
The act makes a discrimination. To one class of vessels it
applies the rate here in question, to another class double that
rate, and to yet another class none at all. Those belonging to
the latter are wholly exempted.
We think a clearer case of the imposition of a tonnage duty
than is presented in the record before us can hardly be imagined. If the law had been passed by Congress instead of the
State, and the charge imposed had been expressly designated a

INMAN STEAMSHIP

Co. v.

TINK ER.

[Sup. Ct.

may have been made, shall pay double the amount of such fees,
to be recovered in the name of the captain of the port. The
amount which the appellant was required to pay, and did pay,
was one cent and a half per ton upon the tonnage of their
three vessels respectively upon every arrival of each one in the
American port. The bill seeks to relieve them from this burden in future. The respondent demurred to the bill in the
court below. The demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed. The case was thereupon removed to this court by
appeal.
The following clauses of the Constitution of the United
States are invoked in behalf of the appellant as sustaining the
bill: ART. 1, SECT. 10. " No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what
may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, and
the net produce of all duties and imposts laid by any State on imports or exports shall be for the use of the treasury of the United
States, and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and control
of the Congress."
"No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty
of tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into
any agreement or compact with another State or with a foreign
power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay."

It is not claimed that Congress ever consented to the passage
of the act of 1862, or of the amendatory, act of 1865.
It is insisted by the counsel for the appellant that the charge
here in question is a regulation of commerce, which it was not
competent for the State to prescribe, and also a tonnage duty,
which the State was forbidden to impose.
Our remarks will be confined to the latter proposition.
The classification of the powers of the national government,
the several categories into which they may be resolved, and the
rights and powers of the States in our complex system of polity,
have been so often considered by this court, that it is unnecessary upon this occasion to re-examine the subject. Gilman v.
Philadelphia,8 Wall. 718; -Ex parte McNeil, 13 id. 236.

Oct. 1876.]

INMAN STEAMSHIP Co. v. TmiKm.

The adaptation of the fees to a standard of tonnage is the
most just and convenient method of measuring them. The act
does not lay a duty of tonnage.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought to enjoin the appellee from
collecting a port charge imposed upon the vessels of the appellant in the harbor of New York, by an aet of the legislature of
the State, a copy of which is annexed to the bill, and made a
part of it. The bill sets forth the following facts: The appellant is a foreign corporation, and the owner of three steamships,
each of which enters the port of New York once within every
five weeks. The vessels are respectively of the burden of
2,950 tons, 2,823 tons, and of 2,712 tons. All these vessels
belong to the port of Liverpool, in England, and run between
that port and the port of New York. The character and object
of the act of the legislature complained of are indicated in its
title, which is, "An Act defining and regulating the powers,
duties, and compensation of the captain of the port and harbormasters of the port of New York, passed May 22,1862, threefifths being present; amended April 17, 1865." The sixth
section declares : MR.JUSTICE

SwAyIruE

"The following fees shall be collected under this act, and no
others : All ships oi vessels of the United States of one hundred
tons burden or more, except lighters, tugs, barges and canal-boats,
sound and river steamboats employed on regular lines, and all
ships or vessels that are permitted by the laws of the United States
to enter on the same terms as vessels of the United States, which
shall enter the port of New York, or load or unload, or make fast
to any wharf therein, shall pay one and one half of one cent per
ton, to be computed from the tonnage expressed in the registers of
enrolments of such ships or vessels respectively; and all other foreign ships which shall arrive at and enter the same port, and load
or unload, or make fast to any wharf therein, shall pay three cents
per ton, to be computed on the tonnage expressed in the registers
or documents on board," &c.
In default of payment as prescribed, it is declared that the
master, owner, or consignee, upon whom demand of payment
VOL. Iv.
16

IMIAN STEAMSHIP Co. v. TINKER.

[Sup. Ct.

by or iequired of him and the harbor-masters. The bill further
alleges that the complainant, on failure so to pay such fee, is liable
to be charged in double the amount, to have its vessels attached
and seized, and to a multiplicity of suits on account thereof.
The defendant demurred to the bill generally, for want of
equity. The court below sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill; whereupon the complainant appealed to this
court.
Mifr. WTilliam M .Evarts and Mr. Francis Lynde Stetson for
the appellant.
The sixth section of the act under which the fees in question
are collected is a regulation of commerce, and therefore unconstitutional and void. Henderson v. The 2fayor, &c., 92 U. S.
259; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299; Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203; Steamship Co. v. Port Wardens, 6 Wall.
31; Peete v. Mjorgan, 19 id. 581; State Tonnage Tax Cases,
12 id. 204; City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102.
The act, without the consent of Congress, lays a duty on
tonnage, and is, therefore, in -violation of sect. 10 of the first
article of the Constitution. State Tonnage Tax Cases, supra;
Steamship Co. v. Port Wardens, supra ; Peete v. 11_organ, supra;
Cannon v. New Orleans, 20 Wall. 577.
Mr. Henry J. Scudder, contra.
The act in question is not a regulation of commerce within
the intendment of the Constitution, but an exercise of a power
reserved to the State for the proper government of persons
within its jurisdiction. It is in aid and furtherance of commerce, and not to its hindrance. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
591; City of New Yorkcv. Afiln,'11 Pet. 102; Cooley v. Board
of Wardens, 12 How. 299; Steamboat New York v. Bea, 18 id.
223 ; Owners-of the Brig James Gray v. Owners of the Ship John
Frazer et al., 21 id. 184.
The control by a State of its internal affairs, with a view to
the maintenance of order and public safety, does not infringe
the powers of Congress to regulate commerce, although it may
affect the subjects or instruments of commerce. Brown v.
laryland,12 Wheat. 419; United States v. -Dewitt,9 Wall. 41;
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra; Port Wardens v. Ship Ht.
J. Ward, 14 La. 293; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450.

Oct. 1876.]

INMAN STEAMSHIP

CO. v. TnKEn.

sound and river steamboats employed on regular lines, and all ships
or vessels that are permitted by the laws of the United States to
enter on the same terms as vessels of the United States, which
shall enter the said port of New York, or load or unload, or make
fast to any wharf therein, shall pay one and one-half of one per cent
per ton, to be computed from the tonnage expressed in the registers
of enrolments of such ships or vessels respectively; all other foreign
ships or vessels which shall arrive at and enter the same port, and
load or unload, or make fast to any wharf therein, shall pay three
cents per ton, to be computed on the tonnage expressed in the
registers or documents on board. Where difficulties arise between
vessels of less than one hundred tons burden, and the captain' of the
port or a harbor-master shall be called upon to settle the same, the
vessel, canal-boat, barge, or lighter in fault shall pay two dollars.
Such fees shall be paid by.the masters, owners, or consignees of such
ships or vessels, at the office of the captain of the port, or to persons
authorized by him to collect the same, within forty-eight hours after
the arrival of such ship or vessel. In default of such payment, the
same having been duly demanded, such masters, owners, or consignees, on whom such demand shall have been previously made,
shall pay double the amount of such fees, to be sued for and recovered, in the name of the captain of said port, in any court having
cognizance thereof. All fees under this act shall be paid to the
captain of the port, or upon his written order ;.and he shall have
power to employ the necessary assistance in making collections of the
same, at an expense of not exceeding five per cent upon the amount
collected, which expense shall not be considered as the ordinary
expense of the office. The captain of the port shall have power to
designate some harbor-master as his deputy, who may, during his
absence, or in case of a vacancy in his office, perform all the duties
belonging to the office of captain of the port; and the acts of said
harbor-master, so performed, shall be valid and binding."
The bill alleges that the complainant, the Inman Steamship
Company, a corporation created under the laws of Great
Britain, is the owner of a line of steamships belonging to
Liverpool, and running thence back and forth to the port of
New York,'three of which vessels in every five weeks arrive at
and enter said port, and load and unload and make fast to a
wharf therein; that on account thereof the defendant has
hereiofore exacted upwards of $125 every five weeks, or over
$1,300 per annum, whether or nbt any services were rendered

INMtAN STEAMSHIP

Go. v.

[Sup. Ct.

TINKER.

apparatus are all connected below with the bottom section of
the dam, and that is connected with the boat by chains and a
hoisting apparatus, and the upper section of the dan! is fixed to
the boat with the other sections hanging from it. Unlike that,
the drills in the apparatus of the respondents are operated in
reference to the rock without any chains connected with the
dome, showing that the apparatus is substantially different
from that of the complainants in respect to every claim of the
patent.
Suffice it to say, without pursuing the examination, that we
are all of the opinion that there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

INMiAN STEA

sHIP Com,

Y v. ThT

R.

So much of the act of the legislature of New York, passed May 22,1862, amended
April 17, 1865, as requires, with certain exceptions, all ships or vessels which
enter the port of New York, or load or unload, or make fast to any wharf
therein, to pay a certain percentage per ton, to be computed on the tonnage
expressed in the registers of enrolments of such ships or vessels respectively,
is in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a bill in equity filed by the appellant for an injunction to restrain the appellee, the captain of the port of New
York and his successors in office, from collecting a fee of one and
one-half per cent per ton, to be computed from the registered
tonnage of certain vessels entering that port, pursuant to sect. 6,
c. 487, of the acts of the legislature of the State of New York,
entitled "An Act defining and regulating the powers, duties,
and compensation of the captain of the port and harbor-masters
of the port of New York, passed May 22, 1862, three-fifths
being present. Amended April 27, 1865."
That section is as follows:"The following fees shall be collected under this act, and no
others: All ships or vessels of the United States of one hundred
tons burden or more, except lighters, tugs, barges, and canal-boats,

Oct. 1376.]

CAMUEYER v. NEWTON.

capable of being adjusted at different heights, is not and never

was self-adjusting to vaiying depths of water. 3. Because it
has no self anchors,Ifree to slide and self-adjusting at all times
while the apparatus is in use;
Prior observations are sufficient to show that these features
in the apparatus of the complainants are necessary features in
the operation of the patented improvement, as clearly indicated
in the first and second claims of the patent; and, if so, they are
abundantly sufficient to substantiate the proposition that the
apparatus of the respondents is substantially different from the
machine describ-dd in the complainants' specification.
Proofs were introduced by the respondents which showed
fhat no apparatus such as is- described in the specification of
the patent was ever constructed and put into-practical operation, and the evidence tends to show that the apparatus, if
constructed as described, would be worthless.
Serious difficulty, it is apparent, would arise if the mode of
anchoring the dam there described should be adopted, as its
tendency certainly would be to render it impossible to work the
drills with useful effect.
Discussion is scarcely necessary in respect to the third claim,
as the very statement of it shows that it is not infringed by
any thing in the apparatus of the respondents, as their apparatus has no anchors connected with the dome, nor which connect
the dome with the boat, which is an essential feature of the
third claim in the patent.
In order to make the dam an element of the combination set
forth in the third claim, the anchors connected with the boat
by chains passing through eyebolts on the bottom section of
the dam must be included I and as the anchors so connected and
operating are wanting in the apparatus of the respondents, it
follows that it does not infringe the apparatus of the complainants.
Nor is it necessary to enter much into the discussion of the
fourth claida of the patent, as it has already sufficiently appeared
that the apparatus of the respondents has no chains connected
with the dome, nor do the respondents operate the drills in the
manner or by the means described in the complainants' specification. Instead of that, drill grooves in the complainants'

CAMMEYER v. NEWTON.

[Sup. Or.

to protect the drills and the diver from the velocity of the current, which, though lowered and raised from a boat, is yet
entirely disconnected therefrom, and is uncontrolled thereby
when in position. Drill-tubes are arranged within the dome in
which the drills work, being dropped by their own weight, and
raised by connection with motive power on the boat.
Experimental use of the apparatus commenced late in the
fall of 1870, and it was found to work successfully, and it
appears that it was for some time in constant use, and that it is
the use of the same which it is alleged infringes the complainants patent.
In that apparatus the dome is let down through the well-hole
in the boat. Movable legs are provided for use when the bed is
hard and uneven, which are attached to the lower edge of the
dome, and fall by their own gravity until they bear on the bed in
such a manner as to insure the horizontal position of the lower
edge of the dome, - the legs being kept to their bearings by selfacting cams which hold them permanently in place. When the
dome is properly located, it is then detached from the lowering
apparatus, and becomes a structure firmly located on the bed
of the channel, having no suspension from the boat or any
floating structure. Of course the apparatus has drill-tubes,
but they are fixed to the inside of the dome, and the drills are
raised by lifting-engines on the boat and dr-opped to the work
by their own gravity, working vertically and without friction,
because the dome stands erect and immovable. Both the dome
and the drill-tubes are unaffected by any motion in the boat,
and the attachments to the drills being by loose connections, the
action of the drills is also practically unaffected by such motion
within the range to which it is limited by proper anchorage
and by allowing sufficient play between the face of the wellhole and the side of the funnel, which projects up from the
centre of the dome.
Without more, these suggestions are sufficient to show that
the apparatus used by the respondents is substantially different from that of the complainants, for the following reasons:
1. Because the dome when in position for work is not suspended
from the boat or any other floating structure. 2. Because the
funnel of the dome in the respondents' apparatus, though it is

Oct. 1876.]

OAD1MEYER

v.

NEWTON.

property than other individuals under that provision, as it con.
tains no exception warranting any such invasion of the private
rights of individuals. Conclusive support to that proposition is
found in a recent decision of this court, in which it is held that
the government cannot, after the patent is issued, make use of
the improvement any more than a private individual, without
license of the inventor or making him compensation. United
States v. Bwrns, 12 Wall. 246.
Suppose that is so, then it follows that the decision in
the case before the court must depend upon the question of
infringement.
Four principal propositions are maintained by the respond
ents responsive to that charge: 1. That the caisson coffer-dam
and diving-bell which they use is not a portable and adjustable
dam constructed and arranged in sliding or telescopic sections,
as described in the specification of complainants' patent. 2.
That it does not contain any combination of self anchors or
self-adjusting supports. 3. That there is not any combination
of a boat or boats with the caisson coffer-dam or diving-bell
which they use, nor is there any boat or boats used or combined therewith in any manner or for any purpose similar to
those set forth in the specification of the patent. 4. That there
is not any combi'nation of windlasses, chains, or boats in connection or combined with the caisson coffer-dam or diving-bell
used by the respondents.
Contracts, it seems, had been made for the removal of rocks
in the channel of the New York harbor, and the record shows
that the respondent made a report to the War Department,
in which he described the difficulties and ascribed the want
of success to the imperfections in the machinery employed.
Attempt was made by him to construct an apparatus for the
purpose; and it appears that he subsequently filed a caveat in
the Patent Office for the same, called improvements in the
mode of constructing a caisson coffer-dam and diving-bell for
the purpose of conducting operations in waters with rapid currents. Authority was subsequently given to him by the War
Department to construct an apparatus embodying the arrangement set forth in the caveat and his antecedent report, from
which it appears that an iron dome is to be sunk on the rock

OAMMEYER V. NEWTON.

[Sup. (it

Before comparing the patented machine with the apparatus
used by the respondents, it will be useful to advert briefly to
certain other issues tendered by the respondents in their
answers. Preliminary to that, it should be remarked, that the
respondent first named in the pleadings is an engineer in the
employment of the United States, and that the other respondents are his agents and employ6s in the same service. In their
answers they separately deny: 1. That they have made, constructed, or used the alleged invention of the complainants, or
any substantial or material part of the patented machine.
2. That they or either of them have ever originated or planned
any infringement or violation of the complainants' patent.
3. That they ever claimed to be the inventors of a still-water
dam or apparatus such as that described in the bill of complaint. 4. That they ever made a model of any invention belonging to the complainants, or ever caused any drawings of
the same to be constructed for any purpose. They, or the
principal respondent, admit that he invented and devised a
machine or apparatus for use as a caisson coffer-dam and diving-bell in excavating and removing rocks at certain reefs in
New York harbor, that the same was constructed by and at
the public expense, and has since been used solely and exclusively in the prosecution of the work to which the principal
respondent has been assigned by the public authorities.
Public employment is no defence to the employ6 for having
converted the private property of another to the public use
without his consent and without just compensation. Private
property, the Constitution provides, shall not be taken for public use without just compensation; and it is clear that that provision is as applicable to the government as to individuals,
except in cases of extreme necessity in time of war and of immediate and impending public danger. Jfitckiel v. Harmony,
13 How. 115; United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623.
Sect. 22 of the Patent Act provides that every patent shall
"contain a grant to the patentee, his heirs and assigns, for the
term of seventeen years, of the exclusive right to make, use,
and vend the said invention or discovery throughout the United
States." 16 Stat. 201.
Agents of the public have no more right to take such private

Oct. 1876.]

CAM1EYER

v.

NEWTON.

shows that the self-adjustment feature of the anchors is necessary to maintain the connection of the dam with the bottom,
for the reason that the dam is suspended from the deck, and
that the connection of the dam with the bottom is liable to be
severed by the receding of the boat from the bottom, as the
tide rises beyond a depth equal to the extreme extent of the
sections, showing thaf-the feature of self-adjustment in the self
anchors is inseparable from the feature of the suspension of
the telescopic dam from the boat, sufficient explanation of
which has already been given.
Much aid has been derived from the very able opinion of the
district judge in defining the nature and mode of operation of
the patented invention as embodied in the first and second
claims of the patent; and the court here also concurs with the
district judge in the definition which he gives of the words
"self anchors" and " dam," as used in the claims and specification. As there employed, the term "self anchors" means anchors
capable of self-adjustment, by having at all times free play, because not attached to their sockets nor moving with the bottom
section to which the sockets are attached, which sufficiently explains the difference between the word "anchor," as commonly
used, and the term "self anchors," as used in the'description of
the patented apparatus.
Where the claim of the patent is for a combination, it is
necessary to understand the meaning of the several devices of
which the combination is composed. In the second claim, the
combination is the self anchors with the dam, and the term
"the dam," as there used, means the dam suspended from the
boat, with the described devices to accomplish in its movement
and operation the functions already explained, from which it
follows that no combination can be held to be within the second
claim, unless it be a combination of such self anchors with such
a dam, constructed and arranged in the manner described, so as
to allow of such self-adjustment in the self anchors.
Two other claims are annexed to the specification; but the
language of those claims are sufficiently explicit to speak their
own construction without any special exposition, nor is any
special explanation necessary, in the view taken of the case, as
the decision of the question of infringement must depend chiefly
upon the first and second claims of the patent.

OAMMEYER v. NEWToN.

[Sup. Ct.

caused by the ebb and flow of the tide, wbich has the effect to
vary the distance the dam is suspended from the bottom, showing that the top section must at all times be connected with the
boat by links and bolts, as stated in the specification, or by
equivalent means, and that the bottom section must be permanently connected or attached by chains or equivalent means,
with a hoisting apparatus arranged on the boat.
Unless the top section is connected with the boat, the letting
down of the bottom section -will cause all the other sections to
go down with it, and they will not be opened out telescopically,
as descri.! ed by the patentee. On the other hand, if the top
section is connected with the boat, and the bottom section
is not connected with the hoisting apparatus on the boat, the
dam cannot be lifted, and the bottom section will always
rest where the machine is placed; or, if the water is deep
enough, all the sections will remain extended to their full
length, showing that no dam constructed and arranged in the
manner described in the descriptive portion of the specification
can be within the first claim of the patent, unless the sections
are free, at all times when the dam is in operation, to slide on
each other, nor unless the top section is attached to or suspended from the boat, nor unless the bottom section is connected with a hoisting apparatus on the boat.
2. Self anchors combined with the dam constitute the second
claim, which is merely a subdivision of what is embodied in
the first claim. Viewed in that light, it will not be necessary
to enter into any extended explanation as to its scope and
signification.
Remarks already made show that the dam with telescopic
sections was to be self-adjusting to tidal and other variations
in the depth of the water where the machine is to be operated, and it is equally clear that the self anchors must be
free to slide in their sockets with the rise and fall of the
bottom section, in order that they may always rest on the
bottom where the machine is placed for operation. Unless
the bottom section is free to slide on the self anchors, should
the bottom section be raised by an increase in the depth of
water, it would raise the lower ends of the self anchors from
the bottom, and might stop the working of the drills, which

Oct. 1876.]

CAMMEYER V. NEWTON.

but the patent, if introduced in evidence by the complainant,
affords a primafacie presumption that the supposed inventor is
the original and first inventor of the patented improvement.
Evidence to overcome that presumption is admissible, provided
that notice of such defence is given in the answer, as required
by the rules of equity practice. Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall.
516. Notices of the kind were not given in this case, and it
follows that the primafacie presumption must pr~evail.
Infringement is alleged by the complainants, and the burden
is upon them to prove the allegation, as it imputes a wrongful
act to the respondents. Such an issue cannot be understandingly determined without first ascertaining the true nature of
the invention as embodied in the claims of the patent, when
the same are properly construed in view of the descriptive
portions of the specification.
Of all the claims of the patent, the first is by far the most
important, and embraces all that is embodied in the other
three. It is the construction and arrangement of the patented
improvement called in the claim a portable and adjustable dam
in sliding or telescopic sections, in the manner and for the
purposes set forth in the specification.
Argument to show that the dam is to be suspended from the
main deck is unnecessary, as the statement is three times repeated in the specification of the patent: 1. Figure 3 of the
drawings, the specification states, shows the manner of suspending the dam from the main deck. 2. It is stated that the
deck has an opening in the centre equal to the horizontal area
of the dam, and that from the deck the telescopic or sectional
.portion of the apparatus is suspended. 3. That the telescopic
apparatus is suspended from the deck by four links and bolts.
Beyond question, these references show that the patentee,
when lie claims the construction and arrangemen t of a portable and adjustable dam in sliding or telescopic sections, meams
a dam suspended from the deck when in use, and intends to be
-understood that such suspension of the dam, in the manner
and by the means shown, is a necessary element of the claim.
Evidently the sections are not only free to slide in the manner described, but when the dam is in use the sections are to
adjust themselves to varying depths of water, such as are

CAMMIEYER

v.

NEWTON.

[Sup. ot.

complete and the sliding sections closed, the machine is taken
to the spot where it is intended to begin work, the anchors are
put out, and the dam is lowered.
Intelligent description of the mode of anchoring the machine
and putting it in operation is also given in the specification, as
follows: 1. An anchor is let go and its cable paid out to its full
length, the boat moving till the anchor takes hold and the
chain is taut. 2. Then the other anchor is dropped and the
two chains taken up, till the floating structure is held steadily
by the two anchors. 3. The side anchors are next launched
from a lighter or attendant boat. 4. When these anchors are
placed, it is suggested that the diver should be sent down to
explore the bottom, to see whether any change of position is
desirable. 5. Change may be made in any direction by letting
out one cable and taking up another, if it appears that the
change will give the self anchors a better face for work when
the dam is lowered. 6. When the drills have penetrated to
the desired depth, they are withdrawn, and the diver goes down
and inserts the charges. 7. The apparatus is then removed and
the charges fired, when the machine is replaced as before, and
the work ccntinued.
Four claims are made in the specification, as follows: 1. The
construction and arrangement of a portable and adjustable dam
in sliding or telescopic sections, in the manner and for the purposes described. 2. The combination of the self anchors with
the dam, in the manner and for the purposes set forth. 3. The
combination of the boats, supports, or floats with the dam and
the arrangement of anchors to hold the boats in position, in the
manner and for the purposes described. 4. The combination
and arrangement of windlasses, chains, and boats with the
dam, so that by the construction thereof a series of drills may
be operated within and enclosed by the dam, in the manner and
for the purposes described in the specification.
Persons seeking redress for the unlawful use of letters-patent
in which they have an interest are obliged to allege and prove
that they, or those under whom they claim, are the original
and first inventors, and that the same have been infringed by
the party against whom the suit is brought. Both of these
allegations must be proved by the party instituting the suit;

Oct. 1876.]

CAMMEYER v. NEWTON.

into the form shown in the drawings, which is that of an acute
parallelogram, one sliding vertically within another, so as to
offer the least possible resistance to the tide or current, thereby
easing the work of the anchors, and contributing generally to
the control of the apparatus.
Each division of the dam is bent inwards at its upper edge,
and. at its lower edge has a strip fashioned so as to prevent the
sections from separating. Every section ig likewise provided
with four eyes or eyebolts, one at each side and one at each
end, which serve as guides to the several sections while
operating,' he eyebolts on the bottom section being attached
permanently to the chains through which the dam is operated,
and the bottom section being also provided with four framed
wheels or eyebolts through which the side anchor-chains pass,
which are to be operated by windlasses, and which extend from
the boats, similar to those shown for the operation of the dam
above, through the eyebolts on the bottom section, and then outward to the side anchors. Chains extend directly from the boats
to the side anchors, and from the ends' of the boats directly
to the end anchors, the dam being operated by windlasses.
Drills are provided which work in tubes, the lower ends of
the tubes being fastened into braces attached to the bottom
section of the dam. Tubes of full length, it is stated, are not
deemed essential, as a section of sufficient height above the
braces on the bottom section of the dam to prevent the drill
from being entirely withdrawn from the tube during a stroke,
is for some reasons to be preferred, if the tube is properly set
with a rocking joint in the lower brace.
Self anchors, so called, are also provided, which are bars of
iron formed and moving in sockets, as shown in the drawings,
and which, by virtue of their length and free play, adapt themselves to the irregularities of the bottom, and take a rigid and
steady hold during the process of drilling. Anchors of the
kind are connected with the deck, so as to be taken out of the
way when desirable, and the telescopic apparatus is suspended
from the deck by four links and bolts, and the several chains
are drawn through their respective openings and attached to
their proper windlasses.
All the appurtenances, including the boats and dam, being

228

CADMEYER v. NEWTON.

[Sup. Ct.

cation states, were unknown prior to the patented improvement,
and that important -water thoroughfares, for the want of adequate means to accomplish such an end, are either entirely or
partially closed to vessels of large draught, which may, by the
use of the patented machine, be converted into highways for
the largest ships engaged in commerce and navigation.
Suppose the alleged improvement will effect the described
results, or will even facilitate to a considerable extent the
removal of such obstructions, all, it would seem, must concede
its value and utility; and the patentee proceeds to state that
the main object of the same is to enable workmen to continue
their operations without suspension or impediment from the
strength of the current, the ebb or flow of the tide, or the
varying depth of the water. All these results the patentee
professes to believe can be accomplished by the mechanism
described in the specification and illustrated in the annexed
drawings; but it is evident, from the language of the specification, that the supposed inventor had never pub the apparatus
which he describes to any practical use or test. Enough
appears to justify the conclusion that he believed in the theory
of the improvement, and that he felt much confidence that the
described mechanism would work out the described results.
Having set forth the object and aim of the improvement, the
patentee then proceeds to describe the apparatus by which they
are to be accomplished, as follows: Two boats are prepared
(double-enders, as shown), on one or both of which is an engine
of requisite power, with propeller and machinery complete for
moving the boat, raising the anchors, varying the depth of
the dam, and operating the drills. These boats or hulls are
connected by a substantial deck, which has an opaning in the
centre equal to the horizontal area of the dam, for the purposes
of access, light, &c., for the diver. From the deck is suspended
the telescopic or sectional portion of the apparatus, with the
chains and attachments, all previously adjusted and ready to be
drawn through their respective openings in the deck.
By the description it also appears that the manner of constructing the telescopic or sectional portion of the apparatus is
to prepare a series of plates of galvanized iron, or any other
proper material, of suitable thickness, and band and fasten them

Oct. 1876.]

OAMt. ER

v.

NEWTON.

infringed the patent by making, using, or selling the patented
improvement. "4. That the use, if any, they have made of the
patented improvement was done under the directions of the
United States, and as their agents or officers.
Proofs were taken by both parties; and, the parties having
been fully heard, the Circuit Court entered a final decree in
favor of the respondents, dismissing the bill of complaint. Due
appeal was immediately taken by the complainants to this court.
Engineers and practical operators have long known and still
admit th it the work of blasting rocks under water is attended
with many and great difficulties. Efforts have been made to
overcome those difficulties; but they have never been entirely
successful, nor do the complainants pretend that the patented
improvement will meet every requirement in that regard.
What they allege is, that their assignor is the original and first
inventor of a new and useful improved portable and adjustable
dam for the purpose of producing still water in which to operate
for the blasting and removal of obstructions in rivers and other
watercourses.
Such obstructions, where they exist in rivers or in channels
affected by the ebb and flow of the tide, have the effect to
contract the watercourse and to accelerate the current or flow,
and consequently to increase very much the difficulties of the
operator in his endeavors to blast the rocks or to remove the
obstruction, except in seasons of low water, or when the tide is
down.
Difficulties of the kind almost insuperable, it must be admitted, do exist when attempting to remove such obstructions in
large running streams or in deep channels affected by the tide,
and that the description of the same given by the patentee in
the introductory portion of his specification is not very much
exaggerated. As evidence to show that the invention, if successful, will be of great public utility and importance, that part
of the specification refers to different localities, where, from the
nature of the bottom of the stream or channel, a coffer-dam
could not be constructed, and where the drilling by hand from
the surface would be impracticable, owing to the depth of the
water and the strength of the current.
Means of a zl'aracter to remove such obstructions, the specifi.

CAMI

EYER V. NEWTON.

[Sup. Ot.

APPEAL frcm the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of New York.
M. Thomas P. Howe for the appellant.
MIfr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Holders of valid letters-patent enjoy, by virtue of the same,
the exclusive right and liberty of making and using the invention therein secured, and of vending the same to others to be
used, as provided by the act of Congress; and the rule of law is
well settled, that an invention so secured is property in the
holder of the patent, and that as such the right of the holder is
as much entitled to protection as any other property, during
the term for which the franchise or the exclusive right or privilege is granted. Seymour v. Osborne,11 Wall. 516; 16 Stat. 201.
Inventions may be assigned before they are patented: and it
appears that Samuel Lewis claims to have been the original
and first inventor of the patented improvement; that he, without having applied for a patent, assigned all his right, title, and
interest in the invention to William H. Cammeyer, one of the
complainants; that the assignee made due application for a
patent, and that the patent was duly granted to him for the
term of seventeen years; and that the patentee, before the suit
was commenced, assigned one undivided half part of the same
to said Lewis, the other complainant, together with the like
proportion of the claims and rights of action which had accrued
by reason of any infringement of the patent by the making,
use, or sale of the patented improvement.
Due evidence of the patent and the assignment was exhibited; and the complainants allege that the respondents have
infringed the patent, as more fully set forth in the bill of complaint; and they pray for an account and for an injunction.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared and filed
separate answers.
Briefly stated, the defences set up in the respective answers
are as follows: 1. That Samuel Lewis is not the original and
first inventor of the patented improvement. 2. That the
patented improvement is neither new nor useful, and was not
the proper subject for a patent. 3. That they have never

Oct. 1876.]

CAMMEYER

v.

NEWTON.

We are of the opinion that the claimant was not at a station,
in the sense that he is entitled to public quarters, or to a compensation in the form oJLcommutation for rooms and apartments
or fuel, obtained or supposed to be obtained in lieu of those
expected to be furnished by the government. In making this
allowance, we think the Court of Claims erred.
The briefs submitted contain suggestions of what would be
the result in various cases, which, it is said, may arise under
these regulations. Our judgment is intended to be given upon
the precise case before us, and upon no other. Should other
cases be presented, the Court of Claims will give them the
attention required, as will this court, should they come here.
Both courts have business enough to occupy them, without
anticipating cases which may never be presented.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions -to
enter a judgment awardingthe claimant mileage, and denying him commutationfor quarters andfuel.
NOTE. - In United States v. Chilson, Same v. Rieem, Same v. Lynde, cases in
which the claims for commutation for fuel and quarters by officers ordered to
their homes, under the act of March 3, 1869,-were allowed by the court below,
and which were argued by the same counsel as in that case, MR. JusTICE HUNT

delivered the opinion of the court, reversing the judgment of the Court of
Claims. At the same time and by the saihe counsel as in the preceding cases
was argued United States v. Mears. It involved the question whether an officer

ordered to his home, under the act of March 3,1869, was entitled to his mileage.
Mears, a paymaster, paid mileage to an office.! so ordered. The government disallowed the item in his accounts, and he brought suit to recover :the amount.
The Court of Claims found in his favor; whereupon the United States appealed
to this court. DM. JUSTICE HUNT, in delivering the opinion of the court, re-

marked: The officer was entitled to his mileage, and the payment was rightly
Judgment affirmed.
made.

CAI

E

v. NEWTON.

1. This court finds that letters-patent No. 80,492, granted to William H. Cammeyer, bearing date July 28, 1868, for an improved portable and adjustable
still-water dam, were not infringed by the defendant.
2. The claims embraced by the patent, and tl nature and mode of operation of

the invention which is therein described, and of the machine or apparatus
used by the defendant in alleged violation of the patent, examined.
16
voL. Iv.

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. Ct.

is public property for their use; wha" they do not actually consume shall be returned to the quartermaster, and taken up on
his quarterly return." Sect. 1077. "An officer may select quarters occupied by a junior; but, having made his choice, he must
abide by it, and shall not again at the fort displace a junior,
unless himself displaced by a senior." Sect. 1080. "When
public quarters cannot be furnished to officers at stations without troops, or to enlisted men at general or department headquarters, quarters will be commuted at a rate fixed by the
Secretary of War, and fuel at the market price delivered." . ..
Sect. 1088. " Officers absent from their appropriate duties for
a period exceeding six months, either with or without leave, shall
not receive the allowances" mentioned. Sect. 1084. " Officers
and troops in the field are not entitled to commutation for
quarters or fuel."
The claimant bases his demand upon sect. 1080, above set
forth. To maintain this claim, it must be held that Captain
Phisterer, while at his home in New York and in New Jersey,
was at a station without troops. That he was without troops
is plain enough; but that his home on these occasions was not
a military station, we have undertaken to show when considering his claim for mileage. The same construction of the word
"station," which gives him his mileage, cuts off his claim for
commutation.
We think the regulation we have referred to was not intended
for a case like that we are considering; that is, where an officer
is at his own home awaiting orders, and having no public duty
whatever to perform.
Quarters are expected to be furnished by the government to
its officers;. when it cannot thus furnish, it allows them to be
obtained otherwise, and pays a money compensation therefor,
called commutation. This is upon the assumption, first, that
the officers are actually engaged in the public service; and,
second, that such quarters are necessary to the discharge of
their duty. It is upon the latter idea that commutation for
fuel and quarters is not allowed to officers when in the field.
The duty there is public not only, but of the most necessary
character; still, apartments, kitchen, and offices are not there
necessary, and cannot be commuted for.

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

Commanding officers of forts and stations on the sea-coast to
aid in quarantine regulations. 11, par. 61.
The military force at any post or station in the Indian Territory shall be employed, &c. 17, par. 91.
Whenever an officer is ordered from one station to another,
or for the performance of any duty, not being with troops, he
shall proceed by the most direct route without unnecessary
delay; nor is he under any pretence whatever, except that of
sudden illness, to apply for leave of absence from the time he
quits the station at which he receives the order until he has
arrived at his place of destination. 45, par. 227.
Whenever such officer shall appear to have made unusual or
unnecessary delay, he shall immediately report the cause to the
commanding officer of the post. 45, par. 228.
It is a misuse of language to designate as a post or a military
station a cottage in a country village, in no way distinguishable in its use or appointments from every other residence in the
village, because one of the persons who lives in it is an officer
in the army. There was no exchange of stations by Captain
Phisterer, and, therefore, nothing to except his case from the
general law which allowed him mileage for his travel in proceeding to his home.
2. The claim for commutation for quarters and commutation
for fuel while at New York and New Jersey is to be considered.
Among the army regulations established by the act of March,
1863, are the following, under the head of quartermaster's department: Sect. 1064. "This department provides the quarters
and transportation of the army, . . .fuel, forage," &c. "Barracks and quarters." Sect. 1066. "Under this head are included the permanent buildings for the use of the army, as
barracks, quarters, hospitals, storehouses, officers' stables."
Sect. 1068. "The number of rooms and amount of fuel for
officers and men are as follows: . . . Captain, two rooms, one
as kitchen; cords of wood, three-fourths or three per month,
according to the season of the year." Sect. 1071. "No officer
shall occupy more than his proper quarters, except by order of
the commanding officer, when there is an excess of quarters at
the station.". . . Sect. 1073. "Fuel issued to officers or troops

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. Ot.

the commanding officer may, in his discretion, grant it; but, as
no public interest is advanced by it, and it is consented to for the
advantage, or pleasure of the two officers, they must bear their
own expense of transportation in making the exchange. This
is just and reasonable.
We are inclined to think that it would be too narrow a
construction of this provision to hold that it required that two
officers should be concerned in the exchange. An exchange
from one station to another station by the same officer at 'his
own request, if found compatible with the public service, would
be within the words of the rule, and apparently as much within
its spirit as when the exchange was made by and between two
officers.
But we are of the opinion that Captain Phisterer did not
make an exchange of stations within the meaning of this regulation. In other words, although he left a military station at
Fort Bridger, his home at New York, to which he went, did
not become, and is not to be deemed, a military station. In the
broadest use of language, no doubt the word "station" means a
place or position; and it may be said that wherever a man, in
pursuance of orders, stays or remains, he is stationed, and that
if he is a military man, such place becomes a military station.
This word (station) has a recognized and a different meaning
under different circumstances. It is a technical word in church
regulations, in the science of ecclesiology, in the civil law, in
surveying, in railroad language, and in military science. See
Richardson and Worcester Diet.
A "military station" is merely synonymous with the term
"military post," and means a place where troops are assembled,
where military stores, animate or inanimate, are kept or distributed, where military duty is performed or military protection afforded, - where something, in short, more or less closely
connected with arms or war is kept or is to be done.
In the Army Regulations the two terms are often used convertibly. Thus, in the regulations of 1847, If a post or station should prove unhealthy, the troops may
be removed, &c. 11, par. 57.
Whenever a military post or station shall be abandoned, the
property should be turned over, &c. 11, par. 58.

Oct. 1876.]

876.] STATES V. PHISTERER.
Oct.
UNITED

extraordinary nor a ground of suspicion that an officer should
change his place of residence. Whether he resided in New
York or in New Jersey could make no difference in his position
in the army, or in his liability or readiness to respond to any
orders given to him. It was indeed important that he should
keep the department advised of his residence, that he could be
called upon when it was desired. This he did. The department made no objection to this change of residence at the time,
nor does it place its refusal to pay the mileage upon this ground.
We think the circumstan-e quite unimportant.
The effect of the order to proceed to his home and there to
await orders, and the difference between this status and that of
an officer "absent from duty with leave," was considered by
this court in the United States v. Williamson, 28 Wall. 411.
That decision secures to the officer his full pay while thus
awaiting orders, and we find no occasion to correct any thing
contained in it. We are still of the opinion that the officer
was not absent on leave, but that he was awaiting orders at his
home. It results also from this decision, that, in thus proceeding to his home, he was travelling under orders.
The provision relating particularly to the case we are considering is found in sect. 1109 of the Army Regulations,
authorized and confirmed by the act of July 28, 1866. It is
there provided that "1an officer who travels not less than ten
miles without troops, escort, or military stores, and under special orders in a case from a superior, or a summons to attend a
military court, shall receive ten cents mileage." This means
that he shall be entitled to an allowance of ten cents for each
mile thus travelled. It is hardly denied that the claimant was
travelling within the meaning of this regulation.
But it is contended that, under regulation, sect. 1117, the
department was justified in withholding the allowance. That
regulation is in these words : "When officers are permitted to
exchange stations, or are transferred at their own request from
one regiment or company to another, the public will not be put
to the expense of their transportation. They must bear it
themselves." If A. at one station and B. at another desire to
exchange stations or regiments or companies with each other,
and prefer a request to that effect, the provisign assumes that

UNITED STATES V. PHISTERER.

[Sup. ot.

that one of its occupants holds a military commission, but a place where
military duty is performed, or stores are kept or distributed, or something
connected with war or arms is kept or done.
4. An officer so ordered is not, when at home awaiting orders, entitled to commutation for quarters and fuel. His home is not a "station," within the
meaning of sect. 1080 of the Army Regulations.

AP:PEAL from the Court of Claims.

Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. Hfalbert B. Paine, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The present case is one of a class of which several are now
pending in this court, and many more, it is understood, are
before the Court of Claims.
The claimant was a captain of infantry in the United States
army, and on the seventh day of January, 1870, by special order
from the Adjutant-General's office, at his own request, was
ordered home to await orders. This was done by virtue of the
Consolidating Act of March 3, 1869. The claimant proceeded
from Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory, where he then was, to
his home in New York City. On the 28th of February, 1870,
he reported as waiting orders at that place, and afterwards as
waiting orders at Littleton, N. J., which was then his home.
The claim now made is for mileage in travelling from Fort
Bridger to New York, and for commutation for quarters and
for fuel while thus awaiting orders.
The Court of Claims allowed the petitioner both for his
mileage and the commutation for quarters and fuel during
the period mentioned. The questions will be separately considered.
1. As to mileage.
Comment is made upon the circumstance that the claimant
reported himself to the department as awaiting orders at the
city of New York, on the 31st of January, 1870, specifying that
place as his home, and that on the 31st of March following he
reported himself at Littleton, N. J., specifying that place as his
home. We see nothing in this that should prejudice the claimant's right of recovery. New York may well have been hishome in January, and Littleton his home in March. It is not

