Oct. 1876.]

C0LMISSIONEBS, E-TC., v. THAYER.

See Taylor v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 9 How. 405; Perkins
v. Washington Insurance Co., 4 Cow. (N. Y.) 666; Carpenter
v. Mutual Safety Insurance Co., 4 Sandf. (N. Y.) Ch.410.
-Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to enter
a decree in conformity with this opinion, and to take such
furtherproceedings as law and equity may require.

CofmIssIoN-Fs OF JOHNSON COUNTY v. THAYER.
1. Under the act of the legislature of Kansas, approved Feb. 10, 1865, authorizing the board of county commissioners of any county to, into, through,
from, or near which any railroad is or may.be located, to subscribe to the
capital stock of the company, the'location of the road is not a condition
precedent to submitting the question of subscription to a vote of the qualified electors of the county.
2. A proposition was submitted to the electors of Johnson County, whether the
"
board should be authorized to subscribe capital stock in the name and for
the benefit of Johnson C-unty, in the sum of 5100,000, to aid ip the construction of a railroad commencing at or near the Union Depot, on the south side
and near the mouth of the Kansas River, and near Kansas City; thence to
Olathe, in Johnson County; thence, in a southerly direction, through said
county to the southern boundary of the State of Kansas." Held, that,
under the statute, this was a sufficiently specific description of the route of
the contemplated road, and that it was not necessary to insert the name of
the company constructing it.
. Irregularities or informalities, not involving the question of jurisdiction nor,
affecting the result of the vote, do not impair the validity of the bonds issued
pursuant to the election; and the Curative Act of Feb. 25,1868, was intended
by the legislature of Kansas to reach the bonds *issued before as well as
those after its passage.
4. Notice to one of the trustees appointed by the company in its deed mortgaging
its property, including the county bonds, to secure the payment of its bonds,
issued and negotiated for value to third parties, does not, in a suit by the
trustees to enforce the payment of the county bonds, operate to destroy the
bona ,ide holding of such parties.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
District of Kansas.
This action was commenced by Nathaniel Thayer, F. W.
Palfrey, and George W. Weld, to recover the amount due upon
interest coupons attached to certain bonds, originally issued, to
the amount of .$100,000, by the county of Johnson, in the
State of Kansas, to the Kansas and Neosho Valley Railroad

COMMSSIONERS, ETC.,

v. THAYER.

LSup. CL.

Company, in payment of a subscription of like amount made
by it to the capital stock of that company. The bonds and
coupons, although varying in amounts and in the dates of payment of the several coupons, are in the same form. The following is a copy of one of them: "No. 1.]

UNITED STATES OF AM-3=CA.
"STATE

[$1,000.

OF KA.WSAS.

"Stock Bond of Johnson County, Kfansas.
"Thirty years after date, Johnson County promises to pay to
Kansas and Neosho Valley Railroad Company (a corporation
organized and created under a general law of the State of Kansas,
by virtue of a certificate of incorporation, filed and recorded in the
office of the secretary of the State of Kansas, under date of March
the 8th, 1865), or bearer, the sum, of 81,000, for value received, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semiannually at the Ninth National Bank in the city of New York, from and
after the first day of January, 1867.
"By order of the board of county commissioners of the county
of Johnson, State of Kansas.
"OLATHME, KAx ss, Sept. 3, 1866.
"D. M. WUrLAms,
"Chairman Board County Commissioners, Johnson County.

" [L. s.]

Attest: F. E. HENDERSON, Clerk."

"Coupon.
" OLATHE, KANSAS, Sept. 6, 1867.

"Treasurer Johnson County will pay to bearer thirty-five dollars
in the city of New
first day of January,
No. 1, -to the Kansas
in pursuance of an
county, dated Sept.

York, being semiannual interest due on the
1872, on the bond of the county of Johnson,
and Neosho Valley Railroad Company, issued
order of the county commissioners of said
3, 1866.
96D. M . Wi'Lix.Ams,
Chairman Johnson County Commissioners.

"F. E. HENDERSON, County COerk."
The bonds are indorsed as follows:"I, A. Thoman, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby certify that this bond has been regularly and legally issued; that the
signatures thereto are genuine; and that such bond has been duly
registered in my office, in accordance with an act of the legislature

Oct. 1876.]

COMISSIONERS, ETC.,

v.

THAYER.

entitled ' An act to authorize counties, incorporated cities, and
municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose of .bnilding
bridges, aiding in the construction of railroads, or other work of
internal improvement, and providing for the registration of such
bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict therewith.' Approved March 2, 1872.
"Witness my hand and official seal this sixteenth day of April,
1872.
"[L. s.]
A. THomN, Auditor of State."
The authority to
the first section of
1865, which is set
lowing proposition
county: -

the county to subscribe was conferred by
c. 12 of the laws of Kansas for. the year
out in the opinion of the court. The folwas submitted to the electors of the

"Whereas, on the fourteenth day of February, A.D. 1865, an
act of the legislature of the State of Kansas took effect and
became in full force, entitled, ' An Act to authorize counties and
cities to issue bonds to railroad companies;' and whereas, by law,
the board of county commissioners are authorized to call a special
election ofthe qualified electors of the county, to determine whether
the said board of. county commissioners shall subscribe, ii the
name of the county, to any railroad corporation to construct a road
into or through the county;
"It is therefore ordered, that a special election of the qualified
electors of Johnson County be held at the several voting precincts
in said county, on the seventh day of November, 1865; that said
election shall, in regard to qualifications of electors, and the manner of receiving votes, and the manner of conducting said election,
be according to the laws in force governing elections.
"The question submitted to the qualified electors at said election
shall be, whether the board of county commissioners shall be
authorized to subscribe capital stock in the name and for the benefit
of Johnson County, in the sum of $100,O00, to aid in the construction of a railroad commencing at or near the Union Depot, on the
south side and near the mouth of the Kansas River, and near Kansas City; thence to Olathe, in Johnson County; thence, in a southerly direction, through said county to the southern boundary of the
State of Kansas;
"In case a majority of said electors shall vote for subscription to
the capital stock -of said railroad, the board of county commissioners shall issue the bonds of said county of Johnson, in such

COMMISSIONERS, ETm., v. THAYER.

[Sup. 0&,

amounts as they may deem best, in payment of said stock: Provided, that no part of said bonds shall be issued until work on the
said railroad shall be actually commenced in said county, and then
only in pro rataassessments as the work progresses; andprovided,
further, that the whole of said Sum of $100,000 shall be expended
within the limits of said county; which said bonds shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding seven per cent per annum, and shall be
payable within thirty years.
"The ballots of said election shall be written or printed: 'For
subscription to railroad;' 'Against subscription to railroad.' If amajority of all the votes cast at said election be for subscription to
railroad, the board of county commissioners shall be authorized to
subscribe stock to said railroad in the name and for the benefit of
Johnson County, and to issue bonds in the manner heretofoxe
stated. All books shall be kept at the several voting precincts by
the judges and clerks of said election, showing the whole number
of votes polled for and against said subscription to railroad.
"The votes shall be counted by the judges of said election, and
the result proclaimed, And the poll-books signed by the judges and
attested by the clerks as nearly in accordance with secti. 18 and
28, p. 459, Stat. of 1862, as may be practicable. After canvassing
the votes, the judges shall seal up and return the poll-books to the
county clerk on or before the Friday next following said election,
and within three days after said election deposit one copy of said
poll-books with the township trustee, and shall also preserve the
ballots used at said election. Sects. 25 and 26, p. 497, and Code
1862.
" The county clerk and commissioners will meet in Olathe on
Friday next following said election, to canvass and declare the
result, and make a record thereof.
" Ordered, that the foregoing order and notice be published in
the IOlathe Mirror,' twenty days prior to said election.
"DAVID

M.

WILLIAMS,

Chairman.

"Attest: F. E. HEN mRsoN, County Clerk."
A majority of the electors voted at the time named, and in
the several precincts of the county, in favor of the subscription;
and, on the 3d of September, 1866, the county commissioners
made it, and it was accepted by the company.
In April, 1867, a call was made by the board of directors
of the company, upon all of their subscribers for stock, for the
whole amount unpaid upon their subscriptions.

Oct. 1876.]

CO1mUSSIONES, ETC., v. THAYER.

635

On the sixth and twenty-seventh days of September, 1867,
the county commissioners issued and delivered to the company,
in part payment of the county subscription, bonds to the
amount of $50,000, which are a part of those in question.
On June 19, 1868, the following contract was entered into
between the president of the company and the commissioners of
Johnson County, to ivit :"Know all men by these presents, that we, the Board of County
Commissioners of Johnson County, in the State of Kansas, in consideration that the Kansas and Neosho Valley Railroad Company
shall construct and put into operation a railroad from a point near
Kansas City, Missouri, by way of Olathe, to the southern boundary
line of said Johnson County, in the direction of Paola, Kansas,
within eight months from this date, and in consideration of one
dollar to be paid by said railroad company, we hereby agree and
bind ourselves, for and in behalf of said Johnson County, to assign
and transfer to said railroad company, or their successors, thb
$100,000 of stock heretofore voted and subscribed by said Johnson
County to the capital stock of said railroad company; and we do
further agree, in consideration of the premises aforesaid, to cause
to be issued, without delay, the $50,000 of bonds of the said county
remaining unissued and unpaid on the $100,000 of stock, so as
aforesaid voted and subscribed, and place said $50,000 of bonds in
the hands of J. E. Hayes, who shall hold said bonds as the trustee
and agent both of said Johnson County and said railroad company,
to be delivered by said J. E. Hayes to said railroad company, or
their successors, on their constructing and putting in operation said
railroad from said point near Kansas City to- Olathe: Provided,
said railroad shall be constructed and put in operation to Olathe
within five months from this date.
"And we further agree, in consideration of the premises aforesaid, that in any election of the stockholders of said railroad company which may be held prior to the transfer of the $100,000 of
stock as above provided for, and wlile said railroad company may
be engaged in good faith in performing the conditions upon which
such transfer of stock is to be made, that we will'cast the votes to
which said county may be entitled as a stockholder, in such manner and for such persons as said railroad company, or their successors, may request.
"It is hereby expresslj understood, that if said railroad company
shall fail to comply with the conditions above mentioned, then this

COMMISSIONERS,

ET., v.

THAYER.

[Sup. Ut

agreement shall be null and void; but, if the said company, or their
successors, shall fully comply with all of said conditions, then this
agreement shall be binding and in full force.
"Witness our hands at Olathe, this nineteenth day of June, A.n.
1868.
"B. F. HOLLENBACK,
"Chairman Board of County Commissionors.
"1JoHiN

BRADY, Associate Commissioner."

The county commissioners of Johnson County executed,
June 22, 1868, the remaining bonds, to the amount of $50,000,
and placed the same "in escrow" with Josiah E. Hayes, to be
delivered to said railroad company, upon its compliance with
the terms of this contract.
On Oct. 5, 1868, the county commissioners, at the instance
of the president of the railroad company, made the following order extending the time for completion of the road to
Olathe: -

"Whereas, by mutual agreement, the commissioners of the county
of Johnson have granted to the Kansas and Neosho Railroad Valley
Company an extension of time, from the nineteenth day of November next to the fifth day of December next, within which to construct their said road to the town of Olathe, according to the
provisions, in other respects, of a resolution, ordinance, or agreement passed or entered into on the nineteenth day of June, A.D.
1868, by the said county commissioners, entitling the said railroad company to the bonds and stock of said county voted and
subscribed to said company. It is therefore resolved by the commissioners of Johnson County, that, in the event said railroad
company shall so construct to the town of Olathe their said road
on or before the fifth day of December, in manner prescribed
in the resolution, ordinance, or agreement passed June 19, 1868,
the trustee or commissioner named therein shall, and is hereby
instructed and empowered to, deliver and assign to said railroad
company the said stock and remaining bonds of said county as
heretofore authorized and instructed, the same in all respects as
though the said road had been constructed to the town of Olathe
on or before the nineteenth day of November, 1868.
"B. F. HOLLENBACK, ChairmanBoard.
"JOHN BRADY.
"K. COATES, PresidentRailroad Co."

Oct. 1876.]

COMUSSIONEPS, ETC., v. THAYE.

The company completed its road according to the terms of
the agreement; and, on the fifteenth day of December, 1868,
said Hayes delivered to it the remaining bonds. They were
signed by said Hollenback as chairman; but in other respects,
except as to said date, are similar to the bond, of which a copy
is above given.
On or about March 29, 1869, and before the maturity of any
of the coupons in suit, the company, having previously changed
its corporate name to "Missouri River, Fort Scott, and Gulf Railroad Company," executed a mortgage or deed of trust, bearing
date Jan. 1, 1868, "ipon its railroad and other property, including the bonds in question, to the plaintiffs as trustees, to secure
the payment of five thousand negotiable bonds, of $1,000 each,
bearing the same date as the deed of trust, which the company,
before the maturity pf any of the coupons now in suit, had
issifed and transferred, for value, to various persons, by whom
they are still held.
Immediately after the execution of the deed, the company
delivered the county bonds in question to the plaintiffs, .who
have ever since held them.
All of the coupons for interest that matured prior to those in
suit were regularly paid by the county, with funds raised by
the levy and collection of a tax for that purpose.
Thayer, one of the plaintiffs, had notice of all the facts connected. with the issue of the county bonds; of the agreement of
June 19, 1868 ; of the assessment of the stock by the company,
and of its non-payment ; and of the issue of stock as a bonus to
the purchasers of the bonds of the railroad company, and of the
facts connected with the completion of the road to Olathe : but
the other plaintiffs had no such notice, nor had the purchasers
of the railroad bonds.
The Curative Act, as it is termed, of Feb. 25, 1868, is set
forth in the opinion of the court. The action was tried by the
court without a jury, and a special finding of facts made. The
court found, as a conclusion of law, that the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover the amount of the coupons declared on.
Judgment was entered accordingly. The defendants sued out
this writ of error.
Mr. Nelson Cbb for the plaintiffs in error.
Afr. Wallace Pratt,contra.

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., v. THAYER.

[Sup. CL

MR. JUSTiCE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The recovery by Thayer and others of the amount of the
coupons su-d upon is challenged upon various grounds.
1. It is contended that no authority to subscribe for the
bonds was conferred by the vote of Nov. 7, 1865, for the reason
that no particular railroad was referred to in the vote on that
occasion. The question was submitted to the voters of Johnson
County, in the form of an inquiry, whether the commissioners
should be authorized to subscribe capital stock to the amount of
$100,000, to aid in the construction of a railroad commencing at
or near the Union Depot, on the south side of and near the
mouth of the Kansas River, and near Kansas City; thence
to Olathe, Johnson County; thence, in a southerly direction,
through said county to the southern boundary of the State of
Kansas. Assuming that the road to which the subscription was
made met the terms required, it is insisted that the question of
subscribing to the particular railroad company by name should
have been submitted to the electors, and that there must have
been an actual location of the road before the election was
held.
We had occasion to consider a question similar to the latter
branch of this objection in County of Callaway v. Poster, 93
U. S. 567, and held that the objection was not a valid one.
In that case the statute authorized a subscription by any
county " in which any part of the route of said railroad may
be." The road was not built, located, nor organized. The court
there intimated that, where this language was used in reference
to a road which was yet to be built, it could be applied to any
.county in which the road might by law be located.
The road to which subscription was in this case made was, in
fact, located in the county of Johnson, and the work upon it
commenced before any of the bonds were executed or delivered,
was actually built through the county, and is now there
operated. We think a previous location of the road was not
required by the terms of the statute.
Was it' necessary that the particular road to which a subscription was intended to be made should be described in the
proposition submitted to the popular vote, or was the general
language used in this case a compliance with the law ?

Oct. 1876.]

COMMISSIONERS,

rc., v. Ti'=.

The following is the section of the act rf Feb. 10, 1865, controlling the question: "SEcT. 1. That the board of c~unty commissioners of any county
to, into, through, fiom, or near which, whether in this or any other
State, any railroad is or may be located, may subscribe to the capital stocks of any such railroad corporation, in the name and for the
benefit of such county, not exceeding in amount the sum of
0300,000 in any one corporation, and m4y issue the bonds of such
county, in such amounts as they may deem best, in payment for said
stocks: Provided,that such bonds shall be ussued only in payment
of assessments made upon all the stocks of such railroad company,
which bonds shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding seven per
cent pci annum, and shall be payble within thirty years. And the
said board of commissioners shall elect one of their number, who
shall not be a stockholder, to cast the vote of the county at any
election for directors, or at any meeting of the stockholders of such
company; and said board of commissioners shall annually levy and
collect, at the same time and in the same manner that general taxes
are levied aPd collected, a tax sufficient to pay the annual interest
on such bonds, and to create a sinking fund for their redemption.
But no such bonds shall be issued until the question shall be first
submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the county at some
general election, or at some special election to be called by theboard
of county commissioners, by. first giving twenty days' notice in some
newspaper published and having general circulation in the county;
or, in case there be no paper in the county, then by written or
p.rinted notices posted up in each election precinct; and, in submitting said question, said board of commissioners shall direct in what
manner the ballots shall be cast. If a majority of the votes cast at
such election shall be in favor of issuing such bonds, the board of
commissioners of the county shall issue the same.'

This language, in relation to the road to which the subscriptioil may be made, is as general as words can make it. The
board of commissioners may subscribe to the capital stock of
"any railroad" which is or may be located in or near the
county they represent, and may issue the bonds of the county
in payment for said stocks. "But no such bonds shall be
issued until the question shall be first submitted to a vote of
the gualified electors of the county." In neither of these
clauses is there a qualification that the particular road shall be

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., V. TiHAYER.

[sup. Ct.

named in the submission, or that any detail shall be set forth.
The burden of bonds shall not be imposed upon the county
except by the previous assent of a majority of the electors.
When the burden is assumed by the electors, it is quite reasonable that it should be left to the county board to select the
particular corporation in which the stock shall be taken. That
trust can be there executed as wisely and judiciously as at a
mass meeting of the voters.
The electors here voted to take stock in a corporation to aid in
the construction of a road "commencing at or near the Union
Depot, on the south side of and near the mouth of the Kansas
River, and near Kansas City; thence to Olathe, Johnson County;
thence, in a southerly direction, through said county to the
south boundary of the State of Kansas."
- We think this was a sufficiently
specific'statement to be submitted to the voters for their approval or disapproval.
We cannot, however, think that this is a vital point, even
if there was a defect in this respect. The question of subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds for a road from the
mouth of Kansas River to the south boundary of the State was
submitted to the electors of Johnson County. Notice was
given for the time required by the statute, and a full and
fair vote was taken, so far as we are informed. The approval
of the electors by their vote, at a meeting called for that purpose, is the object of the statute. Defects, irregularities, or
informalities, which do not affect the result of the vote, do not
affect its validity. The defect we are considering, if it is a
defect, does not go to the question of jurisdiction, and does not
impair the validity of the bonds.
The case of Lewis v. Commissioners of Bourbon County, 12
Kan. 186, is cited on this point. In that case, four questions
were passed upon by the Supreme Court of Kansas: First,Was
the presentation of a petition, signed by one-fourth -of the qualified voters, a condition precedent to the valid action of the commissioners ? Second, Did the failure to name the corporation in
the propositions submitted to the electors avoid the whole proceedings ? Third, A majority of the votes of the electors
having been cast against the proposition to issue bonds, was
the county board authorized to issue them? Fourth, Did the

Oct. 1876.]

Commisso1s, rc., v. THAYER.

subsequent submission, and the proceedings thereon, confer the
authority to issue the bonds?
The court held that the first objection was cured by the act
of 1868. The second and the third objections were held to be

fatal, and that the case was not relieved by the proceedings
referred to in the fourth objection.

The court did, in its language, hold that the objection raised
in the present case, to wit, that the name of the corporation

was not inserted in the proposition for the popular vote, was
fatal. Had this been the only or an indispensable part of the
decision, we should have been called upon to inquire whetherthe decision was one of that class of State decisions upon its
own statute that was binding upon us. The other question,
however, existing and decided in that case, was, in its nature,
so exclusive and so controlling that any thing said or professed
to be decided beyond it does not require much consideration.
The court held that, in the exercise of its general jurisdiction,
it had the power to inquire into the number of votes actually
cast for and against the proposed issue of bonds; and, upon
making such inquiry, it found and determined that, in fact, a
majority of the votes cast % ce cast against the proposition.
Upon this point all the decisions of this court, and, so far as we
know, of all other courts,'concur. If a majority of the electors
cast their votes against the proposition to issue bonds, the entire foundation of the proceedings is gone. There is an absolute
want of jurisdiction to proceed further in the niatter, and an
attempt to do so is void, as are all proceedings or issues based
upon it. With this elemental failure existing in that case,
other and further decisions tending to the same result are not
to be regarded as authority.
Te G-ulf Railroad v. Commissioners of Miami County, 12 id.
234, is based upon the case above referred to, and follows it,
without examination or discussion. It does not refer to the
Curative Act of Feb. 25, 1868, which was held, in the Bourbon
County case, not to be applicable to an election where a majority of votes was egst against the proposition, but which act, it
was held, did relieve against the defect of the absence of the
preliminary petition required by the statute. The court said
that act was intended to sustain, and not to defeat, the will
VOL. IV.

41

C00=SSIONEnS, EC., v. THAYER.

[Sup. Ct.

of the people. This principle would have justified its application
in relief of the defect before it, if there was such'defect; and
its consideration might well have altered the rejult. Both of
these decisions were made after the bonds in this suit had been
issued, and the interest upon them regularly paid for a considerable time. The road bad been built as promised, the
county of Johnson and its people enjoyed the anticipated benefits, and we are of the opinion that we are not bound to follow
a decision which releases them from all the corresponding obligations. To this effect are the decisions of this court, made in
the years 1865, 1871, and 1872. Gelpcke et.al. v. City of Du'.
buque, 1 Wall. 175; Bulls v. J4uscatine, 9 id. 571 ; Olcott v.
The Supervisors, 16 id. 678.
The Curative Act of February, 1868, was intended by the
legislature of Kansas to reach cases like the present, and to
cover both the bonds issued before, as well as, those issued
after, its passage. It is as follows: "SECTION 1. Whenever a majority of the persons voting at any'
election called by the board of county commissioners of any county
have heretofore voted in favor of subscribing stock and issuing
bonds to any railroad company or companies, the board of county
commissioners of such county may subscribe to the capital stock of
such railroad company or companies to the amount and on the cofiditions specified in the order of such boards of county commissioners in such cases, and pay such subscription, by issuing to each
company bonds of such county at par, payable at a time therein to
be fixed, not exceeding thirty years from the date thereof, bearing
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, with interest coupons attached, whether such orders and elections, or either of them,
have been in compliance with the statutes in such cases made and
provided or not, or whether the proposition submitted at the election had was for the subscription of stock and the issuance of bonds
to one or more railroad companies."
"SECT. 4. The provisions of this -act shall be applicable in all
cases where the election was held upon the subscription of stock
and the issuance of bonds prior to the twenty-first day of January,
A.D. 1868.
-

In the language before quoted, this act was intended to aid,
and not to destroy, the proceedings in subscribing for stock

Oct. 1876.]

Com

IoNERs, EC., v. THAYER.
ss

and issuing bonds. In this case, the election was held prior to
the twenty-first day of January, 1868; and, although a portion
of the bonds had been issued prior to the passage of the act,
we are of the opinion that they are within its protection. It
was intended to reach cases where the majority of the electors
had voted in favor of issuing the bonds, "whether such orders
and elections, or either of them, have been in compliance with
the statutes in such cases made and provided or not."
It is contended, again, that, by an agreement made on the
19th of June, 1868, the stock of the county in the company was
cancelled, and that, therefore, there -was no consideration for
the sale of the bonds.
By the agreement referred to, the county undertook to deliver to the road the $50,000 bonds, yet unissued, to sell and
deliver its interest in the capital stock of the company, and in
the mean time to cause its stock to be voted upon, as the company should direct, provided that the road should be built and
completed to the southern boundary of Johnson County within
eight months, and to the town of Olathe within five months,
from date, the bonds to be issued, and placed in the hands of
a depositary, to be delivered upon the performance of the
agreement.
A completion of the road at an earlier period, than was required (no time being specified in the original proposition),
and at,a probable increase of expense, seems to afford a good
consideration for any lawful agreement on the part of the
county. We fail to discern the force of this objection, or of
the pomt connected with it, that the stock became thereby
cancelled. The commissioners had authority to sell the stock,
Compiled Laws of Kansas, 1862, 409; and, unless prohibited
by law, an incorporation may become the holder of a portion of
its own shares. Cityj Bank v. Bruce, 17 N. Y. 507.
We do not regard the circumstance that the road was located
and built a fraction of a mile distant from the town of Olathe
as of any importance. It was a practical compliance with the
requisition in that respect, and was accepted and received by
the county as a satisfactory performance of the contract. The
bonds were issued after the location, and the interest was paid
from time to time without objection or complaint in that re,

COMMISSIONERS, ETC., v. THAYER.

[SUp. Ct.

spect. It is too late now to set up an objection which is an
evident afterthought.
It is contended, further, that there is no bona fide holding of
these bonds, and that all defences may have jheir full effect in
this case.
"The court below finds that the plaintiff Thayer had notice of
all the facts and circumstances conndcted with the issue of these
bonds by Johnson County, and of the agreement of June 19, 1868,
and of the facts with regard to the assessment of the stock by the
railroad company and of its non-payment, and of the issue of stock
as a bonus to the purchasers of the bonds of the railroad company,
aind of the facts with regard to the, completion of the road to the
,-own of Olathe; but his co-trustees had no such notice, nor did the
purchasers of the first mortgage bonds have such notice, except so
fhr as they are charged with constructive notice by reason of the
knowledge of'Thayer, one of the trustees."
It is a part of the case, that, on the first day of Jamuary, 1869,
the railroad company executed to Nathaniel Thayer, F. W.
Palfrey, and George W. Weld, the plaintiffs in this suit, a deed
of trust conveying a large quantity of lands, and transferring,
among other things, its subscriptions from towns and counties,
including that now in suit, to secure the payment of $5,000,000
of its negotiable bonds to be issued by the said company, as
therein particularly described; that, before the coupons now
sued upon had become payable, the railroad company had issued
those bonds, which are now outstanding and unpaid to the full
amount thereof.
The question then arises, whether notice to one of the trustees
in this deed of trust is notice to the holders of the mortgage
bonds in such manner that, in a suit by the trustees to enforce
payment of the county bonds, the character of a bona fide holder
without notice is lost.
In Curtis and Others v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 194, the court
say:

-

"If Graham, one of the trustees, was chargeable, as director of
the company, with knowledge that there had been no previous resolution, notice to him was not notice to his cestuis que trust. He did
not stand to them in the relation of an agent. IIe.was selected and
appointed as a trustee by the company, not by the cestuiat que trus4

Oct. 1876.]

BoYD v.

ALABAMA.

His powers and duties were prescribed by the company, not by the
bondholders. There were, at the time of the execution of the trustdeeds, no bondholders, no cestuis que trust. It,is a necessary attribute
of an agency that it should be created by the principal. .

.

. In this

case, as the relation of principal and agent did not exist between the
bondholders and Graham, notice to him, or knowledge by him, that
there was no previous resolution, was not constructive notice to the
bondholders."
And, again, on the page following, it is said :
"The trustees are not to be regarded as the agents of the purchaseys of the bonds and mortgages assigned to thein. No consideration proceeds from them. They were mere assignees of those
securities, coupled with no interest, in trust to hold them as security
for the payment of all the mortgage bonds that should thereafter be
sold or negotiated by the company. . . . *Whoever purchased the
mortgage bonds became purchasers.of the bonds and mortgages so
assigned as security for their payment, or'of an equitable right to
hold them as such security."
We think this is sound doctrine, and that it establishes the
proposition that notice to Thayer did not operate to destroy the
bona fide holding of the bondholders under the deed of trust in
which he was named as one of the trustees.
We have noticed all of the objections which we deem of importance, and are of the opinion, upon the whole case, that the
So ordered.
judgment should be affirmed; and it is

BOYD v. AIABA&NrA.
the defendant, having been indicted under a statute of Alabama for setting up
and carrying on a lottery without legislative authority, claimed in defence a
right to set up and carry on the lottery in question under a subsequent statute

passed on the 10th of October, 1868: this latter statute was repealed in March,
1871. It was admitted on the trial that the acts charged against the defendaL were done under that statute, and would be legal if the statute were constitutional, and had not been repealed. That statute required the defendant,
and certain other parties associated with him, before exercising the right
claimed, to deposit in the treasury of the State, to the credit of the school
fund, and for educational purposes, $2,000, and annually thereafter the same
sum for twenty years, or so long as they might do business under the act; and
that sum had been deposited. Under a previous indictment against the same

defendant for a similar offence, the Supreme Court of the State had held

