Oct. 1876.]

FIRsT NAT. BANK, ETC., V. WHITMAN.

FIRST NATIOiNTAL BAKi

OF WAS InGTOx v. WllTmA.

I The payee of a check before it is accepted by the drawee cannot maintain an
action upon it against the latter, as there is no privity of contract between
them. So Add, where a check of the Treasurer of the United States upon
a national bank duly designated as a depositary of the public money, having been paid upon an unauthorized indorsement of the name of the payee,
suit to recover the amount of the check was brought by its true owner
against the bank.
2. The rights of the parties are not changed by the fact that, on a settlement of
accounts between the Treasurer and the bank, the check, on the supposition that it had been properly paid, was credited to the bank. Such an
error does not afect the real state of the accounts ; when it is discovered,
they are open to correction.
8. Payment to a stranger upon an unauthorized indorsement does not operate
as an acceptance of the check, so as to authorize an action by the real
owner to recover its amount as upon an accepted check.

ER-o to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Argued by Mlr. A. G. Biddle and Mr. F. Miller for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. ,S. Shellabargerand Mr. J -Daniel8
for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTCE HUT delivered the opinion of the Court.
This action is brought against the First National Bank of
Washington to recover the amount of a check drawn upon it
by Mr. Spinner, Treasurer of the United States, for $3,414.
dated March 9, 1867. The check is in this form, viz.: "Draft No. 9,243 on TWar 'Warant Nfo. 915.

"$3,414.]

TREASURY

OF THE UNITED STATES,

"WASHINGTON,

March 9, 1867.

"Pay to the order of Mrs. E. S. Kimbro, three, thousand three
hundred and fourteen dollars. No. 9,243. Registered. March 9,
1867.
$3,414.
"Issued on requisition No. ,.
"S. B. Comy,
"Re ister of the Treasury.

"F. E. SPnmN-R,
" Treasurerof the United States.

"To the First National Bank of Washington, D. C."

844

FIRsT NAT. BANK, PTC., V. WHITMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

It was indorsed in the name of Mrs. Kimbro without
authority, and the amount of it was paid by the bank to an
unauthorized holder. It appears from the testimony of
Mr. Tayler, first comptroller of the treasury, that the funds
of the government deposited by the Treasurer in a national
bank are treated by the government, for the purposes of lieeping accounts, as in the Treasurer's own charge and custody;
that they are charged to him, and that payments made are
credited to ;him, and that he is chargeable precisely as if the
funds had been in his own office, and that he had power to
make the check in question.
We may, therefore, simplify the case by eliminating from its
consideration all reference to the United States, and consider
the transaction as between Mr. Spinner, as an individual, and
the bank, as his depositary, and Mrs. Kimbro, as the payee of
his check.
The question is this: Can the payee of a check, whose indorsement has been forged or made without authority, and
when payment has been made by the bank on which it was
drawn, upon such unauthorized ind6rsement, maintain a suit
against the bank to recover the amount of the check? We
think it is clear, both upon principle and authority, that the
payee of a check unaccepted cannot maintain an action upon it
against the bank on which it is drawn. The careful and wellreasoned opinion of Mr. Justice Davis in delivering the judgment of this court in Bank of the Republic v. l]illard,10 Wall.
152, leaves little to add upon this subject by way of illustration
or authority. In that case a paymaster of the army made his
check on the Bank of the Republic to the order of Captain
Millard for $859, due to him for arrears of pay as an officer of
the army. The bank paid the amount of the check upon a
forged indorsement of Millard's name. Recovering the check
and exposing the forgery, Millard demanded payment to himself, and, upon refusal, brought his action against the bank.
This court held that the action could not be maintained, upon
the principle that there was no privity between the bank and
Millard. The"bank's contract was with the paymaster only,
and to him only was its duty. It received no money from Millard. It never promised Millard to pay him any mor ey. It

Oct. 1876.]

FMST NAT. BANK, ETC., v. WHITmAN.

had no money belonging to him. It received money from the
paymaster, upon an agreement that it would return it to him
when called for by him in person, or that it would pay it upon
his checks. But it made no such agreement, or any agreement,
with Millard. For a failure of duty in this respect it was responsible to the paymaster, with whom it made the contract,
and to no one else. If the check was not paid, the arrears of
pay to Millard were not paid, and his- claim upon the government or the paymaster was not impaired by the giving of the
check, which, being presented in due time, was not paid. He
-was still entitled to demand his arrears.
That case is a perfect and complete authority upon the
question stated. See also Artuer v. Bank, 46 N. Y. 82.
Nor is this principle confined to checks or bills. Thus, in
Ashley v. -Dixon,48 N. Y. 430, it was held that if A. be under
a contract to sell property to B., and 0. persuade A. to sell the
property to him, no action lies by B. against C. There is no
privity of contract between C. and B., but the remedy of the
latter is against A. only.
It is not to be doubted, however, that it is within the power
of the bank to render itself liable to the holder and payee of
the check. This it may do by a formal acceptance written
upon the check, in which case it stands to the holder in the
position of a drawer and acceptor of a bill of exchange. Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604; Espy v. Bank of
Cincinnati, 18 id. 604.
It may accomplish the same result by writing upon it the
word "good," or any similar words which indicate a statement
by it that the drawer has funds in a bank applicable to the
payment of the check, and that it will so apply them. Cook v.
State Bank of Boston, 52 N. Y. 96. And such ce tificate, it is
said, discharges the drawer. As to him it amounts to a payment. Bank v. Leach, 52 N. Y. 350; Jleads v. Jferchants'
Bank, 25 id. 143; 9 Met. 311; 2 Duer, 121. Whether this
certificate be obtained by the drawer before the check is delivered, and is thus made an inducement to the payee to receive
the same, or whether it is made upon the application of the
payee for his security, is of no importapce. It is a contract
recognized by the law, valid in its chara'cter, which essentially

FrST NAT. BANK,. ETC., v. WHIMAN.

[Sup. O.

changes the position of the parties. The privity of contract
with the drawee, which before pertained to the drawer alone, is
now imparted to the payee, and the duty which before existed
only to the drawer now exists to the payee.
It is said that this fact of a contract between the payee and
drawee exists in the presefit case. The testimony of Mr. Arnold is referred to, to the effect that in April, 1867, the bank
made its weekly statement to Mr. Spinner of deposits received
and payments made, returning the draft of Mrs. Kimbro as
paid on the 22d of that month, and that in the statement
the amount of the draft was entered to the credit of the
bank.
" There is no suggestion in the evidence that either the bank
or Mr. Spinner knew that the indorsement of the payee was
unauthorized. The bank, we assume, would not knowingly
subject itself to the dangers and liabilities resulting from making payment to one not authorized to receive it. We assume,
also, as we are bound in justice to it to do, that it would not
ask Mr. Spinner to give credit for a payment that it knew to
have been illegally made, and that it would not attempt to
deceive him into the belief that a pretended indorsement was
a real one. It comes to this, then, that, upon a settlement of
accounts between them, a credit was by mistake allowed to the
bank to which it was not entitled. The law is, that neither
party is to be benefited or to be injured by the mistake. The
bank must refund the amount by handing over the sum, or by
crediting the same to Mr. Spinner in his next account. Mistakes in bank accounts are not uncommon. They occur both
by unauthorized or pretended payments, as well as by the
omission to give credit for sums deposited. When discovered,
the mistake must be rectified, and an ordinary writing up of a
bank-book, with a return of vouchers or a statement of accounts,
precludes no one from ascertaining the truth and claiming its
benefit. Story, Eq. Pl., sects. 799-801; Story, Eq. Jur., sects.
523, 527; Buchlin v. Chapolin, 1 Lans. 443; Bruen v. Hone,
2 Barb. 586 ; Bullock v. Boyd, 2 Edw. 293. We cannot perceive that such a mistaken recognition of the validity of the
payment of this check can create an additional or different
contract between the bank and the owner of the draft.

Oct. 1876.]

FRST NAT. BANK, ETC., V. WHITMAN.

847

It is further contended that such an acceptance of the check
as creates a privity between the payee and the bank is established by the payment of the amount of this check in the
manner described. This argument is based upon the erroneous
assumption that the bank has paid this check. If this were
'true, it would have discharged all of -its duty, and there woula
be an end of the claim against it. The ban supposed that it
had paid the check; but this was an error. The money it paid
was upon a pretended and not a real indorsemeAt of the name
of the payee. The real indorsement of the payee was as necessary to a valid payment as the real signature of the drawer;
and in law the check remains unpaid. Its pretended payment
did not diminish the funds of the drawer 'in the bank, or pi-t
money in the pocket of the person entitled to the payment.
The state of the account was the same after the 'pretended
payment as it was before.
We cannot recognize the argument that a payment of the
amount of a check or sight draft under such circumstances
amounis to an acceptance, creating a privity of contract with
the real owner. It is difficult to construe a payment as an acceptance under any circunstances. The two things are essentially different. One is a promise to perform an'act, the other
an actual performance. A banker or an individual may be
ready to make actual payment of a check or draft when pre.
sented, while unwilling to make a promise to pay at a future
time. Many, on the other hand, are more ready to promise to
pay than to meet the promise when requirea. The difference
between the transactions is essential and inherent.
Without discussing the other questions argued, we are of the
opinion, for the reasons given, that the plaintiff below was not
entitled to recover.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor a new trial,orfoi
suck further proceedings as the varties may be advised t6
take.

