Oct. 1876.]

MCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

the owners of the property and furniture, except one, is en
tirely wanting, as no application was ever made to any other
one of the owners to give their consent to the arrangement, nor
was any evidence introduced to show that they had knowledge
that any thing of the kind was proposed.
Sufficient appears to show not only that Beall knew what
the proposal was, but that he also knew what the parties, as
between themselves, carried into effect. Much coiiflict exists
in the evidence as to whether he consented to it or not; but, in
view of the written notice given to the lessees before the
change of proprietors was carried into effect, the better opinion
is, that the change was made without having secured his consent.
.Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to enter a
decree, adjudgingthat the Ziens of the landlord have priority
over the deeds of trust.

McCRPADY v.VRGnn&.
1. Subject to the paramount right of navigation, the regulation of which in reia.
tion to foreign and inter-state commerce has been granted to the United
States, each State owns the beds of all tide-waters within its jurisdiction, and
may appropriate them, to be used by its citizens as a common for taking and
cultivating fish, if navigation be not thereby obstructed.
2. The right which the citizens of the State thus acquire is a property right,
and not a mere privilege or immunity of citizenship.
3. The second section of the fourth article of the Constitution, which declares
that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States," does not vest the citizens of one State
with any interest in the common property of the citizens of another State.
4. A law of Virginia, by which only such persons as are not citizens of that
State are prohibited from planting oysters in the soil covered by her tidewaters, is neither a regulation of commerce nor a violation of any privilege
or immunity of inter-state citizenship.

EnROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
McCready, a citizen of Maryland, was indicted, convicted,
and fined 8500, in the Circuit Court-of Gloucester County, Va.,
for planting oysters in Ware River, a stream in which the tide

MCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

ebbs and flows, in violation of sect. 22 of the act of the assembly
of Virginia approved April 18, 1874, c. 214, p. 243, Sess. Acts
1874. That section is as follows: "If any person other than a citizen of this State shall take or
catch oysters or any shell-fish in any irqanner, or plant oysters in
the waters thereof, or in the rivers Potomac or Pocomoke, he shall
forfeit $500, and the vessel, tackle, and appurtenances."
The Supreme Court of Appeals of the State affirmed the
judgment below; whereupon the defendant sued out this writ
of error.
Mr. Bobert Ould for the plaintiff in error.
I. The legislation of Virginia is in violation of the second
section of the fourth article of the Federal Constitution, which
declares that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States."
1. Both at common law and under the statute, Virginia holds
the beds of its navigable waters in trust for the common benefit
of all its people or citizens.
2. Such beds being so held, the rights of the citizens of Virginia, which spring from citizenship, inure, by force of the
Federal Constitution, to the benefit of the citizens of other
States, even against a limitation in the State statute. Such
limitation is void, because in derogation of Virginia's compact
found in the supreme law. The Constitution, acting upon the
grant in the State law in favor of the citizens of Virginia, and
securing the same benefit to citizens of other States, nullifies
the restriction in that law.
3. The State can fully and effectually regulate the use of its
fisheries, and apply its police power to their management; but
all such regulations must be in subordination to the Federal
Constitution, and should apply to its own citizens as well as
to those of other States.
4. The law as to shell-fish, so far as the right to use or appropriate them is concerned, is the same as that which applies
to floating fish.
5. The right to plant oysters is distinct from the right to
take or catch, and even if the constitutional provision does not

Oct. 1876.]

OCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

secure the latter, it does secure the former, to the citizens of
other States, as no abstraction of any property held by the
State is involved therein.
6. The State holds its different kinds of property in different
rights. It has its private property,.which it can control as fully
as the private citizen can his. It also has its public property,
which its citizens and those of other States can use and enjoy
but not appropriate, such as its public buildings and grounds.
It also holds a third class of property, such as its floating and
embedded fish, as to which there can be no use or enjoyment
except in appropriation; and when the right of user by appropriation is given by the State to its own citizens, the Federal
Constitution secures the same right to the citizens of the other
States.
7. The constitutional provision applies to tangible property
as well as to incorporal privileges, where the right to use or
appropriate tangible property held by the State is conferred
upon all its citizens.
8. If the right of planting oysters, when it is given to the
citizens of a State, is not secured to the citizens of other States,
by the word "privilege" in the Federal Constitution, any
punishment for planting them is excluded by the word "immtnity."
The authorities for these positions are: Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 180; Ward v. Maryland, 12 id. 418; Slaughter-House
Cases, 16 id. 86 ; Moody v. Arnold, 1 Halst. 1; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 410; Smith v. State of Maryland, 18 How. 71;
Den v. Jersey County, 15 id. 432; Pollard's Lessee v.- Hagan,
qogwell, 5 Barii. & Cress. 883 ; -Bagot v.
8 id. 212; Somerset v.
Watson v. Sampson, 8 Cush. 847;
2
Bos.
&
Pull.
472;
Orr,
Lakeman v. Burnham, 7 Gray, 487; Pecc v. Loekwood, 5 Day,
22; Preble v. Brown, 47 Me. 286; Smith v. Levinus, 8 N. Y.
472; Home v. Richards, 4 Cal. 441; 2 Black. Com. 89;"
£Thapman v. Miller, 2 Speers, 783; Wiley v. Parmer,14 Ala.
647; Crandall v. State, 10 Conn. 343; Campbell v. Morris,
'a Harr. & Mcli. 558, 554; Commonwealth v. Milton, 12 B.
Mon. 219; Cooley's Story, sects. 1980, 1984, 1987.
II. The legislation is in conflict with the third clause of the
eighth section of the first article of the Federal Constitution,

394

MCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

which confers on Congress the power "to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States."
The law of Virginia applies as well to oysters brought from
a sister State as to those bought in Virginia and planted there.
As to such foreign oysters, at least, it is in conflict with existing
commercial regulations, and also with the laws of the United
States relating to the coast trade. Those laws give to all citizens of the United States the same rights of traffic and intercourse. A statute which prevents a citizen of Maryland from
devoting property to such uses in Virginia as any Virginian can
devote similar property to is a regulation of commerce, whether
the property be brought from Maryland or purchased in Virginia.
A citizen of Virginia can purchase a cargo of oysters in Maryland or in Virginia and plant them in the waters of Virginia.
A citizen of Maryland, if he purchases a cargo of oysters in
Maryland or in Virginia, cannot plant them in the waters of
Virginia. Here is not only inequality, but an interference with
the exclusive commercial authority of Congress. Cooley's Story
on the Const., vol. ii. pp. 2-28 ; Welton v. The State of Missouri,
91 U. S. 275.
Mr. B. T. Daniel, Attorney-General of Virginiia, contra.
MR. CinE JuSTICE, WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The precise question to be determined in this case is, whether
the State of Virginia can prohibit the citizens of other States
from planting oysters in Ware River, a stream in that State
where the tide ebbs and flows, when its own citizens have that
privilege.
The principle has long been settled in this court, that each
State owns the beds of all tide-eaters within its jurisdiction,
unless they have been granted away. Pollard'sLessee v. Hfagan,
3 How. 212; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 74; Mumford v.
Wardwell, 6 Wall. 486; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18
id. 66. In like manner, the States own the tide-waters themselves, and the fish in them, so far as they are capable of ownership while running. For this purpose the State represents its
people, and the ownership is that of the people in their united
sovereignty. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 410. The title thus

Oct. 1876.]

MOOREADY V. VIRGINIA.

held is subject to the paramount right of navigation, the regulation of which, in respect to foreign and inter-state commerce,
has been granted to the United States. There has been, however, no such grant of power over the fisheries. These remain
under the exclusive control of the State, which has consequently
the right, in its discretion, to appropriate its tide-waters and
their beds to be used by its people as a common for taking and
cultivating fish, so far as it may be done without obstructing
navigation. Such an appropriation is in effect nothing more
than a regulation of the use by the people of their common
property. The right which the people of the State thus acquire
comes not from their citizenship alone, but from their citizenship and property combined. It is, in fact, a property right,
and not a mere privilege or immunity of citizenship.
By art. 4, sect. 2, of the Constitution, the citizens of each
State are "entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens
in the several States." Mr. Justice Washington, in Corfield v.
foryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 880, thought that this provision extended
only to such privileges and immunities as are "in their nature
fundamental; which belong of right to the citizens of all free
governments." And Mr. Justice Curtis, in Scott v. Sandford,
19 How. 580, described them as such "as belonged to general
citizenship." But usually, when this provision of the Constitution has been under consideration, the courts have manifested
the disposition, which this court did in Conner v. .lliott, 18
How. 593, not to attempt to define the words, but "rather to
leave their meaning to be determined in each case upon a view
of the particular rights asserted or denied therein." This'clearly
is the safer course to pursue, when, to use" the language of Mr.
Justice Cutrtis, in Conner v. Elliott, "we are dealing with so
broad a provision, involving matters not only of great delicacy
and importance, but which are of such a character that any
merely abstract definition could scarcely be correct, and a failare to make it so would certainly produce mischief."
Following, then, this salutary rule, and looking only to the
particular right which is here asserted, we think we may safely
hold that the citizens of one State are not invested by this
clause of the Constitution with any interest in the common
property of the citizens of another State. If Virginia had by

MCCREADY V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

law provided for the sale of its once vast public domain, and a
division of the proceeds among its own people, no one, we venture to say, would contend that the citizens of other States had
a constitutional right to the enjoyment of this privilege of Virginia citizenship. Neither if, instead of selling, the State had
appropriated the same property to be used as a common by its
people for the purposes of agriculture, could the citizens of
other States avail themselves of such a privilege. And the
reason is obvious: the right thus granted is not a privilege or
immunity of general but of special citizenship. It does not
"belong of right to the citizens of all free governments," but
only to the citizens of Virginia, on account of the peculiar circumstances in which they are placed. They, and they alone,
owned the property to be sold or used, and they alone had the
power to dispose of it as they saw fit. They owned it, not by
virtue of citizenship merely, but of citizenship and domicile
united; that is to say, by virtue of a citizenship confined to
that particular locality.
The planting of oysters in the soil covered by water owned
in common by the people of the State is not different in principle from that of planting corn upon dry land held in the same
way. Both are for the purposes of cultivation and profit; and
if the State, in the regulation of its public domain, can grant
to its own citizens the exclusive use of dry lands, we see no
reason why it may-not do the same thing in respect to such as
are covered by water. And as all concede that a State may
grant to one of its citizens the exclusive use of a part of the
common property, the conclusion would seem to follow, that it
might by appropriate legislation confine the use of the whole
to its own people alone.
Neither do we think this case is at all affected by the clause
of the Constitution which confers power on Congress to regulate
commerce. Art. 1, sect. 8. There is here no question of transportation or exchange of commodities, but only of cultivation
and production. Commerce has nothing to do with land while
producing, but only with the product after it has become the
subject of trade. Virginia, owning land under water adapted
to the propagation and improvement of oysters, has seen fit to
grant the exclusive use of it for that purpose to the citizens of

Oct. 1876.]

OHORPENNING V. UNITED STATES.

the State. In this way the people of Virginia may be enabled
to produce what the people of the other States cannot; but that
is because they own property which the others do not. Their
productions do not spring from commerce, but commerce to
some extent from them.
We are unable to agree with the counsel for the plaintiff in
error in his argument, that the right of planting may be enforced
as a privilege of inter-state citizenship, even though that of
taking cannot. Planting means, in "oysterman's phraseology,"
as counsel say, "depositing with the intent that the oysters
shall remain until they are fattened." The object is, therefore,
to make use of the soil and the water above it for the improvement and growth of that which is planted. It is this use, as
has already been seen, that the State has the right, by reasor
Judgment affirmed.
of its ownership, to prohibit.

CHORPFmNING v. UmTED STATES.
From the repeal of the joint resolution of April 15, 1870 (A Stat. 673), authorizing the Postmaster-General to adjust the accounts of George Chorpenning,
and from the prohibition in the act of March 8, 1871 (id. 519), directing that
no part of the money thereby appropriated for the use of the Post-office
Department shall "be applied to the payment of what is known as tie
Chorpenning claim," the implication is clear, that nothing more was to be paid
to him on account of said claim, without further authority from Congress.

from the Court of Olaims.
Mr. Joseph Casey for the appellant.
Mr. Solicitor-Ceneral.Pillips,contra.
APPEAL

the court.
The appellant rests his claim upon the act of Congress of
March 8, 1857, 11, Stat. 521, and the resolution of Congress
of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 673.
Under ihe act of 1857, Postmaster-General Brown, on the
25th of May and the 30th of June, 1857, awarded to the claimant three several sums of $80,000, $49,842, and $29,590.95,
which were paid to him He received them under protest.
Thereafter he filed his petition in the Court of Claims, avdrMR. JuSIcE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of

