Ex PARTE JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

act as regards ship-owners and consignees, it is an invasion of
the rights of persons outside of these classes. If such a monopoly, sustained by such sanctions, may be validly given to the
master and wardens, why may they not also, at prices not
agreed upon by the parties, nor according to the market value,
but at rates arbitrarily fixed by law, be authorized exclusively
to load and unload ships, to furnish them with all needful supplies, and to perform all the services of consignees, commission
merchants, and ship-brokers, touching incoming and outgoing
cargoes ? Each of these imagined cases is a parallelism to the
case before us, and only another step in the same direction.
We hold the statute to be void.
In expressing these views, we have no purpose to impugn
any thing heretofore said by this court as to the power of the
States to establish inspection, quarantine, health, and other
regulations, within the sphere of their acknowledged authority.
The constitutional validity of such regulations is as clear as the
power of Congress to establish regulations of commerce. It is
no objection to the former that both operate upon the same
subject. Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Ex parte
McNeil, 13 id. 236.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

Ex PARTE JORDANV.
Subsequently to a decree pro confesso, additional parties were, by leave of the
court, permitted to intervene as defendants, in the same manner and with like
effect as if named in the original and supplemental bills. The case was then
referred to a master, who computed, ascertained, and reported the amount of
indebtedness, &c.; whereupon the court, after finding certain facts and overruling the exceptions of such intervening parties to his report, passed a final
decree, but denied their right t; an appeal therefrom. Held, 1. That they had
that right. 2. That, to enforce it, a mandamus lies from this court.
APPLICATION

for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Southern District of New York, to
compel the allowance of an appeal from its. decision.
The New York, Oswego, and Midland Railroad Company,

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE JORDAN.

July 1, 1869, executed a mortgage on its railroad, &c., to
secure an issue of bonds amounting to $8,000,000. Stevens,
Opdyke, & Hewitt, trustees under this mortgage, on or about
Nov. 1, 1873, commenced a suit for its foreclosure in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York. To this suit the railroad company, Delos DeWolf, trustee, William H. Macy, trustee, and the Mercantile
Trust Company, trustee, were originally the only defendants.
Receivers were appointed Nov. 18; 1873; and on the same day,
for the purpose of providing money to pay debts owing to
employ6s, and for certain other specified objects, the receivers
were authorized to issue from time to time certificates of
indebtedness to an amount not exceeding in the aggregate
$1,425,000, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, and, unless previously discharged, to be paid out of the
moneys realized upon the foreclosure equally with any other
liabilities incurred by them in the administration of their
receivership. Dec. 23, 1873, a further issue of like certificates
was authorized, for the purchase of equipment and the payment
of rental on leased lines.
In due time an order was regularly entered, taking the bill
as confessed. The receivers from time to time filed their
accounts; and these were referred to a master, who reported

thereon April 29, 1875.

Upon the filing of this report the

following, direction was given by the circuit judge: "The
report may be confirmed, but a. present I think no further
order should be entered."
June 29, 1875, Conrad N. Jordan, Henry Amy, Edward
Livingston, Frederick P. James, John P. Crosby, and Nathaniel A. Cowdrey, holders, or the representatives of holders, of
bonds secured by the mortgage, filed a petition for leave to
intervene in the prosecution or defence of the suit, for the
protection of the interests they represented. Upon this petition the following order was made, June 30, 1875: "It is hereby ordered that the said petitioners have leave, and
leave is hereby granted to them, to intervene.in this suit for their
own interests, and the interests of those whom they represent, and
to that end to appear in the suit within three days, as defendants,
in the same manner and with like effect as if they were named in

EX PARTE JORDAN.

[Sup. ot.

the original and supplemental bills as defendants having or claiming
an interest: Provided, that said petitioners all appear by the same
solicitor or solicitors. This order to be without prejudice to proceedings already had; but this is not to be construed as depriving the
petitioners of leave to apply for a rehearing or review of any order
heretofore made, upon due notice to the parties interested."
About the same time a similar petition was presented by
John E. Williams and Theodore Houston, and they were
admitted upon the same terms.
July 13, 1875, the cause coming on for hearing, the complainants submitted a proposed form of final decree, and the
defendants' various amendments thereto. The hearing was
postponed until Aug. 4, when a further postponement took
place until Sept. 15, and the master was directed "to compute,
ascertain, and report to the court, on or before the eleventh day
of September, 1875," among other things, "the amount of
certificates of indebtedness and notes issued by the receivers
under the authority of the court, classifying them so as to show
the dates of and authority for their issue, and the purpose of
such issues respectively, and to whom issued by the receivers,
and the aggregate amount of principal due thereon, with interest computed to Sept. 15, 1875; . . . also what leases have
been made to the mortgagor or receivers, and the dates and
terms thereof; also what rents have accrued under the terms
of such leases and have not been paid."
The time for taking proof by the master having been extended, his report was not made until Nov. 13. To this report
exceptions were filed by Jordan, James, Houston, Williams, tivingston, Amy, and Crosby, Jan. 5, 1876. These exceptions
related to the amounts allowed for outstanding receivers' certificates, and to different railroad companies on account of their
leases.
The cause at last came on for final hearing, Oct. 2, 1876,
among other things, upon the exceptions to the master's report
"filed by defendants Conrad N. Jordan and others on the 5th
of January, 1876," and after argument, among others, by "Mr.
F. N. Bangs, of counsel for the defendants, Conrad N. Jordan,
Henry Amy, John P. Crosby, Edward Livingston, Frederick
P. James, and Nathaniel A. Cowdrey," a decree was entered

Oct. 1876.]

Ex PARTE JORDAN.

finding the amount due upon certain detached coupons, upon
the bonds and attached coupons, and upon the receivers' certificates, and directing the mortgaged property to be sold,
and the proceeds applied to the payment of the sums so found
due.
The present petitioners, claiming to be aggrieved by certain
specified orders made in the cause previous to their admission
asA defendants, and also by so much of the final decree as directs
the payment of certain designated coupons, and of the receivers'
certificates, and by certain other provisions of the decree which
are specially stated, on the second day of October, 1876, in
open court, prayed an appeal to this court " from so much and
such parts of the decree" as they claim to be aggrieved by.
This was denied, for the reason that the court was of the opinion "that the said defendants cannot appeal from the decree,
because the bill of complaint herein and the supplemental bill
have been taken as confessed as against them." '
Afterwards the petitioners again applied to the circuit judge
for the allowance of an appeal from the same parts of the
decree, and tendered good and sufficient security to perfect the
appeal; but it was refused:
Thereupon this application was made for a mandamus directing the Circuit Court to allow the appeal as asked for. Hr.F. N. .Bangsfor the petitioners.
31fr. William H .Evarts, contra.
M

.CIrFw JUSTICE WAm delivered the opinion of the

court.

We think that an appeal should have been allowed in this
case. The petitioners were defendants in the suit when the
final decree was rendered. They were directly interested in
-what was then decided. The allowance of an appeal under
sect. 692, Rev. Star., follows of course, if prayed for by one
who has the right to it. The language of the statute is,
"small be allowed," which means "qnust be allowed," when
asked for by one who stands in such relation to the cause that
he can demand it. The question upon such an application is
not what will be gained by an appeal, but whether the party
asking it can appeal at all.

EX PARTE JORDAN.

[sup. ot.

It is true that the petitioners were not parties to the suit
until after the bill wap taken as confessed; but it is clear that
a decree pro confesso did not end the case, because before the
final decree was rendered it was found necessary to have a reference to a master, "to compute, ascertain, and report." Before
the master could comply with this order proof had to be taken;
and the original time given him to report was extended for
that purpose. When this reference was made, the petitioners
were-defendants and actors in respect to the litigation. They
certainly had the right to contend before the master, and to
except to his report. This they did; and their exceptions were
overruled. Even the report of the master did not put the case
in a condition for a final decree. The amount due upon the
bonds and coupons had still to be ascertained. That was done
by the court, and stated in the decree. Against these findings,
certainly, the petitioners were in a condition to contend, and, if
to contend below, to appeal here. It will be time enough to
consider what relief they can have under their appeal when
the case comes up.
While complaint is made of interlocutory orders entered in
the progress of the cause, the appeal lies and was asked only
from the final decree. Whatever comes heze comes through
such an appeal. When the case gets here, the petitioners may
not be allowed to go behind orders actually made by the court
as to the administration of the property before they were admitted to defend, but the case was certainly open to them, when
they came in, as to all other matters involved.
The exceptions of the petitioners were not filed until after
the expiration of one month from the time of filing the master's
report. Under equity rule 83 the complainants could have
insisted upon a confirmation of the report by reason of this default at the next rule-day after it occurred. But they did not
see fit to do so. The exceptions were received out of time
without objection, and acted upon by the court. This was a
waiver of the default.
A writ of mandamus will be issued directing the Circuit
Court to allow the appeal asked for, as of Oct. 2, 1876, and it
is so
Ordered.

