PEIK v. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. a

company comes into any class, it has all the "privileges and
immunities" that have been granted by the statute to any
other company in that class.
It is very clear that a uniform rate of charges for all railroad
companies in the State might operate unjustly upon some. It
was proper, therefore, to provide in some way for an adaptation of the rates to the circumstances of the different roads; and
the general assembly, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, has seen fit to do this by a system of classification.
Whether this was the best thit could have been done is not for
us to decide. Our province is only to determine whether it
could be done at all, and under any circumstances. If it
could, the legislature must decide for itself, subject to no control from us, whether the common good requires that it should
be done.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

ELD and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

PEIK V. CmCAGo AND NORTH-WESTERN

CONTArrY.

RAILWAY

LAWRENCE v. SAME.
1. The Chicago and North-western Railway Company was, by its charter, and
the charters of other companies consolidated with it, authorized "to demand
and receive such sum or sums of money for the transportation of persons
and property, and for storage of property, as it shall deem reasonable."
The Constitution of Wisconsin, in force when the charters were granted,
provides that all acts for the creation of corporations within the State "may
be altered or repealed by the legislature at any time after their passage."
Hld, that the legislature had power to prescribe a maximum of charges
to be made by said company for transporting persons or property within
the State, or taken up outside the State and brought within it, or taken up
inside and carried without.
2. Certain Wisconsin railroad corporations were consolidated with others of Illinois on terms which, in effect, required that the consolidated company
should, when operating in Wisconsin, be subject to its laws. Held, that
Wisconsin can legislate for the company in that State precisely as it could
bave legislated for its own original companies, if no consolidation had taken
place.

Oct. 1876.1 PEIK V. CHICAGO, TC. RAILWAY Co.
3. The act of Wisconsin, approved March 11, 1874, entitled "An Act relating to
railroads, express and telegraph companies, in the State of Wisconsin," is
confined to State mommerce, or such inter-state commerce as directly affects
the people of Wisconsin. Until Congress shall act in reference to the relations of this consolidated company to inter-state commerce, the regulation
of its fares, &c., go far as they are of domestic concern, is within the power of
that State.
4. The decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, that said act of
March 11, 1874, was not repealed by that entitled "An Act in relation to
railroads," approved March 12, 1874, is binding upon this court.
5. Where property has been clothed with a public interest, the legislature may
fix a limit to that which shall in law be reasonable for its use.
6. No party to this record can raise the question that the statute of Wiscon
sin violates the obligation of the consolidated company, under the land
grant to the Wisconsin and Superior Railroad Company, to keep the part
of its road which formerly belonged to the latter company open as a public highway for the use of the government of the United States, free from
toil, &c.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the Western District of Wisconsin.
The appellants in the first case, non-residents of the State of
Wisconsin, and owners of first-mortgage bonds of the Chicago
and North-western Railway Company, filed their bill to restrain the company from obeying, and Paul, Osborn, and Hoyt,
railroad commissioners, and Sloan, Attorney-General of Wisconsin, from enforcing, c. 273, Laws of 1874, of that State,
which limits the rate of charges for transporting passengers
and freights on all the railroads in the State.
The bill sets out the various acts incorporating the company
and the companies with which it is consolidated, and it alleges
that the company was authorized to give its bonds and mortgages to secure the payment of borrowed money; that the complainants are owners of bonds issued or guaranteed by the
company, and secured by mortgages upon various portions of
its railroad, executed pursuant to law; that the tariff of rates
charged by the company before the passage of that chapter did
not pfoduce sufficient income to pay interest on its debt, the
legal rate of interest allowed by the laws of the State to its
stockholders, and expenses; that the enforcement of said chapter will cause the destruction of the securities held by the complainants; that the classes of freight established by sect. 3 of
said chapter are different from the classes of freight estab-

PEIK V. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup. 0t.

lished by the laws of Illinois, Iowa, and Minnesota, for the
transportation of freight upon the railroads of the company in
those States, and that it is practically impossible to carry on
the business of transporting freight from Wisconsin to either
of those States; that the enforcement of said chapter will
impair the obligation of the contract entered into between the
company and the complainants; that said chapter is in violation of the thirteenth article of the bill of rights of the Constitution of Wisconsin, which declares that the property of no
person shall be taken for public use without just compensation
therefor; that the general assembly of Wisconsin had no constitutional power to pass said chapter; that the eighteenth
section is a regulation of inter-state commerce; and that the
company has never accepted said chapter, but will be obliged
to conform to the reduced rates of fare and freight therein
specified, or cease operations in Wisconsin, unless said chapter
shall be held to be unconstitutional.
The bill in the second case was filed by stockholders of the
company, and is substantially the same as that in the first
case.
Chapter 273 classifies railroads in the State, fixes the limiL
of fare for the transportation of any person, classifies freights
and the maximum rates therefor, and prescribes certain penalties and forfeitures for receiving any greater rate or compensation for carrying freight or passengers than the a3t
provides. It appoints railroad commissioners, and prescribes
their duties and powers. The eighteenth section is in the following words: "Nothing contained in this act shall be taken as in any manner
abridging or controlling the rates for freight charged by any railroad company in this State for carrying freight which comes from
beyond the boundaries of the State, and to be carried across or
through the State; but said railroad companies shall possess the
same power and right to charge such rates for carrying such freight
as they possessed before the passage of this act."
TI- defendants in each case demurred to the bill of complaint therein filed. The demurrers were sustained, and the
defendants brought the cases here.

Oct. 1876.]

PEIK V. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY Co.

Ar.
H. E.varts, Mr. C. B. Lawrence, Mr. B. 0. Cook, Mr.
John . Cary, and Mr. -E. W. Stoughton, for the appellants.
The act entitled "An Act relating to railroads, express and
telegraph companies, in the State of Wisconsin," approved
March 11, 1874, regarded independently of the clause of the
State Constitution, reserving the right to alter or repeal corporate charters, is a clear violation of that provision of the
Federal Constitution which forbids a State to pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts. Wilmington Railroad
Co,. v. Reid, 13 Wall. 266; Pacific Railroad Co. v. MeGuire,
20 id. 42; Humphrey v. Pigues,16 id. 247; Attorney- General
v. The Railroad Companies, 35 Wis. 425.
That clause must be construed in connection -with another
provision in the same instrument, forbidding the taking of private property for public use, except on due compensation, and
in subordination to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that "no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law." No compensation has been tendered, and
the act violates that amendment. Wynehamer v. The People,
13 N. Y. 392; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 466; Green
v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 355.
So long as the company operates the road, it has the right
to demand a reasonable compensation for its services. That
right is not a special franchise or privilege, but exists by universal law, and cannot be abridged or impaired. Case of the
State Pireight Tax, 15 Wall. 283; Miller v. State, 15 id. 478;
Holyo7ke Co. v. Lyman, id. 500 ; 'Vn Hoffman v. Quiney, 4 id.
535; Curranv. State of Arkansas, 15 How. 304; Beardstown
v. Louisville Railroad Co., 4 Met. (Ky.) 308; Sage v. Dillard, 15 B. Mon. (Ky.) 353; Commonwealth v. Express Company, 13 Gray, 253.
The question of what is a reasonable compensation is for judicial determination, and cannot be decided by the legislature.
Commonwealth v. Proprietorsof Bridge, 2 Gray, 337; AttorneyNOTE. - These cases were elaborately and at great length argued by the respective counsel. It will be impracticable for the reporter to furnish more than
a very condensed synopsis of the argument. No attempt will be made to give
the particular points which each of the counsel maintained. The argument on
each side is given as a whole.

PEIK v. CHICAGO, EC. RAILWAY CO.

[Slip. Ct.

General v. The Railroad Companies, sypra; P. W. & B. Railroad Co. v. Bower, Law Reg., March, 1874; Chieago & Alton
Railroad Co. v. The People, 67 Ill. 11; State v. Noyes, 47
Me. 203; Stamford v. Pawlet, 1 Cromp. & J. 57. The State,
being a party to the contract, cannot prescribe the compensation by a subsequent enactment which shall bind the other
party. Were it otherwise, the will of each succeeding legislature, ond not the charter, would determine the powers and rights
of the company.
Conceding that the charter which gave the franchise be subject to repeal, the State cannot take from the company its roadbed and its rolling-stock, or the income derived from their use,
without making just compensation. The Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, in Attorney- General v. The Railroad Companies,
supra, in granting an injunction to restrain the company from
operating its road except upon the terms prescribed, declares
that "the material property and rights of corporations should
be inviolate." This act, so far from leaving them inviolate,
takes the income, and thus as effectually deprives the company of the beneficial use of its property, and the means of
performing its engagements with its creditors, as if the road
was confiscated. There is no substantial difference between
a law which diminishes the income of a company thirty pet
cent, by reducing its tariff of rates, and one which requires
it to pay that per cent to the treasurer of State, and obliges
him to distribute it pro rata among those Who paid fares or
freight to the company.
In all the adjudged cases on the subject the rulings have
been uniform, that there are some necessary limits to the exercise of the power which the State assumes to amend or repeal
charters, and among them is, that the character of the companies shall not be chauged, nor the purposes of their creation
defeated, nor vested rights of property impaired. Sage v. Dillard, 15 B. Mon. (Ky.) 353.
" It seems to us," says the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
in Commonwealth v. -Essex Co., 13 Gray, 253, "that this power
must have some limit, although it is difficult to define it. Perhaps the rule is this, that where, under a power in the charter,
rights have been acquired and become vested, no amendment

Oct. 1876.]

PEIK

V. CHICAGO, LTC. RAILWAY 00.

or -alteration of the charter can take away the property or
rights which have become vested under a legitimate exercise of
the powers granted."
Tried by 'this principle, thus explicitly announced, and which
is substantially sustained by this court in JHolyoke Company v.
Eyman and Miller v. State, supra, the act cannot be justified.
The vital element in the ownership and management of railway property, the right to classify the various kinds of freight,
and to determine and receive the proper compensation, is taken
from the corporation and vested in the State.
Independently of the foregoing considerations, applicable to
all railway companies in the State, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company occupies a peculiar position, which
for two reasons places it beyond the reach of the act: 1. The sale in 1859 of the Chicago, St. Paul, and Fond du
Lac road, which is a part of the Chicago & North-western
road, under a deed of trust, and b, authority of the legislature,
vested the title to the first road in certain purchasers, with a
right to operate it. The subsequent grant of corporate fran
chises conferred on them no additional right in or to the road,
and the alteration or repeal of the charter cannot impair any
right which they, by their purchase, acquired and held as
natural persons.
2. The legislature of Wisconsin entered into a contract with
an Illinois corporation, by which the latter acquired rights in
that road which the act impairs, in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Federal Constitution. Coe v.
Tie Colunbus, P. & Ind. Railroad Co., 10 Ohio, 3836; Atkinson v. il. &C.aRailroad Co., 15 id. 36; Cwrran v. State of
Arkansas, 15 How. 534; Railway Company v. W]heaton,
13 Wall. 284; Morris Canal . Bank Co. v. Townsend,
24 Barb. 658.
The act violates in principle the congressional land grant of
June 3, 1856, to which was annexed the condition that the
roads of the companies receiving its benefits should "remain
public highways for the use of the government of the United
States, free from tolls or other charges upon the transportation
of property or troops of the United States," and that the mails
should be transported at such prices as Congress might direct.

PEIK v. CHICAGO, Ec. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

If Wisconsin can pass such an act, it can fix a fate of compensation which will prevent the operation. of the road, and disable the company from performing its duties to the general
government. McCulloch v. State of Mlfaryland, 4 Wheat. 816;
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 id. 740.
The act violates the contract entered into between the corporation and its bondholders, which the State had authorized, and
thus violates that provision of the Federal Constitution which
forbids a State to pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts. Durfee v. Old Colony, 5 Allen, 247; Curran v. State
of Arkansas, 15 How. 804; Woodruff v. Trapnall, 10 id. 190;
Baring v. -Dabney,19 Wall. 8; Fon Hoffman v. City of Quincy,
4 id. 458; Hawthorn v. Calef, 2 id. 10; Tomlinson v. Jessup,
15 id. 457.
The act is a regulation of inter-state commerce, and for
that reason unconstitutional. Case of the State Preight Tax,
supra.
Hr. I C. Sloan and 2dr. L. S. Dixon, contra.
The power reserved to the general ass3mbly by the Constitution to alter or repeal charters, and the effect of its exercise,
are the con trolling questions in this controversy, and they are
not new, either in the courts of Wisconsin, in those of the several States, or in this court.
As early as June, 1854, before the contracts relied upon by
the complainant- were entered, into, or any road now owned
and operated by the defendant company was built, or any
indebtedness incurred by it or any of its predecessors, the
Supreme C)urt of Wisconsin held that, by the operation of
such reserved power, an act of the legislature was valid, although it restricted the amount which, under a charter previously granted, a plank-road company might have charged and
received for tolls. The Madison, Watertown,
Miilwaukee
Plank-road Co. v. Reynolds, 3 Wis. 287.
The same principle has also been announced in Pratt v
Brown, id. 603 ; Nazro v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 14 id. 295;
Kenosha, Bockford, & Rock Island Railroad Co. v. MIarch, 17 id.
16; Whiting v. The Sheboygan &'Fond du Lao Railroad Co.,
25 id. 197; &ate v. -ilwaukee Gas Ligqt Co., 29 id. 461;
The West Wisconsin Railroad Co. v. The Board of Supervisors

Oct. 1876.]

PEIK v. CHICAGO,

ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

of Trempealeau County, 35 id. 257; The Attorney- General v.
The Railroad Companies, id. 425.
In the last case the court remarks :"The power to repeal can bear but one construction. The power
to alter depends on the meaning of the word ' alter.' To alter is
to make different, without destroying identity (Crabb) ; to vary,
without entire change (Webster and Imp. Dict.). A corporate
charter of one kind cannot be altered to a charter of an entirely
different kind. But a corporate charter may be altered so as to
make it different in detail, so long as the general identity of the
corporation remains; so that it is varied without entire change.
This is the obvious meaning to lawyer or layman. Arguments
ab inconvenient-i cannot weigh against the manifest meaning of the
word used: they may go to impeach the wisdom of the power, but
not to impair its import ?
In this court a similar construction has been given to the
same words, and the scope and effect of the reserved power held
to be the same, whether it be contained in a special act creating
a corporation, or in a general law applicable to all future acts
of incorporation, unless specially excepted, or, as in this instance, in the Constitution, under which no unalterable'or irrepealable charter can be granted. Sherman v. Smith, 1 Black,
587 ; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wall. 190; Tomlinson v.
Jessup, 15 id. 454; Miller v. State, id. 478; ifolyoke Company
v. Lyman, id. 500 ; Olcott v. E4e Supervisors, 16 id. 678.
Charters are to be construed most favorably to the State,
and nothing passes by implication. The -Dubuque & Pacific
R-ailroad Co.v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66 ; The Binghamton Bridge,
3 Wall. 51; Home of the Friendless v. Rouse, id. 430.
The controversy is therefore reduced to the meaning of " alter."
The remark in Tomlinson v. Jessup, supra, that "rights acquiyed by third parties stand upon a different footing," was
obviously not intended to intimate that the legislature, in the
exercise of the power conferred by the Constitution, may.not,
by altering the charter of a company without its consent, operate
upon its franchises, whenever the public interests would be
thereby subserved, although the effect may be incidentally to
diminish its resources for the payment of its debts, or depreciate
the value of its stock or its bonds. Such an effect constitutes

PEIK V. CHICAGO, EC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. 0 .

no valid ground of complaint: if it did, the exercise of the
power would be always defeated. Few corporations are free
from debt and all of them have stockholders.
Whatever is given by statute may be taken away by statute.
State v. Hafinger,31 Wis. 262 ; Perrinev. Chesapeake J&Delaware Canal Co., 9 How. 184.
The right to charge tolls for the use of roads, bridges, or ferries is a franchise. It was so conceded by counsel on both
sides in Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
and directly affirmed by this court in Perrinev. Chesapeake J
Delaware Canal Co., supra, and in Olcott v. The Supervisors,
supra.
Like rulings have been had in Blisset v. Hart, Willes, 512;
Whiting v. The Sheboygan &'Fond du Lac Railroad Co., supra;
Beekman v. Saratoga & Schenectady Railroad Co., 3 Paige, 75;
Olcott v. Banfill, 4 N. H. 545 ; State v. Boston, Concord, &
iJlontreal Railroad Co., 25 Vt. 442; Erie & North-east Railroad
Co. v. Casey, 26 Penn. St. 287 ; Boston &'Lowell Railroad Corporation v. Salem J-Lowell Railroad Co., 2 Gray (Mass.), 27;
Raritan
R'
Raritan & Delaware Bay Railway Co. v. Delaware
Western
Canal Co., 18 N. J. Eq. 570; Delaware,Lackawanna, W
lc
Gregor
v. -Erie
Co.,
21
id.
298
;
Co.
v.
-Erie
Railway
Railway
Railway Co., 35 N. J. L. 97; Blake v. Railroad Company, 19
Minn. 418.
The 4kercise of the reserved power in question is sustained
by the following cases: In New York: MeLaren v. Pennington, 1 Paige, 102; The
Schenectady, &c. Plank-road Co. v. Thatcher, 10 N. Y. 102;
Buffalo 4' N. Y. City Railroad Co. v. Dudley, 14 id. 336; In
the Xatter of Oliver Lee &" Co.'s Bank, 21 id. 9; In the Hatter
of the Reciprocity Bank, 22 id. 9 ; The Albany Northern Railroad Co. v. Brownell, 24 id. 345; The Northern Railroad Co. v.
Miller, 10 Barb. 260 ; White v. Syracuse &'Utica Railroad Co.,
14 id. 559; Hyatt v. Melahon, 25 id. 457; In the JMatter of
the Reciprocity Bank,. 17 How. Pr. 323.
In Massachusetts: Crease v. Babcock, 23 Pick. 334; Roxbury
v. The Boston & Prov. Railroad Corporation, 6 Cush. 424;
Boston & Lowell Railroad Corporationv. Salem & Lowell Bailroad Co., 2 Gray, 1; Mass. General Hospital v. St. Mut. 14,/c

Oct. 1876.]

PEIX V. CHICAGO, EmC. RAILwAy Co.

Ass. Co., 4 id. 227; Commonwealth v. Essex Company, 18 id.
239; Fitchburg Railroad Co. v. Grand Junet. Bailroad Co.,
4 Allen, 198; Commonwealth v. Eastern Railroad Co., 103
Mass. 254; Commissioners of Fisheries v. Holyoke Company,
104 id. 446 ; Iayor, c. of Worcester v. Norwich & Worcester
Railroad Co., 109 id. 103; Parker v. Mietropolitan Railroad
Co., id. 506.
In Maine: Proprietors,&c. v. Haskell, 7 Greenl. 474; Bead
v. Frankfort Bank, 23 Me. 318; Meadow Dam Co~hpany v.
Gray, 30 id. 547; Oldtown & -LincolnRailroad Co. v. leazie,
39 id. 571.
In New Jersey: Story v. The Jersey City, &a. Plank-road
Co., 16 N. J. Eq. 13; State v. Miller, 30 N. J. L. 368; State
ex rel., &c. v. Hiller, 31 id. 521; State ex rel., &c. v. The
Mayor, &c., id. 575.
In Indiana: Wilson v. Tesson, 12 Ind. 285.
In Rhode Island: Bailey v. Trustees, ic., 6 R. L 491; Gardner v. Hope Insurance Co., 9 id. 194.
In Minnesota: Per'rinv. Oliver, 1 Minn. 202; Blake v. Railroad Company, 19 id. 418.
In Iowa: Miner's Bank v. United States, 1 Green, 563.
In Kentucky: Sage v. Dillard, 15 B. Mon. 347; louisville
v. President, &c., id. 642.
In Pennsylvania: Brie &. North-east Railroad Co. v. Casey,
26 Penn. St. 287.
The creation of corporations is a prerogative of sovereignty, to
be exercised or not; as the legislature shall see fit; and at such
times, in such manner, and subject to such conditions and
reservations as it shall determine, regard being had only to the
restrictions which the Constitution imposes upon the lawmaling power. The latter, therefore, by statute, or the people, by fundamental law, may reserve the absolute control over
these artificial persons; and there is no authority lodged else.
where to interfere with or prevent the exercise of this sovereign
right. The government which creates may reserve the power
to destroy them, or to prescribe the condition upon which their
future or continued existence shall depend.
This principle has been fully and clearly recognized by this
court. Railroad Company v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 471; McCu-

PEIK V. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

lach v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 427; Providence Bank v. Billings,
4 Pet. 513; Bank of Commerce v. New Yurk City, 2 Black, 620;
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Charles River Bridge
v. Warren Bridge, supra; Turnpike Company v. State,
3 Wall. 210.
The bondholders and mortgagees of the company have no
greater rights or immunity from legislative control than has
the company itself, and the existence of their claims in no way
impairs or defeats the power to alter or repeal the corporate
franchises.
None of the cases cited by the complainants sustain the doctrine contended for by them. On the other hand, the rule of law
is well settled in this court. Mumma v. The Potomac Company,
8 Pet. 281; Pennsylvania College Cases, supra; Curran v. The
State of Arkansas, 15 How. 311; Bead v. Frankfort Bank,
23 Me. 318.
The stockholders and creditors invested their money subject
to the reserved power, of which by presumption of law they had
notice. The East Anglican Railways Co. v. The -Eastern Counties Railway Co., 11 C. B. 775.
The act limiting the tolls and charges of the railroad company is not an encroachment upon the power of Congress to
regulate commerce among the several States. No discriminaGion is made between citizens of the State and citizens of other
States. Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 277; Railroad
Company v. Richmond, 19 id. 584; Railroad Company v. Maryland, 21 id. 456.
Nor does it contravene the article of the State Constitution
which provides that the property of no person shall be taken
for public use without just compensation therefor. Gilman v.
City of Sheboygazt, 2 Black, 513.
The position cannot be maintained that the legislature lost
or forfeited the use of the reserved power by authorizing a corporation to consolidate with one of the same or a different
name, incorporated in another State, with an irrepealable charter. A power granted by the Constitution cannot in this
way be released or destroyed. By the consolidation, the corporations acquired an identity of interest, but did not necessarily cease to be distinct entities. Parnum v. Blackstone,

Oct. 1876.]

PEIK v. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

1 Sunn. 47; Central Railroad & Banking (o. v. Georgia, 92
U. S. 665.
A corporation can have no existence beyond the limits of
the State or sovereignty which brings it into life and endows
it with its faculties and powers. The 0. & f. Railroad (o. v.
Wheeler, 1 Black, 286 ; M Gregor, qui tam, v. -Erie Railway
Co., 35 N. J. 1. 115. The Illinois Company had no authority
to consolidate with a corporation created by and operating in
Wisconsin, except such as was conferred by an express legislative enactment, the"acceptance of which subjected it to all the
conditions, obligations, and liabilities which the Constitution
and laws of Wisconsin imposed. The consolidated company
sustained in Wisconsin the same relation to that State as did
the original corporation.
MR.C
Ju o, WAmI
delivered the opinion of the
court.
These suits present the single question of the power of th6
legislature of Wisconsin to provide by law for a maximum of
charge to be made by the Chicago and North-western Railway
Company for fare and freight upon the transportation of persons and property carried within the State, or taken up outside
the State and brought within it, or taken up inside and carried
without. That company was by its charter authorized "to demand and receive such sum or sums of money for the transportation of persons and property, and for storage of property, as it
shall deem reasonable." Charter of the Wisconsin & Superior
Railroad Co., sect. 6. Other forms of expression are used in
charters granted by Wisconsin to other companies, which by
consolidation have become merged in the present corporation;
but they are all the same in effect. None go beyond this.
The Constitution of the State in force when each of the several acts of incorporation was passed, provides that all acts for
the creation of corporations within the State "may be altered
or repealed by the legislature at any time after their passage."
Art. 11, sect. 1.
It was conceded upon the argument that this resery'6d power
of the Constitution gave the legislature "the same power over
the business and property of corporations that it has -over indi-

PEIK V. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY 00.

[Sup. Ot.

viduals," or, as it is expressed by one of the counsel, "nothing
more could have been intended than to leave the stockholders
in corporations in such a position that the legislature could
place them on the same footing with natural persons before the
law, and disable them from permanently evading the burdens
on all others engaged in similar vocations, by appealing to the
letter of their charter. Their object was not to open the door
to oppression, but to secure simple equality between citizens of
the State, whether working singly or in corporate associations."
And, in another place, the same learned counsel says: "The
privilege, then, of charging whatever rates it may deem proper
is a franchise, which may be taken away under the reserved
power, but the right to charge a reasonable compensation would
remain as a right under the general law governing- natural persons, and not as a special franchise or privilege."
Without stopping to inquire whether this is the extent of the
operation of this important constitutional reservation, it is sufficient to say that it does, without any doubt, have that effect.
In Munn v. Illinois, supra, p. 113, and Chicago, Burlington, J
Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, supra, p. 155, we decided that the
State may limit the amount of charges by railroad companies
for fares and freights, unless restrained by some contract in
the charter, even though their' income may have been pledged
as security for the payment of obligations incurred upon the
faith of the charter. So far this case is disposed of by those
decisions.
It remains only to consider a few questions raised here
which were not involved in the cases that have already been
decided.
1. As to the consolidation of the Wisconsin corporations with
those of Illinois. For the purpose of promoting this consolidation, the legislature of Wisconsin passed an enabling act, and,
in so doing, provided that if such consolidation was perfected,
"the consolidated company shall be and remain subject to the
laws of the State of Wisconsin and the State of Illinois, respectively, and shall have in all respects the same privileges as
though this consolidation had not taken place; provided, that
the laws of Illinois shall have no force and effect in the State
of Wisconsin." Wisconsin Consolidation Act, March 10, 1855,

Oct. 1876.]

PEIK v. CHMCAGO, ETC. RAMWAY Co.

,177

sect. 8. The second section of the same -act also provided
that the consolidated company should "have all the rights,
privileges, and franchises conferred on the said companies
[those in Illinois as well as those in Wisconsin] by the laws of
the States of Illinois and Wisconsn, respectively, the same, and
not otherwise, as, though the said consolidation had not taken
place." In thi6 way, Wisconsin 4n effect said to the Illinois
companies, "You may consolidite your interest with those of
the named companies in this State, and form one corporation in
the two States; but, in so doing, yo V must, in Wis~onsin, be
subject to ou' laws. In Wiscoi.in, all corporations 're liable
to have their charters altered or repealed at. the will of the
legislature. If you are willing to take this risk, we-will care
for you, within our jurisdiction, precisely as we do for our own
corporations."
Upon these terms the consolidation was finally perfectea,
and the consolidatec company now exists under the two jurisdictions, but subject to the same legislative control as to its
business in Wisconsin as private persons. The Illinois companies might have stayed out. But they chose to come in, and
must now abide the consequences. Thus Wisconsin is permitted to legislate for the consolidated company in that State
- precisely the same as it would for its own original companies, if
no consolidation had taken place. This is the contract by which
the Illinois stockholdeis must abide. Haying availed themselves
of what they supposed to be the advantages of the consolida.tion, they cannot repudiate their corresponding obligations.
There is nothing, therefore, in this objection.
2. The obligations of the consolidated company, -under the
land grant to the Wisconsin and Superior Railroad Company,
to keep that part of its road which formerly belonged to that
company open as a public highway for the use of the govern.
ment of the United States, free from toll or other charges upor
the transportation of property or troops of the United States
and to transport the mails at such prices as Congress may b.
law direct. The United States do. not complain. It will b
time enough for us to consider this objection when they do.
3. As to the effect of the statute as a regulation of intei
state commerce. The law is confined to State commerce,
VOL. Iv.

12

PIK

v. CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

such inter-state commerce as directly affects the people of
Wisconsin. Until Congress acts in reference to the relations
of this company to inter-state commerce, it is certainly within
the power of Wisconsin to regulate its fares, &c., so far as they
are of domestic concern. With the people of Wisconsin this
company has domestic relations. Incidentally, these may reach
beyond the State. But certainly, until Congress undertakes to
legislate for those who are without the State, Wisconsin may
provide for those within, even though it may indirectly affect
those without.
4. As to the repeal of this act by that of March 12, 1874.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin has decided that there is no
such repeal as is claimed. The Atty.- Gen. v. Railroad Companies, 35 Wis. 427. This is binding on us.
5. As to the claim that the courts must decide what is reasonable, and not the legislature. This is not new to this case.
It has been fully considered in lMiunn v. Illinois. Where property has been clothed with a public interest, the legislature
may fix a limit to that which shall in law be reasonable for its
use. This limit binds the courts as well as the people. If it
has been improperly fixed, the legislature, not the courts, must
be appealed to for th6 change.
6. The sale of the Chicago, St. Paul, and Fond du Lao Rail
road Company. The charter of the company whose road was
sold does not confer any right which has been impaired by this
legislation. That company, like other railroad companies in
Wisconsin, was subject to regulation as to its fares, &c. It is,
therefore, unnecessary to consider what might under other circumstances have been the effect of such a sale.
This disposes of the case. No other questions need be considered. If the question ever arises whether the company can
be compelled to continue its business at the prices fixed, it will
be time enough for us to pass upon it when it reaches here in
due course of proceeding. It is not here now.
.Decrees affirmed.

MR. JusTcIC FiEIa and MR. JusTIoB STRONG dissented.

