GLENNY V. LANGDON.

[Sup. 0 .

waiting until a collision is imminent before doing any thing
further, does not satisfy the requirements of the law. The Carrol, 8 Wall. 802.
Other support to that conclusion might be invoked ; but it is
quite unnecessary, as the owner of the steamer did not appeal,
and cannot be heard, except in defence of the decree. Airey v.
Morrill, 2 Curt. C. C. 8; Allen v. Hatch, 2 id. 147; Chittenden
v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 196; The Quickstep, 9 id. 672.
Both vessels having been in fault, the settled rule in this
court is, that the damages must be divided. The Atlas, 98
U. S. 319.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that the decree below was correct, and that there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed,

G

m~

v. LANGDoN.

Where a party prosecutes a suit as a representative creditor, and the other
creditors, until notice to the contrary, have the right to rely upon him to
protect their interest in the subject-matter of the litigation, a notice by the
appellees of a motion to dismiss an appeal where he is the appellant, served
upon counsel representing him and the other creditors, is insufficient and
irregular, if it does not specify the time when such motion will be made,
although he may have entered into a stipulation with the appellees consenting to a dismissal of the appeal on their paying the costs.

to set aside an order dismissing an appeal from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Ohio.
M. J. L. Miner for the appellant, in support of the motion.
M
Mr. Stanley Mattheks, contra.
MOTION

MR. CiiEF JusTicE WAiTrE, delivered the opinion of the

court.
The bill in this case shows upon its face that the suit was
prosecuted by Glenny as a representative creditor, and that
the other creditors named had the right to rely upon him for
the protection of theii interest, until notice to the contrary.
On Saturday, the 13th January, Glenny, at Cincinnati, Ohio,

Oct. 1876.]

GLENNY V. LANGDON.

entered into a stipulation with the. defendants, consenting to a
dismissal of the suit on their paying the costs. A copy of this
stipulation was, on the same day with its execution, served, at
Cincinnati, on the counsel representing the complainant and
those interested with him in the litigation, accompanied by a
notice that a motion had been filed to dismiss the appeal in
accordance therewitL; but no time was named for the hearing.
On the same day, the counsel for the defendants forwarded the
stipulation to the clerk, with the request that it be docketed in
accordance with the pradtice of the court. In the letter transmitting the motion it was intimated that there might be oppo-"
sition, and in that event a request was made for notice, and
information as to the practice in such cases.
On Tuesday, the 16th of January, the stipulation was presented to the court by Mr. Carpenter, at the request of the
clerk, 3iiade upon the authority of the letter transmitting it,
and the suit was dismissed. On Monday, the 15th January,
the counsel for the complainant wrote the clerk from Cincinnati, asking him not to delay printing the record on account of
the motion, and intimating that the motion would not be sustained. A memorandum was made upon this letter by the
clerk, to the effect that he replied on the 20th January, giving
notice of the dismissal on the 16th. The letter of the clerk in
reply did not reach the counsel, and he had no notice of what
had been done until about the first of this month, and immediately thereafter the present motion was made.
Under the circumstances, we think the motion to dismiss was
improvidently granted, and the order to that effect entered
Jan. 16, is, therefore, set aside. The notice of the motion was
insufficient and irregular, as it designated no tme for the hearing. It is evident, also, that the counsel for the complainant
supposed, as he properly might, that he was to have further
information of the time when the motion would be called up.
No other questions argued upon the present motion are decided,
but the cause is reinstated, and the parties placed in the same
condition they would be if the order of dismissal had not been
entered.
fl-otion granted.

