Oct. 1876.]

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS.

Co. v.

SOHWENK.

593

-Mayv. Slack, 16 Int. Rev. Rec. 134, is cited, but it has no
bearing upon the question.
We are satisfied that the statute was correctly donstrued by
Judgment affirnzed

the Circuit Court.

CONNECTICUT Mu uAL Lir- INsuRAN cE CoomPANY v.
SCHWENK.
1.Where it is not a condition of a policy of life insurance that a statement of
the age of the insured should accompany the proofs of his death, the party
for whose benefit the insurance was effected, although no previous notice was
given to the insurers that such evidence would be offered, is not estopped
from proving at the trial of a suit on the policy that a statement of the

age of the deceased accompanying such proofs, and differing from that made
in the application, is erroneous.
2. An entry in the minute-book of a lodge of odd fellows, of which the deceased
was a member, made prior to the issue of the policy, and-sbowing his age
as recorded by the secretary of the lodge in the usual manner of keeping its
records, is not admissible as evidence of such age. Itis merely hearsay.

ERRO

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
This action was upon a life policy, dated March 26,1867, procured by Anthony A. McDonough from the Connecticut Mutual
Life Ihsurance Company, in the name and for the sole use and
benefit of his wife, Mary D. McDonough. In case she died
before him, the amount of the insurance was payable to her
children, for their use, or, if they were, under age, to their
guardians, ninety days after notice and proof of his death. He
died on the twelfth day of April, 1869, and she on the sixteenth
day of April, 1868, leaving two children by him, and two by a
former husband, who, by their guardians, brought this suit.
The application for insurance was signed by Mary D. McDonough and Anthony A. McDonough, at Reading, March 25,
1867. To- the question, " Place and date of birth of person
whose life is proposed to be insured, - giving month and day?"
the following answer was given: "Ireland, Aug. 11, 1805."
"Age next birthday?" "Sixty-two."
The declaration contains the common counts in assumpsit,
VOL. IV.

33

CONN. MUT. LIPE INS. CO. V. SCHWENK.

[Sup. Ct.

setting forth the policy, the application, interrogatories, and
answers The defendant filed fifteen pleas. The first two put
in issue the execution of the policy and alleged performance;
the third, that the said Anthony A. McDonough was not born
in the year 1805. The remaining pleas set up misrepresentations and false allegations in the application as to the health
and habits of the insured. The pleas were traversed by replications.
At the trial, the plaintiffs put in evidence the policy, proofs
of death, and, by request of defendant's counsel, the application
for-insurance, and then called Adam Schwenk, who swore that,
within sixty days after the death of said Anthony, he gave all
the proofs of it to Tilden, the agent of the company, who did
not object to any matter of forth.
The defendant having asked for a nonsuit on the ground that
the affidavit of one Nolan, furnished with the proofs of death,
showed that the deceased was between sixty-six and seventy
years of age at the time of his death, the gourt, notwithstanding the objection of the defendant, that it had not prior to
the trial received notice that such evidence would be offered,
permitted the plaintiffs to call Nolan as a witness. He testified,
in substance, that he had no positive knowledge of the age of
the deceased, but that the age fixed by him in his affidavit was
a mere imprpssion, founded upon the appearance of the deceased. To the admission of this evidence the defendant
excepted.
In the course of the trial, the defendant, in order to prove
that the age of the deceased was different from that stated in
his application, offered in evidence a certain entry or statement,
dated Sept. 6, 1845, contained in the minute-book of Bernville
Lodge of Odd Fellows, of which deceased was a member, and
at one time secretary. The court refused to admit the evidence, and the defendant duly excepted. The jury found all
the issues in favor of the plaintiffs, and, a judgment having
been rendered in their favor, the defendant sued out this writ
of error.
Mr. Michael Arnold for the plaintiff in error.
The court declined hearing counsel for the defendants in
error.

Oct. 1876.]

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. Co. v.

MR. JUSTIOE STRONG

SCHWENK.

595

delivered the opinion of the court.

The issue, out of which arose both the questions brought here
by this case for determination, was founded on a plea that Dr.
McDonough, the person whose life had been insured, was older
than he had been represented to be in the application for the
policy. In that application, made March 25, 1867, his age was
stated to be sixty-two at his next birthday. Accompanying
the proofs of death furnished to the company by the plaintiffs
below was an affidavit of one Thomas Nolan, that the death
occurred on the 12th of April, 1869, and that the deceased was
between sixty-six and seventy years of age at that time, according to the best judgment of the affiant. To explain the
discrepancy between the statement of the affidavit and that
made in the application, the plaintiffs offered to prove that the
age of the deceased was different from that stated in the affidavit; aivd, for this purpose, they offered to prove by Nolan
himself that he was mistaken, and that he had no knowledge
upon the subject. This evidence the court received, notwithstanding an objection by the defendants (the ground of the objection being that no notice had been given to them prior to the
trial that such evidence would be offered); and the admission
of the evidence is the first error assigned.
In considering the ruling of the court, it is first to be observed
that nothing in the policy required that proof of the death of the
person whose life was insured should be accompanied by proof
of his age at the time of his death. There was, it is true, a
memorandum, indorsed pn and folded in the policy, that a certificate would be required from some intimate friend of the age
of the person insured at the time of his death; but the memorandum was no part of the contract, and it was not shown to
either the court, the jury, or the counsel, before the verdict was
rendered, Nolan's affidavit, therefore, was no necessary part of
the proofs of death, and hence it was imijiaterial. Yet, having
been furnished by the plaintiffs to the defendant, it was some
evidefice of the age of the person insured, though certainly not
conclusive. There can be no reason why it was not open to
correction, if it was erroneous. This is not denied by the plaintiff in error, and it could not be successfully. It has repeatedly
been held that errors and omissions in the .proofs of loss fur-

CONN. ?VlUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCHWENK.

[Sup. Ct.

nished to insurers, in cases of fire insurance, may be corrected
or supplied at the trial. In lei"fasters v. The Insurance Company of North America, 55 N. Y. 222, the plaintiff had stated
in his proofs of loss that he had other insurance on the same
property, - a fact which, if true, avoided his policy, - and
he -had verified his statement by his oath. Yet he was held
not to be estopped by the statement, and he was permitted to
prove at the trial that the statement was a mistake. Hubbard v. The Hartford Tire Insurance Co., 33 Iowa, 325, is
to the same effect. So are the ,E tna Fire Insurance Co. v.
AUen, 48 Ii. 431, Comm. Fire Insurance Co. v. Huclkenburger, 52 id. 464, and numerous other cases that might be
cited. But it is contended that evidence to show Nolan's
affidavit was a mistake ought not to have been admitted, vithout notice to the insurers before the trial that such evidence
would be offered; and in support of this position Campbell v.
The Charter Oak Fire and -MarineInsurance Co., 10 Allen
(Mass.), 213,, and Irving v. The -Excelsior Insurance Co.,
1 Bosw. (N.Y.), 500, are cited. In the fbrmer of these cases,
it was held that, if an incorrect statement of a material matter
has been made through mistake in a notice and proof of loss
furnished to insurers, in compliance with a requirement in the
conditions of insurance annexed to a policy, and no amended
statement has been furnished to the insurers before the trial of
an action upon the policy, the insured cannot be allowed to
prove the mistake, and show that the facts were not as therein
stated. But that case is very different from the one we have
before us. There a true statement of the material fact in the
proofs of loss was called for by the policy, and it was made a
condition precedent to the. insurer's liability. The erroneous
tatement, therefore, was relied upon by the assured, as the
notice required by the conditions of the policy, and as a necessary basis of his suit. It must have been, in substance, averred
in his declaration ; and, for these reasons, the insurers were
misled in regard to a matter which the assured had obligated
himself to state truly, as a condition precedent to his right to
remuneration 'for his loss. But even in that case the court
declined to say that the incorrect statement in the proofs of
loss could not be corrected. All that wa, decided was that the

Oct. 1876.]

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. Co. v. SCHWENK.

597

mistake and the correction could not be first made known to
the insurers at the trial of the action to recover for the loss,
and obviously for the reason that the correction then Would be
a surprise to them. Irvingv. The Excelsior Fire Insurance Company is substantially the same. Neither of the cases can be considered as deqiding that an insured is estopped by an erroneous
statement of a fact in the proofs of loss furnished by him, even
though a true statement of that fact be a condition of the
policy. He may correct it, though not first at the trial. But,
in the case we have in hand, it was not a condition of the policy
that a statement of the age of the deceased should accompany
the proofs of death. The insurer's liability was independent
of that. Nolan's affidavit, therefore, was superfiuous; and it
was but a statement of his conjecture. 'He stated that, according to the best of his judgment, the person whose life was
insured was between sixty-six and seventy years of age at the
time of his death. This can hardly be regarded as a contradiction of the statement made in- the application. The
insurers ought not to have been misled by it, and it does not
appear that they were. They alleged no surprise when the
evidence was offered to shoiv that Nolan had no knowledge on
th6 subject, and that he yas mistaken. We cannot, therefore,
say there was error in receiving the evidence.
The second assignment is, that the court erred in rejecting
the minute-book of a lodge of odd fellows, offered by the
plaintiffs in error to show the age of Dr. McDonough, as recorded therein in the usual manner of keeping the records of the
lodge. It might, perhaps, be enough to say of this, nothing in
the bill of exceptions shows that the minute-book had it been
received, would have tended to prove the age was greater than
it was stated to be in the application for the policy. But,
waiving this, and conceding also, that, when a policy on the life
of a husband has been issued for the benefit of a wife, his admissions made prior to its issue are admissible in evidence to
contradict her statements in -her application, we are of opinion
that none of the entries in the minute-book can be regarded as
admissions of McDonough respecting his -age. They were
made by the secretary of the lodge before McDonough became a member of ft, and they do not'state that any represen-

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. Co. v. SCHWENK.

[Sup. Ct.

tation of his age was made by him; much less, that he stated
his age was as the secretary entered it. What was entered,
then, was the declaration of a third party, not an admission by
the person whose life was insured: it was mere hearsay, at
best. It nowhere appears McDonough knew of the entry, or
assented to it, when it was made, or that he ever afterwards
acquiesced in it. True, he was subsequently elected secretary
of the lodge, and then had the book of minutes in his charge.
He may then have read the minutes, and thus have obtained
notice that such an entry appeared therein. But it would be
going very far to hold such knowledge was any evidence of an
admission by him that the statement of his age made in the entry
was true.
It is argued, however, that though the entry in the minutebook was the declaration of a third person, it was admissible
on the principle of necessity; and we are referred to the line of
decisions in which it is said to have been ruled that written
entries or declarations of third persons are admissible as primary evidence after their decease, when they accompany, or
are explanatory of, some material fact, or as secondary evidence, when the particular circumstances afforded reasonable
assurance that the person who made them knew the fact stated,
communicated it faithfully, and cannot be obtained to testify.
Without pausing to inquire whether the doctrine asserted in
these cases is as broad as the plaintiffs in error state it, the
present case clearly fails to come within it. The secretary who
made the entry in the lodge minute-book had, so far as it appears, no peculiar means of knowledge of Dr. McDonough's
age, and there is no proof that he was not living at the trial.
For aught that appears, he might have -been called asia witness.
Again, it is argued that a man's age is one of the elements-of
his pedigree, and that, in proving pedigree, hearsay evidence 8
admitted. The argument is fallacious. It is true, the age of a
person may become material in questions of pedigree; but even
then the hearsay declaration of strangers, persons not related
by blood or marriage, are inadmissible to prove it. Moreover,
the present case involves no question of pedigree. The proof
of age was not offered for the purpose of showing parentage or

Oct. 1876.]

THE " STEPHEN MORGAN."

descent, both of which were impertinent to the issue between
the parties. The assignment of error cannot, therefore, be
Judgment affirmed.
sustained.

T'1 " STEP

MoRGAw."

1. A party who does not appeal from the final decree of a circuit court cannot
be heard in opposition thereto, when the case is properly brought here by
the appeal of the adverse party.
2. This court, concurring in opinion with the court below that both vessels were
at fMult, affirms the decree dividing the damages between them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
HTr. F. TV Brune and Mr.Arthur G. Brown for the appellants.
Mr. I. .Nevitt Steele and Hr. Thomas . Hall, contra.
MR.JUSTICE. CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Parties who do not appeal from a final decree of a circuit
court which is regular in form cannot be heard in opposition to
the decree when the cause is removed here by the opposite
party, unless it appears that the proceedings in removing the
cause were unauthorized or irregular. They may be heard in
support of the decree, and in opposition to every assignment of
error filed by the appellants. The TFilliam Bagaley, 5 Wall.
877; Harrison v. Vixon, 9 Pet. 494; Canter v. Insurance
Company, 3 id. 818.
Where the decree was in favor of the libellant in the District
Court for a salvage service in saving goods at sea, this court
held, on appeal here by the owners of the goods, that the
decree was conclusive upon the libellant as to the amount of
salvage awarded ; that he could not, in the appellate court, claim
any thing beyond that amount, since he had not, by any appeal
on his part, controverted its sufficiency. Stratton v. Jarvis
Brown, 8 id. 16.
Compensation is claimed by the owner of the steamship
"Carolina" from the schooner "Stephen Morgan," her apparel,
taekle, and furniture, for injuries caused to the steamship by

