92

CONSOLIDATED FRuIT-JAR CO. V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

seized at Indianola instead of Galveston, and in that the marshal, instead of delivering to the claimant the whole one hundred barrels upon the order of delivery,
handed over only fifty-five, and paid him the proceeds of the sale of the remaining forty-five barrY's. As these proceeds amounted to more than the appraised
value of the property, for which alone the decree below was rendered, we cannot
see how the claimant can now object, because he did not receive the spirits.
For the reasons given in the other case, the decree in this is
Affirmed

COwSOmDATED FRUIT-JAR ComtPANY v. WHIGHT.
Letters-patent No. 102,913, issued to John L. Mason, May 10, 1870, for an "Improvement in fruit-jars," are void: first, because there was a purchase, sale,
and prior use of the invention more than two years prior to the application
for a patent; second, because at the time of such application the invention had
been abandoned to the public.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Consolidated Fruit-Jar
Company to restrain the alleged infringement by the defendant of letters-patent No. 102,913, issued May 10, 1870, to John
I. Mason, for an "improvement in fruit-jars," and of which
the complainant, by mesne assignments, is the owner. The
court below, upon hearing, dismissed the bill; whereupon the
complainant appealed here.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John . B. Latrobe for the appellant.
Mr. George Gifford, contra.

the opinion of the court.
This is a case in equity brought by the appellants to enjoin
the appellee from infringing a patent issued by the United
States to John L. Mason, on the 10th of May, 1870, "for an
improvement in fruit-jars," of which patent the complainant is
the assignee.
The disclaimer and claim of the patent are as follows: MR. JUSTiCE SwAYNu delivered

"Separately considered, I do not claim a metallic flexible screwring or cap, C, for holding a cover on a preserve-jar, nor an external gasket receiving-shoulder upon preserve-jar, except when such

Oct. 1876.]

CONSOLIDATED FRUIT-JAP CO. V. WRIGHT.

93

gasket-shoulder is at the top of a continuous glass screw; neither
do I claim the combination of a screw-ring cap with a packing-ring,
so applied to a jar that a portion or the whole of such packing-ring
is exposed within the jar, nor when the gasket-shoulder is at the
base of the glass screw, as in my patent of 1858; but" What I do claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent,
is-

" The combination, first, of the shoulder, b,to receive a gasket

outside and a little below the top of the jar; second, of the cover,
B, with the rim, d, extending down outside of he top, to press upon
the gasket, C; and, third, of the screw-ring or screw-cap, C, with
its screw-threads operating upon those of the jar below the gasketshoulder, -all substantially as above set forth and described."
The- screw-cap, C, is described in the patent as made of
metal.
The answer sets up several defences. Our remarks will be
confined to two of them.

1. That there had been "purchase, sale, and prior use" of
the invention "more than two years prior" to the application

for the patent.
2. That the invention was abandoned to the public.
These objections are founded upon the seventh section of
the act of 1839. Curtis on Pat. (4th ed.) 696.
The invention was completed in June, 1859.

The applic.c-

tion for the patent was made on the 15th of January, 1868.
The intervening period was between eight and nine years.
The two years prior to the application began on the 15th
of January, 1866. It is within the limits of the tract of time
frst mentioned that the facts are to be sought upon which the
sccond point is to be determined, and within the same period,
less two years after the 15th of January, 1866, that those
rclating to the first point must have occurred, in order to avail
the defendant.

There is no conflict in the testimony.
In June, 1859, Mason had a model made for his jar and
cover, according to his invention. He took the model to Reed
& Co., glass-makers, in Jersey City. They made for him at
least two dozen of the jars. When they were done, Mason
received five or six of them, and a short time afterwards, the

94

CONSOLIDATE

FRUIT-JAR CO. V. WRIGHT.

[SUp. Ct.

residue. Of the first lot, he gave one to Reed, and one to Fitzgerald, his lawyer. The others he took home. What became
of them does not appear. Those of the second and larger lot
he certainly sold. His recollection to this effect is distinct.
He thinks he received for them three or four dollars a dozen.
He does not know what was done with them. The inference
is a fair one, that they were used for the purpose for which they
were intended. His object in selling was twofold, -to
get
the money which they yielded, and to test their salability in
the market.
The statutory clause upon which the second objection is
founded is in the disjunctive. The language is "purchase,
sale, or prior use" . . . "for more than two years prior" to
the application for the patent. The phrase, "for more," as
thus used, is loose and inaccurate, and is to be understood as if,
the language were earlier than "two years prior," &c., or as
if "for" were omitted from the sentence. This omission would
produce the same effect.
The defects specified are also in the singular. It follows
that a single instance of sale or of use by the patentee may,
under the circumstances, be fatal to the patent; and such is
the construction of the clause as given by authoritative adjudications.
Tn Pitts v. -Hall, 2 Blatchf. 235, Mr. Justice Nelson said,
"The patentee may forfeit his right to the invention if he constructs it and vends it to others to use, or if he uses it publicly
himself in the ordinary way of a public use of a machine at
any time prior to two years before he makes his application for
a patent. That is, he is not allowed to derive any benefit from
the sale or the use of his machine, without forfeiting his right,
except within two years prior to the time he makes his application." See also American Hide &' Leather Co. v. American
Tool Co., 4 Fisher, 291; lMcAillan et al. v. Barclay et al., 5 id.
189; McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202; Agawam Company
v. Jordan, 7 Wall. 583. The result must always depend upon
the purpose and incidents accompanying the act or acts relied
upon.
If the case stopped here, the facts we have adverted to
would be fatal to the patent, upon the ground of the first

Oct. 1876.]

CONSOLIDATED FaUiT-JAR Co. v. WRIGHr.

96

objection. But there are further facts developed in the testimony which bear upon this as well as the other point.
The model remained in the possession of Reed, one of the
glass manufacturers, unnoticed and uncalled for by Mason
until 1867. Not knowing where to find Mason, Reed then sold
it at auction. The jar Mason had given him was sold at the
same time and in the same way. This utter neglect of the
model for so long a time is full of significance, and has an important bearing upon the question of abandonment.
-No sufficient reason is disclosed in the record why the application for the patent was not made earlier. It was not for
want of the necessary pecuniary means on the part of Mason.
There is no proof of such want of means; and the contrary is
shown by the fact of his getting a patent for a garbage-box in
the year 1867, or about that time. Mason's impression is, that
when he took the jar to Fitzgerald, in 1859, the latter said
that if patented he could not use the invention, because it
would infringe earlier patents which he had parted with to
others. He was asked when he next saw Fitzgerald. • His
answer was, "I think it was a number of years, probably eight
or nine years. It was about the time he drew a specification
for me for a garbage-box, which I received a patent for."
When pressed to state why he did not apply for the patent
earlier, he answered, "Well, I don't know as I had any reason
or cause for not doing so." It appears that, when the specification for the garbage-box was prepared, Fitzgerald advised that
a patent should be taken out for the fruit-jar. Subsequently,
when Mason had concluded to make the application, he went
in quest of Fitzgerald, to get him to prepare the requisite
papers, and found he was dead. He thereupon engaged the
services of other counsel, and the application was made.
In the mean time, large interests had grown up in the way of
the manufacture and sale of jars substantially the same with
Mason's, and of others more or less like it. He was stimulated
to make his application by seeing such jars in the market. Ie
had seen them before Fitzgerald advised him finally to get a
patent. Even then he failed to give any directions upon the
subject.
He reached his conclusion subsequently. Large
amounts of money must then have been invested in the busi-

96

CONSOLIDATED FRUIT-JAR CO. V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

ness of making and selling such jars by various persons. It is
sufficient to mention the case of Rowley, who is defending this
suit in the name of Wright, the appellee.
Rowley, in 1864, was selling jars known as the Excelsior. In
the spring of 1866 he was called upon by Imlay, who charged
that the Excelsior infringed a patent issued to him in 1865,
which was for a jar such as the appellee is called to account in
this case for selling. He bought from Rowley. Rowley took
a license from Imlay, and thereupon commenced making and
selling jars made according to Imlay's patent. These jars were
nearly identical with those described in the Mason patent. A
part of those sold had only glass tops, without the metallic eovering, which Mason's patent called for. The residue had such
covering. Prior to the beginning of the year 1868 he had sold
of the jars with glass tops from two hundred and fifty to four
hundred gross, making the minimum thirty-six thousand. Before the same period, he had sold a large number of those with
the metallic top, and otherwise the same in construction. Thus,
before Mason applied for his patent, and as early as 1866, the
public was in possession of the invention in question from
sources entirely independent of Mason.
It is enough to say, without recapitulating the facts, that in
our judgment the defence of abandonment to the public is also
clearly made out.
He who is silent when he should speak must be silent when
he would speak, if he cannot do so without a violation of law
and injustice to others.
The supineness of the patentee is unexplained and inexcusable. A principle akin to the doctrine of equitable estoppel
applies.
Inventors are a meritorious class. They are public benefactors. They add to the wealth and comfort of the community,
and promote the progress of civilization. A patent for an invention is as much property as a patent for land. The right
rests on the same foundation, and is surrounded and protected
by the same sanctions. There is a like larger domain held in
ownership by the public. Neither an individual nor the public
can trench upon or appropriate what belongs to the other. The
inventor must comply with the conditions prescribed by law.

Oct. 1876.]

Oct.876.]
SMITH V.UITED~ STATES.

If he fails to do this he acquires no title, and his invention
or discovery, no matter what it may be, is lost to him, and is
henceforward no more his than if he had never been in any wise
connected with it. It is made, thereupon, as it were by accretion, irrevocably a part of the domain which belongs to the
community at large. The invention here in question is within
this category.
Decree affirmed.

SM1TH V. UNTTED STATES.
This court will refuse to hear a criminal case, unless the convicted party suing
out the writ of error is where he can be made to respond to any judgment
which may be rendered here.

•ERRoR to the Supreme Court of Washington Territory.
Mr. John J. M Gilvra for the plaintiff in error.
MAr. sSolicitor-Ceneral Phillips,contra.
M] . CmS

delivered the opinion of the

JUSTICE WAT

court.
It is clearly within our discretion to refuse to hear a criminal
case in error, unless the convicted party, suing out the writ, is
where he can be made to respond to any judgment we may
render. In this case it is admitted that the plaintiff in error
has. escaped, and is not within the control of the cofirt below,
either actually, by being in custody, or constructively, by being
out on bail. If we affirm the judgment, he is not likely to
appear to submit to his sentence. If we reverse it and order a
new trial, he will appear or not, as he may consider most for
his interest. Under such circumstances, we are not inclined to
hear and decide what may prove to be only a moot case.
This cause was docketed here Dec. 29, 1870. In due time
a brief was filed on behalf of the plaintiff in error, and the
cause has been regularly continued at every term since, no one
appearing here in person to represent the plaintiff. At this
term we dismissed the writ, on motion of the United States,
for want of prosecution, but have since reinstated At on motion
of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, who now moves to have
it set down for argument. This motion we deny, and order
VOL. IV.

7

