86

199 BARRELS OF WHISKEY v. UNITED STATS4.

[Sup. Ct.

doubt, it often becomes necessary, especially in an appellate
court, to ascertain what the state of the case was when the
question was propounded, and what the effect of the evidence
would have been if it had been admitted.
No attempt is made to impeach the fairness of the requisitions made by the quartermaster, or to show that they were
greater than the public service required; nor is it contended
that the prices paid to supply the deficiencies were higher than
the regular market prices in gold coin. What the defendants
suggest is, that the agent employed to provide and deliver the
deficiency paid some of the subordinate officers in money,
instead of delivering the required amount of forage and grain,
as he should have done. Both the agent and the subordinate
officers in question agreed to the commutation; nor is it suggested that the quartermaster approved the commutation, or
that he had any knowledge of the irregular transaction of the
agent. Proper charges were made by the agent, and the same
were duly paid by the proper disbursing officer.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that no
injury resulted to the contractors. They did not suffer by the
irregularity, nor is it perceived that it is a matter with which
they have any concern, and it certainly furnishes no grounds
for reversing the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

ONE

HUNDRED AND

Nr-TY-NDE BARRELs

or WHISKEY

v. UNITED STATES.
1. The forty-fifth section of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 163), imposes upon
a claimant of distilled spirits, seized for a violation of that section, the burden of proving that the requirements of law have been complied with; and
this court, upon consideration of the evidence disclosed in the record, deems
it insufficient, and affirms the decree of condemnation.
2. The rule in The Diana,3 Wheat. 6,, allowing interest upon the appraised value
of the property from the date of the decree of condemnation in the District
Court, approved, and applied to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
This was a libel against one hundred and ninety-nine barrels of

Oct. 1876.]

199

BARRELS op WHISKEY v. UNITED STATES.

87

distilled spirits seized at Galveston, Texas, March 18,1867, as forfeitedto the United States. The causes of forfeiture alleged are, 1. That the spirits, being subject to the payment of internal
revenue tax, were removed otherwise than into a bonded warehouse, without the payment of the tax.
2. That no lawful or genuine inspector's brand was ever put
upon them, and they were removed for sale in fraud of the law,
and with intent to evade the payment of the taxes thereon
chargeable by law, and were fraudulently and illegally marked
and branded.
3. That said barrels of distilled spirits, when found and
seized by the collector of internal revenue, had never been inspected, gauged, proved, or marked, as required by- law, and
were fraudulently and illegally marked and branded.
To this libel a claim and answer were filed by Charles Andre,
a resident of Matamoras, Mexico, in which he alleged that all
the requirements of the laws of the United States relating to
the spirits had been complied with previous to the seizure;
that they had been duly proved and marked, gauged, and inspected, and the barrels properly branded by the lawful officers
of the United States duly appointed for that purpose; and that
all taxes required by law had been paid thereon. He also
stated that he purchased the spirits in open market at Matamoras, Mexico, in the regular course of business, between the 1st
and 12th of February, 1867; that the same having been delivered to him in Mexico, he applied to the United States collector of duties for the district of Brazos de Santiago for permission
to import them in the packages as purchased, which permission
was granted; that he accordingly transported them from Matamoras to Brownsville, entered them at the custom-house of that
district, and by bond secured the duties thereon according to.
law, and that he secured from the proper officers of the customhouse the usual certificate given in such cases, and sent the
spirits forward to Indianola and Galveston for a market.
The evidence produced by the claimant shows that he entered
the spirits at the custom-house upon his importation as of the
growth, production, and manufacture of the United States,
exported on board of certain vessels named, from New York and
New Orleans, upon which no drawback, bounty or allowance

88

199 BARRELS OF WHISKEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

had been allowed, and reimported from Matamoras, Mexico,
free; that he executed a bond to the United States for the
sum of $73,000, with approved sureties, "conditioned that
proper certificates to show that the articles were manufactured
in the United States, and all taxes paid thereon, would be produced within six months thereafter, or that he would pay the
customary custom-house duties required upon such articles of
foreign manufacture;" that thereupon the proper landing certificate was issued, and the spirits were transferred from the
ferry-boat in which they had been imported to the schooner
"Island Belle," for transportation to Indianola and Galveston.
The evidence offered in support of the Ebel shows that Andre
purchased the spirits at Matamoras, at the price of fifty-five
cents per gallon; that they were shipped from New Orleans to
Matamoras, June 20, 1866, on the British schooner " Village
Belle," and, after being duly entered at the custom-house at
Matamoras, were landed at that port. The district attorney of
the United States then offered in evidence sworn examined
copies of the original entry of the spirits by Andre at the
Brownsville custom-house, together with sworn anfl examined
copies of the bond given by Andre, and also of the certificates
of the collectors of the ports of New York and New Orleans,
upon which the bond was cancelled, and proved that the originals of the entry, bond, and certificates were on file at the custom-house in Brownsville, more than a hundred miles distant
from Galveston. To the introduction of such copies Andre
objected; but the objection was overruled, and they were admitted. The certificates showed shipments from New York to
Matamoras, with no record of drawbacks, as follows Oct. 1, 1864,
Feb. 2, 1865,
Feb. 10, 1865,
Jan. 14, 1865,
March 11, 1865,

B. G. H.,
S. Y.,
AM'.
P.,
<S>
S. <A>

And from New Orleans to Matamoras,
Feb. 4, 1865,
<P>

20 barrels.
75
,,
50
,,
50
100 ,
5 barrels.

These shipments all corresponded with the specifications in
the entry, except that marked S. <A>. In the entry this

Oct. 1876.]

199 BARLS o1

WHISKEY v. UNITED STATEs.

89

appeared to have been an exportation in the schooner "Brazos,"
but the certificate showed that it was in the bark "1Mary Schofield." To explain this discrepancy, Andre made affidavit that
in his entry he gave the name of the schooner inadvertently,
the fact being that the exportation was in the bark. It is farther proved, that, when the spirits were seized in Galveston, the
barrels were carefully examined; that many of them appeared
to e old molasses barrels; that many had on them the inspection marks of revenue inspectors at New Orleans and at Cincinnati; that the inspection marks, if ever there were any on
some of the barrels, had been covered with dirt, and so obscured
as to become illegible, but that most of the barrels contained the
inspection marks, "manufactured prior to 1st September, 1866."
Subsequently, when the barrels were taken out of the warehouse and delivered to the claimant, by order of the court, he
affixed a new brand on the head of each barrel, to do which he
had to wash the heads; and all but fifteen or twenty barrels
-were found to have been branded "tax paid."
Pending the suit, the property was appraised and delivered to
the claimant, in accordance with the practice in such cases,
upon the execution of a bond with sureties, conditioned to abide
and answer the decree of the court in the premises.
Upon this testimony the District Court gave a decree of
forfeiture July 21, 1868, and adjudged that the claimant pay
into the registry of the court the appraised value of the
spirits with interest from that date, and, in default, that execution issue against him and his sureties. From that decree
an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court, where a similar decree having been entered May 27, 1874, the claimant appealed
here.
MJfr. J. ff. Burroughs for the appellant.
Hlfr. Assistant Attorney-CGeneralSmith for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The first ground of forfeiture in this case is based upon
sect. 45 of the act of July 18, 1866, 14 Stat. 163, which provides, that, upon seizures made for the causes there stated, theburden of proof is on the claimant to show that the require.

90

199 BARRELS o',WIISK.Y v. UiNITED STATES.

[SUp.

at.

ments of the law have been complied with. It is contended,
however, that the passage of the spirits through the customhouse, even though it be duty free, establishes a prima facie
case in favor of the claimant, and throws the burden of proof
upon the United States. Without stopping to inquire whether
this is so or not, it is sufficient to say that as between these
parties the prima facie case made in this way has been completely overcome, and the burden again fairly cast upon the
claimant.
The primafacie case depends upon sustaining the statement
made by Andre in his entry, that the identical spirits seized
were exported from New York and New Orleans to Matamoras
in the vessels named, without drawback for taxes paid. If this
is disproved, the primafacie case as made has been met, and the
burden placed where it was before.
The certificates of exportation furnished by Andre to the
collector in support of the entry do not identify the spirits
exported with those seized, any further than by showing that
the marks on the barrels exported correspond with those on
the barrels seized. The shipments were all made late in 1864
and early in 1865, and from New York, except five barrels from
New Orleans. Against this it appears that nearly or quite all
the barrels when seized had upon them the inspection marks,
"manufactured prior to 1st September, 1866," though the law
requiring such marks was not passed until July 13, 1866; that
many of the barrels appeared to be old molasses barrels; that
many had upon them the inspection marks of revenue inspectors at New Orleans and at Cincinnati; that one witness has
sworn that the spirits were actually exported from New Orleans
to Matamoras on the British schooner" Village Belle," June 20,
1866; and that Andre purchased them at the price of fifty-five
cents per gallon.
With this evidence before us, it is impossible to believe that
the spirits mentioned in the several certificates of exportation
are the same as those that were seized. True, the inspection
mark as to the date of the manufacture is as much inconsistent with an exportation from New Orleans June 20, as with
the exportation as claimed; but it shows that, if the statements
of Andre are true, the inspection marks have been tampered

Oct. 1876.]

199.-BARRLS

OF WHISKEY v. UNITED STATES.

91

with, and that he may properly be called upon for explanations
which he has not given.
The evidence, therefore, as we think, clearly justified a
decree of forfeiture upon the first ground alleged in the libel.
It is true that the inspection marks, if spurious, may have been
placed on the barrels while they were in Mexico, and that, so
long as the spirits remained in Mexico, they could not be seized
for any violation of law previous to their removal; but it is
equally true, that, although there could perhaps be no forffeiture
for spurious brands affixed in Mexico, such brands may furnish
evidence to be considered in determining whether the goods
were subject to seizure for what had transpired in respect to
them previous to their removal, and, that when brought again
into the United States duty free, they were subject to seizure for
any cause that existed before their exportation.
In this view of the case, it is unnecessary to consider the
objections raised to a recovery upon any of the other charges
in the libel.
The sworn and examined copies of the papers on file in the
custom-house were admissible in evidence. So far as the bond
and entry are concerned, further proof as to them by the United
States was unnecessary, because they had been already sufficiently established by the testimony in, behalf of tLh cni4plainant. The cancellation certificates were admissible *as
declarations by the complainant in connection with the entry
and the primafaeie case he insists he had made, and they were
required by law to be taken and fled because they were the
identical papers Andre was to produce and deliver to the collector in performance of the conditions of his bond. 1 Stat.
663, sect. 28.
The decree of condemnation was rendered in the District
Court July 21, 1868, and under the rule in The Diana,
3 Wheat. 58, the interest up n the appraised value was properly calculated andadjudged from that date.
Decree affirmed.
NoTEo..-In One Hundred Barrelsof TWidskey v. United States, which was argued
at the same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, 31n. CHIEF
usTrIcE WAITE, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked TIs case differs from the preceding one only in the fact that the barrels were

