Oct. 1876.]

CORCORAN V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL Co.

CORCORAN v. CHESAPEAHE Aqf

741

OH16 CANAL COMPAN-Y.

1. The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in a suit whereto the parties to this bill
were parties, rendered 'a decision adverse to the right of the holder of
coupons attached to the preferred bonds issued by the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company, under an act of that State of March 10, 1845, entitled "An Act to provide for the completion of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal to Cumberland, and for other purposes," to receive, out of the net
revenues and tolls of the company, interest on such coupons from the
time they respectively mature. In conformity with that decision, the Circuit Court of Baltimore City subsequently entered in the same suit a decree
distributing those revenues and tolls, and ordering payment of the coupons
from time to time as the same should accrue. Held, that the parties to this
suit are bound by that decree.
2. The fact that one of the parties then appeared as a trustee for the bondholders
does not render toe decree less conclusive in a suit where his individual
rights in the same subject-matter are involved. If he, at that time, owned
any such bonds or coupons, he is bound, because he was representing himself. If he bought them since, he is bound as privy to the person who was
represented.
8. In chancery suits, adverse rights as between co-defendants may be determined;
and a party who had a hearing and an opportunity to assert his rights will
be bound by the decree, so far as it affects them.

APPEAL from the

Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.J. D. M~cPherson, Mr. Conway Robsvnson, and Mr.Joseph
Bryan, for the appellant.
Mr. John P. Poe and 21r. Bernard Carter, for the appellee
MR. JUSTICE MmLEB delivered the opinion of the court.

The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, from the date of
its organization in 1824-25, issued several series of bonds,
secured by as many mortgages on its property. The largest of
these mortgages was the earliest, and was given to the State of
Maryland for several millions of dollars ; another was made to
the State of Virginia; both of which States contributed largely,
by the use of their credit, to the construction of this important
work. In the last stages of the struggle to extend the canal to
Cumberland, where it reached the coal-beds, which alone have
made it of any value, the company issued another series of bonds
to the amount of $1,700,000, for the payment of which it

742

CORCORAN V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL Co.

[Sup' Ct.

pledged, by way of mortgage, the revenues and tolls of the
canal, after deducting the necessary costs of running the canal
and its repairs, and perhaps some other defined outlays.
In this mortgage, Corcoran, the complainant and appellant in
the present suit, was one of several trustees for the benefit of
the bondholders. He also became, and according to the statements of the present bill is now, a larger holder of these bonds,
or of the coupons for interest on them.
The purpose of this bill, which was filed by him on behalf of
himself and all others in like condition as holders of this class
of bonds, is to enforce the payment of the coupons of interest
due and unpaid for many years past.
The defendants to the bill are the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, the State of Maryland, and the remaining
trustees of the mortgage bonds on which the suit is founded.
They have all answered, except the State of Maryland.
The answer of the trustees is unimportant. Th3 canal company admit the indebtedness and the failure to pay, but deny
that, under the reservations of the mortgage of the tolls and
revenues in plaintiff's mortgage, there is now or has been in
their hands any part of the said revenues which they could lawfully appropriate to the payment of said coupons, except so far
as they have already done so. -After several amendments of
the pleadings and stipulations as to facts, the issue was finally
narrowed to two questions; namely, the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court of the District, and the right of the holders of
the interest coupons to exact out of the net revenues of the
company payment of interest on those coupons from the respective dates when they fell due.
The first of these questions is raised by the proposition of the
defendants, the canal company, that the State of Maryland is a
necessary party to this suit; and, as she has not voluntarily appeared, and cannot be made amenable to any process to compel
an appearance, the bill must be dismissed on that ground.
In the view which this court takes of the other question, and
as the court has jurisdiction as to the canal company, it is unnecessary to consider or decide this one.
In reference to the question of interest upon the interest
coupons, the canal company, in its answer to complainant's bill,

Oct. 1876.]

CORCORAN V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL Co.

743

alleges that, in a suit brought by the State of Virginia in the
Circuit Court of Baltimore City, to which suit the present complainant and his co-trustees, the State of Maryland, the canal
company and others, representing all the various classes of
bondholders, were parties, "the issue raised in this case, that
the coupons upon said preferred bonds are entitled to bear
interest from their maturity, which is to be allowed payment
out of the revenues of this respondent in preference to the
claims of the State of Maryland, was distinctly presented, was
argued, amongst others, by the solicitors of complainant in this
case, and' was decided by the court in opposition to the claims of
said complainant as then asserted and as reiterated in the bill
in this case." The record of that suit, including the opinion of
the Court of Appeals and the brief of the counsel of the present
appellant, are made exhibits.
The bill of the State of Virginia distinctly claims interest
upon the coupons which she held, standing in the wme relation
as those of the appellant here. The right to that interest as a
preference to the debt of the State of Maryland is denied by the
answers of the canal company and of the State of Maryland.
Corcoran and his co-trustees submit all those matters to the
decision of the court. It was, therefore, properly in issue. Indeed, the whole subject of priority of lien as to the revenues and
tolls of the canal was before the coui%, and was the very matter
to be decided, and necessarily included the question whether
the State of Maryland in the statute by which she waived her
prior lien, so far as the revenues of the company were concerned, in favor of the class of bonds and coupons held by the
State of Virginia, and those represented by Corcoran, as trustee, included interest upon interest, or only principal and current
interest.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals of Maryland, found in
the record as an exhibit, and reported in 32 Md. 501, while
conceding the general rule, that where the annual or semiannual
interest on a bond is represented by a distinct coupon, capable
of separation and removal from the main instrument, it bears
interest from its maturity, if unpaid; holds that, under the
special statute of Maryland authorizing the pledge by the canal
company of its revenues for the payment of these preferred

744

CORCORAN V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

bonds and interest, and waiving her own existing priority of
claim on those revenues, simple interest only was meant, and
that as to the lien on those revenues and tolls, the interest on
the coupons was not included in the lien.
The opinion, undoubtedly, decides the very point in controversyhere.
It is said, however, that this is only an opinion, and that unless a judgment or decree is produced there can be no estoppel;
and the principle asserted is undoubtedly correct. But, in a
stipulation signed by the padies to the present suit, it is agreed
"1thata decree has been passed by the Circuit Court of Baltimore City making distribution of the net revenues of said canal
company, and ordering their payment from time to time as the
same accrue, in conformity with the said opinion."
The opinion of the court, then, by virtue of that decree, has
become, by the well-settled principles of jurisprudence, the law
of the case as to the parties who are bound by that decree.
In bvoidance of the application of this doctrine to the present
case several objections are urged, some of which are answered
sufficiently by the foregoing statement of the record of that
suit. We will notice one or two others.
It is said that Corcoran and his co-trustees, the canal company, and the State of Maryland, were all defendants to that
suit, and that as between them no issue was raised by the
pleadings on this question, and no adversary proceedings were
had.
The answer is, that in chancery suits, where parties are often
made defendants because they will not join as plaintiffs, who
are yet necessary parties, it has long been settled that adverse
interests as between co-defendants may be passed upon and decided, and if the parties have had a hearing and an opportunity
of asserting their rights, they are concluded by the decree as far
as it affects rights presented to the court and passed upon by
its decree. It is to be observed, also, that the very object of that
suit was to determine the order of distribution of the net revenue of the canal company, and that the Corcoran trustees were
made defendants for no other purpose than that they might be
bound by that decree. And, lastly, as the decree did undoubtedly dispose of that question, its conclusiveness cannot now be

Oct. 1876.]

CORCORAN V. CHESAPEAKE, ETC. CANAL CO.

745

assailed collaterally on a question of pleading, when it is cleai
that the issue was fairly made and was argued by Corcoran's
counsel, as is shown by the third head of their brief, made a
part of this record by stipulation.
It is also argued that in that suit Corcoran was only a party
in his representative capacity of trustee, and he here sues in his
individual character as owner of the bonds and coupons, and in
this latter capacity is not bound by that decree.
But why is he not bound? It was his duty as trustee to iepresent and protect the holders of these bonds; and for that
reason he was made a party, and he faithfully discharged that
duty. It would be a new and very dangerous doctrine in the
equity practice to hold that the cestui que trust is not bound by
the decree against his trustee in the very matter of the trust for
which he was appointed. If Corcoran owned any of these
bonds and coupons then, he is. bound, because he was representing himself. If he has bought them since, he is bound.as privy
to the person who was represented. Kerrison, Assignee, v.
Stewart et al., 93 U. S. 155, and the authorities there collected.
It seems to us very clear that the question we are now called
on to decide has been already decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction, which had before it the parties to the present suit;
that it was decided on an issue properly raised, to which issue
both complainant and defendant here were parties, and in
which the appellant here was actually heard by his own counsel;
and that it therefore falls within the statutory rule of law which
makes such a decision final and conclusive between the parties,
and that none of the exceptions to that rule exists in this
case.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTicE CixuoRD dissented.

