180

WINONA & ST. PETER R.R. Co. v. BLAKE.

WINONA AN

ST.

PETER RAILROAD ComTpAI'
BLAK.x

[Sup. Ct.

v.

1. The Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company, having been incorporated as a
common carrier, with all the rights and subject to all the obligations which
that term implies, was bound to carry, when called upon for that purpose,
and charge only a reasonable compensation therefor.
2. Neither the act of the legislature of Minnesota of Feb. 28, 1866, nor the Constitution of the State, adds to or takes from the grant as contained in the
original charter.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota.

Xr. B. C. Cook and M1r. C. B. Lawrence for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. F. P. Clough, contra.
MR. COeF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By its charter, the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company
was incorporated as a common carrier, with all the rights and
subject to all the obligations that name implies. It was, therefore, bound to carry, when called upon for that purpose, and
charge only a reasonable compensation for the carriage. These
are incidents of the occupation in which it was authorized to
engage. There is nothing in the charter limiting the power
of the State to reguIate the rates of charge. The provision in
the act of Feb. 28, 1866, that the "company shall be bound to
carry freight and passengers upon reasonable terms," and that
in the Constitution of Minnesota (art. 10, sect. 4), that "all
corporations being common carriers, .
. shall be bound to
carry the mineral, agricultural, and other productions or manufactures on equal and reasonable terms," add nothing to and
take nothing from the grant as contained in the original
charter.
This case, therefore, falls directly within our rulings in 1114nn
v. Illinois; Chicago, Burlington, &'Quincy Railroad Company
v. Iowa; Peic v. Chicago &.North-western Railway Company;
and Chicago, Milwaukee, & St. Paul Railroad Company v. Ack.
ley, supra.

Oct. 1876.]

STONE V. WISCONSIN.

For the reasons stated in the opinions in those cases, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Fruw and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.NOTE. - In Southern Minnesola Railroad Company v. Coleman, crio to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, which was "lrgued,
by Mr.H. 3J.
Horn and Mr. G. E. Cole for the plaintiff in error, an. hyffr. B. C.
.Prdmerfor the defendant in error, MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, in d~iivering the
opinion of the court, remarked: This case, in all its essential facts, is precisely
like that of Winona 4- St.Peter RailroadCompany v. Blake, supra. The judgmqnt
of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed upon the authority of that case, and'
for the reasons stated in the opinions which have just been read.

MR.JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUsTIcE STRONG dissented.

STONE V. WISCONSIN1.
As giving a construction to the State Constitution and statute, this court accepts
the decision of the Supx me Court of Wisconsin, that the charter of the Milwaukee and Waukesha Railroad Company, granted by the Territory, is sub.
ject to repeal or alteration, inasmuch as it was not accepted, nor was the company organized, until after the admission of the State into the Union, under a
constitution which continued that act in force, and provided that all laws for
the creation of corporations might be altered or repealed by the legislature at
any time after their passage.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the County of Dane, State of
Wisconsin.
Mr. John W. Cary for the plahitiff in error.
Mr. . 6.Sloan, contra.

,-Edelivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question presented in this case, not decided in
Chicago, Milwaukee, & St. PaulBailroad Co. v. Ackley, Supra,
p. 179, is as to the effect upon the rights of these parties of
the charter of the Milwaukee and Waukesha Railroad Company, passed by the territorial legislature of Wisconsin, March
11, 1847. This provides (sect. 15) that "on the completion of
said railroad, or any portion of the track, not less than ten
miles, it shall and may be lawful for the company to demand
and receive such sum or sums of money for passage and freight
MR.CmIEF JUSTICE W

