Ex P nTE Fv ppnm

[Sup. Ct.

Ex PARTE FLPPUn.
L This court cannot, by mandamus, compel an inferior court to reverse a decision
made by it in the exercise of its legitimate jurisdiction.
2. McCargo v. Chapman, 20 How. 655, so far as it conflicts with this doctrine,
disapproved.

PmEoIo! for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court -of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee.
Talmadge E. Brown, having a decree in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee against
the city of Memphis, made- application on the law side of that
court for a mandamus requiring the city and its mayor and
general council to levy and collect a tax for the payment of the
amount due him. In this application the name of the person
then holding the office of mayor was given, and also the names
of the persons who constituted the general council. An alternative writ was issued; and the parties named all appeared by
the city attorney, and showed cause against the application.
March 30,1875, a final judgment was entered in the cause, "by
which it was ordered and adjudged that a peremptory writ of
mandamus should issue, commanding the city of Memphis and
its said general council to proceed each year, for the then ensuing three years, 1875,1876, and 1877, to levy a tax, in addition
to all other taxes allowed by law to be levied, sufficient in
amount to realize $125,00G each year for the years 1875 and
1876, and for the year 1877 to realize a sum sufficient to pay
whatever sum might then remain unpaid of the said decree.
It was further ordered that the clerk of said court, whenever
the said Brown should request the same, should issue each year,
during the years 1875, 1876, and 1877, respectively, a peremp.
tory writ of mandamus, in accordance with said judgment, to
be served on the city of Memphis and its mayor and general
council, in the manner prescribed by law."
Flippin became mayor of the city, and the other petitioners
members of the general council, Jan. 15, 1876. The clerk
of the court, at the request of Brown, issued, May 24, a peremptory writ, returnable the fourth Monday in November,
directed to the city and to the petitioners by name, as mayor

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE FLIPPIN.

and members of the general council, requiring them to levy the
adjudged tax for the year 1876. Nov. 27, 1876, the petitioners moved the court "to set aside and quash" this writ,
for the reason, in substance, that they were not parties to the
judgment upon which it was issued. This motion was denied
Dec. 14, 1876; and the court, by proceeding against the petitioners for contemit in failing to obey the writ, is now endeavoring to compel them to perform the duties which the judgment
enjoined upon the city and its mayor and general council.
Pending these proceedings, this application is made here for a
mandamus requiring the judge of the Circuit Court to quash
the writ.
-Mr. . .
iumes
H
and Mr. -P. Walker for the relators.
The proceeding by nandamus in this court is the proper and
only remedy of the relators.
An order of the Circuit Court, quashing or refusing to quash
a writ, cannot be reviewed on a writ of error. Mountz v. HodgBon, 4 Cranch, 824; Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 648 ; Toland
v. Sprague,12 id. 800; Me Cargo v. Chapman, 20 How. 555.
In the latter case, this court declared that if an execution
should be issued, not authorized by the judgment, and the court
below should refuse to quash it, a mandamus would seem to be
the proper remedy. "It is a writ which may be issued to inferior courts and magistrates, to require them to execute that
justice which the party is entitled to, and which by law they
are enjoined to do, and where there is no other remedy."
Ordinarily, this court will not do more than compel the
Circuit Court to act, and render some judgment, in a case of
which it has improperly refused to take jurisdiction. _ailroad
Company v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; Insurance Company v.
Comstock, 16 id. 270.
While a mandamus will not lie to control the judicial discretion of the Circuit Court, by dictating what judgment it shall
render, it is the appropriate means of preventing the execution
of a writ sued out by order of an inferior court against persons
not parties to the proceeding.
Mr. William M. Bandolh, contra.
The order of the Circuit Court, refusing to quash a writ in
execution of a judgment or a decree which is final, is not subject

EX PARTE FLIPPIN.

[Sup. Ot.

to revision or reversal by mandamus by any other court. Bz
parte Newman, 14 Wall. 152; Ex parte De Groot, 6 id. 497;
United States v. Addison, 22 How. 174.
The discretion of the court below was invoked and exercised,
and no other court has authority to supervise its action. High
on Extraordinary Legal Remedies, sects. 156, 176, and the cases
eited; Wylie v. Cox, 14 How. 1; Connor v. Peugh, 18 id. 394;
Warren v. Norton, 20 id. 448; The Secretary v. Me Garrahan,
9 Wall. 298; -Litchfieldv. The Register and Receiver, id. 575.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The writ of which the petitioners complained was one of
execution to carry into effect the judgment in the original suit
for the mandamus. "The jurisdiction of a court is not exhausted by the rendition of its judgment, but continues until
the judgment is satisfied." Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat.
23. "Process subsequent to judgment is as essential to jurisdiction as process anterior to judgment, else the judicial power
would be incomplete and entirely inadequate to the purposes
for which it was conferred by the Constitution." Biggs v.
Johnson County, 6 Wall. 187. But if the court has jurisdiction
to issue process, it has necessarily jurisdiction to decide as to its
appropriate form. Here the process has been issued; and the
court, upon motion, has decided that it was good in form, and
ought not to be quashed. Of this decision the petitioners complain, and seek to have it reversed. This we cannot do by mandamus. Under that form of proceeding we may compel an
inferior court to decide upon a matter within its jurisdiction
and pending before it for judicial determination, but %e cannot
control its decision. Neither can we in that way compel the
inferior court to reverse a decision which it has made in the exercise of its legitimate jurisdiction. That is the office of a writ
of error or an appeal, in cases to which such proceeding applies,
but not of a writ of mandamus. If there is anything in the
case of Me Cargo v. Chapman, 20 How. 555, to the contrary of
this, it is disapproved.
-Petitiondenied.

