Oct. 1876.]

CONRO V. CRANE.

The treasury authority fell into an error. There should have
been no discrimination between principal and interest in making
the payments. The creditor had the same right -with respect
to both as if he had been pursuing the defaulting debtor under
other circumstances. The Comptroller should have done just
what the law would have done if the case had not come under
his cognizance.
Numerous cases, both English and American, are to be found
in which compound interest, under special circumstances, was
recovered. It is sufficient to refer to a few of them. .Ex parte
Beavans, 9 Ves. Jr. 223; Coliot v. Walker, 2 Anstr. 495;
1am ilton v. Le Grange, 2 H. Black. 145; KYellog v. Jickock,
1 Wend. (N. Y.) 521; Tyjler v. Yates, 8 Barb. (N. Y.) 222;
Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall. 82; Town of Genoa v. Woodrzff et
al., 92 U. S. 502.
The demand for the interest was properly made upon the
plaintiff in error.
Tudgment affirmed.

CoNRo v. CRNE.
Appeals do not lie to this court from the circuit courta in the exercise of their
supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt laws.
MlOTIO
to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
Fox & Howard were adjudged bankrupts by the District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, June 5,1875. Bradford Hancock was appointed provisional assignee, June 16 ; and,
June 19, an order was entered in the bankruptcy proceedings,
directing him to receive bids for the purchase of certain personal property belonging to the estate of the bankrupts, which
had come into his possession. Under this order, bids were tendered by various persons, and, among others, one by .Jefferson
Hodgkins, for $40,000. All'were reported -by Hancock to the
District Court, July 2, with the recommendation that the one of
Hodgkins be accepted; and thereupon an order was made that
all persons interested show cause by July 9 why this" recommendation should not be complied with. Notice of this order

(ONRO

V. CRANE.

[Sup. Ct.

was given by mail and publication; and, on the day named,
the bid was accepted, the sale approved, and Hancock authorized, on the receipt of the purchase-money, to execute an appropriate bill of sale, and deliver possession of the property.
Hancock again reported, July 12, that, although demanded,
the purchase-money had not been paid, and that he had received another bid from Conro & Carkin, the present appellants, for $40,500. He thereupon asked that the order of
confirmation to Hodgkins be set aside, the sale revoked, and
that he be authorized to sell and deliver the property to Conro
& Carkin, at their bid. An order was made to this effect on
the same day; and Hancock at once received the purchasemoney, executed a bill of sale, and delivered the property to
Conro & Carkin.
On the 18th of August, Hodgkins and Charles S. Crane, for
whom, as is alleged, Hodgkins acted as agent in the purchase,
filed their petition in the bankrupt court, asking that the order
of July 12 be set aside, and Conro & Carkin, Hancock, and the
bankrupts be directed to deliver the property to them, and account for the moneys realized by its use. Upon the filing of
this petition, a rule was entered, requiring Hancock, Conro &
Carkin,.and the bankrupts to show cause by Aug. 27 why the
order asked for should not be granted. Hancock and Conro
& Carkin appeared in obedience to this rule, and answered.
The matter was then referred to one of the registers in bankruptcy to take testimony; and, on the 6th of March, the District Court, upon full hearing, dismissed the petition. On the
same day, Hodgkins and Crane presented to the circuit judge
of the circuit their petition, under sect. 4986, Rev. Stat.,
for "the revision and reversal of the action of the District
Court sitting as a court of bankruptcy." The Circuit Court,
April 24, after hearing, reversed the order of July 12, and continued that of July 9 in force. The District Court was also
directed to order the assignee to execute and deliver to Hodgkins the necessary papers to show title, and to cause the property to be delivered to Hodgkins or Crane. 'The District Court
was also ordered to return to Conro & Carkin, subject to certain
specified conditions, the purchase-money paid by them.
From this order an appeal by Conro & Carkin was allowed

Oct. 1876.]

CONRO v. CRANE.

443.-

to this court, which Hodgkins and Crane moved to dismiss lor
want of jurisdiction.
Mr.P. Phillips and Mr. John S. (ooper in support of the
motion.
Mr..P. H. Kales in opposition thereto.
Mr. CRIFT
JUSTICE WAaTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It must now be considered as settled that appeals do not lie
to this court from the decisions of the circuit courts in the exercise of their supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt law.
In Wiswall et al. v. Carmpbell et al., 98 U. S. 347, we held that
"a proceeding in bankruptcy, from its commencement to its
close upon the final settlement of the estate, is but one suit.
The several motions made and acts done in the bankrupt court
in the progress of the cause are . . .but parts of the suit in
bankruptcy, from which they cannot -be separated." And
again: " Every person submitting himself to the jurisdiction
of the bankrupt court in the progress of the cause, for the purpose of having his rights in the estate determined, makes himself
a party to the suit, and is bound by what is judicially determined
in the legitimate course of the proceeding." And in Sandusky
v. .TotionalBank, 23 Wall. 293, it was decided, that "any order
made in the progress of the cause may be subsequently set aside
and vacated, upon proper showing made, provided rights have
not become vested under it which will be disturbed by the
vacation."
These principles are decisive of this case. The rights of the
parties grow out of a sale made by the court under the authority
of sect. 5065, Rev. Stat. The bids were received b, the provisional assignee; but the court determined which should be
accepted, and gave directions as to the transfer of title. Clearly,
then, what was done both as to the first and second 'sale was in
the course of the bankruptcy proceeding, and part of that suit.
As such, it was subject to revision in the Circuit Court under
its supervisory jurisdiction.
Both Hodgkins and Conro & Carkin submitted themselves to
the jurisdiction of the court to the extent that was necessary
for the completion of their respective purchases. Conro &

MULLER v.

Dows.

[Sup. OL

Carkin were parties to the proceeding by which the sale to
Hodgkins was set aside, and that to them made. Having been
in court when the order under which their claim was made,
they can properly be brought in to answer a motion to set it
aside. Such a motion would not be a new suit, but a new proceeding in the old suit in bankruptcy, and therefore not subject
to revision here upon appeal.
This was evidently the understanding of the parties at the
time; for the original petition of Hodgkins and Crane was
filed in the District Court sitting in bankruptcy, and the petition for review purports, on its face, to be filed under sect.
4986, Rev. Stat., which confers the supervisory jurisdiction.
Appeal dismissed.

MuLLER v.

Dows.

1. A suit by or against a corporation in a court of the United States is regarded
as brought by or against its stockholders, all of whom are, for the purposes
of jurisdiction, conclusively presumed to be citizens of the State which created it.
2. It should appear by the declaration, or bill of complaint, that the corporation
was created by the State whereof the adverse party is not a citizen; but a
defective averment of that fact may be cured by the subsequent pleadings.
8. A corporation created by the laws of Iowa, althbugh consolidated with another
of the same name in Missouri, under the authority of a statute of each State,
is, nevertheless, in Iowa, a corporation existing there under the laws of that
State alone.
4. A decree, foreclosing a mortgage executed by the Chicago and South-western
Railroad Company of its entire railroad and franchises, and ordering a sale
of them, passed by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa, which, in a suit there pending, had jurisdiction of the mortgagor and
the trustees in the mortgage, is not invalid because a part of the property
ordered to be sold is situate in the State of Missouri.
5. The court holds that there was no waiver by the Chicago, Rock Island, and
Pacific Railroad Company of its right to foreclose the mortgage.
6. A surety, who holds several securities by way of indemnity, may resort to
either of them for payment.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Charles -11. -Da Costa for the appellants.
Mr. Thomas F. Withrow, contra.

