718

CHESAPEAKE, ETC.

R.R. Co. v.

VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

March 2 suspended the operation of that judgment, so that it
did not take final effect for the purposes of a writ of error until
May 20, when the motion was disposed of. In addition to this,
the form of the entry of May 20 is equivalent to setting aside
the judgment of March 2, and entering it anew as of that date.
This the court had the right to do during the term, and for the
very purpose of giving it effect for a supersedeas. Sage et al.
v. Central Railroad Company of Iowa et al., 98 U. S.412. As
the writ was issued on the day of the order, and its allowance
embraced in the entry recording the order itself, there cannot
be any doubt of tire intention of the court to give the judgment
at that time such an effect.
Motions denied.

CHESAPEAKE AND

OHIO -RAIRODT

COMPANY V. VIRGNIA.

1. The charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company does not exempt
from taxation that portion of the road of the company between Richmond
and Covington.-

2. A railroad corporation, formed, under an act of the legislature, by the consolidation of existing companies, and "vested with all the rights, privileges,
franchises, and property which may have been vested in either company
prior to the act of consolidation," acquires no greater immunity from taxation
than they severally enjoyed as to the portions of the road which belonged
to them under their respective charters. Whatever property was subject
to taxation would, after the consolidation, remain so.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company was incorporated in the year 1868, by the action of joint commissioners of
Virginia and West Virginia, in pursuance of the legislation of
those States. The object of the incorporation was to construct
a railroad from Covington in Virginia, through their territory,
to the Ohio River. The Virginia Central Railroad Company
was then operating a continuous line from Richmond to Covington, composed of the Blue Ridge road and of its own road,
running westward until it connected with that road, which was
the property of the State, and so used by arrangement with the
State.

Oct. 1876.]

CHESAPEAKE,

Em. R.R. Co. v.

VIRGINIA.

719

The extension of railroad communication between Covington
and. the Ohio River, through territory then all her own, had
been some time before undertaken by Virginia, and a large
amount of money and labor expended on the enterprise by the
State Board of Public Works, operating as a corporation styled
the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company; but the work had
been arrested by the war in 1861.
Subsequently, West Virginia was taken' from Virginia by a
line which cuts the proposed inute some sixteen miles west of
Covington, leaving within the limits of Virginia about two
hundred and eight miles of completed road from Richmond to
Covington, and about sixteen miles beyond Covington, over
which .the road was yet to be constructed. The distance
from Covington to the Ohio, over which the road was to be
carried, is about two hundred and fifteen miles.
After the separation, Virginia passed an act, approved Feb.
26, 1866, by which any responsible capitalists, who would accept the benefits of the charter thereby created, and become
organized according to its terms, should constitute a corporation
under the same style of .the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company. When fully organized, the company was to have "all
the rights, interests, and privileges of whatever kind, in and
to the Covington and Ohio Railroad, and appurtenances thereto
belonging, now the property of the State, upon condition that
it shall, within six months after its incorporation, as provided
in the tenth section of this act, commence, andwithin six years
complete, equip, and operate a railroad, from some point at or
near Covington in Alleghany County, Virginia, and connecting
with the Virginia Central Railroad, by the way of the White
Sulphur Springs and the valleys of Greenbrier River, New
River, and Kanawha River, to a point at or near the mouth of
Scary Creek, and thence to the Ohio River." "But this grant
is not intended to include the unexpended amount appropriated
by the State of Virginia to this work."
It further provides, "that the rates of charge by said company for passengers and freight transported on the main line
and branches shall never exceed the highest allowed by law to
other railroads in the State of Virginia, and no discrimination
shall be made in such charges against any connecting railroad

CHESAPEAKE, ETC. R.R.

Co. v.

VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

or canal company in which the State has an interest, and no
taxation upon the property of the said company shall be imposed by the State until the profits of the company shall
amount to ten per cent a year on its capital."
Commissioners were appointed by the act (and, if a like
number should be appointed by West Virginia, the whole were
to act in conjunction), "to offer the benefits of the charter for
the acceptance of capitalists, to insure the speediest and best
construction, equipment, and operation of said railroad. To
this end they are hereby empowered to make a contract with
any parties who shall give the best terms and the most satisfactory assurances of capacity and responsibility, and to introduce into the said contract such additional stipulations for the
benefit of the State, and in furtherance of the purposes herein
declared, and not inconsistent with this act; which said contract shall be, to all intents and purposes, as much a part of this
charter as if the same had been herein included at the time of
the passage of this act.", Virginia Session Acts, 1865-66, p. 317.
This act was, March 1, 1866, met by corresponding legislation on the part of West Virginia, and the benefits of the charter were offered to capitalists by the joint commissioners of the
States, but not accepted; and no company was ever organized
as contemplated under the authority of the laws so passed.
Afterwards laws were passed by the States for the further
encouragement of the enterprise, by which the Covington and
Ohio Railroad Company, when organized under the preceding
acts, was authorized to consolidate with the Virginia Central
Railroad Company, and other companies named (all or either
of them), upon terms to be agreed upon between them. The
companies thus consolidated were to constitute one corporation,
to be vested with 411 the rights, privileges, and franchises, and
property which may have been vested in either company prior
to the act of consolidation, the new corporation to be known as
"The Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company." The new
company was further authorized, within two years after its organization, to purchase the stock held by the State in the company, and also the right of the State in the Blue Ridge
Railroad. Further, it was provided, that "The Virginia Central Railroad Company may contract with the Covington and

Oct. 1876.]

CHESAPEAKE,

ET.

R.R. Co. v.

VmGmIA.

721

Ohio railroad commissioners for the construction of the rail.
road from Covington to the Ohio River; and, in the event such
contract be made, the said Virginia Central Railroad Company
shall be known as the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of the charter ofthe Covington and Ohio Railroad Company, and to all the
rights, interests, and privileges which by this act are conferred
upon the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company when
organized." Acts of Virginia, 1866-67, p. 705.
The contract thus authorized to be made between the joint
commissioners and the Virginia Central Railroad Company,
was made by them on the 81st August, 1868; and it is a conceded fact, that the exemption from taxation provided for in the
acts hereinbefore referred to was held out to the Virginia Central Railroad Company by the commissioners appointed by said
acts as one of the inducements to the company to unite in the
contract with them for the construction of the railroad from
Covington to the Ohio River, it being supposed by said commissioners and the Virginia Central Railroad Company that
such exemption would apply to the whole line from Richmond
to the Ohio River.
Under this contract the Chesapeake and Ohio -Railroad Com
pany was duly organized. It took the interest of the State in
her uncompleted work on the line west of Covington, and constructed and equipped a railroad thence to the Ohio River,
according to its charter; and, within two years after its organization, purchased the Blue Ridge Railroad from the State, and
has ever since operated a continuous line of road from Richmond
to the Ohio River.
The profits of the company have never amounted to ten per
cent per annum on its capital.
-ertain proceedings, under the assessment and tax acts of
Virginia, were instituted in the Circuit Court of the City of
Richmond, against the company, for failing to report to the auditor of public accounts, on the first day of February, 1871, the
estimated value of its real and personal property of every doscription; and for failing, also, to report quarterly, on the first
day of February, May, August, and. November, of that year,
the net earnings of the road for the preceding three months;
VOL. IV.

46

CHESAPEAKAE ETC.

R.R. Co.

v. VIRGINIA.

[Sup Ct,

and for failing to pay the taxes imposed thereon by law into
the treasury at the time fixed for making said report.
The company contended that those acts did not apply to it;
and, if they did, that they were in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States,
as by the charter no taxation was to be imposed upon its property until its profits should amount to ten per cent a year upon
its capital. The court sustained the claim of exemption set up
by the company, and dismissed the proceedings. The judgments of that court were reversed by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State of Virginia; whereupon the company
brought the cases here.

M1r. William M. LEvarts and Mr. William J. Bobertson for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. T. Daniel,Attorney-General of Virginia, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Each of these cases presents the same question. That a contract for some exemption from taxation was made by a legislative offer of the State, and an acceptance. of the offer by the
company, is not controverted; but the extent of the exemption
is the matter in question between the parties. To ascertain
what that was, it is necessary to review the legislative acts
which made the offer accepted by the company. Preparatory
to such an examination, it may be well, also, to notice some
antecedent facts stated in the record.
On the fifteenth day of February, 1858, an act of the legislature of Virginia was passed, authorizing the board of public
works of that State to construct a railroad from Covington to
the Ohio River, on State account, under which act the construction was commenced and prosecuted by means of State
appropriations, made from time to time, until the work was arrested by the late civil war. The completion of the road, however, was deemed an object of great importance to the people
of Virginia, and on the 26th of February, 1866, an act was
passed, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Covington and Ohio
Railroad Company," the provisions of which we shall presently
notice. The State having then been divided, the legislature
of West Virginia, to which State the road was deemed equally

Oct. 1Q76.]

CHESAPEAKE, ETC.

R.R. CO. v.

VIRGINIA.

723

important, a few days afterwards passed a similar act, also en
titled " An Act to incorporate the Covington and Ohio Rail
road Company." The object of both these statutes was the
completion of the same road by one and the same corporation.
The act of Virginia declared that the persons upon whom the
benefits of the charter might thereafter be conferred, and who
might be organized as thereinafter provided, should thereupon
be constituted a corporation, under the name of "The Covington and Ohio Railroad Company," and should have all the
rights, interests, and privileges in and to the Covington and
Ohio Railroad, and its appurtenances, then belonging to the
State of Virginia, on certain conditions, not now i.- ssary to
be noted. By the seventh section of the act, the State reserved
a right to connect, at any point within its limits, with the railroad of the said company, or any of ts branches, any canal or
railroad in which the State had an interest; and the section declared that "no taxation upon the property of said company
shall be imposed by the State until the profits of the company
shall amount'to ten per cent a year on its capital." The
ninth section appointed five commissioners, to act in conjunction with an equal number who might be appointed, byWest
Virginia, whose duty it was made to offer the benefits of the
charter to capitalists, so as to secure the speediest and best construction, equipment, and operation of the railroad. - To this
end they were empowered to contract with any parties, and to
introduce into the contract, any additional stipulations for the
benefit of the State, in furtherance of the purposes declared,
and not inconsistent with the act. And it was furthqr enacted,
that such contract should be to all intents and purposes as
much a part of the charter as if it had been included in the
act at the time of its passage.
The act of Feb. 26, 1866, proved ineffectual. The Covington and Ohio Railroad Company was not formed. The commissioners were unable to find parties able and willing to
accept the charter, and contract with them on the terms proposed by it. Accordingly, on the 26th of February, 1867, the
legislature of West Virginia, and on the 1st of March, 1867,
the legislature of Virginia, each passed another act, entitled
An Act to provide for the completion of a line or lines of rail-

CHESAPEAKE,

ETC. R.R. Co. V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

road from the waters of the Chesapeake to the-Ohio River."
The two acts were of like import. That of Virginia, as well
as that of West Virginia, held forth two alternative propositions. The first was, that the Covington and Ohio Railroad
Company, which might be organized under the first act, might
consolidate with the Virginia Central Railroad Company, the
South-Side Railroad Company, and the Norfolk and Petersburg
Railroad Company, or with one or more of them; the consolidated companies constituting one corporation, to be known as
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, and to have a
capital not exceeding $30,000,000. The act also contained
some new provisions respecting the organization of the Covington and Ohio company. The second section gave to the consolidated company, in case consolidation should be effected, all
the rights, privileges, and franchises and property which might
have vested in either company prior to the act of consolidation.
The fourteenth section authorized the new, the consolidated
company, to purchase stocks held by the State, to pay debts
due to the State from either of the companies named, and to
purchase the Blue Ridge Railroad, belonging to the State by
the surrender of State bonds equal in amount to the stocks purchased, the debts paid, and the valuation of the Blue Ridge Railroad, respectively. Such was the first alternative proposition.
The second was made to the Virginia Central Railroad Company alone, and it was made in the fifteenth section of the act,
which is as follows "The Virginia Central Railroad Company may contract with the
Covington and Ohio Railroad commissioners, for the construction
of the railroad from Covington to the Ohio River; and,-.the event
such contract is made, the said Virginia Central Railroad Company
shall be known as the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, and
shall be entitled to all the benefits of the charter of the Covington
and Ohio Railroad, and to all the rights, interests, and privileges
which by this act are conferred upon the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad Company when organized."
No such consolidation as that proposed by this statute ever
took place. It was impossible, because the Covington and Ohio
Railroad Company never came into existence. But the second
alternative proposed was accepted. The Virginia Central did

Oct. 1876.]

CHESAPEAKE, ETC.

R.R. Co. v.

VIRGNIA.

725

enter into a contract with the railroad commissioners, as authorized by the fifteenth section, and thus became the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad Company. By the contract, it undertook to
construct the unfinished railroad; and the commissioners, bn
behalf of the State, engaged that it should be "entitled to all
the benefits of the charter of the Covington and Ohio Railroad,
and to all the zights, interests, and privileges, which, by the
statute aforesaid, were conferred upon The Chesapeake and
Ohio Railroad Company when organized." The statutes referred to were -those passed by the legislatures of Virginia and
West Virginia in 1866 and 1867, which we have mentioned.
Thus the contacmt between the State and the company was
formed, and such were its terms. The question now is, How
far did the contract exempt the property of the Virginia Central (now the Chesapeake and Ohio) Coumpany from taxation,
or rather what property did it exempt?
This is to be answered in view of the statute alone. The
contract with the railroad commissioners made no attempt to
confer upon the company any greater or other rights, privileges,
or immunities than those described in the statutes. By virtue
of it, the company obtained two classes of rights: First, the
benefits which the act of Feb. 26, 1866, amended by the act of
1867, would have conferred upon the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company had it been formed; and, second, the riglhts,
interests, and privileges' of the corporation contemplated by the
first alternative proposition -namely, the corporation formed
by consolidation of the companies mentioned-would have
possessed had such consolidation been made. What, then, were
those rights, benefits, interests, and privileges? The Covington
and Ohio Company, had it been formed, would have been exempt from all State taxation of its property; but its charter
gave exemption to no other property. Had a consolidation
taken place between it and the Virginia Central, and had the
two companies become one corporation, together owning the
property of both, that portion of the property brought b'y
the Covington and Ohio into the aggregate would have continued exempt. But exemption of other property was not contemplated by the charter. So much is settled by repeated
decisions of this court. Philadelphia,Wilmington, Baltimore

CESAPEAKE, EC.

R.R. Co.

v. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 10 How. 877; The -elaware Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206; Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall.
460; Central Railroad and Banking Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S.
665. In most, if not in all, of these cases the statutes which
authorized the consolidation or union of the companies declared
that the consolidated or united companies should possess all the
rights and privileges which each of the companies enjoyed
under its charter. Yet, it was ruled that those rights and privileges did not extend beyond that portion of the aggregated
property which each had held under its charter.
There was no express provision in either of the statutes that
the property of the Virginia Central shall, in any contingency,
be exempt from taxation, and certainly, in our opinion, nothing
they contain raises an implication of such an exemption. What
was exempted was that which the legislature provided might
be the property of another company. The right or immunity of
that company was a limited right or immunity, and the Virginia
Central, when it acquired it, took it with its limitations.
Nor was there any thing in the grant to the Virginia Central,
made by the contract under the fifteenth section of the act of
1867, of all the rights, interests, and privileges which by that act
were conferred upon the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company when organized (that is, upon the Chesapeake and Ohio,
if such a company should be formed by consolidation), from
which can be inferred an exemption from taxation of any thing
except what would have beei brought into the common stock,
if the proposed Covington and Ohio Company had been organized, and had become a party to the consolidation. The consolidated corporation would have acquired, as we have seen, no
greater immunities from taxation than the constituent companies had prior to the union, and would have held them distributively; that is to say, whatever privileges and advantages either
of them possessed would have been held by the new company
to the extent of the road occupied by each respectively upon
the consolidation. It would have stood in their place, and
have possessed the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities
the constituent companies had severally enjoyed in the portions
of the road which had previously belonged to them.
If it be asked, why, then, were the rights of the consolidated

Oct. 1876.]

CiESAPEARE, ETC. R.R. Co. v. VIRGMA.

72T

Chesapeake and Ohio conferred upon the Virginia Central, if
they were only such as the Covington and Ohio had, -those
rights having been granted by the other provision of the statute
and of the contract, -the answer is at hand. By the fourteenth
section of the act, other rights were promised to the consolidated
corporation when organized. We have already called attention
to them. Among them was the right to pay the debts of the
several companies, and buy the State stock therein with State
bonds, and the right to buy the Blue Ridge Railroad; and thus
acquire a continuous line of railroad from Richmond to the
Ohio River. All these rights passed to the Virginia Central;
but none of them had any reference to exemption from liability
to taxation of any property other than that which would have
belonged to the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company had it
come into existence.
No doubt the extension of a railroad from Covington to the
Ohio River was a favorite project of the State; and it was
intended to offer terms which, it was supposed, would induce
the Virginia Central Company to undertake its construction;
but what the terms were must be gathered from the acts of the
legislature, and from the contract with the railroad commissioners.
In the agreed statement of facts, it appears that the exemption from taxation provided for in the statutes was held out to
the Virginia Central by the railroad commissioners, as one of
the inducements to enter into the contract to construct the road,
it being supposed by the commissioners and by the company
that the exemption covered the wbple line from Richmond to
the Ohio River. This fact, however, can be of no importance
to the decision we feel constrained to make. No such stipulation was inserted in the contract; and even if such a representation was made to the company, it was but the expression of
an opinion respecting the meaning of a statute, in regard to
which the company had the same knowledge that the commissioners had.
It will be seen from what we have said, that, in our opinion,
the Court of Appeals of Virginia construed the acts of 1866 and
1867 correctly, and that no attempt has been made to impair
Judqment affirmed.
the obligation of a contract.

