DAYTON v. LASH.

[Sup. Ca.

DAYTON v. LASH.
An appeal, although allowed out of term, is not avoided by the non-service of a
citation; but this court will impose such terms upon the appellant as, under
the circumstances, may be legal and proper.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota.
Mr. Lorenzo Allis in support of the motion.
Mr. thomas J. Durant, contra.
MR. C=EF JusTcE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This record shows that an appeal was allowed, a supersedeas
bond approved, and a citation signed Feb. 26, 1876 ; but it does
not show a service of the citation, and the affidavits presented
upon this motion fail to satisfy us that proper service was ever
in fact made. The appeal
however, duly obtained; and
the record has been filed and the cause docketed here. We
have, therefore, the record; but a service of the citation is necessary to bring the parties before us, as the appeal was taken out
of term. We cannot proceed to hear and determine the cause
until the parties are here, either constructively by service, or in
fact by their appearance.
Perhaps the language of Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in Villabolos v. United States, 6 How. 90, and in United States v. Curry,
1d. 112, as well as of Mr. Justice Nelson, in City of Washington
v, -Dennison, 6 Wall. 496, if read literally and 'without reference to the facts then under consideration, may be broad enough
to justify a dismissal of this appeal, because the citation was not
served before the first day of the term. But in the dse of Villabolos, the real question was as to the validity of the citation,
and not.as to its service, if valid; in Curry's case, the citation
was not issued until after the term at which the appeal was returnable; and in City of Washington v. -Dennison,the -effort was
to obtain a supersedeas in a case where the writ was not sealed
until eleven days after the rendition of the judgment. None of
the, cases made it necessary to decide that a citation actually
issued-upon the allowance of an appeal must be served before

Oct. 1876.3

MU'NN V. ILLINOIS.

The first day of Vie term, in order to preserve our jurisdiction;
andt we think that such an omission does not avoid the appeal,
it rather furnishes a case where, under the rule in Martin
Hunter's Lessee, I Wheat. 361, and followed in -Davidson v.
anier, 4 Wall. 454, we "may grant summary relief" "by imposing such terms upon the appellants as under the circumstances may be legal and proper."
As this appeal was returnable to the present term, and some
attempt was made. to serve the citation, which the appellants
may have supposed was actually completed, we order that, unless
the appellants cause a new citation, returnable on the fixst Monday in February next, to be issued and served upon the appellee
before that date, the appeal be dismissed.

MUNN V. ITIoIS.
L. Under the powers inherent in every sovereignty, a government may regulate
the conduct of its citizens toward each other, and, when necessary for the
public good, the manner in which each shall usehis own property.
2. It has, in the exercise of these powers, been customary in England from time
immemorial, and in this country from its first colonization, to regulate ferries, common carriers, hackmen, bakers, millers, wbarfingers, innkeepers,
&c., and, in so doing, to fix a maximum of charge to be made for services
rendered, accommodations furnished, and articles sold.
3 Down to the time of the adoption of the fourteenth amendment of the Constitution of the United States, it was not supposed that statutes regulating the
use, or even the price of the use, of private property necessarily deprived
an owner of his property without due process of law. Under some circumstances they may, but not under all. , The amendment does not change the
law in this particular: it simply prevents the States from doing that which
will operate as such deprivation.
4 When the owner of property devotes it to a use in which the public has an
interest, he in effect grants to the public an interest in such use, and must
to the extent of that interest, submit to be controlled by the public, for the
common good, as long as he maintains the use. He maywithdraw his grant
by discontinuing the use.
5 Rights of property, and to a reasonable compensation for its use, created by
the common law, pannot be taken away without due process; but the law
itself, as A rule of conduct, may, unless constitutional limitations forbid, be
changed at the will of the legislature. The. great office of statutes is to
remedy defects in the common law as they are developed, and to adapt it
to the changes of time and circumstances.
6 The limitation by legislative- enactment of the rate of charge for services
voL. Iv.
8

