Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

UTLEY v. DOxALDSo.
1. The telegraphic correspondence in this case, in relation to the sale and purchase of certain bonds, considered, and held to constitute a complete contract
of sale upon the condition, or with an implied warranty, that the bonds were
genuine.
2. The contract was not so modified by subsequent correspondence as to amount
to a waiver on the part of the purchaser of such condition or warranty.
ERinOt
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern Distilct of Missouri.
This is an action to recover from Donaldson & Fraley the
sum of $15,37.5, paid to them by the plaintiffs, for fifteen bonds,
purporting" to be first mortgage bonds of the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, and which subsequently proved to be coun
terfeit.
The court below found the following facts :
1. On the twenty-fourth day of May, 1871, Newman & Havens,
bankers, of Leavenworth, Kansas, telegraphed to St. Louis from
Leavenworth to W. Nichols, cashier of the Commercial Bank of
St. Louis, as follows: -

"Get rate for $15,000, California Central Pacific R. R. bonds,
delivered to-morrow'
This despatch was, on said day, shown by Nichols to defendants, and defendants made a bid for said bonds, i.e., (100 ) one
hundred and one-half. This offer was reported by telegraph to
Newman & Havens by Nichols, and was by them accepted by
telegraph.
2. On the following day, May 25, Nichols received from Newman & Havens a letter, as follows: " LEAVENWO rTH, KANSAS, 24th May, 1871.
"W. NICHOLS, Esq., Cash., St. Louis, Mo.:
"DEAR SIB, - Your favor of*the
inst., with inclosure as
stated, is received. We, this A.M., telegraphed you as follows,
viz.: ' Get rate for $15,000, California Central Pacific R. R. bonds,
delivered to-morrow.' Same is hereby confirmed. We herewith
hand you bonds. Please close the transaction and telegraph us
immediately. The 'party selling these bonds is waiting here to get

UTLEY V. DONALDSON.

[SLIP. Ct.

the money for them. This same gentleman is an entire stranger to
us, therefore, will you be kind enough to satisfy yourself that the
bonds are all right. We desire them sold without any recourse on
us. Your early attention will much oblige, respectfully, yours,
"1NEwmAN & HlAvENs."

This letter accompanied fifteen papers, purporting to be so
many bonds in said letter described.
Nichols handed this letter to defendants May 25, with the
bonds, and proposed that the defendants should take said bonds
without recourse. Defendants refused to take the bonds without recourse, but said they would do this; viz., would give to
the Commercial Bank their (defendants') check for the agreed
amount, $15,075, with the understanding that this check was
not to be charged: up by the Commercial Bank, where defendants kept their accounts, until defendants had sent the bonds
to New York and learned that the bonds were (" 0. K.") correct. If the bonds were found to be correct, the check was to
be charged up against defendants, and Newman & Havens to be
advised; if not, the bonds were to be returned to the Commercial Bank, and the check returned to defendants.
3. On the 24th of May, defendants having received invitation'
to make a bid from Nichols, as requested by Newman & Havens
in their despatch, telegraphed to plaintiffs by night despatch as
follows "To UTLEY, DOUGHEETY, & SCOTT: "ST. Louis, May 24, 1871.
"Make best bid fifteen Central Pacifics, quick.
"DoNALDsON

FRALEY."

After sending this despatch, and before receiving reply
thereto, to wit, on the morning of May 25, defendants were
shown by Nichols the letter of May 24, from Newman & Havens
above recited, and the bonds.
Plaintiffs received this despatch, and on the twenty-fifth day
of May replied by despatch, as follows: "NE.w YoRK,

May 25, 1871.

"We will buy Central Facifics at a hundred and two and a
half (102).
"UTEY, DouGHERTY, & SCOTT."

Oct.1876.]

UTLy v. DONALDSON.

Defendants received this despatch on the same day about
ten A.M.; and on the same day replied by telegraphic despatch,
as follows: "ST. Louis, May 25, 1871.
"To UTLEY, DOUGuEMTY, & SCOTT, New York:
"We accept your offer, fifteen Centrals, one hundred two and a
half.
"DONALDSOIN & FRALEY."
4. On the same day plaintiffs wrote and mailed a letter to
defendants, as follows: "NNw Yorx, May 25,1871.
"D.nn Sms,-Your telegram of to-day received. You have
sold us fifteen thousand Central Pacific 6's at 102" fiat.
"Respectfully yours,
"UTImY, DOUGannTY, & SCOTT."

The fifteen bonds were delivered to defendants by Nichols,
cashier of Commercial Bank, May 25, and were by defendants
forwarded by express on the same day to the Bank of North
America, New York, with a draft on plaintiffs for $15,375, the
bonds to be delivered by the bank to plaintiffs on payment of
the draft. By mail -mailed by defendants. On the morning
of the 25th of May defendants sent to plaintiffs a letter, as
follows : "ST. Louis, May 25, 1871.
"Messrs. "UTLEY, DOuGuERTY, & SCOTT:
"GENTLEMEN, -In

accordance with your offer for 15 Central

Pac. 1st mort. bonds, 102", we replied, We accept your offer,
and have forwarded them by ex. to Bank North America, with
draft attached for $15,375. We would further add, that we have
purchased the bonds from a party strange to us; and, not having ever handled any of the Pacifi;3 Central, we would sell the
bonds without recourse as to their being genuine; consequently,
please examine them, and, upon being found correct, telegraph
immediately (Central all 0. K.). We do not doubt the bonds, but,
coming to us through strange parties, we use this as a precaution,
and not willing to take any risk.
"Respectfully yours,
"DoLDsow & FnATY."
This letter was received by plaintiffs at New York on Monday, the 29th of May, a short time before the bonds were pre-

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ct.

sented by the messenger of the Bank of North America for delivery to plaintiffs, and prior to defendants' draft for $15,375,
which was presented at the same time as the bonds, as hereinafter stated.
5. On the 29th of May, Monday, the messenger of the Bank
of North America, with the bonds, fifteen in number, and the
draft of defendants for $15,375, appeared at the office of plaintiffs in New York, to deliver said bonds and collect said draft.
Plaintiffs bad, on the said twenty-fifth day of May, sold the
bonds "to arrive" to Rasmus & Lissignola, bankers and stockdealers in New York, engaging to deliver them four days thereafter.
When the messenger of the Bank of North America arrived
at the office of plaintiffs, with the bonds and draft, it lacked
but five or ten minutes of the hour after which, by the rules
of the New York stock board, deliveries of bonds and stocks
sold could not be made for that day.
Utley, therefore, without examining the bonds, went hurriedly
with the bank-messenger to the office of Rasmus & Lissignola,
to be in time for delivery that day. Arriving there with the
messenger of the bank, he asked Rasmus to examine the bonds,
saying he had not had time to do so. Rasmus opened and
briefly examined the bonds; said they seem to be correct; and,
at the request of Utley, gave the messenger of the Bank of
North America Rasmus & Lissignola's check for the amount
agreed between them and plaintiffs, $15,403.12, which check
was paid.
On the same day, and after the delivery of the bonds as above
stated, plaintiffs wrote and mailed letter to defendants as follows : "NEW Yoix, May 29, 1871.
"MIEssns. DoNALDsoN. & FRALEY, St. Louis:
" DEAR Sins, -Yours of 25th, and 15 thousand Centrals, with
draft, received. The Centrals all correct, and we telegraphed you
to that effect.
"Respectfully yours,
"UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT. '

7. On the same day plaintiffs sent telegraphic despatch to
defendants, as follows: -

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

"To DoNznsoN & FnminY:
"Centrals all right.
SC"UTLEY,

"NEw YoRm, May 29, 1871.
DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT."

8. On receipt of this despatch by Donaldson & Fraley, on the
29th or 30th of May, they informed Mr. Nichols, cashier of the
Commercial Bank, that the bonds were all correct; -whereupon
Donaldson & Fraley's check for $15,075 was charged up, and
Newman & Havens were advised by the Commercial Bank, and
remittance made to Newman & Havens.
9. On the 12th of June, 1871, information was for the first
time received in New York, or elsewhere, that there were counterfeits of these bonds in existence.
On that day plaintiffs wrote and mailed a letter to defendants,
as follows :"JuiE 12, 1871.
"Messrs. DoxALDsox & FRnALEiy, St. Louis, Mo.:
"DBAn SIns, -Yours df 8th and 9th and 3d, Leavenworth, from
Bank North America, 5th from U. & C. reeeived.
"Look out for counterfeit Central Pacific 6's. Some appeared on
market to-day. . .. "Respectfully yours,
"'UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT."
10. On the next day, June 13, 1871, plaintiffs sent telegraphic
despatch to defendants, as follows :'"1NEwYonR, June 13, 1871.
"To DONALDsox & FRAI, Y:
"Central Pacifies you sold us probably counterfeit. Trace your
party. Bonds shipped to Europe; can't hear from them for several days.
"1UTLEY,DOUGHERTY,
& SCOTT."
11. On the same day, June 13, 1871, plaintiffs wrote to
defendants, and mailed letter, as follows, viz.: "1JuxE 13, 1871.
"MEssRs. DoNALnusox & FRALEY, St. Louis, Mo.:
"DAR Sins, - Yours of the 10th, &c.... We feel uneasy with
regard to the genuineness of the Central Pacific 6's you sold us.
The bonds have been shipped to Europe, and cannoat be heardfrom
for several days. In case your parties are doubtful, it would be
3
VOL. IV.

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ct.

well to act at once as if the bonds are not genuine. There has
been no suspicion that there were counterfeits out until yesterday.
"Respectfully yours,
"UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT."

12. On June 13, defendants sent a telegraphic despatch to
plaintiffs, as follows: "ST. Louis, June 13, 1871.
"To UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT:
"We refer you to our letter, May 25, in which we sold without
risk. Have purchased same day from Commercial Bank, and they
from Newman & Havens, Leavenworth, without risk. Will aid
you all we can, if counterfeit.
"DONALDSON & FRALEY."

The bonds in question were sold by Rasmus & Lissignola,
immediately after they purchased them, to parties who sent
them to Europe, whence they were returned declared to be
counterfeit, and returned to Rasmus & Lissignola, who immediately demanded repayment from Utley, Dougherty, & Scott,
plaintiffs; whereupon, on July 12, plaintiffs sent a telegraphic
despatch to defendants, as follows : " NEw YoRE, July 12, 1871.
"To DONALDSON & FRALEY, St. Louis:
"The Central Pacifies bought of you in May are declared counterfeit. We shall look to you for indemnity.
" UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT."

13. On the same day, July 12, 1871, plaintiffs wrote and
mailed to defendants a letter, as follows : "N1Ew YoRc, July 12, 1871.
"MESSRS. DONALDSON & FRALEY, St. Louis:
" GENTLEMEN, - We beg to inform you that the Central Pacific
bonds we bought from you on 25th May last have been returned
from Europe, and are declared counterfeit. On behalf of the parties for whom we purchased the bonds we shall look to you for
indemnity. We do not consider that the terms of your letter of
25th May in any way precludes us from our recourse upon you,
especially not, in view of the facts disclosed by your telegram to
us of June 13, 1871. We therefore telegraphed you to-day as
follows: ' The Central Pacifics we bought of you in May are declared counterfeit. We shall look to you for indemnity.
"Yours truly,
, UTLEY, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT."

Oet. 1876.]

UTLEY V. DONALDSON.

14. On the 12th of July defendants -wrote and mailed to
plaintiffs a letter,- as follows: "

ST. Louis, July 12, 1871.

"Messrs. UTLE-r, DOUGHERTY, & SCOTT,

"New York City:
"GFTLrE,- Your telegram received, in which you state that

the Central Pacifies are counterfeit, and that you look to us for
indemnity. In my former letter on this subject we referred you to
our letter of May 25, and again call your attention to it. Will
you have the kindness to write to us in detail on what grounds you
propose holding or looking to us for indemnity?
"An early answer will oblige, very respectfully,
"DONALDSON & FnA=2)
On the 3d of August, 1871, defendants wrote and mailed to
plaintiffs a letter, as follows :
"MIessrs. U., D., & S. :

"ST. Louis, Aug. 3, 1871.

"GENTLEmEx, - Mr. Fraley just returned from Madison to-day,
hence the delay in answering yours of 25th. We are acting under
legal advice, and must refuse to make any assignment of claim, as
we are not aware yet that we have any.
"Respectfully yours,
"Do ALsox & FALEY."

15. On the 8th of August, 1871, plaintiffs wrote and mailed
to defendants a letter, as follows :"NEw YoRE, Aug. 8, 1871.
"Messrs. DoNALDsoN & FBALEY, St. Louis, Mo.:
" GENTLEMEN, -We
have yours of 3d inst., and regret that you
do not give us any more satisfactory information. You will allow
us to remind you that we paid your draft for $15,375, and received
therefor nothing but counterfeit bonds. In answer to our despatch
to you that counterfeit Central Pacifies had appeared in the markets, you sent us a telegram, referring us to your note of 25th
May, and saying, at the same time, 'Will aid you all we can, if
counterfeit.' Setting aside all questions of legal liability, we submit to your sense of fair dealing, whether you are fulfilling this
pledge. You now refuse to make an assignment of any claim you
may have against the parties from whom you received the bonds,
and assign as the reason for such refusal that you are under legal
advicm, and do not know whether you have any claim. But we

UTLEY

v.

[S1up. Ct.

DONALDSON.

do not ask you to guarantee that you had any claim, and it seems
to us that the fact of your being under legal advice is no reason
why you should not do every thing in your power to help us in
recovering the money you have had from us for worthless bonds,
but rather a reason why you should help-us the more readily. We
beg to ask from you a fill statement of the precise position you
occupied in relaion to these bonds; and, if this will. aid us in our
efforts to make good our loss, you ought to be thankful, and also
willing, to give us any rights you have against these parties.
"Yours truly,
" UTLEY, DOUGHERTY,

& SCOTT"

16. On the 12th of August, 1871, defendants wrote and
mailed to plaintiffs a letter, as follows:"ST.

Louis, Aug. 12, 1871.

"Messrs. U., D., & S. :
" GENTLEMIEN, - In reply to your letter regarding the position
we have taken, we can only say, that, when you consider the circumstances connected with same, we think that you or anybody
would act likewise; viz., Some time in May the Commercial Bank
called on us and offered the bonds, and we made a bid. The
cashier then informed us that the inquiry came from Newman &
Havens, Leavenworth, and they would telegraph to them the bid
we made to the Commercial Bank. In short time answer to Commercial Bank from Newman & Havens, that they would accept the
bid, and had forwarded bonds to Commercial Bank. Upon arrival
of bonds at the Commercial Bank, they received a letter from
Newman & Havens, stating that they had never dealt in like bonds,
and they were selling them for strange parties, consequently sell
them without recourse. The Commercial Bank tendered us the
bonds under same condition; and we refused to purchase bonds
in the manner presented, but gave the Commercial Bank a
check under the following conditions,-not to charge the check
against us until we had been informed by you that the bonds were
0. K. We then forwarded the bonds, and wrote you precise, that
we had not ever handled any of the bonds, and we sell them without recourse, and particularly asked you to examine them, and
more distinctly said, we sell without recourse as to genuineness, as
they come from strange parties, and use this precaution, not willing
to take any risk whatever. Upon receipt of the bonds, you telegraphed us, ' Centrals all right,' and also wrote by mail, confirming your despatch, by saying, received bonds and draft, and found

Oct. 18T6.]

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

them all correct. When we received this information, we then informed the Commercial Bank to charge up check, which they did,
and at the same time credited Newman & Havens; and we are
furthermore informed, the parties of whom Newman & Havens
purchased did not: call for the money within ten days after this
information of bonds being correct. Now, you see plainly that you
are all to blame. Had you used the necessary precaution in examining the bonds, specially when your attention was called by us
selling without risk, not only would none of us have any trouble or
unpleasantness, but would have caught the thieves and brought
them to justice. Now, please inform us what else could we have
done. It shows that we acted prudently and with care. It is true,
you may say, you received the bonds before the letter; but even
and more so should you have examined them, and informed us.
You are aware that New York is the market to detect all irregularities in the bonds spoken of, and you could easily have discovered, had you not been careless. Now, you plainly see our position.
The Commercial Bank will not take them back from us, unless they
are compelled to do so; and why should Donaldson & Fraley suffer
for negligence of yours, when they used all precautions and measures at the time? It is true, it is hard for you to part with your
money, but not more so than us, whilst we are in no manner to
blame. Upon your information, confirming the genuineness of
the bonds, we parted with the money received for the bonds.
Should the Commercial Bank, or Newman & Havens, at any time
come forward and offer to redeem the bonds, we certainly would
be most happy, and be much better satisfied than the way it is
now.
"Regarding our writing, that we would aid you all we could,
did not infer that if you made a demand upon us for the money
that we would pay same, but meant, that if it was in our power to
make parties originally selling them replace them, we would do so;
and we are more so willing now than ever; but we cannot concede
nor agree to give you any claim against the Commercial Bank,
whether we have legal right or not. It would certainly be admitting, on our part, that if we assign claim against Commercial Bank,
that you certainly have likewise claim against Donaldson & Fraley,
and also right to assign, which we really cannot admit, as we positively do not believe so. We are ready at any time to testify to
the facts as they are, and were; and, should the law declare us
wrong, we feel confident that Newman & Havens and Commercial
Bank will abide by same; but under no circumstances will they

UTLEY

v.

DONALDSON.

[Sup. 0t.

refund without action, as they firmly believe, as we do, that your
claim is not just, under the circumstances.
"If you were right in your demands, tell us, in the name of the
law, justice, or common custom, would we, or any dealer, receive
from any stranger or honest party known to us, but not responsible,
any securities to be sold on arrival in New York, and the funds to be
credited upon sale and delivery in New York, and especially if sold
under the conditions we sold bonds to you ? How would you have
proceeded in this or any case? The sum total is, you have made a
mistake, and we are ready to assist you all we can to defend your
claim, if you have any. We now refer you to our last letter, in
which we informed you that we would rather you would begin
action immediately, in order to have things settled and the suspense removed. What we have written we will enter as evidence,
and has been written with consent of Commercial Bank, as they
are fair and honorable.
"Trusting you now plainly see our position, and we feel sanguine, that, were you placed in our position, you certainly would not
have acted differently,
"Yours, friendly,
" DoNAinsov & FnALzEY."
17. Utley (plaintiff) subsequently, in September, 1871, stated
to defendants, when asked, in view of defendants' letter of
May 25, 1871, which he admitted having received, why he did
not examine the bonds with care before paying for them, that
he received similar letters from the country every day, and
that he supposed defendants were cautious only because they
had not handled any of these bonds before.
18. The money paid by Donaldson & Fraley by their check
to the Commercial Bank, and by it to Newman & Havens, was
not, according to the statement of Newman & Havens to Nichols,
cashier, called for, nor paid by Newman & Havens at Leavenworth, Kansas, to the party who sold the bonds to Newman &
Havens, for two or three weeks after it was received by Newman & Havens from the Commercial Bank.
19. Before writing the letter of May 25, 1871, hereinbefore
set out, and transmitting the bonds to New York, the defendants, who had never seen any Central Pacific bonds, took said
bonds, or some of them, to two banking establishments in the city
of St. Louis, and asked one of the officials of each of said banks

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

whether they knew about them, but was informed that they
did not, as those bonds were not known or dealt in in this
market.
20. Both the plaintiffs and defendants were brokers and
stock-dealers, the former in New York and the latter in St.
Louis, and were business correspondents of each other.
21. That the bonds sold by defendants to plaintiffs were
spurious.
22. That the identical bonds sold by defendants to plaintiffs
have been produced upon the trial by the plaintiffs, to be surrendered if they shall recover.
"23. That the defendants, when they sold and delivered the
bonds to plaintiffs, did not know or believe that the bonds
were forged or spurious, and they did not know this until informed thereof by the plaintiffs on June 12, 1871, as hereinbefore stated; and their only knowledge of the bonds prior to the
sale and delivery thereof appears from the facts hereinbefore
set forth.
Upon the foregoing facts the court found as a conclusion of
law that the defendants were entitlecL to judgment; to which
finding and conclusion of- law the plaintiffs then and there
excepted.
Judgment having been rendered for the defendants, the
plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
Xr. Charles 31.Da Costa for the plaintiffs in error.
The judgment below is not warranted by the facts contained
in the special finding, and must be reversed. Prentiss v. Zane,
8 How. 470; arahamv. Bayne, 18 id. 60.
The contract between the partieb was effected and concluded
by their telegraphic correspondence of May 25, 1871. By
that contract the defendants impliedly warranted the genuineness of the bonds sold and to be delivered thereunder.
The letter of May 25, 1871, written by the defendants to
the plaintiffs, after the making of the contract, and received by
them on the 29th May, and the acts and doings of the plaintiffs
on its receipt, neither released the defendants from such warranty, nor amounted to a modification in that respect of the
contract as originally entered into

UTLEY V. DONALDSON.

[Sup. at.

Mr. Tilliam Patrick, contra.
The contract between the parties was not completed by
the telegrams. The letter of the defendants to the plaintiffs, dated May 25, 1871, was written contemporaneously
with the telegrams of that date, and was intended to be, and
in law should be, read as a part of the acceptance of plaintiffs' offer. It is clear from that letter, that, at the time
of sending their telegram, the defendants had no intention
of selling the bonds, except without recourse as to genuineness.
Should the court rule against this point, then it is insisted
that the letter of May,25, and the delivery tendered under
the terms thereof, together constituted a proposition to modify
the terms of the contract entered into by telegraph; that plaintiffs had the right in law either to stand by the original contract and reject the proposed modification, or to accept it without new or additional consideration; that, having accepted the
delivery tendered under the terms of that letter, they are in
law to be regarded as having waived any other or different
performance from that tendered, and to be now estopped from
claiming that they did assent to the modification of the contract, or the performance tendered and received.
Assuming that the telegram of plaintiffs' offering 1021, and
the telegram of defendants accepting that offer, constituted
the contract, there can be no question but that the delivery
tendered under the letter of May 25 was in effect a refusal by
defendants to fulfil that contract, unless plaintiffs would agree
to modify it.
After an agreement has been reduced to writing, it is competent for the parties at any time before breach of it, by a new
contract not in writing, either to altogether waive, dissolve, or
atnul the former agreement, or in any manner to add to or subtract from, or vary, or qualify, the terms of it, and thus to
make a new contract. Gross v. Lord NAugent, 5 Barn. & Ad.
65; Lawrence v. Dole, 11 Vt. 549; llfedemak Bank v. Curtis,
24 Me. 36.
And when before breach a new contract is substituted for a
previous oe, no consideration is necessary if the substituted

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY V. DONALDSON.

contract has become executed. Lawrence v. Dole, suyra; Young
v. Hunter, 2 Seld. 207.

-

Plaintiffs having acted on the letter of May 25, and accepted
the delivery tendered, thereby waived a different performance.
Shields v. Pettee, 2 Sandf. 262; Reed v. Randall, 29 N. Y.
358.
Acceptance is a question for the jury, Corning v. Colt,
5 Wend. 256; and, having been found as a fact by the court
below, its finding is conclusive.
Plaintiffs, by accepting the performance tendered, put it out
of the power of defendants to make other performance.
A party whose acts prevent the performance of a condition
cannot avail himself of such non-performance as a ground of
Young v. Hunter, supra;
action. His acts estop him.
Riehardson v. Cooper, 25 Me. 450.
Where a loss must fall on one of two innocent persons, it
must be borne by him whose conduct occasioned it.
In the case at bar, defendants notified plaintiffs that the bonds
came to them from strange hands, that they had never before
handled any of them, that they were unwilling to take any
risk, and would only sell without recourse as to genuineness;
consequently, they requested the plaintiffs to "1please examine
them," and, upon being found correct, telegraph immediately
(Centrals all 0. K.). -Plaintiffs received this notification before
the bonds, failed to make an examination, but telegraphed defendants, and also wrote them, "Centrals 0. K." They cannot now contravene the statement thus made and relied on,
without fraud on their part and injury to another. -Dairv.
United States, 16 Wall. 1.
The court below finds that both plaintiffs and defendants
were innocent parties, and that in view of these facts the
loss arising from the bonds turning out to be spurious should
fall upon the plaintiffs, as the- conduct of defendants had
been fair and admonitory, and that of plaintiffs grossly negligent.
Defendants parted with their money under the same circumstances as plaintiffs, but on the faith of the acceptance of
the bonds by plaintiffs under the letter of May 25, 1871, and
plaintiffs' letter and telegram that the Centrals were "0. K."

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ck.

The rule of law under this head clearly upholds the finding of
the court below. .Dairv. UnitedStates, supra;Butler v. United
States, 21 Wall. 272.
MR. JUSTICE SwA=r delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought by the plaintiffs in error.
The case was submitted to the court without the intervention
of a jury, pursuant to the act of Congiess of March 3, 1865,
13 Stat. 501.
The court found specially.
The question presented for our determination is whether taie
facts found are sufficient to support the judgment. Those facts
are neither voluminous nor complicated.
On the 24th of May, 1871, Newman & Havens, bankers, of
Leavenworth, telegraphed to Nichols, the cashier of the Commercial Bank of St. Louis, to "get rate for $15,000 California
Central Pacific Railroad bonds, delivered to-morrow." The
defendants offered "100J." Newman & Havens accepted
by a telegraphic despatch. On the 25th of May Cashier
Nichols received from Newman & Havens the bonds, and also
a letter, in which they said, "The party selling these bonds is
waiting here to get the money for them. He is an entire
stranger to us." "We desire them sold without any recourse
on us." On the same day Cashier Nichols showed this letter
to the defendants, and proposed to deliver the bonds without
recourse. They refused to receive them on such terms, but
offered to take them, and pay for them when ascertained to be
good; otherwise, to return them. The cashier acceded to this
proposition. On the 24th of May the defendants telegraphed
to the plaintiffs, who were brokers in the city of New York,
" Make best bid for fifteen Central Pacifics, quick."
The
plaintiffs answered, on the 25th of May, that they would buy at
1021. Their despatch to this effect reached the defendants
about ten A.M. the same day. The defendants answered by
despatch on that day, "X.Ve accept your offer." The bonds were
delivered by the cashier to the defendamts on the 25th of May,
and were by them forwarded by express on that day to a bank
in New York, with a draft on the plaintiffs for $15,375, the
bonds to be handed over on the payment of the draft. On

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY

v.

DONALDSON.

the morning of that day the defendants addressed a letter to
the plaintiffs, which is the hinge of this controversy. It is as
follows: -

"In accordance with your offer for 15 Central Pac. 1st mort.
bonds, 1021, we replied, We accept your offer, and have forwarded
them by ex. to Bank North America, with draft attached for
$15,375. We would further add, that wehave purchased the bonds
from a party strange to us; and, not having ever handled any of
the Pacific Central, we would sell the bonds without recourse as to
their being genuine; consequently, please examine them, and, upon
being found correct, telegraph immediately (Central all 0. K.).
We do not doubt the bonds, but, coming to us through strange
parties, we use this as a precaution, and not willing to take any
risk."
This letter reached the plaintiffs on the 29th of May, a short

time before the draft and bonds were presented. The plaintiffs had sold the bonds "to arrive" to Rasmus & Lissignola.
They could not be delivered after two o'clock. It was within
a few minutes of that time when the messenger of the bank
presented himself. One of the plaintiffs went -with the messenger to the office of their vendees, and requested Rasmus to
examine the bonds. He did so, said they seemed to be correct,
and thereupon gave a check for the amount his firm had
agreed to pay for them. This check was duly paid. On the
same day the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants, "The Centrals
all correct, and we telegraphed you to that effect." Such
a5 despatch had been sent. Upon receiving it, the defendants
paid the bank for the bonds, and the money was remitted by
the bank to Newman & Havens. On the 12th of June information was received for the first time in New York, or elsewhere, that there were in existence counterfeits of such bonds.
On that day the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants, "Look out
for counterfeit Central Pacifics; some appeared on market
to-day." On the next day the plaintiffs telegraphed to the
defendants, "Central Pacifics sold us probably counterfeit.
Bonds shipped to Europe. Can't hear from them for several
days." On the same day the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants
to the same effect, and said further: "In case your parties are
doubtful, it would be well to act at once as if the bonds were

UTLEY

v. DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ct.

not genuine. There has been no suspicion of counterfeits until
yesterday." On the same day, June 13, the defendants replied
by despatch: "We sold without risk. Have purchased same
day from Comumercial Bank, and they from Newman &
Haven-., of Leavenworth, without risk." The bonds were
counterfeit, and the plaintiffs refunded to Rasmus & Lissignola
the amount they had paid. On the 12th of July the plaintiffs
telegraphed to the defendants, "The Central Pacifics bought of
you in May are declared counterfeit. We shall look to you for
indemnity." On the same day the defendants replied by telegraph, and asked upon what ground it was proposed to hold
them liable. Some -subsequent correspondence took place between the parties, which it is unnecessary to refer to in detail.
The plaintiffs asked a transfer of the claim of the defendants,
whatever it might be, but without guarantee, against the bank.
This the defendants refused to give. The money paid to Newman & Havens by the bank was not called for by the party
from whom they received the bonds for two or three weeks
after the money was paid to them.
Before examining the case in its strictly legal aspects, it is
proper to make several remarks suggested by the facts as
found.
1. The defendants sold the bonds absolutely by their despatch of the 25th of May. The qualification insisted upon
was, by their letter of that date, received by the plaintiffs on
the 29th. If the defendants intended to qualify, it should have
been done in the despatch. This would have given the plaintiffs notice in time for reflection before the presentation of the
draft, might have prevented their selling the bonds before the
letter was received, and would have enabled them to avoid
the hurry and confusion incident to the payment of the draft
and the delivery of the bonds to their vendees. If the draft
had not been paid at sight, it would doubtless have been
protested.
2. The circumstances attending the purchase of the bonds
by the defendants are shown in our analysis of the facts of the
case. The statement in the letter upon the subject is not
accurate.
3. They refused upon any terms to put the plaintiffs in

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY v. DONALDSON.

their place with respect to any claims they might have against
the Commercial Bank.
4. They were notified on the 12th of June that the bonds
were counterfeit. If they had thereupon at once caused Newman & Havens to be advised also, it is not improbable that
the latter would have retained the funds, and thus have saved
from loss all the honest parties through whose hands the bonds
had passed. The defendants failed to take any step whatever
in this direction.
It cannot be questioned that the despatches -between the
parties on the 25th of May constituted a complete contract of
sale, upon the condition or with an implied warranty, which
it is not material here to consider, that the bonds were genuine. Nor can it be doubted that, if the bonds had been delivered without any thing further occurring, the defendants, upon
the bonds proving to be counterfeit, would have been liable in
this action. Taylor v. Merchants' P. Ins. Co., 9 How. 390;
Benjamin on Sales, 56; Flyn v. Allen, 57 Penn. St. 482;
Webb v. Odell et'al., 49 N. Y. 583.
Was this contract changed so that this condition or warranty
was waived by the plaintiffs? In other words, did the letter
of the defendants propose the modification insisted upon, of
the pre-existing contract, and if so, did the plaintiffs agree to
it, and accept the delivery of the bonds accordingly?
We pass by without remark the plaintiffs' propositions that
the alleged modification was -within the Statute of Frauds, and
.could not, therefore, be effectually accepted otherwise than in
writing; that there was no consideration for such an agreement; and that, if made, it was contrary to public policy, and
therefore void. The view which we take of the case renders
it unnecessary to consider either of these points.
The first sentence of the letter relied upon by the defendants
recognizes distinctly the contract as made by the despatches.
The defendants say: "In accordance with your offer for 15
Central Pac. first mort. bonds, 102 - we replied, We accept your
offer, and have forwarded them by ex. to Bk. North America,
with draft attached for 815,375."
This, standing alone, would have been a mere carrying out of
the contract as made, and as it must have been understood by

UTLEY

v.

DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ot.

both parties. The stress of the case is upon what follows.
The letter proceeds: "We would further add, that we have
purchased the bonds from a party strange to us." They had in
fact tought them from the Commercial Bank, but were not to
take them unless genuine, and were not to pay for them until
found to be so. Next: "And not having ever handled any of
the Pacific Central, we would sell the bonds without recourse
as to their being genuine; consequently, please examine them,
and, upon being found correct, telegraph immediately (Central
0. K.)." The phrase, "we would sell without recourse," considered in the light of the context and the circumstances, may
well be interpreted to mean that the writers would prefer or
like so to sell, if it could be done. This view derives support
from the succeeding member of the sentence, "please examine,"
&q. Examine for whom? It is not said, examine for yourselves. The language employed is usual where the thing
asked ig for the benefit of the asker, but not where it is for the
benefit of the party addressed. Lastly, it is said: "We do
not doubt the bonds, but, coming through strange hands, we use
this precaution, and are not willing to take risk." This is
consistent with the construction we have given to the preceding clause. If the examination the plaintiffs were requested
to make showed clearly that the bonds were not counterfeit,
then there could be no risk, whether the sale was with or without warranty of genuineness. In connection with these views,
it is to be observed that while the bonds and draft were sent
on pursuant to the original contract, which is distinctly recognized, it is not said in the letter in plain terms, such as would
naturally have been used if such had been the intent of the
writers. We will sell only at your risk as to genuineness.
We will not guarantee it: examine for yourselves. If the
bonds are counterfeit, and you take them, the loss will fall
upon you, and not upon us. If this language, or terms equally
clear and explicit, had been used, the case would have presented a very different aspect. "Every intendment is to be
made against the construction of a contract under which it
would operate as a snare." Hfoffman v. .Etna Ins. Co., 32
N. Y. 405.
Upon the whole letter, considering what it does and what it

Oct. 1876.]

UTLEY

v.

DONALDSON.

does not contain, we are unable to come to the conclusion that
the defendants intended to require that the modification since
insisted upon should be made, and to make such modification
the condition upon which the plainiiffs should take the bonds,
if they took them at all. This result leaves the rights of the
parties as they were under the original contract, and entitles
the plaintiffs. to recover.
But conceding for the purposes of this opinion that the letter
did contain such a proposition or annunciation as is insisted
upon, then the inquiry arises whether it was so understood and
agreed to by the plaintiffs.
There can be no contract without the mutual assent of thA
parties. This is vital to its existence. There can be none
where it is wanting. It is as indispensable to the modification
of a contract already made as it was to making it originally.
Where there is a misunderstanding as to any thin material,
the requisite mutuality of assent as to such thing is -wanting;
consequently the supposed contract does not exist, and neither
party is bound. In the view of the law in such case, there
has been only a negotiation, resulting in a failure to agree.
What has occurred is as if it were not, and the rights of the
parties are to be determined accordingly.
In Pklips v. Jistotti, 2 B. & 0. 511, the defendant was a
foreigner, and understood the English language imperfectly.
Certain jeweLy was struck off to him at auction for eightyeight guineas. He was sued for that amount, and set up as a
defence that he thought he had bid forty-eight guineas. Abbot, 0. J., left it to the jury to find whether the mistake had
actually occarred, "as a test of the existence of the contract."
Benj. on Sales, 43.
In Baldwin et al. v. Middleburqer,2 Hall, 176, the defendant
bought merchandise of the plaintiff, and it was agreed that it
should be paid for by the note of a third person payable to the
defendant, to be by him indorsed to the plaintiff. After the
goods were delivered the note was tendered, indorsed without
recourse. The plaintiff refused to receive it, insisting that the
agreement was that the note should be indorsed without this
qualiflcaticn, and thereupon brought the suit.. The court left
it to the jury to find whether there was a misunderstanding

UTLEY V. DONALDSON.

[Sup. Ct.

between the parties as to the manner of the indorsement. The
jury so found; and it was held that the plaintiff was entitled to
recover as if there had been nothing said about the note, there
being no such assent of the two minds as was necessary to
make a contract in relation to it.
In Coles v. Browne, 10 Paige, 526, a block of lots was struck off
at auction to the defendant. The plaintiff insisted and proved
that the sale was of the lots separately. The defendant insisted
that his bid was for the entire block as one parcel, and that he
so understood the premises to be offered and sold. The vendor
instituted the suit for specific performance. The evidence rendered it doubtful whether the defendant's allegations as to his
understanding and bid were not true, and upon that ground
the Chancellor dismissed the bill. If there was a misunderstanding on the subject between the parties, there was clearly
no contract. See also Calverly v. Williams, 1 Yes. Jr. 210;
K.altus v. Pryn, 18 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 512; Bruce v. Pearson,
3 Johns. (N. Y.) 34; Crane v. Portland,9 Mich. 493; 2 Pars.
Contr. (4th ed.) 475 et seq.
It is essential to the validity of a contract that the parties
should have consented to the same subject-matter in the same
sense. They must have contracted ad idem. Hazzard v.
N. -. H. Ins. Co., 1 Sumn, 218.
"Where a written agreement exists, and one of the parties
sets up an arrangement of a different nature, alleging conduct
on the other side amounting to a substitution of this arrangement for the written agreement, he must clearly show, not
merely his own understanding as to the new terms of arrangement, but that the other party had the same understanding." Darnley v. I'e Proprietors, 4'c., 2 Law Rep. H. L.
43, 60.
The plaintiffs were not asked to assent expressly with respect
to the waiver of the warranty, if it were demanded, and made no
such answer. They were asked to "please examine," &c., and
to telegraph the result. This they did. The despatch was
wholly silent as to any thing else. That they understood the
waiver was demanded as a sine qua non in no way appears.
On the other hand, the contrary is clearly manifest. The
moment they had reason to apprehend that.the bond might be

Oct. 1876.]

UTrLEY V. DONALDSON.

counterfeit, they notified the defendants; and, as soon as it
became certain they were so, the defendants were advised of
the fact, and that they would be looked to for indemnity. The
defendants denied their liability by reason of their letter. In
due time this suit was brought. Conceding that both parties
have acted in good faith, it is clear that there was a misunderstanding between them as to the meaning and effect of the
letter, and that the plaintiffs never understood and agreed to it
as it is now interpreted and insisted upon by'the defendants.
The ggregatio mentium requisite to give that interpretation
effect was, therefore, wanting.
To constitute the abandonment of a contract, the act must be
mutual. Robinson v. Page, 3 Russ. 122.
It has been held that, to make a negotiation for the modification of a contract effectual, it must appear that it was
the intention of the party proposing it wholly to abandon the
original contract, if the modification proposed were not assented to. Murray v. Harway, 56 N. Y. 347; Bobinson v.
Page, sutpra.
"A waiver. of a stipulation in an agreement, to be effectual,
must be made intentionally, and with knowledge of the circumstances." -Darnleyv. The Proprietors,&c., supra; Howard et al.
v. Carpenter,2 Md. 259.
When one party assents to a contraet, relying upon the representations of the other, his assent is given upon the condition
that the representations are true. Duncan v. Hoge, 24 Miss.
671.
Judgment reversed, with directions to the court below to render
a judgment for theplaintiff in error.
AR.JUSTICE STRONG, with whom concurred MR.JUSTICE
CLIFFOr.D and MR. JUSTICE HUNT, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment given in this case. Before the
plaintiffs received the bonds, and before they accepted or paid
the draft drawn upon them by the defendants, they were notified that the defendants would sell without recourse, and that
they were unwilling to run any risk. They were requested to
examine, and telegraph to the defendants whether the bonds
were genaine, and this as a precaution of the defendants against
v.r,. Iv.

4

DOYLE v. WISCONSIN.

[Sup. Ot.

risk. The letter of the defendants clearly manifested an mtention not to deliver the bonds unless they were genuine, or
unless the plaintiffs would take them at their own risk. On
any other terms the plaintiffs had a right to take them. Inquiry and notice to defendants afterwards would have been
idle, and would have been no precaution. Consequently the
receipt of the bonds hy the plaintiffs, after the notice given to
them, can have no other meaning than that they took them at
their own risk.
MR. JUSTICE DAVIS did not sit in this case.

DoYLE v. WiscoSnx.
Sect. 1007 of the Revised Statutes, which, as amended by the act of Feb. 18,
1875 (18 Stat. part 8,p. 316), provides that, where a writ of error may operate
as a supersedeas,execution shall not issue until the expiration of ten days after
the rendition of the judgment, has reference only to the judgments of the
courts of the United States.

ON motion to set aside proceedings in execution of a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
On the fifteenth day of August, 1876, the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin rendered a judgment ordering that "a peremptory
writ of qnandamus do forthwith issue out of and under the seal
of the court, to be directed to the respondent [plaintiff in
error], commanding him, and in his absence the assistant
secretary of State, forthwith, within twenty-four hours after
the service of the writ," to recall the license given by him to
the Continental Insurance Company of the city of New York
to do business in that State. The writ was issued and served
on the same day, and on the next, Aug. 16, its command was
obeyed. On the 10th October, 1876, this writ of error was
sued out in due form, and bond given to operate as a super.edeas.
The plaintiff in error now moves that all the proceedings in
execution of the judgment within ten days after its rendition

