PAMPANGA MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
159

Syllabus.

1,173,600,000. An increase of two cents upon each fare
would have added to the subway receipts $16,292,000;
to the elevated $7,180,000.
The transit Commission has long held the view that
it lacks power to change the five cent rate established by
contract; and it intended to test this point of law by an
immediate, orderly appeal to the courts of the State. This
purpose should not be thwarted by an injunction. Upon
the record before us we cannot accept the theory that the
subways and elevated roads constitute a unified system
for rate-making purposes. Considering the probable fair
value of the subways and the current receipts therefrom
no adequate basis is shown for claiming that the five cent
rate is now confiscatory in respect of them. The action
below was based upon supposed values and requirements
of all lines operated by the Interborough Company treated
as a unit; and the effort to support it here proceeds upon
a like assumption.
The interlocutory order must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent.
PAMPANGA SUGAR MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 325.

Argued March 1, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Under § 138 of the Philippine Administrative Code, 1917, which
makes a concurrence of five judges necessary for pronouncement of
judgment by the Supreme Court in a case involving 10,000 pesos
if there is no vacancy, an equal division among eight of the judges

when the ninth does not sit because of disqualification, will not
operate as an affirmance of the judgment below.

P. 214.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

2. A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in a
case wherein the value in controversy exceeds $25,000, is reviewable
by this Court by certiorari. P. 215.
3. One who is engaged in the Philippine Islands in the business of
milling sugar cane grown on land owned and operated by others,
under contracts providing that he shall receive as compensation for
the milling one-half of the resulting sugar, the other half going to
the owners of the cane, and who sells his share of the sugar in the
ordinary course of trade, is subject to tax on such sales as a merchant under § 1459 of the Philippine Administrative Code of 1917,
which, except as specially provided, includes in the term merchant
"manufacturers who sell articles of their own production." P. 216.
4. Such sales are not within either of the exceptions made by § 1460
of the Code, viz., (a) "Things subject to a specific tax,"--sugar not
being so subject; or (b) "Agricultural products when sold by the
producer or owner of the land where grown, or by any other
person other than a merchant or commission merchant, whether in
their original state or not,"--the producer there intended being the
grower and not the manufacturer. Pp. 216-217.
5. In the absence of express restriction, it may be assumed that a
term (here the term "merchant" in §§ 1459 and 1460) is used
throughout a statute in the same sense in which it is first defined.
P. 217.
6. That a party, if held liable to a sales tax under one section of
a code, may be liable in future to double taxation because of another section taxing gross receipts, is not persuasive in the construction of the first provision, where the two are in independent
sections, and the second was not made applicable to his business
until six years after the enactment of the first and until after his
suit was begun. P. 218.
Affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 590, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands which affirmed
a judgment against the Sugar Mills in its action against
the Collector of Internal Revenue of the Islands, to recover money paid under protest as taxes.
Mr. Louis Titus, with whom Messrs Quintin Paredes,
Felipe Buencamino, Jr., Oscar Sutro, and Jose Yulo were
on the brief, for petitioner.

PAMPANGA MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
211

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Win. Cattron Rigby, with whom Messrs Edward A.
Kreger, Judge Advocate General, U. S. A., and Delfin
Jaranilla, Attorney General of the Philippine Islands,
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE
Court.

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Pampanga Sugar Mills, the plaintiff below, was the
owner and operator of a sugar mill in the Philippine
Island. The business of the corporation consisted of milling sugar cane grown on lands owned and operated by
others. The cane was delivered to the corporation by its
owners under milling contracts which provided that the
corporation should receive, as compensation for milling,
one-half of the resulting centrifugal sugar, the other half
going to the owners of the cane. The half received by the
corporation was sold from time to time in the ordinary
course of trade. Upon sales so made in 1920, 1921 and
1922 a tax was assessed as on merchants' sales under § 1459
and § 1460 of Act No. 2711 of the Philippine Legislature,
known as the Administrative Code of 1917. Trinidad,
the defendant below, was the then Collector of Internal
Revenue of the Islands. The tax, which was one per cent
on the sales value of the sugar so produced and sold by the
corporation, amounted to 60,911.42 pesos.
The corporation claimed that its operations were not
within the purview of the statute; paid the tax under protest; and then brought this suit in the Court of First Instance at Manila to recover the amount. The question
presented was one solely of statutory construction. Is
the corporation a merchant within the meaning of the
law? The pertinent provisions of the statute are these:
"SEc. 1459. Percentage tax on merchants' sales.--All
merchants not herein specifically exempted shall pay a
tax of one per centum on the gross value in money of the
commodities, goods, wares and merchandise sold, bar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tered, exchanged, or consigned abroad by them, such tax
to be based on the actual selling price or value of the

things in question at the time they are disposed of or consigned, whether consisting of raw material or of manufactured or partially manufactured products, and whether

of domestic or foreign origin. The tax upon things consigned abroad shall be refunded upon satisfactory
proof of the return thereof to the Philippine Islands

unsold ...
"'Merchant,' as here used, means a person engaged in
the sale, barter or exchange of personal property of whatever character. Except as specially provided, the term includes manufacturers who sell articles of their own
production, and commission merchants having establishments of their own for the keeping and disposal of goods
of which sales or exchanges are effected, but does not
include merchandise brokers.
"§ 1460. Sales not subject to merchants' tax.-In computing the tax above imposed, transactions in the following commodities shall be excluded:
"(a) Things subject to a specific tax,
"(b) Agricultural products when sold by the producer
or owner of the land where grown, or by any other person
other than a merchant or commission merchant, whether
in their original state or not."
The trial court denied relief. Its judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Islands under the
following circumstances. The case was argued three
times and was before the court for three years. Throughout the period one judge was disqualified and the re.maining eight were equally divided. Under § 138 of the
Philippine &dministrative Code of 1917 the concurrence
of five judges is necessary for the pronouncement of a
judgment where there is no vacancy in the court; and
the amount in controversy exceeds 10,000 pesos. Thus,

PAMPANGA MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
211

Opinion of the Court.

in this case, the equal division of the appellate court did
not operate as an affirmance of the judgment below.
Finally, one of the four, who had been consistently of the
opinion that the corporation was not subject to the tax,
changed his vote and voted with the four who thought
the tax had been collected legally. He wrote, at the time
of doing so, an opinion in which he stated that he still
adhered to his original belief and that he changed his
vote solely in order to break the deadlock, and thereby
enable the corporation to apply to this Court for a review.
A writ of certiorari was granted. 278 U. S. 590. As the
amount in controversy exceeds $25,000, there is jurisdiction under § 7 of the Act of February 13, 1925,43 Stat. 936,
940. We are of opinion that the judgment should be
affirmed.
The corporation manufactured and sold the sugar.
Section 1459 declares that "except as specially provided,
the term [merchants] includes manufacturers who sell
articles of their own production." The exceptions are
provided in § 1460, and the corporation is not relieved by
either of them. The first is: " (a) Things subject to a
specific tax." Sugar confessedly is not. The second exception is: " (b) Agricultural products when sold by the
producer or owner of the land where grown, or by any
other person other than a merchant or commission merchant, whether in their original state or not." Exception
(b) affords no immunity to the corporation. Sugar cane
is an "agricultural product "and the grower would doubtless have immunity on the sale of his half of the sugar
made therefrom provided he sold it himself or through
someone other than a merchant (including the manufacturer) or a commission merchant. But the corporation
could, in no event, have immunity on the sale of its own
half of the sugar; because it is a merchant within the express terms of § 1459-and its sugar is not within either

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

exception made by § 1460. Such would seem to be the
natural reading of the statute. To overcome it several
contentions are made.
First. It is contended that the sugar, although physically manufactured by the corporation, was legally manufactured by the grower, the corporation being merely a
servant hired by the grower to perform the-service; that
therefore the corporation is not included in the class taxed
of "manufacturers who sell articles of their own production"; and that the fact that the compensation was paid
in sugar instead of in cash is immaterial. The corporation
is in no sense a servant. It is an independent concerna contractor. But even if it could be deemed a servant
of the producer of the cane, this view would not aid the
corporation. It is taxed not on sugar owned by the
grower, but on sugar which it acquired and then sold on
its own account. The nature of the transaction by which
the corporation acquired the sugar is not of legal significance. The tax is solely on the sale. If the sugar be
deemed to have been bought by the corporation and then
sold, it was a merchant in the common acceptation of
the term. If it is treated as a manufacturer of sugar for
hire, it is liable under the express provision of the statute
which declares that, for the purpose of the tax, the manufacturer shall be deemed a merchant.
Second. It is contended that the clause in § 1459 that
"except as specially provided, the terrn [merchants,] includes manufacturers who sell articles of their own production" does not mean to include all manufacturers who
do so, but only those whose main business is selling what
they buy. No basis is shown for imposing such a limitation upon the plain words of the statute; nor is it shown
why this corporation is in respect to the sugar sold in any
different position from one who manufactures sugar from
cane bought for cash. A concern which sold only sugar
which it had manufactured from cane which it bought for

PAMPANGA MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
211

Opinion of the Court.

cash would clearly be within the terms of the statute; and
no reason is suggested why a concern which manufactures only sugar which it received in exchange for services--and thus acquired by barter-should not be. The
corporation was as much engaged in the business of selling
sugar as it was in the business of manufacturing it. If
it had obtained the sugar by a purchase for cash, it would
confessedly have been liable to the tax. If getting the
sugar in exchange for the service performed in grinding
the other half of the cane for the grower be deemed a
barter, the corporation would under the terms of the
statute likewise be liable.
Third. It is contended that even if the sales by the
corporation would be taxable under § 1459, if that section
stood alone, they are specifically exempted by § 1460, because sugar is an "agricultural product" and was sold
by "the producer" within clause (b), which excludes from
the tax "agricultural products when sold by the producer
or owner of the land where grown, or by any other person
other than a merchant or commission merchant, whether
in their original state or not." Centrifugal sugar may
well be considered an agricultural product, but he who
produces it, is the agriculturist-the grower-not the
manufacturer. That the word "producer" is used in
§ 1460 in this restrictive sense is made clear by the alternative exemption granted to the "owner of the land
where grown." In Allen v. Smith, 173 U. S. 389, 399,
this Court, while holding that under the particular statute
before it there was no legal distinction made between
"manufacturer " and "producer," observed that the latter term "is more commonly used to denote a person who
raises agricultural crops and puts them in a condition for
the market."
Fourth. It is contended that centrifugal sugar being an
agricultural product, its sale is exempted from the tax by
§ 1460 unless made by "a merchant or commission merchant," and that § 1460, unlike § 1459, does not provide

OCIOBER TERM, 1928.

218

Syllabus.

279 U. S.

that a manufacturer shall be deemed a merchant. There
is nothing in § 1459 to suggest that the definition of
merchant there given is only to obtain for that section.
The two sections were parts of the same statute. They
are not to be treated as unrelated enactments. In the
absence of express restriction it may be assumed that a
term is used throughout a statute in the same sense in
which it is first defined. It is urged that if the legislature
had intended the word to have the same meaning in both
sections, it would not have added" commission merchant"
in § 1460, as it had defined merchant as including commission merchant in § 1459. The fact that "commission
merchant" is repeated in § 1460, does not show that the
word "merchant"
is used in the two sections with
different meanings.
Fifth. Finally the corporation urges that if it be held
liable under §§ 1459 and 1460 for these taxes, which were
assessed and paid in 1920, 1921 and 1922, sugar centrals
will hereafter be subject to double taxes; since in March,
1923, § 1462-an entirely different section of the Code
which imposes a one per cent tax on the gross receipts of
public utilities, hotels, restaurant keepers, dress-makers
and others-was amended by inserting the words "sugar
centrals." This argument is not persuasive as to the construction to be given to the Act of 1917. The amendment
was enacted six years later than the Act here in question
and six months after this action was begun.
Affirmed.
RIEHLE, RECEIVER, v. MARGOLIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 347.

Argued March 1, 5, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The appointment by a federal court of a receiver on a creditor's
bill gives no right to stay a suit against the debtor then pending in
a state court; and a judgment in personam thereafter recovered

