560

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

judgment and mandate the Court of Appeals departed
from the limits of admissible discretion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTCE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE SToz took
no part in the consideration or decision of this

ase.

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. ALABAMA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 568. Argued April 24, 25, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.
Where a carrier, having discontinued some of its interstate trains
without first applying to the state commission, under Ala. Code
(1923) § 9713, for permission to abandon the intrastate service
which they had furnished, applied to the federal court for an injunction against infliction of heavy penalties prescribed by the
statute, claiming that to deny the right to discontinue without
such permission would violate the commerce clause of the Constitution and that to require reinstatement of the service without prior
hearing would violate due process; and where the admitted facts
made it clear that no constitutional right would have been impaired or serious financial loss incurred by applying first to the
commission and that there had been no emergency requiring
immediate action, Held:
1. That the carrier should not have discontinued the intrastate
service without applying to the commission for permission. P. 563.
2. That its discontinuance of the intrastate service without such
application does not justify exposing it and its officers and employees to the statutory penalties. Id.
3. The Commission should give the carrier an opportunity to
present facts and, if the application is made promptly, should
determine the matter without subjecting the carrier to any prejudice because of its failure to apply earlier. Id.
4. To this end a decree denying a preliminary injunction should
be vacated and a restraining order be kept in force, leaving the

ST. LOUIS &c. R. CO. v. PUBLIC COMM'N.
560

561

Opinion of the Court.

case open for further proceedings in the District Court if the
commission should insist on having the intrastate service restored.
P. 563.
27 F. (2d) 893, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court which denied
an interlocutory injunction in a suit by the Railway
against the above-named commission and divers Alabama
officials.

Mr. Forney Johnston, with whom Messrs. E. T. Miller,
E. H. Cabaniss,and W. R. C. Cocke were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. J. Q. Smith, Special Assistant Attorney General of
Alabama, with whom Mr. Charlie C. McCall, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 9713 of the Code of Alabama (1923) prohibits
a railroad from abandoning "any portion of its service
to the public . . . unless and until, there shall first have
been obtained from the [Public Service] Commission a
permit allowing such abandonment." Very severe penalties, including punishment of officers, agents and employees, are prescribed in case the abandonment is willful. ,qh§ 9730, 9731, 5350, 5399. Without obtaining such
permission or applying therefor, the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway discontinued two interstate trains by means
of which it had long furnished intrastate service between
several cities and towns in Alabama. Then it brought, in
the federal court for the Middle District of that State, this
suit against the Commission, the Attorney General and
other officials, to enjoin the commencement of proceedings to enforce the penalties prescribed. An application
for an interlocutory injunction, heard before three judges
45228-29-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

under § 266, was denied, 27 Fed. (2d) 893. A restraining
order, issued upon the filing of the bill, was continued in
force pending the determination of this appeal.
The bill alleges that the operation of the interstate
trains by which the intrastate service had long been furnished had involved the carrier in losses; that the service
still furnished by other trains is adequate to supply the reasonable needs of the communities; that, upon learning of
the discontinuance of the service, the Commision demanded
that it be restored, without first hearing the carrier; that
if § 9713 is construed as requiring the carrier to obtain
the Commission's permission before discontinuing intrastate service rendered by means of an interstate train,
or as prohibiting such discontinuance although an unreasonable burden is thereby imposed upon the carrier, the
statute violates the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution; that if construed as requiring, without a prior
hearing, reinstatement of the service so discontinued, it
violates also the due process clause; and that the matter
in controversy exceeds the jurisdictional amount. The
prayers are for an injunction against enforcing any penalty for discontinuance of the service or for failure to
reinstate the same; and for a declaration that the statute,
if construed as stated, is void under the federal Constitution. The answer denies many of the allegations of the
bill.
The Railway contends that it had no way of testing the
constitutionality of the statute, otherwise than by this
suit. It urges that if it had applied to the Commission
for permission to discontinue the service, it would have
thereby recognized its jurisdiction; and that since the
Commission did not before directing reinstatement of the
service issue any order to the carrier to appear, there was
no action by the Commission which could form the basis

ST. LOUIS &c. R. CO. v. PUBLIC COMM'N.
560

563

Opinion of the Court.

for a review in courts of the State. We have no occasion
to consider the issues of fact or to determine whether the
Alabama statute if construed as suggested is obnoxious to
the Federal Constitution. Upon facts admitted it is clear
that the carrier should not have discontinued the intrastate service without first applying to the Commission
for permission. No constitutional right could have been
prejudiced by so doing. No emergency existed requiring
immediate action. And no serious financial loss would
have been incurred by the slight delay involved. Western
& Atlantic R. R. v. Georgia Public Service Commission,
267 U. S. 493, 496; Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco
Ry. Co., 274 U. S. 588, 595.
The past failure of the Railway to apply for leave to
discontinue the service does not, however, justify exposing
it, and its officers and employees, to the severe penalties
prescribed by the statute. It may be that, upon full presentation of the facts, the Commission would find that to
continue the service would subject the carrier to an unreasonable burden; or the carrier may suggest some satisfactory substitute for the specific service now demanded of
it. The Commission should give to the Railway the opportunity of presenting the facts; and if an application is
made promptly, the matter should be determined by the
Commission without subjecting the Railway to any prejudice because of its failure to ask leave before discontinuing
the service. Compare Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co., 278 U. S. 228. To this end the decree will
be vacated; and the restraining order will be continued.
Compare Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, post, p. 813. If after
such hearing the Commission insists that the service objected to be restored, further proceedings appropriate to
the situation may be had in the cause in the District
Court.
Decree vacated.

