U. S. v. AM. LIVESTOCK CO.
Syllabus.

429

Pacific R. R. Co. v. Danuser, 6 S. W. (2d) 907. The title
of the present act satisfies these requirements. One having but slight familiarity with earlier Missouri legislation
would have known that upon the enactment of legislation dealing with corporations having a non-par stock,
some method of assigning a value to such stock might
appropriately be adopted in order to adapt and subject
the new type of corporation to existing legislation. This
purpose was plainly and sufficiently anticipated in the title
of the present act. It was not necessary that the title
should go further and indicate the earlier laws which
were thus made applicable to the new type of corporation.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS thinks the effect of the
statute is to tax property beyond the state.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIVESTOCK

COMMISSION COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 513.

Argued March 5, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.

1. A boycott of one by others of the dealers or market agencies on a
live-stock exchange may be an unfair practice within the meaning
of the Packers & Stockyards Act. P. 436.
2. Though part of the dealings of a duly registered co-operative market agency may have been ultra vires, the maintenance of a general
boycott against it on this account by other associations is not
justified; and, under the Packers and Stockyards Act, the Secretary of Agriculture has authority to order the discontinuance of the
discriminatory practice, to the extent at least that it applied to the
legitimate business of the complainant. P. 437.
3. A co-operative association organized under the state laws and
found by the Secretary of Agriculture to be duly registered as a
market agency under the Packers & Stock-yards Act is within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

protection of that Act, fiotwithstanding that its powers are limited
to the handling of the live-stock of its members. P. 438.
28 F. (2d) 63, reversed.
APPEAL by the United States from a decree of a District Court of three judges, which granted an injunction
restraining the enforcement of an order of the Secretary
of Agriculture requiring the discontinuance by respondents of a boycott of the Producers Commission Association at the Oklahoma National Stockyards.

Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Assistant to the
Attorney General Donovan and Mr. H. B. Teegarden,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. C. E. Hall, with whom Mr. Fred E. Suits was on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTcIC
Court.

HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the

This is a proceeding under the Packers & Stockyards
Act, 1921, Act of August 15, 1921, c. 64, § 316, 42 Stat. 159,
168. U. S. Code, Title 7, § 217. The American Livestock
Association and others seek an injunction against the
carrying out of an order of the Secretary of Agriculture
requiring them to discontinue a boycott by which they
refused dealings with the Producers Commission Association at the Oklahoma National Stock Yards. A District Court of three judges granted the injunction. 28 F.
(2d) 63. The United States appealed.
The Secretary found the existence of the boycott, the
persistent refusal to buy or sell live stock from or to the
Producers Commission Association, and that the American Livestock Association and its fellow conspirators
thereby restrained commerce and discriminated unfairly
against the Producers Commission Association contrary

U. S. v. AM. LIVESTOCK CO.
435

Opinion of the Court.

to the statute. The appellees urge that there is nothing
to prevent their dealing or-refusing to deal with whom
they choose. But we think that it does not need argument to show that a boycott of a dealer in a stockyard
may be an unfair practice under the Act as it is found to
have been in this case. Eastern States Retail Lumber
Dealers' Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600. We
pass at once to the only real question in debate.
The Producers Commission Association is a co6perative association for mutual help under the laws of Oklahoma and is forbidden to "handle the agricultural or
horticultural product of any non-member except for storage." It is agreed that "the record contains no evidence
as to whether the live stock which the Producers Commission Association bought or sold or attempted to buy
or sell upon the Oklahoma City Stockyards was or was not
the live stock of its members." It is said so far as appears all the sales were ultra vires and that the appellees
should not be enjoined from refusing to coSperate in an illegal act. But apart from the presumption that the corporation was acting only within its powers and from the
burden resting on the doer of a prima facie illegal act,
the boycott, to justify it, we agree with the Government
that it would be absurd to suppose that a coperative society organized for the special purpose of aiding its members should confine its business to the illegal sale of the
products of non-members. If not all, we must assume
that some at least of its business was legitimate and that
to some extent it might sell live stock that its members
produced. But the boycott was general, intended it would
seem to drive the Producers Commission Association out
of business. That association was a competitor of the
appellees and the suggestion that it was acting ultra vires
sounds like an afterthought and cannot be supposed to
have been the motive for the act. It is said that motive
does not matter, but motive may be very material when

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

it is sought to justify what until justified is a wrong.
But, whatever the motive, nothing is shown or suggested
by the evidence to justify the general boycott that the
Secretary's order forbade. The Secretary's order should
be enforced, but without prejudice to the right of the appellees to refuse to deal with the Producers Commission
Association in matters beyond its power.
A suggestion was made that the last named association
was not within the protection of the Act of Congress.
We see nothing in the limitation of its powers to prevent
it, the statute seems to recognize it, § 306 (f), and the
corporation was found by the Secretary to be a market
agency duly registered as such.
Decree reversed.
EX PARTE BAKELITE CORPORATION.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION.

No. 17 Original. Argued January 2, 3, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.
1. The power of this Court to issue a writ of prohibition need not be
determined in a case where, assuming the power to exist, there is no
basis for exercising it. P. 448.
2. Article III of the Constitution does not express the full authority
of Congress to create courts. Other Articles invest Congress with
powers in the exertion of which it may create inferior courts and
clothe them with functions deemed essential or helpful in carrying
these powers into execution. P. 449.
3. Courts established under the specific power given in § 2 of Article
III are called constitutional courts. They share in the exercise of
the judicial power defined in that section, can be invested with no
other jurisdiction, and have judges who hold office during good
behavior, with no power in Congress to provide otherwise. Id.
4. Courts created by Congress in the exertion of other powers are
called legislative courts. Their functions always are directed to the
execution of one or more of such powers and are prescribed by
Congress independently of § 2 of Article III; and their judges hold
for such term as Congress prescribes, whether it be a fixed period
of years or during good behavior. Id.

