ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
125

Syllabus.

372, 375; Producers' TransportationCo. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 228, 232.
At the bar counsel for the appellant expressed some
anxiety lest the Commission might not accept the interpretation put on the order in question by the Supreme
Court of the State, and for that reason he asked that we
interpret the order independently. But the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State is conclusive on us as to
the interpretation of the order, that being a state question; and counsel for the Commission announced at the
bar that the Commission regarded that decision as binding
on them. Thus it is apparent that an independent interpretation by us of the Commission's order cannot and
ought not to be attempted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.
ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 364. Argued March 6, 1929.--Decided April 8, 1929.
1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands based
upon a construction of an Act of the Philippine Legislature, which
construction was in turn based upon a construction of the Organic
Act, is reviewable by this Court under § 7 of the Act of Congress
of February 13, 1925, providing that a certiorari may issue to that
court in any case "wherein the Constitution or any statute or
treaty of the United States is involved." P. 142.
2. The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the power of the
Governor General of the Philippines to remove, suspend or transfer
justices of the peace and to merge their districts, is intended for
the prevention of abuses of their offices resulting from the ease
with which their authority lends itself to the creation of caciques,
or local bosses, exercising oppressive control over ignorant neighborhoods. P. 147.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

3. Act No. 2768 of the Philippine Legislature, amending § 206 of
the Administrative Code by providing "that in case the public interest requires it, a justice of the peace of one municipality may be
transferred to another," intends, as its legislative history provee,
that such transfer may be made by the Governor General without
the advice and consent of the Philippine Senate. P. 147.
4. In view of the plenary legislative powers of the Philippine Legislature respecting justices of the peace, this provision is valid, as
applied to a justice of the peace whose appointment was made by
the Governor General, and confirmed by. the Senate, after its
enactment. P. 148.
5. The principle of preserving the independence of the judiciary applies less strictly to justices of the peace than to judges of superior
court jurisdiction. P. 150.'
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 593, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands ousting the
present petitioner from his office as justice of the peace of
the municipality of Angat, Province of Bulacan, and placing the respondent in possession of it.
Mr. Win. Cattron Rigby, with whom Messrs. John A.
Hull, Judge Advocate General, U. S. A., and Delfin Jaranilla, Attorney General of the Philippine Islands, were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry J. Richardson, with whom Messrs. Harold
R. Young and Pedro Guevaro were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a certiorari to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, to bring here for review an order of ouster
in quo warranto brought by Bonifacio Nicolas against
Severino Alberto to test the right of Alberto to hold the
office of justice of the peace of the town of Angat, province
of Bulacan, in those Islands. The issue is the legal right

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
139

Opinion of the Court.

of the Governor-General to transfer a justice of the peace
from one municipality to another without the consent of
the Philippine Senate.
After issue made, the parties, through their counsel,
signed a stipulation of facts, from which it appears that
on Febr.uary 9, 1920, the plaintiff was appointed a justice
of the peace of Angat, Bulacan, by the Governor-General
with the advice and consent of the Philippine Senate; that
he qualified, took possession, and exercised the office on
and since February 14, 1920, up to August 19, 1927, when
he was forced to surrender its possession to the defendant.
On February 28, 1918, the defendant was appointed justice of the peace of San Jos6 del Monte, Bulacan, by the
Governor-General, with the advice and consent of the
Senate; he qualified for and exercised the office since then
up to August 19, 1027, when, pursuant to an order transferring him to the office of justice of the peace of Angat,
Bulacan, he exercised, and has since exercised, the latter
office. There was a proceeding by the municipal president
of Angat against the plaintiff, which was investigated by
the Judge of First Instance of Bulacan, resulting in a report which disclosed unsatisfactory conditions and political partisanship, but with which the president of Angat was
not content because the plaintiff was not removed. The
matter was appealed to the Secretary of Justice. Thereafter, on July 2, 1927, the Governor-General transferred the
plaintiff from Angat to San Jos6 del Monte, and also transferred the defendant to the municipality of Angat. There
were protests by plaintiff against the transfer, and applications by him for reconsideration; and, finally, through
proceedings before the Court of First Instance of Bulacan,
the plaintiff yielded up his office under protest, on August
19, 1927, and since that time the defendant has exercised
the office of justice of the peace of Angat, excluding the
plaintiff therefrom.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

The Supreme Court, after the hearing, rendered an
opinion by a vote of six judges to three, granting against
Alberto a judgment of ouster, to which an application for
certiorari to this Court has been duly made and granted.
278 U. S. 593.
Our jurisdiction in this case is questioned. The Act of
February 13, 1925, § 7, c. 229, 43 Stat. 940, provides that a
certiorari may be issued by this Court to the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in any case " wherein the
Constitution or any statute or treaty of the United States
is involved." The effect of the Philippine Organic Act
of Congress, approved August 29, 1916, by § 21, c. 416,
39 Stat. 545, 552, is that an appointment of a justice of the
peace by the Governor-General must be consented to by
the Senate of the Islands. Section 206 of the Philippine
Administrative Code of 1917, as amended by Act 2768,
approved March 5, 1918, enacts a proviso that " in case
the public interest requires it, a justice of the peace of one
municipality may be transferred to another." The point
in question is whether that proviso is to be construed as
impliedly requiring the consent of the Philippine Senate
to the transfer, or whether it was intended to avoid that
necessity.
In reaching the conclusion that the proviso of § 206, as
properly construed, required the consent of the Senate, the
Supreme Court used these words:
"The body of the section sanctions the holding of office
by justices of the peace during good behavior. The proviso qualifies this by providing 'That in case the public
interest requires it, a justice of the peace of one municipality may be transferred to another.' At once it is noted
that the law is silent as to the office or entity which may
make the transfer. The law does not say may be transferred 'by the Governor-General.' The insertion of the
words 'by the Philippine Senate' would be as justifiable.

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
139

Opinion of the Court.

The more reasonable inference, indeed the only possible
legal inference permissible without violating the constitution, is that the justice of the peace may be transferred by
the exercise of the appointing power, and the appointing
power consists of the Governor-General acting in conjunction with the Philippine Senate."
In other words, the interpretation that the court gives
to the amended law, with the proviso, depends clearly
on what the court calls the Constitution, that is, on the
Organic Act, and therefore, even if its construction of the
proviso of § 206 could be sustained, it still involved the
Organic Act. We have jurisdiction.
In order to understand the scope of this case, we should
point out that the Organic Act provided, by §§ 6,7, 8 and
12, that the laws then in force in the Philippines were to
remain in effect, except as altered by the Act itself, until
altered, amended or repealed by the legislative authority
provided in the Act, or by an Act of Congress; that the
legislative authority therein provided had power, when
not inconsistent with the Act, to amend, alter, modify
or repeal any law, civil or criminal, continued in force by
the Act as it might see fit; and that the general legislative
powers in the Philippines, except as otherwise provided
in the Act, were vested in the Philippine Legislature, consisting of an Assembly and a Senate.
Section 21 provided that the Governor-General of the
Philippines should be the supreme executive power in the
Philippines, and that he should, unless otherwise provided in the Act, appoint, by and with the consent of the
Senate, such officers as might then be appointed by the
Governor-General, or such as he was authorized by that
Act to appoint, or whom he might thereafter be authorized by law to appoint; that he should have general supervision and control of all the departments and bureaus
of the government in the Philippine Islands as far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, and that
he should be responsible for the faithful execution of the
laws of the Philippine Islands and of the United States
operative within those Islands; that all executive functions of the government must be directly under the Governor-General, or within one of the executive departments
under the supervision and control of the Governor-General. Springer v. PhilippineIslands, 277 U. S. 189.
After the passage of the Organic Act of 1916, it became
necessary to revise the Administrative Code so as to make
it conform to the Organic Act, and it is that Code of 1917,
with such amendments as have been made by the Legislature, that is now the existing law.
In the Administrative Code of 1916, Act No. 2657, approved February 24, 1916, effective July 1, 1916, provision
was made for the appointment and distribution of the
justices of the peace as follows:
"Sec. 235. Appointment and distribution of justices
of the peace.-One justice of the peace and one auxiliary
justice of the peace shall be appointed by the Governor
General for the city of Manila, the city of Baguio, and for
each municipality, township, and municipal district in the
Philippine Islands.
"Sec. 238. Tenure of office.-A justice of the peace
having the requisite legal qualifications shall hold office
during good behavior, unless his office be lawfully abolished or merged in the jurisdiction of some other justice."
Except for the elimination of the provision for justices
of the peace in Manila, these sections were reenacted without change in §§ 203 and 206 of the Revised Code of 1917,
which also required the consent of the Philippine Senate
to the appointment of officers. Section 206 of the 1917
Code was amended by Act No. 2768, approved March 5,
1918, which added to it the proviso now in question in
this suit, and its title was also correspondingly changed,
so that the section now reads:

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
139

145

Opinion of the Court.

"Sec. 206. Tenure of office-transfer from one municipality to another.-A justice of the peace having the
requisite legal qualifications shall hold office during good
behavior unless his office be lawfully abolished or merged
in the jurisdiction of some other justice: Provided, That
in case the public interest requires it, a justice of the peace
of one municipality may be transferred to another."
Other pertinent provisions of the Revised Code in force
when respondent Nicolas was appointed a justice of the
peace, and still in force, are:
Sections 220 and 221 provide for salaries of justices of
the peace in municipalities of the first class, second class,
third class and fourth class, in other places not now specially provided for by law, and in provincial capitals.
Section 222 provides for payment of the salaries of justices of the peace out of insular funds.
Section 228 provides that the judges of the courts of
first instance shall at all times exercise a supervision over
the justices of the peace within their respective districts,
and shall keep themselves informed of the manner in
which these justices perform their duties, and during the
first five days of the fiscal year the justices shall forward
to the judges of their respective districts a report concerning the business done in their courts for the previous
year.
Section 229 provides that if at any time the judge of
first instance has reason to believe that a justice of the
peace is not performing his duties properly, or if complaints are made which, if true, would indicate that the
justice is unfit for office, he shall make such investigation
of the same as the circumstances may seem to him to warrant, and may, for good cause, reprimand the justice, or
may recommend to the Governor-General his removal
from office, or his removal and disqualification from holding office, and may suspend him from office pending
action by the Governor-General. The Governor-General
45228'

-

29-

10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion o? the Court.

279 U. S.

may, upon such recommendation or on his own motion,
remove from office any justice of the peace or auxiliary
justice of the peace.
Section 203, the first half of which has already been
quoted, further provides:
"Upon the recommendation of the Department Head,
the territorial jurisdiction of any justice and auxiliary
justice of the peace may be made to extend over any
number of municipalities, townships, municipal districts,
or other minor political divisions or places not included in
the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace already appointed; and upon like recommendation of the Department Head, the Governor-General may combine the offices
of justices of the peace for two or more such jurisdictions
already established, and may appoint to the combined
jurisdiction one justice of the peace and one auxiliary justice, at a salary not to exceed the total of the salaries of
the combined positions."
And, following this, § 204 provides:
"When a new political division affecting the territorial
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace is formed or the
boundaries limiting the same are changed, the GovernorGeneral, may, in the absence of special provision, designate which of the justices and auxiliary justices within the
territory affected by the change shall continue in office;
and the powers of any others therein shall cease."
It is to be observed that the Legislature of the Philippines made legislative provision for as close observation of
the conduct of justices of the peace as is practicable. They
are not like justices of the peace in this country, generally
elected by the people. They are selected by the GovernorGeneral and occupy positions of considerable power in
these local communities, and exercise a control in the remote districts that makes it of the highest importance
that they should be closely under the discipline of the chief
executive. They are judicial officers, it is true, but these

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
139

Opinion of the Court.

provisions indicate how marked a difference there is and
must be between the justices of the peace under our system and that of the Philippines. With respect to this
matter we may take judicial notice that while the justices
of the peace are to be treated as an important force for the
preservation of local order and the administration of police
court justice, they are subject to restraint by the Governor-General to prevent the abuses of their offices by the
ease with which such local official authority lends itself
in the Islands to the creation of caciques or local bosses
exercising oppressive control over ignorant neighborhoods.
This is the reason why their conduct is not only to be
closely inquired into by the courts of first instance, but
also why the Governor-General is given absolute power
of removal or suspension, and the enlargement or restriction of their districts by merging them, and now in this
last amendment, by rearranging their jurisdictions by
transfer in the public interest.
The objection now is made that while, through the
Governor-General, the districts under existing justices of
the peace may be merged, combined, increased or decreased, an existing justice of the peace may not be transferred from one district to another, unless there is a new
appointment of a justice with a new consent by the
Senate.
This brings us to a consideration of the proper construction of the proviso of § 206 here in question. This proviso
was the result of an amendment by § 1 of Act No. 2768
in February, 1918. The original bill was Senate Bill
No. 163, providing that § 206 of the Administrative Code
be amended by adding the proviso, "that a justice of the
peace of one municipality may be transferred to another
when the government deems it wise." An amendment was
offered in the Philippine Senate adding thereto the words,
"provided further that his appointment by virtue of the
transfer be confirmed by the Senate." With this amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ment the bill passed the Senate. When the bill came to
the House, the House Committee recommended that the
amendment made in the Senate be dropped. It so passed
the House, and was then, on February 8, 1918, submitted
to the Senate, and the amendment of the House was
accepted. A purpose on the part of the Legislature to
eliminate from such a transfer the consent of the Senate
could hardly be more clearly established.
The majority of the Supreme Court seems to think
otherwise. It is sufficient to say that its suggested implication that the consent of the Senate was to be retained,
although express provision for it was expressly stricken
out, is not convincing. Nor is the significance attached
by the majority of the Supreme Court to the silence of the
proviso as to the person intended to make the transfer at
all iinpressive. Nor will the suggestion that tfhe Philippine Senate alone might be intended to make the transfer
suffice. The history of the legislation as well as the general trend of it with reference to the powers of the Governor-General in the discipline of justices of the peace, their
suspension, their removal, the current extension of their
jurisdiction by him pending their incumbency, all are
convincing that, however invalid the exclusion of the Senate from the consent to the transfer, the purpose of the
Legislature was certainly intended to effect that very
result.
This brings us therefore to the final issue-whether the
consent was necessary to the transfer, even though the
Senate and the House, acting together as the Legislature,
eliminated it by the proviso. It is to be borne in mind
that we are dealing with the Philippine Legislature, which
has full power to make legislative provision for the appointment of justices of the peace, to provide for their
duties, for the payment of their salaries, for their removal, their suspenson, their jurisdiction, and the changes
in their jurisdiction, and to vest in the Governor-General,

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
139

Opinion of the Court.

as the executive, the exercise of the powers it thus creates,
or indeed to abolish justices of the peace and substitute
some other system. To take a possible example. Suppose that the Philippine Legislature had created the office
of justice of the peace, had provided that the GovernorGeneral should appoint forty justices of the peace for
certain described districts in the Philippines, and had directed that the Governor-General should designate for
them their districts, but that he might change the designation originally fixed by him for their distribution as the
public benefit required. It seems to us clear that this
would be quite within the power of the Legislature and
that the Senate, by consenting to the appointment of each
appointee, would be held legally to have confirmed his
appointment, not only to act as justice of the peace under
his first designation, but would have given him the right
to continue to exercise his powers conferred by law in any
other district to which he might be transferred, because the
Senate would have had full notice as to the powers which
he could enjoy and must be held to have consented to his
exercise of those broader powers without further consideration and revision. This is the same case. When
the Senate confirmed Severino Alberto to be a justice of
the peace for San Jos6 del Monte, § 206, with the proviso,
was in force; and when the Senate confirmed him it confirmed him with the knowledge of the possibility declared
in the law that his powers and his functions as a justice
of the peace, upon designation of the Governor-General,
might be performed and exercised in another jurisdiction,
if the Governor-General should think it wise in the public
interest in his regulation of the conduct of justices of the
peace. There is no such necessary difference between the
duties of a justice of the peace in one part of the Islands
and those to be performed in another part as to make such
enlargement or change of his jurisdiction, already provided for in existing law, unreasonably beyond the scope

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S

of the consent to the original appointment. Such an extension of his duties is of the same kind as those, provided
before the proyiso was enacted, in respect to the merging
of districts, their enlargement, or their combination by
uniting one district with another under the existing justice of the peace. See Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282, 301; Southern Pacific Co. v. Bartine, 170 Fed.
725, 748.
It is constantly to be borne in mind that this whole subject matter, in respect to the institution of justices of the
peace as part of the government structure in the Philippines, is wholly within the control of the Legislature. If
what they provide results in greater control by the Governor-General than is wise, the Legislature may repeal the
provisions tomorrow and substitute some other limitations.
Some general observations- were made by the Supreme
Court with reference to the necessity of maintaining the
independence of the judiciary, and expressions of opinion
that this independence should be preserved strictly as it
should be with respect to judges of superior court jurisdiction. It has always been recognized that justices of
the peace, even in our system, are of less importance in
the judiciary, and must be made to conform to greater
regulation, than the judges of higher courts. Capital
Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1, 17, 38. Justices of the
peace are judicial officers, it is true, but they are much
to be differentiated from judges of the courts of record.
We do not think, therefore, that the case of Borromeo v.
Mariano, 41 Phil. 322, with reference to the transfer and
removal of a judge of the court of first instance, has application here.
The judgment is reversed.

