KIRK v. PROVIDENCE MILL CO.
797

Syllabus.

The grant was of water to be taken from the river near
the entrance to the canal. Appellee admits that of itself
the grant imposed no obligation on the state to continue
the canal in use. The only claim made by appellee under
this grant is of the right to have the specified amount of
water come to it through the canal so long as it is maintained as such. Consequently, appellee has no right under
this grant, apart from the right claimed under its leases,
to have the state maintain the canal, which latter we find
to be non-existent, and we need not decide what effect in
other respects, if any, the Act of 1927 had upon the grant.
The decree below will be reversed, but the decree to be
entered will be without prejudice to the rights of appellee
against the City of Toledo under the Ohio statute of January 22, 1920, and under the conveyance to the City of
Toledo made pursuant to it, and without prejudice to the
rights of appellee under the final decree of the District
Court for Northern Ohio, entered on the mandate of the
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in the suit entitled
Maumee Valley Electric Company v. The City of Toledo,
et al.
Reversed.
KIRK, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
ET AL. v. THE PROVIDENCE MILL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 675.

Argued April 26, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

A grant of the right to use surplus water from a state canal, held
subject to the right of the State to abandon the canal and devote
it to other purposes-on the authority of Kirk v. Maumee Valley
Co., ante, p. 797. P. 809.

Reversed.

808

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

from a final decree of the District Court of three
enjoining
the appellants from interfering with
judges
the .flow of water in part of a canal in such manner as to
infringe certain water rights claimed by .the appellee.
APPEAL

Mr. Gilbert Bettman, Attorney General of Ohio, with
whom Messrs. L. F. Laylin, Joseph A. Godown, and Leroy
W. Hunt were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Karl E. Burr, with whom Messrs. U. G. Denman
and T. W. Christianwere on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STowE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a direct appeal, under ยง 266 of the Judicial Code,
from a final decree, following an interlocutory decree, of
a district court of three judges for southern Ohio, enjoining appellants, the state director of highways, the superintendent of public works of Ohio, and county commissioners, from draining or otherwise interfering with the flow of
water in a section of the Miami & Erie Canal, in such
manner as to interfere with the rights of appellee to take
surplus water under a grant from the state to appellee's
predecessor in interest. The questions presented are the
same as those in No. 674, Kirk v. Maumee Valley Electric
Company, ante, p. 797, decided this day, the only difference being in the nature of the grant under which appellee
derives its rights to the water.
The grant here involved is embraced in an indenture
of September 1, 1842, between the commissioner of the
Board of Public Works and one Minor, as readjusted on
February 23, 1846. By it Minor, a riparian owner, released and quit claimed to the state all claims against it
arising out of the use and occupation by the state of
water from the Maumee River and of lands used in the
construction and operation of the Wabash & Erie canal,

KIRK v. PROVIDENCE MILL CO.
807

Opinion of the Court.

now the Miami & Erie. This release was made in consideration of a perpetual grant by the state, made after the
passage of the Act of March 23, 1840, 38 0. L. 87, discussed
at length in our opinion in No. 674, Kirk v. Maumee Valley Electric Company, supra. By the grant the state
sold and conveyed a specified quantity of water "except
when otherwise necessary for the navigation of the canal" and the contract as readjusted was similarly restricted. The grant was subject to the limitations of the
Statute of 1840, and the rights conferred under it did not,
for present purposes, differ from those considered in
No. 674. They were likewise subject to the reserved
power of the state to abandon the canal and devote it to
other purposes, which was exercised by the Act of the
Ohio Legislature of May 11, 1927, 112 Ohio Laws 350,
for the reasons discussed at length in No. 674, and equally
applicable here, the judgment below is
Reversed.

