THE POCKET VETO CASE.
644

Syllabus.

thought-not free thought for those who agree with us

but freedom for the thought that we hate. I think that
we should adhere to that principle with regard to admission into, as well as to life within this country. And
recurring to the opinion that bars this applicant's way, I
would suggest that the Quakers have done their share
to make the country what it is, that many citizens agree
with the applicant's belief and that I had not supposed
hitherto that we regretted our inability to expel them
because they believe more than some of us do in the
teachings of the Sermon on the Mount.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this

MR. JUSTICE

SANFORD,

opinion.

dissenting.

I agree, in substance, with the views expressed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and think its decree should be
affirmed.
THE POCKET VETO CASE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 565.

Argued March 11, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. Under the second clause in § 7 of Article I of the Constitution, a
bill which is passed by both Houses of Congress during the first
regular session of a particular Congress and presented to the President less than ten days (Sundays excepted) before the adjournment of that session, but is neither signed by the President nor
returned by him to the House in which it originated, does not
become a law. P. 672.
2. The Constitution in giving the President a qualified negative over
legislation-commonly called a veto-entrusts him with an authority and imposes upon him an obligation that are of the highest
* The docket title of this case is The Okanogan, Methow, San Poelis

(or San Poil), Nespelem, Colville, and Lake Indian Tribes or Bands
of the State of Washington v. United States.

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

importance, in the execution of which it is made his duty not only
to sign bills that he approves in order that they may become law,
but to return bills that he disapproves, with his objections, in
order that they may be reconsidered by Congress. P. 677.
3. The faithful and effective exercise of this duty necessarily requires
time in which the President may carefully examine and consider
a bill and determine, after due deliberation, whether he should
approve or disapprove it, and if he disapproves it, formulate his
objections for the consideration of Congress. To that end a
specified time is given, after the bill has been presented to him, in
which he may examine its provisions and either approve it or
return it, not approved, for reconsideration. P. 677.
4. The power thus conferred upon the President cannot be narrowed
or cut down by Congress, nor the time within which it is to be
exercised lessened, directly or indirectly. P. 677.
5. It is just as essential a part of the constitutional provisions,
guarding against ill-considered and unwise legislation, that the
President, on his part, should have the full time allowed him for
determining whether he should approve or disapprove a bill, and
if disapproved, for adequately formulating the objections that
should be considered by Congress, as it is that Congress, on its
part, should have an opportunity to re-pass the bill over his
objections. P. 678.
6. When the adjournment of Congress prevents the return of a bill
within the allotted time, the failure of the bill to become a law cannot properly be ascribed to the disapproval of the President--who
presumably would have returned it before the adjournment if there
had been sufficient time in which to complete his consideration and
take such action-but is attributable solely to the action of Congress
in adjourning before the time allowed the President for returning
the bill had expired. P. 678.
7. The phrase "within ten days (Sundays excepted)" in the clause of
the Constitution here in question, refers not to legislative days, but
to calendar days. P. 679.
8. The term "adjournment," as used in this constitutional provision,
is not limited to the final adjournment of the Congress. P. 680.
9. The determinative question in reference to an "adjournment" is
not whether it is a final adjournment of Congress or an interim adjournment, such as an adjournment of the first session, but whether
it is one that "prevents" the President from returning the bill to
the House in which it originated within the time allowed. P. 680.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument for Petitioners.

10. An interim adjournment of Congress at the end of the first session,
as the result of which, although the legislative e.xistence of the House
in which the bill originated has not been terminated, it is not in
session on the last day of the period allowed the President for returning the bill, prevents him from returning it to such House.
P. 681.
11. The "House" to which the bill is to be returned is a House in
session--sitting in an organized capacity for the transaction of
business, and having authority to receive the return, enter the
President's objections on its journal, and proceed to reconsider the
bill; and no return can be made to the House when it is not in session as a collective body and its members are dispersed. P. 682.
12. This accords with the long established practice of both Houses of
Congress to receive messages from the President while they are in
session. P. 683.
13. There is no substantial basis for the suggestion that, although
the House in which the bill originated be not in session, the bill
may nevertheless be returned, consistently vith the constitutional
mandate, by delivering it, with the President's objections, to an
officer or agent of the House, for subsequent delivery to the House
when it resumes its sittings at the next session, with the same
force and effect as if the bill had been returned to the House on
the day when it was delivered to such officer or agent. P. 683.
14. The above construction is confirmed by the practical construction given to this provision of the Constitution by the Presidents
through a long course of years, and in which Congress has acquiesced. P. 688.
66 Ct. Cls. 26, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 597, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims dismissing a petition upon the ground
that a bill passed by Congress, upon which the jurisdiction was dependent, had not become a law.
Mr. William S. Lewis, with whom Messrs. A. R. Serven
and John G. Carter were on the brief, for petitioners.
Each Congress is a single entity and its sessions have
practical unity.
The ten days for the consideration and return of the bill
may be construed as ten "legislative" days, and under
45228*°29-

2

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioners.

279 U. S.

such construction return may be made when the Congress
resumes active legislative sittings after adjournment.
Opinion of the Justices, 3 Mass. 567; State v. Joseph, 175
Ala. 579; State v. Norwalk, 77 Conn. 258.
The distinction between all adjournments of Congress
(other than final adjournment) is one of duration and
nomenclature only.
The only adjournment that will prevent the return of
the bill with the President's objections, is such adjournment as wholly defeats the revisionary intent and purpose of the veto clause.
The language of the New York constitution (1777),
which was the model for the exception clause, reads:
"Unless the legislature shall, by their adjournment, render a return of the bill within ten days impracticable,"
and the idea of those who framed and adopted the Federal 'Constitution was clearly such an adjournment as
made any return of the bill for revision impracticable
and wholly futile. And see Opinion of the Justices, 3
Mass. 567.
While return is to be made to a particular House; the
adjournment referred to is not the adjournment of a
particular House; it is an adjournment of "the Congress "-the whole law-making and legislative power of
the country. A separate recess of but one House alone,
taken by that House in which the bill originated, is not
within the plain meaning or strict constructio. of the
language.
The Executive must return the bill during the tenth
day, although "that House" is not sitting, the Congress
being yet in session. If he cannot, it is equivalent to
saying that he is bound to return the bill in a lesser
period, and if he fail, the bill becomes a law within ten
days despite his objections.
An adjournment by "that House" for the remainder
of the tenth day, not coming within the language of the

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument for Petitioners.

exception clause and " the Congress" being still in existence, then the bill must be constructively returned to
that House, during its temporary recess, by delivery to
the presiding or recording officers thereof during the remainder of the tenth day, else the bill becomes a law.
All that is required of such officers is that they receive
and care for the same in like manner as the other records
of "that House," to be taken up with its other unfinished
business when that House again resumes its active legislative sittings.
The legislative power is solely in Congress. The Executive, under the veto provisions, is simply made an instrumentality for the revision of hasty or ill-considered enactments. It was never the intention that the President's
inaction should defeat legislation. It was to guard
against that very abuse that the ten day clause was inserted, and the single exception is limited to an act of the
Congress itself defeating the revisionary purpose of the
whole veto clause and any return of the bill and objections
by a final adjournment of the Congress within the allotted
ten days. The effect is to leave the bill not a law, but as
unfinished business which dies with the final adjournment
of the Congress.
If return may be made to "that House" during its
temporary recess, then the same return may be made and
the whole object and purpose of "the return" may still
be accomplished, though "the Congress" be in adjournment for a day, or over a holiday, or over the Christmas
holidays, or for the summer recess. Within the spirit
and intent of the instrument, inability to make return,
on account of adjournment of the Congress, should be
co-existent with inability of the Congress thereafter to
consider the objections.
The presentation of bills to the President, and his return
of the same for revision, are simply a process in legislative
procedure like the handling of bills in committee, or in

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioners.

279 U. S.

conference, or by the separate Houses. It is not necessary that each House be actually sitting in active legislative session during every hour or day that the other
House sits, or while its committees function, or while the
Executive considers its legislation.
A concession that the exception clause does not apply
to adjournment of "that House" alone, the Congress
being yet in session, and that, in such case, return must
yet be made to "that House" in its temporary recess for
the remainder of the day, or for several days, as the case
may be, is a concession that a like return may be made
to "that House" wherein the bill originated, during the
concurrent adjournment of the other House or of the
Congress; and is a concession that the only adjournment
which can prevent the President's return of the bill is
the fin l adjournment of the Congress.
That a return to and receipt by a journal clerk of the
House is a sufficient return, see United States v. Allen,
36 Fed. 174-6. In actual practice bills are often presented to the President by delivery to his secretary or
executive clerk, who receipts for the same on behalf of
the President.
The courts of last resort of several States, where the
same question of construction has been raised as to similar
or identical language in state constitutions, have been
unanimous in holding that the adjournment contemplated
in the quoted clause of the constitution is a final adjournment. Citing Wolfe v. McCaull, 76 Va. 876, and other
cases which appear in the argument of Mr. Sumners, infra.
Absolute veto power, based upon the return of a bill, is
wholly unknown under any constitution, state or federal,
and cannot be upheld without doing violence to the
Constitution. The Federalist, No. 73; Madison Papers,
passim.
Executive precedents involving exercise of and asserted
right of pocket-veto power contrary to the policy and

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument for the United States.

language of the Constitution and in direct derogation of
other rights and powers conferred thereby, are not authority for the construction of the language here under consideration. Union Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 10
Ct. Cls. 548; s. c. 91 U. S. 72; Story, The Constitution,
§ 407; Cooley, Constitutional Law, pp. 85, 86; Pingree v.
Auditor, 120 Mich. 95; State v. Weightson, 56 N. J. L.
128; State v. Veacon, 66 Ohio St. 491; Harrisonv. Willis,
7 Heisch. (Penna.) 35; McPherson v. Secretary, 92 Mich.
377; Henry v. Cherry, 30 R. I. 13; Waite v. Afacey, 246
U. S. 606; United States v. United Verde Copper Co.,
196 U. S. 207; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; United
States v. Merriam, 263 U. S. 187.
Executive precedents of asserted inability to exercise
revisionary power over or to return legislation presented
within ten days of the temporary recess of a Congress,
arose from a misconception of the nature of a Congress,
and of the character of its sittings, and of the effect of its
temporary adjournments.
The executive precedents are not unanimous.
Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Attorney in the Department of Justice, was on
the brief, for the United States.
The only exception is of Sundays, and there is no basis
for inserting the word "legislative" after the word "ten."
Besides, an adjournment of Congress would not prevent
return within the specified time if the ten days mean ten
days in which Congress is in session. No President has
ever acted on the assumption that he had ten legislative
days to consider a bill.
It is clear that the clause "unless the Congress by their
Adjournment prevent its Return" means a return within
ten days, Sundays excepted. It follows that the return
by the President must be made within ten calendar days,
Sundays excepted, after the bill is presented to him. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

bill returned without his approval to a subsequent session
commencing more than ten days after presentation of the
bill to the President, is not a return within ten days. The
President has ten days, Sundays excepted, after the bill
shall have been presented to him in which to consider it,
and if on the tenth day he is ready to return it without his
approval, and is unable to return it because of an adjournment, it does not become a law. If Congress has
adjourned, how is a bill to be returned?
Returning it to an officer of either House after adjournment of Congress is not returning the bill to Congress.
There has never been any statute authorizing any officer
of either House to receive bills returned by the President
during adjournments, ald there is no rule to that effect
in either House. It has been the universal practice of
the Houses of Congress to receive messages from the
President, or messages from one House to the other,
only while in session. Hinds' Precedents, Vol. 5, c.
CXXXVIII. The rules of each House contemplate that
messages from the President or from one House to the
other shall be received while the House to which the
message is directed is in session; but a quorum need not
be present. See Rule XL, House of Representatives;
Rule XXVIII, Standing Rules of the Senate; Jefferson's
Manual, XLVII; Curtis, Const. Hist., Vol. I, p. 486, footnote.
In 1868 the Judiciary Committee of the Senate reported
a bill to authorize the President to return bills to the
Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House, as the
case might be, and to authorize the Secretary or the Clerk
to endorse on a bill the date of its receipt and hold it until
the House reassembled. That bill was not passed. We
can not improve on the argument then made against it.
Cong. Globe, 40th Cong., 2d Sess., Pt. 2, pp. 1372, 1373,
1405; id., p. 1941.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument for the United States.

There is no basis in the Constitution for the contention
that the word " adjournment" relates only to an adjournment of a final session. That the word "adjournment "
has no such narrow meaning is shown by the fourth
clause in § 5 of Article I.
In the 69th Congress, 2d Session, the Judiciary Committee of the House made a report (House Rep. No. 2054,
2d Session) in which it expressed the conclusion that a bill
became a law, although there was a final adjournment on
July 3, 1926, of the first session of the 69th Congress, and
the President did not approve the bill nor did he disapprove it and return it to the House in which it originated,
or make any return to either House. On the strength of
that report, and adopting it as the law, the Chairman of
the Committee of the Whole, considering the statute to
have become law, overruled a point of order made against
the inclusion in an appropriation bill of an appropriation
to provide funds to carry the statute into effect. Cong.
Rec., Vol. 68, Part 5, pp. 4932, 4937.
We feel confident that if there had been presented to [he
Committee the constitutional difficulties in the way of returning a bill to a House not in session, and the overwhelming practical construction of the Constitution afterwards disclosed, in House Doc. 403, the Committee's conclusion would have been the other way. The House of
Representatives has itself always used the word "adjournment" as describing the adjournment taken at the end of
a session as well as the final adjournment of a Congress.
Rule XXVI.
The only decision of this Court having any bearing on
this subject is La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 423.
It is probable that the logic of our position leads to
the conclusion that there is no distinction between an
adjournment and a "recess."

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

The practical construction is controlling, and it completely sustains the respondent's position. See House
Doe. No. 493, 70th Cong., 2d Session, showing the results
of an exhaustive research of governmental archives for
the purpose of disclosing the practical construction placed
upon the constitutional provisions here involved.
With the exception of the action of the House to which
we have referred, occurring in the 69th Congress, we
have been unable to find any case where either House of
Congress has ever proceeded on the theory that a bill so
pocketed had become a law.
No such bill has ever been spread on the statute books,
or afterwards recognized as law. In some cases new legislation has been enacted on the subject. In a case like
this, practical construction is controlling. Myers v.
United States, 272 U. S. 52.
To hold with petitioners in this case would be to resurrect 120 bills, pocketed, as was this one, at various dates
since the adoption of the Constitution and place them on
the statute books.
Decisions of state courts furnish little aid in the decision of this case. See Massachusetts constitution, 1780,
c. 1, § 1; Art. II; Opinion of the Justices, 3 Mass. 567;
The Soldiers' Voting Bill, 45 N. H. 607; Hequembourgv.
Dunkirk, 49 Hun. (N. Y.) 550; Corwin v. Comptroller
General, 6 S. C. 390; Miller v. Hurford, 11 Neb. 377;
People v. Hatch, 33 I1. 9; State v. South Norwalk, 77
Conn. 257; State v. Joseph, 175 Ala. 579; Johnson City v.
Eastern Electric Co., 133 Tenn. 632.
Some of the state courts have held that when a legislature is not in session, a bill may be returned to officers
of the legislature. The Soldiers' Voting Bill, supra;
Corwin v. Comptroller General, supra; Johnson City v.
Eastern Electric Co., supra. See also Harpending v.
Haight, 39 Cal. 189; Hequembourg v. Dunkirk, supra.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

Other courts have held that a bill may be returned only
when the legislature is in session. People v. Hatch,
supra; State v. South Norwalk, supra; State v. Joseph,
supra; People v. Bowen, 21 N. Y. 517; 30 Barbour 24.
Cf. United States v. Allen, 36 Fed. 174; Tuttle v. Boston,
215 Mass. 57.
In the state decisions there is no preponderance of
opinion in favor of the position that a bill may be
returned to officers of the legislature when the legislature
itself is not in session.
Mr. Hatton W. Sumners, as amicus curiw, on behalf
of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, by special leave of Court.
To have the President examine bills and indicate his
opinion was deemed important, but not so important as
delay beyond the ten days specified in the Constitution.
The construction insisted upon by the Government, in
effect, would eliminate the word "prevent." "Prevent"
is the heart and substance of the provision. Construed as
not limiting delivery of a bill with the President's objections to the House of its origin when in actual session, the
provision under consideration harmonizes with and safeguards, and makes workable in every situation, the general
plan of the Constitution, leaving to both the President
and to the legislative bodies an opportunity to utilize appropriate and necessary agencies in the discharge of their
respective duties with regard to bills, and to proceed without friction or uncertainty, and with the minimum oT
interference with the discharge of their general duties.
If the words "unless the Congress by their adjournment prevent its return" had not been incorporated, the
ordinary rules of construction would probably have excused the President from returning a bill to the House
of its origin within the time fixed if prevented from so
doing, not only by this act specified, but by any act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

279 U. S.

the Congress or of that House. These words become,
therefore, under the ordinary rules of construction, not
words of addition, but words of limitation, and of
exclusion.
If delivery of the bill with the President's objections
can only be made to the House of its origin in actual
session, when Congress is in session, the President is limited where he ought not to be limited, and the Congreso
is limited where it ought not to be limited, in each instance interfering with the discharge of their constitutional duties under the general plan. To say that
Congress by any act other than final adjournment of
the Congress may prevent the delivery of a bill, and
thereby without a reconsideration make law an act to
which the President objects, would be utterly unreasonable. But under the construction invoked to support
the pocket veto, if the President's messenger should arrive
after the adjournment of the House in which the bill had
originated, upon the last of the ten days, the other House
being still in session, the bill could not be returned, and
yet, the Congress not being adjourned, the bill would
become a law contrary to the general plan. A situation
would develop under which the bill would become a law
despite the President's objections and without the reconsideration of the Houses of Congress, notwithstanding
the fact that the President had formulated his objections
and within the limit of time fixed by the Constitution.
had attempted to return the bill to the House of its origin.
There is no language in this provision, nor any recognized rule of construction which,-while permitting the
Congress in the first instance to send bills to the President
by a messenger, as is done without question, and the President to receive such bills through an appropriate agent,even though he himself be absent from his office, and even
though the Constitution declares "he," the President,
shall return it,- which would prevent the House of origin

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

from receiving these same bills through a proper agent if
that House were engaged in other business or temporarily
absent from their chambers. It is against all reason and
every recognized rule of construction, when the avoidance
of unnecessary delay is so clearly manifest in the provision
sought to be construed, that a construction should be
superimposed which would make for delay regardless of
every desire and of every effort of the President and of
the Congress in the situation indicated.
Why, after the States by a unanimous vote had refused
to vest the President with an absolute veto, adopt a construction of this provision contrary to its language which
would give to the President, under certain circumstances,
an absolute veto in effect, when there is a rule of construction, recognized alike by the courts and common sense,
which would avoid these consequences?
In view of the provision directing the writing and
recording of the President's objections to a bill, a construction can not be maintained which would permit the
President during the life of a Congress to kill a bill by
his silence and thus keep his reasons and his motives for
so doing from the Congress and from the country.
The sole exception in the provision which prevents a
bill from becoming law when the President refuses to
take any action on it for ten days, is where the Congress
prevents, that is to say renders impossible, its return by
their adjournment. There is but one adjournment, the
final adjournment, which marks the death and dissolution
of a Congress, that can have that effect.
Where choice may be had between two constructions,
that is to be adopted which is most in harmony with the
whole instrument. And it is the substantive and not the
adjective provisions which control. It was the act of
preventing delivery, of making delivery impossible, and
its consequence, to which the Convention gave consideration, and not the act of adjournment per se. The Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

279 U. S.

vention was not engaged in fixing forms of procedure,
or in placing upon future generations details of procedure,
which might be suited to the present, but not to future
conditions.
The construction sustaining the pocket veto, introduces
another anomaly. It unnecessarily gives to the President
a greater power over bills presented to him near the end
of a session of Congress, or near temporary adjournment
during a session, than at other times.
Unnecessary retention of bills by the President is not
in harmony with the intent of the Constitution. If unnecessary detention be deliberate, for the purpose of
denying to Congress an opportunity to pass the bill notwithstanding the President's objections, it is an abuse of
discretion amounting to usurpation.
It is not in keeping with the public interest that any
individual, however high his station, should have the sole
power by action or inaction to kill important legislation
and hide his reasons under a blanket of secrecy. Every
reasonable construction should be invoked to minimize
such a possibility. Nothing is more calculated to prevent
unwarranted suspicion, and to promote efficiency and integrity in official conduct, than publicity given to the
reasons for official action.
The President is commanded to put his reasons in writing, and the House to which the return is made is commanded to record those reasons, in their entirety, upon
their permanent record books.
There is no inherent necessity for bills to die short of
final adjournment.
The tendency of the practice under the claim of pocket
veto power is to give the President an absolute veto.
When the Constitution was framed, in all the world where
enlightened judgment had impressed itself, this sort of
power had been excluded. Today such a power is not to
be found in exercise in the constitution of any of the

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

669

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

nations whose culture and governmental institutions are
akin to ours. Actual tests have convinced statesmen
everywhere that it has no place in the structure of
democratic government.
The Houses of Congress have officers and agents of great
power and responsibility who act in their stead, and who
are constantly in their places when the Houses are in
session, and when they are not in session. From the
organization of a Congress until the end of its existence
this is true. There is nothing in the Constitution which
denies the right to the use of these agents in effecting the
return of objected-to bills. Such a right is acknowledged,
and is practiced everywhere in governments, in business,
and in all human relationships. A rule of construction or
of official action which would require in every instance the
persons who constitute the Houses of Congress to be in
formal session in order to receive bills from the President,
would also require the person who is President personally
to return such bills. And the Congress would be required
to go in a body to the President (because the command
is clearly to the Congress) to present each bill, not to
some appropriate agent of the President, but to the President in person. And it would become the duty of the
President, under such construction, regardless of the press
of important duties, to receive the bill in person.
The delivery of the message to the Speaker by a messenger is all the President does as compliance with the
provision of the Constitution that he (the President) shall
return the bill to that House in which the same shall
have originated. The receipt by the Speaker is correctly
regarded as receipt by the House, but only upon the
theory that he is an appropriate agent of the House to
receive it. It is in a sealed envelope addressed to the
Speaker and delivered to the Speaker. That ends the
Presidenit's contact with the matter. He has no control
over what the Speaker may do with the bill and message.

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

279 U. S.

The President's messenger goes back to the White House,
leaving the message with the Speaker. If delivery to the
Speaker when Congress is in session is delivery to the
House, delivery to the Speaker when the House is in
adjournment would be delivery to the House.
Upon an adjournment of Congress, committees, under
a rule of the House, deliver all umfinished bills and other
documents to the Clerk to be preserved by him for the
House until its reconvening. He is the keeper of all its
archives. He is entrusted with the enrolling of all bills
and other legislative action. He certifies the bills. Upon
his selection by the House his name is sent to the President so that the President may recognize him as their
agent, and give due weight to acts certified by him. The
Clerk is the disbursing officer of the contingent fund,
salaries of the House employees, and of the Members'
secretaries. He makes up the roll of the incoming House,
passing in the first instance upon the regularity of credentials, and presides over the meeting of the Members
of the incoming House before and during the election of a
Speaker. Can it be questioned that this high officer ol
the House, from whose office the identical bill was enrolled and certified on behalf of the House, is an appropriate agency for the receipt of such returned bill and
objections?
The right of constructive delivery is necessary not only
to facilitate legislative procedure, prevent delay, and to
hold the President's powers within the limits imposed by
the Constitution, but it is also necessary in order to hold
the Congress within proper bounds by preventing bills
to which the President may object from becoming law
without reconsideration by the Congress. The adjournment of a House for not more than three days, without
the consent of the other House, is not an adjournment of
Congress. If the Senate should be in executive session,

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

on a matter of the highest public importance, refusing
to be interrupted, on the last day of the period in which
return may be made, that would not even be an adjournment of one House of the Congress; and yet return could
not be made if constructive delivery is not permitted.
The pocket veto is of gradual development and unknown in the early history of the Government. To permit practices, especially practices originating out of a
misconception, to fasten erroneous interpretations upon
our written Constitution, would be a fatal policy. It
would seem a sound doctrine that no generation, or number of generations, by a disregard of the plan of the
Constitution, or confusion as to it, can deprive those who
come after them of the full benefit of its provisions. The
practical difficulty of inaugurating a reverse practice once
it is recognized that an earlier practice has crystallized
itself into a controlling constitutional construction, warns
with compelling persuasion against such a recognition.
It would seem a sound proposition that in the construction of a written Constitution it should never be held
that practice can effect that which practice cannot
change. These considerations bear with determinative
force against any suggestion on the part of the Government that the length of time during which the pocket
veto has been practiced has a bearing upon the constitutionality of the pocket veto.
Mr. Sumners cited the foliowing cases in support of
his position: Opinion of the Justices, 3 Mass. 567; Soldiers' Voting Bill, 45 N. H. 607; Harpendingv. Height, 39
Cal. 189; Corwin v. Comptroller, 6 S. C. 390; Miller v.
Murford, 11 Neb. 377; Wolf v. McCaull, 76 Va. 876;
Hequembourg v. Dunkirk, 49 Hun. (N. Y.) 550; Crawford v. Summerset, 73 Md. 105; State v. Joseph, 175 Ala.
579; Tuttle v. Boston, 215 Mass. 57; Johnson City v.
Electric Co., 133 Tenn. 637.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents the question whether, under the second clause in Section 7 of Article I of the Constitution of
the United States, a bill which is passed by both Houses
of Congress during the first regular sessioi of a particular
Congress and presented to the President less than ten days
(Sundays excepted) before the adjournment of that session, but is neither signed by the President nor returned
by him to the House in which it originated, becomes a
law in like manner as if he had signed it.
At the first session of the 69th Congress Senate Bill No.
3185, entitled "An Act authorizing certain Indian tribes
and bands, or any of them, residing in the State of Washington, to present their claims to the Court of Claims,"
having been passed by both Houses of Congress and duly
authenticated, was presented to the President on June 24,
1926. On July 3 the first session of the 69th Congress was
adjourned, under a house concurrent resolution.' The
Congress was not again in session until the commencement
2
of the second session on the first Monday in December.
And neither House of Congress was in session on July 6the tenth day after the bill had been presented .to the
President (Sundays excepted).
By
1 67 Cong. Rec., pt. 11, pp. 12770, 12885, 13009, 13018, 13100.
the terms of this resolution the House of Representatives adjourned
sine die; and the Senate adjourned to November 10-this being the
date to which, sitting as a court of impeachment, it had previously
adjourned for the trial of certain articles of impeachment. 67 Cong.
Rec., pt. 8, pp. 8725, 8733. And on that date the Senate, sitting as
a court of impeachment, met and adjourned sine die. 68 Cong. Rec.,

pt. 1, pp. 3, 4.
That the adjournment on July 3 was in effect an adjournment of
the first session of the Congress is not questioned.
2 68 Cong. Rec., pt. 1, p. 7; Constitution, Art. 1, Sec. 4, C. 2.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

The President neither signed the bill nor returned it to
the Senate. And it was not published as a law.
Taking the position that the bill had become a law
without the signature of the President, the Okanogan
and other Indian tribes residing in the State of Washington in March, 1927, filed a petition in the Court of Claims
setting up certain claims in accordance with the terms
of the bill. The United States demurred to the petition.
The court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the petition, on the ground that under the provisions of the Constitution the bill had not become a law. 66 C. Cls. 26.
In view of the public importance of the question presented we granted the petitioners a writ of certiorari.
278 U. S.597. And for like reason, at the request of the
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, we granted Mr. Sumners, a member of that Committee, leave to appear as amicus curiae. He has aided us by
a comprehensive and forcible presentation of arguments
against the conclusion of the court below.
The clause of the Constitution here in question reads as
follows: "Every Bill which shall have passed the House
of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become
a Law, be presented to the President of the United States;
If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return
it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have
originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their
Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass
the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections,
to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered; and if approved by two thirds of that House, it
shall become a Law. . . . If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the
Same shall be a Law, in like 1anner as if he had signed it,
45228*-29---43

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its
Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law." 8
The specific question here presented is whether, within
the meaning of the last sentence-which we have italicized-Congress by the adjournment on July 3 prevented
the President from returning the bill within ten days,
Sundays excepted, after it had been presented to him. If
the adjournment did not prevent him from returning the
bill within the prescribed time, it became a law without
his signature; but, if the adjournment prevented him
from so doing, it did not become a law. This is unquestioned.
In support of the position that the adjournment did not
prevent the President from returning the bill within the
prescribed time, counsel for the petitioners and the amicus
curiae urge that the only "adjournment" which prevents
the President from returning a bill within the prescribed
time is the final adjournment of the Congress, terminating its legislative existence and making it impossible for
the President to return the bill for its reconsideration;
and that an adjournment of the first session of the Congress does not prevent the President from returning the
bill within the prescribed time since the legislative existence of the Congress is not terminated, and he may within that time return the bill to the House in which it
originated, although not then in session, by delivering it,
with his objections, to the Secretary, Clerk, or other appropriate agent of that House, to be held by such agent
3 The third clause reads as follows: "Every Order, Resolution, or
Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment)
shall be presented to the President of the United States; and before
the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and
House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitations
prescribed in the Case of a Bill."

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

and presented to the House when the Congress resumes
its sitting at the next session-thereby enabling the Congress to proceed with the reconsideration of the bill as a
part of the unfinished legislative business carried over
from the first session. And it is also said, by counsel for
the petitioners, that the "ten days" allowed for the return of the bill, may be construed as meaning "legislative
days," that is, days on which the Congress is in legislative
session, and not calendar days, thereby enabling the
President to return the bill within ten days, Sundays excepted, exclusive of all days on which the Congress was
not in legislative session, even although, by reason of an
adjournment, this period does not expire until after the
Congress has resumed its legislative sittings at the second
session.
In support of the position that Congress by the adjournment on July 3 prevented the President from returning the bill within the prescribed time, the Attorney General maintains that the word " adjournment " includes an
interim adjournment as well as the final adjournment at
the end of a Congress; that the words "ten days" mean
calendar days, and not legislative days; that the President
cannot return a bill with his objections to the House in
which it originated except by returning it to the House
while in session; that if, by reason of an adjournment
taken by Congress within the prescribed time, the House
in which the bill originated be not in session on the last
of such days and the bill cannot be thus returned, the
President is thereby prevented from returning the bill
within the prescribed time; and that this view is supported by the practical construction given to the constitutional provision by the President through a long course
of years, in which Congress has acquiesced.
No light is thrown on the meaning of the constitutional
provision in the proceedings and debates of the Constitutional Convention; and there has been no decision of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

this Court dealing directly with its meaning and effect in
respect to the precise question here involved. And while
we have been cited to various decisions of state courts construing similar provisions in state constitutions, an examination of them discloses such a conflict of opiniondue in some part to differences in phraseology or their
application to the procedure of the state legislaturesthat, viewed as a whole, they furnish no substantial aid
in the determination of the question here presented and
a detailed consideration of them here would not be helpful. For that reason we shall cite in thig opinion only
some that seem most apposite and persuasive in their
reasoning.
1. It is earnestly insisted by counsel for the petitioners
and by the amicus curiae, as the underlying basis of their
contentions, that since clause 2 gives the President merely
a qualified negative over legislation and requires him, if
he disapproves a bill, to return it with his objections to
the House in which it originated so that Congress may
have an opportunity to reconsider it in the light of such
objections and pass it by a two-thirds vote of each House,
the provision as to the return of a bill within a specified
time is to be construed in a manner that will give effect
to the reciprocal' rights and duties of the President and
of Congress and not enable him to defeat a bill of which
he disapproves by a silent and "absolute veto," that is, a
so-called "pocket veto," which neither discloses his objections nor gives Congress an opportunity to pass the bill
over them. This argument involves a misconception of
the reciprocal rights and duties of the President and of
Congress and of the situation resulting from an adjournment of Congress which prevents the President from returning a bill with his objections within the specified
time. This is illustrated in the use of the term "pocket
veto," which does not acurately describe the situation, and
is misleading in its implications in that it suggests that the

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

failure of the bill in such case is necessarily due to the
disapproval of the President and the intentional withholding of the bill from reconsideration. The Constitution in giving the President a qualified negative over legis-.
lation-commonly called a veto--entrusts him with an
authority and imposes upon him an obligation that are of
the highest importance, in the execution of which it is
made his duty not only to sign bills that he approves in
order that they may become law, but to return bills that
he disapproves, with his objections, in order that they may
be reconsidered by Congress. The faithful and effective
exercise of this momentous duty necessarily requires time
in which the President may carefully examine and consider a bill and determine, after due deliberation, whether
he should approve or disapprove it, and if he disapproves
it, formulate his objections for the consideration of Congress. To that end a specified time is given, after the bill
has been presented to him, in which he may examine its
provisions and either approve it or return it, not approved,
for reconsideration. See La Abra Silver Miniing Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S.423, 455.' The power thus con4 Compare The People v. Bowen, 30 Barb. (N. Y.) 24, 32, 34;
Lankford v. County Commrs. of Somerset County, 73 Md. 105, 110,
111; Tuttle v. Boston, 215 Mass. 57, 58, 60; and The People v. Hatch,
33 Ill. 9, 129, 135, 136, in which it was aptly said, in a concurring
opinion: "The convention which framed our Constitution designed
to provide for the enactment and enforcement of salutary laws in
the mode best calculated to promote the general welfare. They supposed, as one of the means of best attaining this end, that the
executive of the State should not only be intrusted with the enforcement of all laws, but should also be vested with a voice in their
adoption. In distributing the powers of government, they could, if
they had chosen to do so, have authorized the general assembly to
adopt laws independent of all executive action. But to prevent the
evils of hasty, ill considered legislation, they conferred upon the
governor the power to arrest the passage of a bill until his objections
could be heard, and the bill be again considered and adopted. As
the best means of accomplishing this, and of preventing the adoption

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ferred upon the President cannot be narrowed or cut down
by Congress, nor the time within which it is to be exercised lessened, directly or indirectly.- And it is just as
essential a part of the constitutional provisions, guarding against ill-considered and unwise legislation, that the
President, on his part, should have the full time allowed
him for determining whether he should approve or disapprove a bill, and if disapproved, for adequately formulating the objections that should be considered by Congress,
as it is that Congress, on its part, should have an opportunity to re-pass the bill over his objections.
It will frequently happen-especially when many bills
are presented to the President near the close of a session,
some of which are complicated or deal with questions of
great moment-that when Congress adjourns before the
time allowed for his consideration and action has expired,
he will not have been able to determine whether some of
them should be approved or disapproved, or, if disapproved, to formulate adequately the objections which
should receive the consideration of Congress. And it is
plain that when the adjournment of Congress prevents
the return of a bill within the allotted time, the failure of
the bill to become a law cannot properly be ascribed to
the disapproval of the President-who presumably would
have returned it before the adjournment if there had been
sufficient time in which to complete his consideration and
of injurious measures, they gave to the governor ten days, exclusive
of Sundays, in which to bestow that careful examination and consideration, so essentially necessary to determine the effects and consequences likely to flow from the adoption of a new measure. This
is the duty imposed, and it is one that must be performed. And the
time allowed for the purpose cannot be abridged, or the provision
thwarted, by either accident or design. The use of the whole time
given to the governor must be allowed. The Constitution has spoken
and it must be obeyed."
5Compare Tuttle v. Boston, supra, 60; The People v. Hatch, upra,
136.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

take such action-but is attributable solely to the action
of Congress in adjourning before the time allowed the
President for returning the bill had expired. Thus, in La
Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, supra, 454, this
Court said that "if by its action, after the presentation
of a bill to the President during the time given him by
the Constitution for an examination of its provisions and
for approving it by his signature, Congress puts it out of
his power to return it, not approved, within that time to
the House in which it originated, then the bill falls, and
does not become a law." 6
2. There is plainly no warrant for adopting the suggestion of counsel for the petitioners-which is not urged
by the amicus curiae-that the phrase "within ten Days
(Sundays excepted)," may be construed as meaning, not
calendar days, but "legislative days," that is, days during
which Congress is in legislative session-thereby excluding all calendar days which are not also legislative days
from the computation of the period allowed the President
for returning a bill. The words used in the Constitution
are to be taken in their natural and obvious sense, Martin
v. Hunter's Lessee, I Wheat. 304, 326, and are to be given
the meaning they have in common use unless there are
very strong reasons to the contrary. Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 139, 147. The word "days," when not
qualified, means in ordinary and common usage calendar
days. This is obviously the meaning in which it is used
in the constitutional provision, and is emphasized by the
fact that "Sundays" are excepted. There is nothing
whatever to justify changing this meaning by inserting
the word "legislative" as a qualifying adjective. And
no President or Congress has ever suggested that the Pres8

And if Congress so desires the same bill may be re-introduced and
passed when Congress resumes its session, and after receiving the
due consideration of the President, if returned with his objections,
may be then passed by the requisite vote in both Houses.

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ident has ten "legislative days" in which to consider and
return a bill, or proceeded upon that theory.
3. Nor can we agree with the argument that the word
"adjournment" as used in the constitutional provision
refers only to the final adjournment of the Congress.
The word "adjournment" is not qualified by the word
"final; " and there is nothing in the context which warrants the insertion of such a limitation. On the contrary,
the fact that the word "adjournment" as used in the
Constitution is not limited to a final adjournment, is
shown by the first clause in section 5 of Article I, which
provides that a smaller number than a majority of each
House may "adjourn " from day to day, and by the fourth
clause of the same Article, which provides that neither
House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the
consent of the other, "adjourn" for more than three days.
And the Standing Rules of the Senate refer specifically to
motions to "adjourn to a day certain" (No. XXII); and
the Rules of the House of Representatives, to an "adjournment" at the end of one session (No. XXVI).7
4. We think that under the constitutional provision the
determinative question in reference to an "adjournment "
is not whether it is a final adjournment of Congress or an
interim adjournment, such as an adjournment of the first
session, but whether it is one that "prevents" the President from returning the bill to the House in which it
originated within the time allowed. It is clear, and, as
7The view that the "adjournment" contemplated in the constitutional provision is the final adjournment of Congress, and not an
interim adjournment, appears to have been expressed in behalf of
Congress, for the first and only time, in a report made by the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives in 1927 (H. Rep't.
No. 2054, 69th Cong., 2d sess.). This was followed by the Chairman
of the Committee of the Whole in overruling a point of order made
against a provision in an appropriation bill that presented this question; and no appeal was taken from this ruling. 68 Cong. Rec., pt.
5, pp. 4932-4937.

*THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

we understand, is not questioned, that since the President
may return a bill at any time within the allotted period,
he is prevented from returning it, within the meaning of
the constitutional provision, if by reason of the adjournment it is impossible for him to return it to the House in
which it originated on the last day of that period. It is
also conceded, as we understand, that the President is
necessarily prevented from returning a bill by a final adjournment of the Congress, since such adjournment terminates the legislative existence of the Congress and
makes it impossible to return the bill to either House.
And the crucial question here presented is whether an
interim adjournment of Congress at the end of the first
session, as the result of which, although the legislative
existence of the House in which the bill originated has
not been terminated, it is not in session on the last day
of the period allowed the President for returning the bill,
likewise prevents him from returning it to such House.
This brings us to the specific question whether, in order
to return the bill to the House in which it originated,
within the meaning of the constitutional provision, it is
necessary, as the Attorney General insists, that it be returned to the House itself while it is in session, or
whether, as urged by counsel for the petitioners and by
the amicus curiae, it may be returned to the House,
although not in session, by delivering it to an officer or
agent of the House, to be held by him and delivered to
the House when it resumes its sittings at the next
session.
Clause 2 specifically provides that if the President does
not approve a bill "he shall return it, with his Objections
to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall
enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it." That is, it provides in the same
phrase and with no change in definition, that the
"House" to which the bill is to be returned is that which

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

is to enter the objections on its journal and proceed to
reconsider the bill.
From a consideration of the entire clause we think that
the "House" to which the bill is to be returned, is the
House in session. In Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kansas,
248 U. S. 276, 280, 281, 283, this Court, in holding that
the provision in this clause requiring a vote of twothirds of each House to pass a bill over the President's
objections, means two-thirds of a quorum of each House
and not two-thirds of all its members, said arguendo,
that "the context leaves no doubt that the provision
was dealing with the two houses as organized and entitled to exert legislative power," that is, the legislative
bodies "organized conformably to law for the purpose of
enacting legislation "; and, after stating that the identity
between this provision and that in Article V of the Constitution, giving "two-thirds of both Houses" the power
to submit amendments, makes the practice as to one
applicable to the other, quoted with approval the "settled rule . . . clearly and aptly stated" by the Speaker,
Mr. Reed, in the House, on the passage of the amendment
to the Constitution providing for the election of Senators
by the vote of the people, as follows: "What constitutes
a House? A quorum of the membership, a majority,
one-half and one more. That is all that is necessary to
constitute a House to do all the business that comes before the House. Among the business that comes before
the House is the reconsideration of a bill which has been
vetoed by the President; another is a proposed amendment to the Constitution; and the practice is uniform in
both cases that if a quorum of the House is present the
House is constituted and two-thirds of those voting are
sufficient in order to accomplish the object . .
Since the bill is to be returned to the same "House,"
and none other, that is to enter the President's objections

THE POC=ET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

on its journal 1 and proceeded to reconsider the bill-there
being only one and the same reference to such House-

it follows, in our opinion, that under the constitutional
mandate it is to be returned to the "House" when sitting

in an organized capacity for the transaction of business,
and having authority to receive the return, enter the

President's objections on its journal, and proceed to reconsider the bill; and that no return can be made to the
House when it is not in session as a collective body and
its members are dispersed. This is the view expressed in
1 Curtis' Constitutional History of the United States, 486,
n. 1, in which it is said: "This expression, a 'house,' or
'each house,' is several times employed in the Constitution
with reference to the faculties and powers of the two
chambers respectively, and it always means, when so used,
the constitutional quorum, assembled for the transaction
of business, and capable of transacting business. This
same expression was employed by the committee when
they provided for the mode in which a bill, once rejected
by the president, should be again brought before the legislative bodies. They directed it to be returned 'to that
House in which it shall have originated'--that is to say,
to a constitutional quorum, a majority of which passed
it in the first instance . .
This accords with the long established practice of both
Houses of Congress to receive messages from the President while they are in session. See Senate Standing Rule
XXVIII, cl. 1; House Rule XL; 5 Hind's Precedents of
the House of Representatives, ch. CXXXVIII, especially
sec. 6591, p. 812.
We find no substantial basis for the suggestion that
although the House in which the bill originated is not
in session the bill may nevertheless be returned, con-

'The journal is the record that each House is required to keep of its
own proceedings.

Const., Art. I, sec. 5, cl. 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

sistently with the constitutional mandate, by delivering
it, with the President's objections, to an officer or agent
of the House, for subsequent delivery to the House when
it resumes its sittings at the next session, with the same
force and effect as if the bill had. been returned to the
House on the day when it was delivered to such officer or
agent. Aside from the fact that Congress has never enacted any statute authorizing any officer or agent of either
House to receive for it bills returned by the President
during its adjournment, and that there is no rule to that
effect in either House, the delivery of the bill to such
officer or agent, even if authorized by Congress itself,
would not comply with the constitutional mandate. The
House, not having been in session when the bill was delivered to the officer or agent, could neither have received
the bill and objections at that time, nor have entered the
objections upon its journal, nor have proceeded to reconsider the bill, as the Constitution requires; and there
is nothing in the Constitution which authorizes either
House to make a nunc pro tunc record of the return of a bill
as of a date on which it had not, in fact, been returned.
Manifestly it was not intended that, instead of returning
the bill to the House itself, as required by the constitutional provision, the President should be authorized to
deliver it, during an adjournment of the House, to some
individual officer or agent not authorized to make any
legislative record of its delivery, who should hold it in his
own hands for days, weeks or perhaps months,-not only
leaving open possible questions as to the date on which
it had been delivered to him, or whether it had in fact
been delivered to him at all, but keeping the bill in the
meantime in a state of suspended animation until the
House resumes its sittings, with no certain knowledge
on the part of the public as to whether it had or had not
been seasonably delivered, and necessarily causing delay
in its reconsideration which the Constitution evidently
intended to avoid. In short, it was plainly the object

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

of the constitutional provision that there should be a
timely return of the bill, which should not only be a matter of official record definitely shown by the journal of
the House itself, giving public, certain and prompt knowledge as to the status of the bill, but should enable Congress to proceed immediately with its reconsideration;
and that the return of the bill should be an actual and
public return to the House itself, and not a fictitious return
by a delivery of the bill to some individual which could be
given a retroactive effect at a later date when the time for
the return of the bill to the House had expired.
Thus Attorney General Devens, in a memorandum to
President Hayes, said: "All these provisions indicate that
in order to enable the President to return a bill the Houses
should be in session; and if by their own act they see fit to
adjourn and deprive him of the opportunity to return the
bill, with his objection, and are not present themselves
to receive and record these objections and to act thereon,
the bill can not become a law unless ten days shall have
expired during which the President will have had the opportunity thus to return it. There is no suggestion that
he may return it to the Speaker, or Clerk, or any officer
of the House; but the return must be made to the House
as an organized body."'
It is significant that only one attempt has ever been
made in Congress to authorize the President to return a
bill when the House in which it originated was not in
session; and that this failed. In 1868 a bill was reported
by the Senate Judiciary Committee for regulating the
return of bills by the President.
While this specifically
declared that the constitutional provision allowed the
President ten calendar days (Sundays excepted) in which
to return a bill not approved by him, and that the return
9 Quoted in an opinion of Attorney General Miller, 20 Op. Att.
Gen. 503, 506.
10 S. 366, 40th Cong., 2d sess.

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S,

of a bill would be prevented by "the final adjournment
of a session" of Congress, although not by an adjournment to a particular day, it provided that if at any time
within such ten days the President desired to return the
bill to the house in which it originated when such house
was not sitting, he might return it to the office of the
Secretary of the Senate or Clerk of the House of Representatives, as the case might be, who should endorse
thereon the day on which such return was made, and
make an entry of the fact of such return in his journal of
the proceedings, and that such return should be deemed
a return of the bill to all intents and purposes. In the
debate in the Senate strong opposition was expressed to
this feature of the bill on constitutional grounds; 11 and
31In the debate in the Senate the constitutional objections to the
provision authorizing the President to return a bill to an officer of
the Senate or the House of Representatives when they were not sitting, were clearly and, as we think, convincingly expressed.
Thus Senator Davis said: "(The) Constitution requires that if
the President does not approve a bill he shall return it with his
objections to the House in which it originated; this bill provides a
different mode of disposing of that bill in case Congress has temporarily taken a recess or an adjournment. It dispenses with the
requisition of the Constitution that the bill shall be returned to the
House, and directs that it be returned to the officer of the House,
if the body is not in session. I do not believe it is competent for
Congress to make any such change as that. ...
Of course, if (the
President) is to return the bill to the House, the House must be in
session, because it is not a House unless in session in the sense in
which the Constitution requires the bill to be returned to the House
by the President with his objections. . . . I think it is the duty of
the President, in the plain language of the Constitution, to return the
bill, not to the Secretary or Clerk of either House, but to the House
itself. That is the unambiguous and plain language of the Constitution. . . . It is returning it to the Senate or the House of Representatives in session, because when it is returned it is to be at once considered again. The Constitution contemplates that simultaneously
with the return of the bill to the House in which it originated the
House may take up the matter for consideration. .. .. I take the

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

although it passed the Senate by a majority vote, it was
never reported from the Judiciary Committee of the
House of Representatives, to which it was referred, and
thus failed to pass the Congress. It does not appear that
this suggestion has ever been renewed in Congress.
position that to return the bill to the Clerk of the House of Representatives, if it originated there, or to the Secretary of the Senate,

if it originated in the Senate, when those bodies are not in session,
is not a reurn of the bill to the House in which it originated. It
is the duty and the right of the President to communicate to the
House and not to a ministerial officer of the House. To enable him
to communicate to the House it must necessarily be in session, because
he can not communicate with either House when it is in any other
situation than in actual session. It must be assembled and in actual
session. . . I think, sir, that the Executive may not only claim it
as a right, but the House in which a bill originates may claim it as
the performance of a duty by him to that House, and the people
of the country may claim it as the performance of a duty by him,
that he shall return the bill with his objections, not, in vacation, to
the Clerk or to the Secretary of the Senate or House of Representatives, but to the body itself, and to enable him to perform that duty
that body must necessarily-be in session." Cong. Globe, 40th Cong.,
2d. Sess., Pt. 2, pp. 1372, 1374, 1405.
Senator Bayard said: "But, Mr. President, there is an additional
objection which to my mind is all powerful. The committee propose
. . . that if Congress is not in session during the ten days or at the

end of the ten days the President may send the bill to the office of
the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, according to the House in which the bill may have originated.
There is no such provision in the Constitution; and the settled usage
of this Government, without a single exception from its foundation,
is that no communication is made by the Executive to either House
except to the House in session, and that usage ought to have a controlling influence to exclude the idea which is contained in the provision of the bill that I am now referring to. . . . But further, the
very object of the clause looks to the fact that the bill should be
returned during the session of the House in which it originated. It
looks, if I may so speak, to immediate action on the part of Congress-at all events it looks to giving to Congress the right of immediate action as soon as the objections of the President are received. The Houses are to proceed to consider the objections; they

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

5. The views which we have expressed as to the construction and effect of the constitutional provision here
in question are confirmed by the practical construction
that has been given to it by the Presidents through a long
are to spread them at large on the Journal; there is to be a reconsideration of the measure formerly under debate. The whole clause
looks to speedy action, at all events, upon objections made by the
President, and the language employed providing for a return to the
House does not imply filing a document with the Clerk or the Secretary when the House is not in session, whether it be the Senate or
the House of Representatives. . . . Here the usage of the Government of the United States, from its origin to the present day, is, that
in no single case has a President of the United States, on the return
of a bill to the Senate or House of Representatives, ever undertaken
to file his message with the Clerk of the one or the Secretary of the
other; but the action of the Executive has uniformly been by
message sent to the House when in session. That is the settled usage;
and when you look to the language of the Constitution, that the bill
is to be returned to the House, it is certainly forcing language to
say that a return to the House means filing a paper with the Secretary or Clerk when the House is not in session." Cong. Globe, 40th
Cong.. 2d Sess., Pt. 2, pp. 1941, 1942.
Senator Buckalew said: "I should like to know how the Secretary
can make entries and make up a Journal when the Senate is not in
session. I can understand that when the Senate reconvenes the
Clerk may band to the President of the Senate, just as any member
might or any outsider might, the particular paper, and it may then
be presented to the Senate, and it may be entered in the Journal. But
this bill contemplates that our Secretary shall make and keep a
Journal when the Senate is not here at all, when there can be no
Journal of its proceedings. . . . (The) Constitution provides that
the Senate shall keep a Journal of its proceedings, of what it does
itself. In another clause it is provided that when the President returns a bill with his objections that message thus containing his objections shall be entered upon the Journal of the Senate. The fact
of receiving such a message and the entry of that message upon the
Journal must, in the very nature of the case, be when the Senate
itself is in session . . . The Journal is to be kept by the Senate, and
it is to be a Journal of what it does, a Journal of its proceedings.
...
The reception of a message from the President of the United
States is a proceeding by the Senate; it is an act by the Senate

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

689

Opinion of the Court.

course of years, in which Congress has acquiesced. Long
settled and established practice is a consideration of great
weight in a proper interpretation of constitutional provisions of this character. Compare Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v.
itself. . . I think, therefore, it is manifest that under the Constitution of the United States this Journal and the entries upon the Journal are matters which relate to a session of the Senate, an actual session, the personal presence of the body, and that it is not competent
for the Senate to commit to one of its own officers, or to any officer of
the Government, or to any citizen, the performance of a duty which
is by the Constitution charged upon itself and to be performed by
itself. . . . Now, one objection which applies to the bill . . . is
that it is against the practice of the Government. From the time
that Congress first convened together in 1789 down to this time it
has been held, and held uniformly, that if the two Houses of Congress adjourned by a concurrent resolution before the expiration of
ten days from the presentation of a bill to the President a bill which
should then be left in his hands would fail. . . . They have failed
upon repeated occasions, not only during recent years, but far back
in former times. . . . This bill proposes, in the absence of both
Houses of Congress to provide a substitute for the House to which the
bill is to be returned. Instead of being returned to the House in
which it originated, as the Constitution says, this bill proposes to enact that it shall be returned to the Secretary here alone . . . and that
upon the paper . . . being given to that particular person it shall
be considered that it has been returned to the House in which it
originated. . . . Can anything more flatly contradict common sense,
deny the plain fact? Can we constitute our Secretary into the Senate,
and can we make the Clerk of the House of Representatives the
House for the purpose of doing any official act whatever? You propose that he shall receive the communication from the President as
if he were the Senate or the House; that he, sitting anywhere, responsible to nobody, with no check upon him, shall make up a
Journal as if he were the Senate or the House for the occasion."
Cong. Glohe, 40th Cong., 2d. Sess., Pt. 3, pp. 2076, 2077.
And Senator Morton said: "The Constitution . *.. contemplates
that the bill shall pass from the custody of the President to the
custody of the House in which it shall have originated; and we have
no power, in my judgment, to say that it shall be sufficient to return
45228°-29----44

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Kansas, supra, 284; Myers v. United States, 272 U. S.
52, 119, 136; and State v. South Norwalk, 77 Conn. 257,
264, in which the court said that a practice of at least
twenty years duration "on the part of the executive department, acquiesced in by the legislative department,
while not absolutely binding on the judicial department,
is entitled to great regard in determining the true construction of a constitutional provision the phraseology of
which is in any respect of doubtful meaning."
A memorandum prepared in the office of the Attorney
General showing the results of an exhaustive research of
governmental archives for the purpose of disclosing the
practical construetion placed upon the constitutional provision here involved in reference to so-called "pocket
vetoes," was transmitted by the President to Congress in
December 1928.12 This memorandum-the accuracy of
which is not questioned-cites more than 400 bills and
resolutions which were passed by Congress and submitted
to the President less than ten days before a final or interim
adjournment of Congress, which were not signed by the
President nor returned with his disapproval. Of these,
119 were instances in which the adjournment was that at
the end of a session of Congress, as distinguished from
the final adjournment of the Congress. None of these
bills or resolutions was placed upon the statute books
or treated as having become a law; nor does it appear that
there was any attempt to enforce them in the courts until
the present suit was brought. Of these instances 11 ocit-to the President of the Senate or the Speaker-of the House or to the
Secretary or Clerk. . . . What has become of the bill? The Constitution does not contemplate such a condition of things. . . . It
would be just as good for the private Secretary of the President to
retain a bill as for the Secretary of the Senate; just as much a compliance with the provision of the Constitution; and it would be just
as satisfactory to my mind for the President to retain it during the
odd days as for the Secretary of the Senate to do so." Cong. Globe,
40th Cong., 2d Sess., Pt. 3, pp. 2077, 2078.
12 Ho. Doe. No. 493, 70 Cong., 2d sess.

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
655

Opinion of the Court.

curred before the end of President Lincoln's administration, and the remainder from the end of that administration to the present time. They arose under the administration of all the Pres'dents except ten. These 119 bills
and resolutions are thus classified in the brief of the amicus
curiae: Private relief bills, 36; pension bills, 19; obsolete
purposes, 10; relating to District of Columbia, 9; relating
to personal status, 8; right of way over Indian and government land, 8; river and harbor bills, 7; disposition of
war stores and government property, 5; reduction of
national debts, 3; and general legislation, 14. It does not
appear that in any of these instances either House of Congress in any official manner questioned the validity and
effect of the President's action in not returning the bill
after the adjournment of the session, or proceeded on the
theory that it had become a law, although neither signed
nor returned, until the action was taken in the House
Committee of the Whole in 1927 to which we have referred. 3 And in some instances new bills were introduced
in place of those that had not been returned. Without
analyzing these 119 instances in detail, we think they
show that for a long series of years, commencing with
President Mfadison's administration and continuing until
the action of the House Committee of the Whole in 1927,
all the, Presidents who have had occasion to deal with this
question have adopted and carried into effect the construction of the constitutional provision that they were
prevented from returning the bill to the House in which it
originated by the adjournment of the session of Congress;
and that this construction has been acquiesced in by both
Houses of Congress until 1927.
6. For these reasons we conclude that the adjournment
of the first session of the 69th Congress on July 3, 1926,
prevented the President, within the meaning of the con13 Note 7, supra.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

stitutional provision, from returning Senate Bill No. 3185
within ten days, Sundays excepted, after it had been presented to him, and that it did not become a law.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

WHITE RIVER LUMBER COMPANY v. ARKANSAS
EX REL.

APPLEGATE, ATTORNEY GENERAL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 101.

Argued January 7, 8, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. A state statute authorizing the collection of back taxes on lands
which, through inadequate assessment, have escaped their just
burden of taxation, is not invalid under the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment because it is limited to the recovery
of such additional taxes on lands of corporations and does not
extend to the recovery of such additional taxes on lands of natural
persons, which may likewise have been assessed at an inadequate
valuation. P. 695.
2. A constitutional question which does not appear by the record
to have been presented to, or passed upon by, a state supreme
court, but which is raised for the first time by the assignment of
errors in this Court, can not be considered here. P. 699.
175 Ark. 956, affirmed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas which affirmed with modifications a judgment
of the state chancery court assessing back taxes and
declaring them a lien on the land taxed.
Mr. Thomas S. Buzbee, with whom Messrs. George B.
Pugh, H. T. Harrison,and A. S. Buzbee were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. John M. Rose and George Vaughan, with whom
Messrs. R. E. L. Johnson and H. W. Applegate, Attorney
General of Arkansas, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

