392

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

if it is true an important patent is void- and, although
there is language here and there that seems to suggest
it, we can see no ground for giving less effect to proof of
such a fact than to any other. A party may go into a
suit estopped as to a vital fact by a covenant. We see
no sufficient reason for denying that he may be equally
estopped by a judgment. See Pratt v. Paris Gas Light
& Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255. Smith & Egge Manufacturing Co. v. Webster, 87 Conn. 74, 85.
Decree affirmed.

LEONARD & LEONARD, CO-PARTNERS, v. EARLE,
CONSERVATION COMMISSIONER OF MARYLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARY-LAND.

No. 260. Argued February 26, 27, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. The business of buying oysters and preparing them for marketing
is one upon which the State may impose a reasonable privilege or
license tax. P. 396.
2. As a part of such tax, the State may require that the licensee turn
over to it a portion (in this case 10%) of the empty oyster shells
resulting from the operations of his business, or, at the election of
the State, pay the equivalent of their market value in money, the
shells being but ordinary articles of commerce and desired by the
State for use in supporting and maintaining the producing oyster
beds within her limits and preventing their exhaustion. P. 396.
3. The exaction of the tax in shells is not a taking of private property
for public use without compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 397.
4. Nor is it a violation of the commerce clause though some of the
oysters come from other States. P. 397.
5. Placing oyster-packers in a separate class for taxation purposes
does not deny them the equal protection of the laws. P. 398.

LEONARD & LEONARD v. EARLE.
392

393

Opinion of the Court.

6. A rLuirement that the quota of empty shells exacted be retained
by the licensee for a reasonable time until removed by the State is
not an unconstitutional deprivation of the use of his premises.
P. 398.
7. An action in mandamus to compel a state officer to license plaintiff's business for the next ensuing year without his complying with
statutory conditions which he deemed unconstitutional, held not
to have become moot with the expiration of that year, in view of
the nature of the controversy and of a stipulation of the parties
showing plaintiff's purpose to continue in business. P. 398.
155 Md. 252, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Maryland, which affirmed a judgment of the Baltimore
City Court dismissing a petition for mandamus.
Mr. William L. Rawls for appellants.
Messrs. Thomas H. Robinson, Attorney General of
Maryland, and Robert H. Archer, Assistant Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Henry H. Johnson was on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In Maryland, the business of oyster packing is important and for many years has been licensed and taxed as a
privilege. Most of the live oysters having been taken by
tongs or dredges from bottoms in Maryland-a small per
cent. come from Virginia and New Jersey-are sold to
packers. At some convenient place on shore, they are
shucked; the edible portion is placed in containers and
shipped to points throughout the Union. Formerly, the
detached shells had no commercial value and often were
disposed of by dumping into the Bay. Later they came
into demand and were commonly sold for use in roadmaking, manufacture of fertilizer, chicken feed, etc.
Investigation disclosed that the producing beds were
being rapidly exhausted. A Committee of Experts re-

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ported to the Legislature that the only practicable method
of preventing their destruction was to place empt y shells
upon them and thus furnish the support and lime essentisi to growth of spat.
Thereupon, Chap. 119, Act of 1927-the statute here in
question and printed below *-was enacted. This reSection 1. Be It Enacted by the General Assembly of Maryland,
That Section 91 of Article 72 of the Code of Public General Laws of
Maryland, title "Oysters," sub-title "Packing Oysters," providing
for licensing of oyster packers be and is hereby repealed and reenacted with amendments, to read as follows:
91. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation having a
fixed place of business, buying oysters and employing labor to prepare
them for market to engage in the business of buying, selling, marketing, packing or canning oysters without first taking out a license to
engage in such business by application to the Conservation Department of Maryland. Where any such person, firm or corporation
operates more than one house for the buying, selling, marketing,
packing or canning of oysters, a separate license shall be obtained for
each house in which oysters are shucked or otherwise prepared for
market; such license to be in the nature and form of a contract between the State of Maryland and the applicant and shall provide for
the payment of a license fee of twenty-five dollars, and shall further
provide that the licensee must turn over to the State of Maryland at
least ten per cent. of the shells from the oysters shucked in his establishment for the current season, said shells to be removed on or
before the twentieth day of August of said season; or at the discretion of the Conservation Department its equivalent in money, the
value thereof being determined at the market value of shells as of the
first day of May following the close of the season. The Conservation
Department shall notify each packer or canner on or before the said
first day of May whether it is its intention to take the ten per centum
of the shells from oysters shucked as aforesaid, or its equivalent in
money. Said license shall have effect from the first day of September
in the year in which it may have been obtained until the twenty-fifth
day of April, inclusive, next succeeding.
Sec. 2. And Be It Further Enacted, That a new section to be
known as 91-A be added to Article 72 of the Code of Public General
Laws of Maryland, title "Oysters," to follow immediately after Section 91 of said Article, be and is hereby added to read as follows:
*

LEONARD & LEONARD v. EARLE.
392

Opinion of the Court.

quires those who buy oysters and prepare them for market at a fixed place to take out a license "in the nature
and form of a contract between the State of Maryland
and the applicant" which shall provide for payment of
$25.00; also that the "licensee must turn over to the
State of Maryland at least ten per cent. of the shells from
the oysters shucked in his establishment for the current
season," to be removed by August 20th, or, at the discretion of the Conservation Department, to pay their equivalent in money.
Appellants own land and buildings in Dorchester
County used by them in the packing business "for several years last past," and they intend to continue in the
business. During the season of 1926 they packed fifty
thousand bushels. At the proper time-August 30, 1927they duly applied to defendant for a license to conduct
operations during the season following and offered to pay
the designated fee of $25.00. But they refused to agree to
deliver to the State 10% of the empty shells or to pay
their market value, upon the ground that the statutory
91-A. All moneys derived from said license fee of twenty-five
dollars shall be paid over to the Comptroller to be credited to the
Conservation Fund, and one-half of the shells received by the Conservation Department shall be transplanted upon such natural beds
or bars as may be reserved by the Conservation Commissioner as
provided for elsewhere in this Article, and the other one-half of said
shells shall be planted on such seed areas as may be set aside by the
Conservation Commisioner for seed oysters. In case money is paid
in lieu of the ten per cent. of shells, the Conservation Commissioner
shall convert same into shells or seed oysters to be transplanted in
like manner.
Sec. 3. And Be It Further Enacted, That all laws or parts of laws
of the State of Maryland, general or local, inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act be and the same are hereby repealed to the
extent of such inconsistency.
Sec. 4. And Be It Further Enacted, That this Act shall take effect
June 1st, 1927.

OCTOBER TE1RM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

provision requiring this was contrary to state and federal
constitutions. Upon refusal of the application they asked
the state court for an appropriate writ of mandamus.
Judgment went against them and was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals.
Here appellants do not deny the power of the State to
declare their business a privilege and to demand therefor
reasonable payment of money. Their main insistence is
that exaction of 10% of the empty shells, or equivalent
market value at the election of the Commission, would
be a taking of their property for public use without compensation. They also suggest that this would unduly burden interstate commerce; would deny them equal protection of the laws; and finally, that to compel storage of
the shells until taken by the State would unlawfully deprive them of the use of their premises.
We find no reason to doubt the power of the State to
exact of each oyster packer a privilege tax equal to 10%
of the market value of the empty shells resulting from his
operations. This, we understand, is not questioned by
counsel. And as the packer lawfully could be required to
pay that sum in money, we think nothing in the Federal
Constitution prevents the State from demanding that he
give up the same per cent. of such shells. The result to
him is not materially different. From the packer's standpoint empty shells are but ordinary articles of commerce,
desirable because convertible into money. Their value is
not large and the part taken by the State will be so used
as greatly to advantage the business of packing. The purpose in view is highly beneficent and the means adopted
are neither arbitrary nor oppressive. The Federal Constitution may not be successfully invoked by selfish packers who seek to escape an entirely reasonable contribution
and thereby to thwart a great conservation measure generally approved..

LEONARD & LEONARD v. EARLE.
392

Opinion of the Court.

In Lane Cbunty v. Oregon, 7 Wallace 71, 77, this Court,
through Mr. Chief Justice Chase, said:
"The extent to which it [the power to tax] shall be exercised, the subjects upon which it shall be exercised, and
the mode in which it shall be exercised, are all equally
within the discretion of the legislatures to which the
States commit the exercise of the power.
If, therefore, the condition of any State, in the judgment of its
legislature, requires the collection of taxes in kind, that
is to say, by the delivery to the proper officers of a certain
proportion of products, or in gold and silver bullion, or in
gold and silver coin, it is not easy to see upon what
principle the national legislature can interfere with the
exercise, to that end, of this power, original in the States,
and never as yet surrendered."
Cooley on Taxation, 4th ed., Vol. 1, ยง 23, p. 92"Taxes are generally demanded in money, and any tax
law will be understood to require money when a different
intent is not expressed. But if the condition of any state,
in the judgment of its legislature, shall require the collection of taxes in kind-that is to say, by the delivery to
the proper officers of a certain proportion of products-or
in gold or silver bullion, or in anything different from the
legal tender currency of the country, the right to make
the requirement is unquestionable, being in conflict with
no principle of government, and with no provision of the
Federal Constitution. Instances of taxes in kind occurred
in the colonial period."
And see Frenchv. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S.
324, 329.
Appellants' business is local in character; and has no
such intimate connection w.th interstate commerce as to
exempt it from control by the State. The mere fact that
some of the live oysters come from other States does not
change the character of the enterprise. Browning v. Way-

.398

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

cross, 233 U. S. 16; Askren v. Continental 'Oil Co., 252

U. S. 444, 449; Wagner v. City of Covington, 251 U. S.
95, 102.
There was abundant reason for placing oyster packers
in a separate class for taxation purposes. Appellants'
claim that equal protection of the laws will be denied them
is groundless.
The requirement concerning storage for a limited time
of 10% of the empty shells imposes no serious burden, is
but part of the general scheme for taxing the privilege,
and is no heavier than demands to which taxpayers are
often subjected. It is neither oppressive nor arbitrary.
Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hopkins, 264 U. S. 137, 139
Considering the nature of the controversy and the agreement between the parties touching appellants' purpose to
continue in the packing business, it can not be said that
the cause has become moot. United States v. Trans-Missouri FreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290, 307, 308; Southern
Pacific Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219
U. S. 433, 452; Southern Pacific Terminal Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 514, 516;
McGrainv. Daugherty,273 U. S. 135, 182.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. CLAUSSEN v. DAY, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 416. Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. Section 19 of the Naturalization Act, which makes liable to arrest
and deportation "any alien who is hereafter sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year or more because of conviction of a
crime involving moral turpitude, committed within five years after

