EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.

347

Statement of the Case.
EX PARTE WORCESTER COUNTY NATIONAL
BANK OF WORCESTER.
APPEAL FROM THE PROBATE COURT FOR WORCESTER COUNTY,
STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 469. Argued April 11, 1929-Decided May 13, 1929.
The Act of February 25, 1927, provides that any national bank may
be consolidated with any state bank or trust company under the
charter of the national bank; that, upon such consolidation, all
the rights, franchises and interests in property of the state corporation shall be deemed transferred to and vested in the national
bank; that the consolidated national bank "shall hold and enjoy
the same and all rights of property, franchises and interests including the right of succession as trustee, executor, or in any other
fiduciary capacity in the same manner and to the same extent as
was held and enjoyed " by the state corporation; but that no such
consolidation shall be in contravention of the law of the State under
which such state bank or trust company was incorporated. Held:
1. That the Act enjoins upon a consolidated national bank complete conformity with the state law in its conduct of estates of
deceased persons when acting as trustee or administrator thereof.
P. 360.
2. Where the highest state court decided that, under the state
law, a national bank with which a local trust company had been
consoliaated under the Act did not succeed to an executorship held
by the trust company and could not render an account of the estate,
except as executor de son tort, because the consolidation had ended
the existence of the trust company and the bank, being a different
entity, could not rightfully represent the estate without a new appointment from the probate court, this decision, as to the state law,
should be followed by the Court. P. 359.
3. To conform with the state law, under the Act of Congress, the
bank, in order to represent and administer the estate, should apply
for an appointment by the probate court. P. 359.
263 Mass. 444, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment entered by the Probate Court

for Worcester County, Massachusetts, in accordance with

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

a rescript from the Supreme Judicial Court, dismissing
the appellant's petition for allowance of its account as
executor under a will.
Mr. Newton D. Baker, with whom Mr. William T.
Forbes was on the brief, for appellant.
The legitimate congressional purpose of preserving the
federal fiscal instrumentalities involved both the enlargement of the corporate powers of national banks to meet
modern banking conditions and the creation of authority
for the consolidation of state banks with national banks,
under federal charter, upon conditions which would preserve, in the consolidated national bank, all of the powers,
rights and privileges held by the state institution, to the
end that the federal instrumentalities might be sustained
as against the competition created by the States through
the authorization of the consolidation of state banks on
favorable terms, to the extent of the power of Congress to
create national banks and endow them with private functions. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; FirstNat'l
Bank v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416; Fidelity Nat'l Bank v.
Enright, 264 Fed 236.
If the necessities of the situation. justified it, Congress
would have power to require all banks to take but national charters and thus to bring the whole business of
banking under national control. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533. Congress would have the power to provide
generally, that the national banks should have in each
State, in addition to the powers specifically granted in
national charters, all the powers given in that State to
state banks.
The power of Congress to create federal fiscal agencies
and endow them with relevant and appropriate functions,
or to protect them against state created competition, by
transmutation, is as plenary as the congressional power

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
* 347

Argument for Appellant.

to create such instrumentalities by initial organization.
Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673.
Congress may constitutionally provide for succession by
a consolidated corporation, as an incident of the consolidation, to all rights as trustee, executor or administrator
which were held by the constituent or absorbed corporations. Iowa Light Co. v. First Nat'l Bank, 250 Mass. 353;
Mercantile Trust Co. v. San Joaquin Agricultural Corp'n,
265 Pac. 583; McElwain v. Primavera, 167 N. Y. S. 815;
Chicago Title Co. v. Zinser, 264 Ill. 31; In re Bergdorf's
Will, 206 N. Y. 309; In re Turner's Estate, 277 Pa. St. 110;
Petition of Bank, 249 Mass. 240.
Transmutation of a state bank into a national bank pursuant to congressional authority, does not destroy the
bank's identity or its corporate existence. Metropolitan
Nat'l Bank v. Claggett, 141 U. S. 520; Michigan Ins. Bank
v. Eldred, 143 U. S. 293; Atlantic Nat'l Bank v. Harris,
118 Mass. 147; City Nat'l Bank v. Phelps, 97 N. Y. 44.
Massachusetts General Laws, c. 172, § 44, provides that
upon any consolidation of a Massachusetts Trust Company, its charter "shall be void except for the purpose of
discharging existing obligations and liabilities." It is difficult to see why the duty to discharge an accepted trust as
an executor or administrator is not an existing obligation.
Hence, under the specific terms of the Massachusetts
statute, the corporate identity of the Trust Company may
well be considered to continue in the absorbing corporation, so far as is necessary, until the obligation is fully discharged. The discharge of the office of administrator has
been specifically held to be a duty and obligation of the
appointed corporation. Ex parte Worcester County Nat'l
Bank, 161 N. E. 797.
The conclusion of the Supreme Judicial Court is that
the appointment of an executor is an exercise of judicial
power which it is incompetent for the legislature to per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

form. It is not claimed that this contravenes any statute
of Massachusetts. Part 1 of Article 30 of the Bill of
Rights prohibits the Legislative Department from exercising judicial power. In reply to this, it may be observed
that the statute under examination deals with the powers
of consolidated corporations; and while it provides for
succession, it still leaves the executor subject to removal
by the court in proper cases, so that the judicial power is,
not in any way interfered with. As a matter of fact,
courts do not appoint executors. In re Bergdorfs Will,
206 N. Y. 309; Parkerv. Sears, 117 Mass. 513; Nat'l Bank
v. Eldridge, 115 Mass. 424. The right to act as executor
or administrator is not a natural right, but resides first in
the State, and the State may place the administration
in the hands of its own officials and not leave them to
administrators appointed by the courts. In re McWhirter's Estate, 235 Ill. 607. This policy has been followed
in several States and it is not always required that the
probate court should be consulted in such matters. Leever
v. Taylor, 111 Mo. 312; Brinckwirth's Estate v. Troll, 266
Mo. 473. Even in Massachusetts, under § 17, c. 194 of
Public Statutes, the public administrator proceeds summarily in estates under $100.00 in value without procuring letters of administration. The power of legislatures
to deal with trusts without infringing judicial power is
illustrated in Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427; Hoyt
v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613; Watkins v. Holman, 16 Pet. 25.
The Legislature of Massachusetts by an Act approved
March 11, 1911, has exercised the very power with regard
to state institutions which Congress has sought to exercise
in the Act under examination.
Even the power of removal as to executors or administrators has been made the subject of statutory regulations.
Haddick v. District Court, 160 Ia. 487; Dunlap v. Kennedy, 10 Bush (Ky.) 539.

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

351

Argument for Massachusetts.

The constitutionality of the Act is likewise sustained by
the contemporaneous interpretation and application of
the Act by the federal agencies entrusted with its administration. Ann. Rep. Fed. Res. Bd., 1927, pp. 267-271,
287.
Mr. F. Delano Putnam, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Messrs. Joseph E. Warner,
Attorney General, and R. Ammi Cutter, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, as amici curiae, by special
leave of Court, on behalf of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Attorney General and the First Judge of
Probate of Worcester County.
So long as the state law applicable to the appointment
of successor fiduciaries provides for the appointment of
consolidated national banks as successors in the same manner and upon the same terms as consolidated state banks,
the state law and '§ 1 of the Act are not in conflict.
Despite the exhaustive examination by the court below,
it is submitted with great deference that its construction
of ,§ 1 was incorrect. This Court is not bound by that
construction. Pacheco v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.,
15 F. (2d) 467; Knight v. Carter Oil Co., 23 F. (2d) 481.
In view of the decision below, it must be said at least
that there is grave doubt as to the constitutional validity
of a portion of '§ 1 as construed by it. Therefore this
Court should be astute to adopt the construction which
leaves no room for any holding or argument that the legislative department has exceeded its powers. Richmond
Screw Anchor Co. v. UnitedStates, 275 U. S. 331; Blodgett
v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142.
The appellant should be permitted to account only as
executor de son tort.
The language and legislative history of i§ 1 of the Act do
not indicate that Congress intended to authorize consoli-

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Massachusetts.

279 U. S.

dated national banks to succeed state trust companies as
fiduciaries without new appointment by the probate court,
where state law requires such new appointment. The
legislative history shows that it was intended only to
simplify the procedure attendant upon the consolidation
of state and national banks. The language of the whole
section indicates that Congress did not intend that the
consolidation authorized should result in any violation of
state laws.
The statutes under which national banks are authorized
to act as fiduciaries by state court appointment, do not
purport to relieve national banks from court supervision
to which state banks acting as fiduciaries are subjected.
Section 1 of the Act should be construed so as to be consistent with this earlier legislation.
The pertinent provisions of the Massachusetts law governing the conduct by fiduciaries of estates under direction
of a Massachusetts court, in no sense discriminate against
national banks in favor of any other person.
If § 1 of the Act be construed to require a state probate
court to recognize as executor a consolidated national bank
in the place of the court's original appointee without new
appointment, it is pro tanto unconstitutional.
The construction of the disputed words taken by the
Supreme Judicial Court probably rested in large part upon
the construction taken by the Comptroller of the Currency. Ann. Rep. Fed. Res. Bd., 1927, pp. 267-271. A
departmental construction cannot be given the force of
law when the construction is challenged in the courts
almost as soon as known. Iselin v. United States, 270
U. S. 245.
The power of Congress with respect to the incidental
powers of national banks is limited to the protection of
the exercise of those powers from discriminatory state
legislation or action and to the preservation of equal

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

Opinion of the Court.

opportunity to compete with state banks. Non-discriminatory state laws regulating the administration of estates
are beyond congressional interference under the Constitution. First Nat'l Bank v. Fellows ex rel. Union Trust
Co., 244 U. S. 416; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S.
514; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Burnes Nat'l Bank
v. Duncan, 265 U. S. 17; Child Labor Tax Case, 259
U. S. 20.
Messrs. George P. Barse and F. G. Awalt filed a brief
on behalf of Mr. John W. Pole, Comptroller of the Currency, as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court.
Messrs. Walter Wyatt and George B. Vest fied a brief
on behalf of the Federal Reserve Board, as amicus curiae,
by special leave of Court.
Mr. Robert F. Cogswell filed the brief of Mr. Carl
Meyer on behalf of the Continental National Bank and
Trust Company of Chicago, as amicus curiae, by special
leave of Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Worcester County National Bank is a consolidated
banking corporation formed by uniting, on June 27, 1927,
the Fitchburg Bank & Trust Company, a state institution
of Massachusetts, and the Merchants National Bank of
Worcester, a national bank of Worcester County, Massachusetts, under the Act of Congress of February 25, 1927,
c. 191, 44 Stat. 1224, amending the Act of November 7,
1918, c. 209, 40 Stat. 1044. The amendment added a new
section, 3, and this case turns chiefly on the construction,
effect and validity of that new section.
The consolidated bank filed in the Probate Court of
Worcester County a first and final account of the Fitch45228"-29---23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

burg Bank & Trust Company, executor of the last will and
testament of Julia A. Legnard, late of Fitchburg in the
county of Worcester. The account was for the period beginning April 21, 1926, and ending February 9, 1928. The
account was rendered by the Worcester County National
Bank for the Fitchburg Bank & Trust Company to June
27, 1927, and thereafter as its own account.
The Fitchburg Bank & Trust Company had been appointed by the Probate Court executor of the will of Julia
A Legnard on April 21, 1926, and qualified by giving bond
approved on that day.
The consolidated bank claimed that, in view of the proceedings, its right and duty was to render the account presented for allowance; and as all the parties interested had
assented to it, that it should be allowed by the court.
The Probate Court found that the account was in proper
form for allowance and should be allowed as rendered, if
the said Worcester County National Bank, as successor or
otherwise, was executor of said will or had the right to
render the account.
The Probate Judge reported a certificate from the
Comptroller of the Currency that the two banks had complied with all the provisions of the Acts of Congress and
had been consolidated under the charter of the Merchants
National Bank with the capital stock of $1,875,000; that
the consolidation had been approved, and that pursuant
to the Federal Reserve Act, enacted December 23, 1913,
§ 11 (k), c. 6, 38 Stat. 251, 262, the consolidated bank had
permission to act as executor.
He further reported that many estates were being administered by the consolidated bank under a claim of right
where the Fitchburg Bank had been appointed administrator, executor or in some other fiduciary capacity, and no
new appointment of the consolidated bank in place of the
Fitchburg Bank had been made by decree of the Probate
Court.

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

Opinion of the Court.

He concluded the report as follows:
"Without action upon said account, I report the above
facts and the question of law involved, for the consideration and determination of the Full Court, as to whether
the petitioner is entitled to render said account.
"Fredk. H. Chamberlain,
Judge of Probate Court."
After a hearing on the report, a rescript of the Supreme
Judicial Court was as follows:
" Ordered that the register of probate and insolvency in
said county make the following entry under said case in
the docket of said court, viz: The question reported,
namely, 'Whether the petitioner is entitled to render said
account,' is answered in the negative. Probate Court
instructed accordingly."
Following the rescript, the Probate Court made the following entry:
"The foregoing account having been presented for allowance, after rescript from the Supreme Judicial Court
(Full Court) and pursuant to the terms of said rescript,
it appearing that the Worcester County National Bank of
Worcester, the accountant and petitioner in this case, has
not succeeded the Fitchburg Bank & Trust Company as
executor of the will of said testatrix and is not entitled to
render this account, this petition for the allowance of the
same is hereby dismissed."
A petition for appeal to this Court, with an assignment
of errors, was filed, and an appeal was allowed under
§ 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act
of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937.
The Supreme Judicial Court stated its reasons for
the conclusion reached, in an elaborate opinion. 263
Mass. 444.
The court began with a statement of the substance of
§ 3, in the Act of February 25, 1927, c. 191, 44 Stat. 1224,
1225, providing that any bank, including a trust company

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

incorporated under the laws of any State, may be consolidated with a national bank located in the same county
under the charter of the national bank, on such terms
and conditions as may lawfully be agreed upon in the
manner specified; that all the rights, franchises, and interests of the state bank in and to every species of property, real, personal and mixed, and choses in action thereto
belonging, shall be deemed to be transferred to and vested
in such national bank into which it "is consolidated, without any deed or transfer; and that the national bank shall
hold and enjoy all this property, franchises and interests,
including the right of succession as trustee, executor, or
in any other fiduciary capacity, in the same manner and
to the same extent as was held and enjoyed by the state
bank. The section closes with the limitation: "No such
consolidation shall be in contravention of the law of the
State under which such bank is incorporated."
The court examined the question whether there was
any statute of Massachusetts or any policy declared in
its statutes which prevented or forbade such consolidation,
and found that there was none, but pointed out that there
was a provision in the General Laws of Massachusetts, c.
172, § 44, as amended by Stat. 1922, c. 292, which should
be regarded as a limitation upon such consolidation, as
follows:
"The charter of a trust company, the business of which
shall, on or after July 1, 1922, be consolidated or merged
with, or absorbed by, another bank or trust company, shall
be void except for the purpose of discharging existing obligations and liabilities."
With this qualification, the court found the field to be
left open, under Massachusetts law, to the exercise by
Congress of whatever power it possessed over the subject.
The court then considered the Congressional power, and
cited the case of Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, to show that

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

Opinion of the Court.

under § 44 of the Banking Act of Congress, c. 106, 13 Stat.
99, 112, a state bank could change its organization into
that of a national bank without any authority given by
the State in its charter or otherwise to make the change.
The Supreme Judicial Court could not find any distinction between the power of Congress to authorize the conversion of a state bank into a national bank and its power
to authorize the consolidation of a state bank with a national bank under the charter of the national bank, and
concluded that if no state legislation was necessary to
accomplish the conversion, there was no legislation necessary to accomplish consolidation, and that the consolidation of a Massachusetts trust company with a national
bank under the § 3 in the Act of Congress of February
25, 1927, was permissible and valid.
The court then considered what was the legal effect
of the consolidation of the trust company and the national bank, and emphasized the explicit provision of § 3
that the consolidation was to be under the charter of the
national bank. It referred again to the provision of the
state law that upon the consolidation, the charter of the
trust company should be "void except for the purpose of
discharging existing obligations and liabilities." It held
that the word "franchises" directed to be transferred to
the national bank by virtue of § 3 did not mean its charter
or its right to be a corporation, for that would be in contravention of the law of the Commonwealth; that it was
only the national bank that retained its corporate identity; that the certificate of the Comptroller did not contitute a charter, but only his approval of the consolidation; that the trust company had gone out of existence
and all its property had become the property of the consolidated bank; and that the latter was not a newly-created organization, but an enlargement of the continuously
existing national bank. Thus the court found that the

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court. *

279 U. S.

identity of the trust company had not been continued in
a national bank, but had been extinguished. The court
distinguished this case from cases of union where contract
obligations had been held to pass from one of the uniting
corporations to the other. Such cases were held not to
be applicable to sustain the view that positions of trust
like executor, administrator and other fiduciarids could be
transferred to the national bank by the mere consolidation
under Massachusetts law.
The court then set out at some length the reasons why
under the Constitution and practice of Massachusetts the
appointment of an executor-was a judicial act, and that in
the case before the court no one could succeed to the void
and defunct State Trust Company as executor except by
appointment by the Probate Court. The trust involved
was highly personal. The court said:
"To treat the national banking association into which
the State trust company has been consolidated as preserving the identity of the trust company in this particular would be contrary to the juridical conception and practice touching the appointment of such fiduciaries under
the law of this Commonwealth."
The third question the court discussed and decided was
the validity and binding effect on courts of Massachusetts of the declaration in § 3 of the Act of Congress that
the right of succession as trustee, executor or in any other
fiduciary capacity, would follow to the same extent as
it was held and enjoyed by such state bank. It first
inquired what was its meaning, and held that it meant
that the original appointment of the state bank was to
continue wholly unaffected by the fact that the state
bank had ceased to be, and that another and different corporation, whose credit, standing and competency had never
been the subject of judicial inquiry for this purpose must
be substituted by virtue of § 3. The court found that

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

Opinion of the Court.

this result was in contravention of the law of the Commonwealth and contrary to the state and federal Constitutions.
The court found, however, that this provision was not
the dominant part of § 3, that the clause was separable
and distinct, that the rest of the section could stand independently and that there was no such connection between
the two as to indicate that Congress would not have enacted the valid part without the other.
The court, therefore, held that the Worcester County
National Bank of Worcester, the accountant and petitioner in the case at bar, had not succeeded the Fitchburg
Bank & Trust Company as executor of the will of the
testatrix and was not entitled to render an account as
such executor; that it could only account as executor de
son tort, and that the question of the Probate Court must
be answered in the negative.
In passing on this appeal, we must observe that, in
determining the policy of a State from its statutes and
their construction, we of course follow the opinion of the
state court except as it may be affected by the federal
constitution. When, therefore, the state court holds that
an executor, to act as such in the State, must be appointed
by the Probate Court, this Court must respect that conclusion and act accordingly. But when the question arises
as to what is the proper interpretation and construction of
federal legislation, this Court adopts its own view.
It is very clear to us that Congress in the enactment of
9 3 in the Act of February 25, 1927, was anxious even to
the point of repetition to show that it wished to avoid
any provision in contravention of the law of the State in
which the state trust company and the national bank to
be consolidated were located. So strongly manifest is
this purpose that we do not hesitate to construe the effect
of § 3 in Massachusetts to be only to transfer the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and estate from the trust company to the national bank,
to be managed and preserved as the state law provides, for
administration of estates, and not to transfer the office of
executor from the state trust company to the succeeding
national bank. As this requires another judicial appointment by a probate court, it would become the duty of a
consolidated national bank, after the union, immediately
to apply for the appointment of itself as administrator,
subject to the examination and approval of the proper
probate court. Because of the interest of the national
bank in all of the assets of the trust company, including
the estate at bar, transferred to its custody, the bank
would seem to have a right to make such an application
to the Probate Court and await the action of that court.
If, on the other hand, it assumed improperly that it was
made an executor by the-mere consolidation, and held the
transferred property as such, it must be held to have become an executor de son tort and should bring the assets
before the Probate Court and proceed by proper application to secure the appointment of a legal representative
by the court, as pointed out by the Supreme Judicial
Court in this case and in Commonwealth-Atlantic National Bank, 261 Mass. 217, and Commonwealth-Atlantic
National Bank, 249 Mass. 440.
These views lead us to agree with the conclusions of the
Supreme Judicial Court in respect to the legality of the
consolidation of the trust company and the national bank
and only to differ from it in its construction of § 3, by
which it would hold that section unconstitutional under
the Constitution of Massachusetts, and so under the Constitution of the United States.
We think § 3 enjoins upon the national bank complete
conformity with the Massachusetts law in its conduct of
estates of deceased persons when acting as trustee or
administrator thereof.

EX PARTE WORCESTER NAT. BANK.
347

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Judicial Court refers in its opinion in
this case to that of Commonwealth-Atlantic National
Bank of Boston, 261 Mass. 217, as showing that the consolidated bank in this case could not act as executor. In
that case a state trust company was appointed by the
probate court as trustee under wills in two cases and as
conservator of property in a third. It qualified by giving
bond and for some time held and administered the property as fiduciary. Thereafter it was converted into a
national bank, which still later was consolidated with an.
other national bank. No new appointment as trustee was
made by the probate court. The consolidated national
bank petitioned for allowance of accounts as fiduciary.
The court held that while the accounts were accurate and
complete, the consolidated bank was not a duly appointed
fiduciary merely by virtue of the original appointment of
the state trust company, and could only account de son
tort. The court relied on Commonwealth-Atlantic National Bank of Boston, 249 Mass. 440. There a state
trust company was named as executor in a will. Thereafter it became converted into a national bank, which
still later was consolidated with another national bank.
The testator having died, the consolidated national bank
petitioned for the issuance of letters testamentary to it
as the executor named in the will. The court held that
it was not the executor named therein, and that the designation of the state trust company as executor did not
confer on it a property right passing to its successor, the
consolidated national bank.
The court in both Commonwealth-Atlantic Bank cases
accepted the effect of the decisiobs in First National
Bank of Bay City v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416, and Burnes
National Bank of St. Joseph v. Duncan, 265 U. S. 17, the
latter holding that national banks may act as executors
in a State where state trust companies have that privi-

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

lege. The court in 249 Mass. said, "We accept, as we
are bound to accept, that principle in all its amplitude
and with all its implications," but said that "that principle does not reach to the facts here presented." There
was similar language in 261 Mass. The Supreme Judicial Court did not then hold, and has not held, that a
Probate Court of Massachusetts may not appoint a national bank, otherwise qualified, to be executor, adminisIn contrator or trustee, if it approves one as such.
struing § 3, we think it to be in conformity therewith for
the national bank, after consolidation, to apply to the
Massachusetts Probate Court for appointment as a succeeding fiduciary to carry on the duties. In the present
case, no such appointment has been made by the Probate
Court.
Under the Massachusetts authorities, as already cited,
the bank in attempting in this case to act as executor
has become an executor de son tort, and that situation
must be disposed of in accordance with the laws appliClabborn
cable in Massachusetts to such a situation.
v. Phillips,245 Mass. 47. When the executor de son tort
has been released, it would seem that application might
be made to the Probate Court for appointment of the
national bank as administrator to close the estate. It
seems to us that our construction of the Act of 1927, in
differing from that of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, makes it possible by the appointment of
the Probate Judge, if he approves, to enforce the requirements which the laws of that State impose in the execution of such trusts, and still preserve the constitutional
effectiveness of § 3.
This result requires -us to affirm the dismissal of the
petition of the Worcester County National Bank in, seeking to render the first and final account of the Fitchburg
Bank & Trust Company as executor of the last will and

U. S. v. FRUIT GROWERS EX. CO.
347

363

Argument for the United States.

testament of Julia A. Legnard, deceased, and its own
account as executor of her will; but to remand the cause
to the Probate Court for a proceeding by the petitioner
as executor de son tort, and for such further proceedings
as it may be advised and as are permissible by the laws
of Massachustts and the statutes of the United States,
not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. THE FRUIT GROWERS EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 305.

Argued December 3, 1928.-Decided May 13, 1929.

The defendant, a corporation performing the service of icing refrigerator cars under contract with a railroad company, made out and
delivered to the railroad company false reports concerning the
quantity of ice used, which reports were kept by the railroad company as required under the Interstate Commerce Act, and were
made the basis of icing charges rendered by it in its bills to shippers. The railroad company was innocent. Held that the defendant was not punishable under § 20 (7) of the Interstate Commerce
Act as a person who wilfully makes a false entry in a record kept
by a carrier. P. 368.
Affirmed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment of the District Court quashing an indictment.

Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, William H.
Bonneville and William J. Flood, Special Assistants to the
United States Attorney, were on the brief, for the United
States.

