NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
40

Syllabus.

titled to count such subsequent retired service in computing their base pay.
Recognizing the force of petitioner's argument and that
the number and complexity of the statutes involved and
their inept phrasing leave the question not free from
doubt, we conclude that the construction given to them
by the Court of Claims is the more reasonable one. The
judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of the opinion that the
petitioner's claim is within the words of the statutes and
should be allowed.

NIELSEN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. JOHNSON,
TREASURER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 115. Argued January 9, 10, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. When a treaty provision fairly admits of two constructions, one
restricting, the other enlarging, the rights which may be claimed
under it, the more liberal interpretation is to be preferred. P. 52.
2. As the treaty-making power is independent of and superior to
the legislative power of the States, the meaning of treaty provisions liberally construed is not restricted by any necessity of
avoiding possible conflict with state legislation, and when so ascertained must prevail over inconsistent state enactments. P. 52.
3. When the meaning of treaty provisions is uncertain, recourse
may be had to the negotiations and diplomatic correspondence of
the contracting parties relating to the subject matter, and to their
own practical construction of it. P. 52.
4. Article 7 of the Treaty of April 26, 1826, with Denmark, providing "that hereafter no higher or other duties, charges, or taxes
of any kind, shall be levied in the territories or dominions of
either party, upon any personal property, money or effects, of
their respective citizens or subjects, on the removal of the same
from their territories or dominions reciprocally, either upon the
inheritance of such property, money, or effects, or otherwise,

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent.

279 U. S.

than are or shall be payable in each State, upon the same, when
removed by a citizen or subject of such State respectively," was
intended to prohibit not merely taxes on removal, but also discriminatory taxes like the droit de d6traction (applied only to
alien heirs of a resident decedent and substantially equivalent, as
to them, to the modern inheritance tax), and is violated by a
state inheritance tax discriminating against non-resident alien heirs
of a resident decedent and constituting a lien upon the property.
Pp. 52, 57.
205 Ia. 324, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 277 U. S. 583, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa affirming a judgment imposing an
inheritance tax.

Mr. Nelson Miler for petitioner.
Mr. John Fletcher, Attorney General of Iowa, with
whom Messrs. C. J.Stephens, Assistant Attorney General,
and Albert H. Adams were on the brief, for respondent.
An inheritance tax is not a tax upon the property
itself or upon the estate, but upon the succession or right
to take by succession. Such a tax is not, therefore, within the contemplation of Article VII of the Treaty, which
applies only to taxes levied upon property.
The Treaty does not apply to the right of the citizens
of either country to acquire, by transfer or inheritance,
property situated in the other belonging to its own citizens, free from restraints imposed by the law of each
country on its own citizens, even although such restraints
would not have been applicable in case the property had
been disposed of or transmitted to a citizen.
The most that can be said for the Article is that it
applies only to the disposal or transmittal of property
by a citizen of either country, and that it was not intended to apply to the acquisition or receipt of property
'by the citizens of either country. That is to say, the

NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
47

Opinion of the Court.

Treaty does not in any way protect the rights of citizens
of either country with respect to their right to receive
or acquire property. Petersen v. Iowa, 245 U. S. 170.
A-tax upon the exercise of the right to succeed to or inherit property is not a burden upon the right to remove
the property, as the right of property is dependent on
the payment of the tax and could not and does not arise
until the tax is paid. This rule was announced by this
Court in United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625. See also
Duus v. Brown, 245 U. S. 176; In re Estate of Anderson,
166 Ia. 617; In re Estate of Pedersen, 198 Ia. 166.
The tax imposed on the share passing to a non-resident
alien, is the same whether the decedent is a citizen of
Iowa or a citizen of Denmark, and, therefore, there is no
discrimination.
The right to inherit property exists only by statute, and
a State may tax that right as it sees fit so long as it does
not contravene constitutional or treaty provisions. McGoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283;
Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490.
Mr. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on certiorari, granted June 4, 1928, 277
U. S. 583, under § 237 of the Judicial Code, to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa affirming a judgment of the Plymouth District Court imposing an inheritance tax on the estate of petitioner's intestate. Anders
Anderson, the intestate, a citizen of the Kingdom of Denmark residing in Iowa, died there February 9, 1923, leaving his mother, a resident and citizen of Denmark, his sole
heir at law and entitled by inheritance, under the laws of
Iowa, to his net estate of personal property, aggregating
$3,006.37. By § 7315, Code of Iowa (1927), c. 351, the
estate of a decedent passing to his mother or other named
close relatives, if alien non-residents of the United States,
45228-29---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. &

is subject to an inheritance tax of 10%, but by § 7313
an estate of less than $15,000, as was decedent's, passing
to a parent who is not such a non-resident alien is tax
free. In the proceedings in the state court for fixing the
inheritance tax, petitioner asserted that the provisions of
the statutes referred to, so far as they authorized a tax
upon this decedent's estate, were void as in conflict with
Article 7 of the Treaty of April 26, 1826, between the
United States and Denmark, 8 Stat. 340, 342, renewed in
1857, 11 Stat. 719, 720, reading as follows:
"ARTICLE 7. The United States and his Danish Majesty
mutually agree, that no higher or other duties, charges,
or taxes of any kind, shall be levied in the territories or
dominions of either party, upon any personal property,
money or effects, of their respective citizens or subjects,
on the removal of the same from their territories or dominions reciprocally, either upon the inheritance of such
property, money, or effects, or otherwise, than are or shall
be payable in each State, upon the same, when removed
by a citizen or subject of such State respectively."
The Supreme Court of Iowa, 205 Iowa 324, following
its earlier decision, In re Estate of Pedersen, 198 Iowa
166, upheld the statute as not in conflict with the Treaty
In Petersen v. Iowa, 245 U. S. 170, this court held, following Fredericksonv. Louisiana, 23 How. 445, that Article 7 was intended to apply only to the property of citizens
of one country located within the other and so placed no
limitation upon the power of either government to deal
with its own citizens and their property within its own
dominion. Hence, it did not preclude the inheritance tax
there imposed upon the estate of a resident citizen of
Iowa at a higher rate upon legacies to a citizen and resident of Denmark than upon similar legacies to citizens
or residents of the United States. The court said (p. 172):
"Conceding that it [Article 7] requires construction to
determine whether the prohibitions embrace taxes ge-

NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
47

Opinion of the Court.

nerically considered, or death duties, or excises on the
right to transfer and remove property, singly or collectively, we are of the opinion that the duty of interpretation does not arise since in no event would any of the
prohibitions be applicable to the case before us."
But, in the present case, the decedent was a citizen, of
Denmark, owning property within the State of Iowa, and
Article 7, by its terms, is applicable to charges or taxes
levied on the personal property or effects of such a citizen;
hence its protection may be invoked here if the discrimination complained of is one embraced within the terms of
the Treaty.
That there is a discrimination based on alienage is
evident, since the tax is imposed only when the nonresident heirs are also aliens. But it is argued by respondent, as the court below held, that the present tax is
not prohibited by the Treaty since it is one upon succession, In re Estate of Thompson, 196 Iowa 721, In re
Meinert's Estate, 204 Iowa 355, and not on property
or its removal which, it is said, is alone forbidden; and
that in any case since the only tax discrimination aimed
at by Article 7 in cases of inheritance is that upon the
power of disposal of the estate and not the privilege of
succession, the particular discrimination complained of is
not forbidden, for the statutes of Iowa permit a citizen
of Denmark to dispose of his estate to citizens and residents of Denmark on the same terms as a citizen of Iowa
to like non-resident alien beneficiaries.
The narrow and restricted interpretation of the Treaty
contended for by respondent, while permissible and often
necessary in construing two statutes of the same legislative body in order to give effect to both so far as is reasonably possible, is not consonant with the principles
which are controlling in the interpretation of treaties.
Treaties are to be liberally construed so as to effect the
apparent intention of the parties. Jordanv. Tashiro, 278

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

U. S. 123; Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 271; In re Ross,
140 U. S. 453, 475; Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424,
437. When a treaty provision fairly admits of two constructions, one restricting, the other enlarging rights which
may be claimed under it, the more liberal interpretation
is to be preferred, Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S. 332;
Tucker v. Alexandroif, supra;Geofroy v. Riggs, supra, and
as the treaty-making power is independent of and superior
to the legislative power of the states, the meaning of
treaty provisions so construed is not restricted by any
necessity of avoiding possible conflict with state legislation and when so ascertained must prevail over inconsistent state enactments. See Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199;
Jordan v. Tashiro, supra; cf. Cheung Sum Shee v. Nagle,
268 U. S. 336. When their meaning is uncertain, recourse
may be had to the negotiations and diplomatic correspondence of the contracting parties relating to the subject matter and to their own practical construction of it.
Cf. In re Ross, supra, at 467; United States v. Texas, 162
U. S. 1, 23; Kinkead v. United States, 150 U. S. 483, 486;
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 223.
The history of Article 7 and references to its provisions
in diplomatic exchanges between the United States and
Denmark leav little doubt that its purpose was both to
relieve the citizens of each country from onerous taxes
upon their property within the other and to enable them
to dispose of such property, paying only such duties as are
exacted of the inhabitants of the place of its situs, as suggested by this Court in Petersen v. Iowa, supra, p. 174,
and also to extend like protection to alien heirs of the
non-citizen.
On March 5, 1824, Mr. Pedersen, Minister of Denmark
to the United States, presented to John Quincy Adams,
Secretary of State, a project of convention for the consideration of this Government. This project dealt with the
commercial relations between the two countries and their

NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
47

Opinion of the Court.

territories and the appointment of consular officers, but
did not contain any provisions corresponding to Article 7.
On January 14, 1826, certain citizens of the United States
addressed to Henry Clay, then Secretary of State, a memorial complaining of certain taxes, imposed by the Danish Government with respect to property of citizens of
the United States located in the Danish West Indies,
known as "sixths" and "tenths," the former being onesixth of the value of the property, payable to the crown,
and the latter a further one-tenth of the residue, payable
to the town or county magistrate, as a prerequisite to removal of property from the Islands. Both taxes were
imposed on the property inherited by an alien heir. Danish Laws, Code of Christian V, Book V, c. 2, §§ 76, 77,
78, 79. The memorial prayed that an article be inserted
in the treaty then contemplated with Denmark, comparable to the similar provisions of existing treaties between
Denmark and Great Britain and Denmark and France,
forbidding the imposition of taxes of this character.
Previously, on November 7, 1825, ir. Clay had addressed a note to the Minister of Denmark, setting forth
the conditions under which the United States would be
disposed to proceed with negotiations. 3 Notes to Foreign Legations, 451. The note included, in numbered
paragraphs, certain proposals which the government of
the United States desired to have considered in connection
with the draft convention submitted by the Danish Minister. Paragraph 5 was as follows:
"When citizens or subjects of the one party die in the
country of the other, their estates shall not be subject to
any droit de d6traction, but shall pass to their successors,
free from all duty."
In a letter of April 14, 1826, shortly before the execution of the Treaty, the Danish Minister transmitted to
Mr. Clay a copy of what he termed "the additional Article to the late Convention between Denmark and Great

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Britain respecting the mutual abolition of the droit de
d6traction." This article, dated June 16, 1824, is substantially in the phraseology of Article 7 of the present treaty
between the United States and Denmark.1
In the communication of Mr. Clay to the Danish Charg6
d'Affaires of November 10th, 1826, following the ratification of the Treaty, referring to Article 7; he said: " The
object which the government of the United States had in
view in that stipulation, was to secure the right of their
citizens to bring their money and movable property home
from the Danish islands, free from charges or duties and
especially from the onerous law, known in those islands,
under the denominations of sixths and tenths. This object was distinctly known to Mr. Pedersen, throughout the
whole of the negotiation, and was expressly communicated
by me to him in writing." In the reply of the following
day, the Danish Charge d'Affaires stated: " I have been
authorized . .. to declare to you, that measures have
been taken accordingly by the Danish Government, to
secure the due execution of the 7th Article of the Convention, conformably to the intent and meaning thereof as by
you stated ...
"
The droit de d6traction,referred to in the communication of Mr. Clay of November 7, 1825, and in the note of
1" Their Britannick and Danish Majesties mutually agree, that no
higher or other Duties shall be levied, in either of Their Dominions
. . . upon any personal property of Their respective Subjects, on the
removal of the same from the Dominions of Their said Majesties
reciprocally, (either upon the inheritance of such property, or otherwise,) than are or shall be payable in each State, upon the like property, when removed by a Subject of such State, respectively'
12
British and Foreign State Papers, 1824-1825 (1826) 49. Article 40
of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, concluded between
France and Denmark Augst "23, 1742, provided that the citizens of
each of the two countries reciprocally should be exempt in the other
from the droit d'aubaine or other similar disability, under whatever
name, and that their heirs should succeed to their property without
impediment. 1 Coercq, Recueil des Trait~s de la France (1864) 57.

NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
47

Opinion of the Court.

the Danish Minister of April 14, 1826 in which he identified that phrase with the tax prohibited by the additional
article of the treaty between Denmark and Great Britain
of June 16, 1824, similar in terms to the article now before
us, was a survival from medieval European law of a then
well recognized form of tax, imposed with respect to the
right of an alien heir to acquire or withdraw from the
realm the property inherited 2 Although often referred
to as a tax on property or its withdrawal, the droit de
detraction seems rather to have been a form of inheritance
tax, but one which, because of its imposition only with
respect to property of aliens who normally removed it
from the realm, was sometimes associated with the re2 The droit de dvtraction was derived from the droit d'aubaine, one
of the many harsh feudal laws and customs directed against strangers
and which, in its narrowest sense, was the right of the sovereign, as
successor of the feudal lords, to appropriate all the property of a
non-naturalized alien dying, either testate or intestate, within the
realm. 1 Calvo, Dictionnaire de Droit International (1885) 67, Aubaine; 1 Merlin, RWpertoire de Jurisprudence (5th Ed. 1827) 523,
Aubaine; Halleck, International Law (1861) 155; 2 Ferriere, Oeuvres
de Bacquet (1778) 8, et seq. This right was exercised to the exclusion of all heirs whether they were citizens or aliens or resided within
or without the realm, with the single exception of resident legitimate
offspring, and continued to be exercised long after aliens had been
accorded unrestricted power of disposition of goods inter vivos.
Demangeat, Historie de la Condition Civile des E'trangers en France
(1844) 110, 125; Loisel, Institutes Contumiers, Liv. 1, r&gle 50. The
term has, however, sometimes been applied to all the varying disabilities of aliens, Fiore, Le Droit International Priv6 (1907) 14, and
more often used to include not only the inability of the alien to
transmit but the complementary incapacity of an alien to inherit,
even from a citizen. Merlin, supra, Aubaine.
But commercial expediency led, at an early date, to a mitigation
of the rigors of the droit d'aubaine. This process took several forms,
the exemption of alien merchants in certain trading centers, of certain classes of individuals (ex soldiers, etc.) and, most prominently,
treaties providing for its reciprocal abandonment or contraction. In
these treaties, the droit de dtraction was recognized as a tax, of from

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

moval rather than the inheritance of the property. It
was limited to inheritances, existed with and supplemented
other taxes, the droit de retraite or the droit de sortie,
imposed on the removal of property other than inheritances, Guyot, R6pertoire de Jurisprudence (1785) Sortie;
Calvo, Dictionnaire du Droit International (1885)
D6traction; Oppenheim, International Law (4th ed.,
1928) 559, and was, in most cases, applied regardless of
the subsequent disposition of the property. Merlin,
R6pertoire de Jurisprudence (5th ed., 1827) D6traction;
Guyot, supra, D6traction. Its origin and an examination
of the commentators likewise leave no doubt that the
droit de d6tracion-the tax--accrued upon the death
of the decedent, and only after it had been collected was
the heir entitled to take possession of the property and
remove or otherwise dispose of it.' It was thus the
five to twenty, usually ten, per cent of the value, imposed on the
right of an alien to acquire by inheritance (testate or intestate) the
property of persons dying within the realm. Demangeat, supra, at
219, 225; 2 Mass6, Le Droit Commercial (1844) 14; 1 Calvo, supra,
D6traction; Fuzier-Herman, R6pertoire G6n~ral Alphab6tique du
Droit Francaise (1890) Aubaine, 6; Guyot, R6pertoire de Jurisprudence (1785) D6traction; Merlin, supra, D6traction. Oppenheim,
International Law (4th Ed. 1928) 560; Halleck, supra, at 155;
Wheaton, Elements of International Law (8th Ed. 1866) 138. The
droit d'aubaine and the droit de d6traction were abolished in France
by decrees of the Assembly in 1790 and 1791, but subsequently reappeared in the Civil Code, Arts. 726, 912, with provision for abandonment as to a nation according similar treatment to French nationals. They were again abolished, with certain protective provisions
for French heirs, by the Law of July 14, 1819. See Dalloz, R.pertoire Pratique (1825) Succession; Demangeat, supra, at 239, et 8eq;
and citations, supra.
8 " C'est un droit par lequel le souverain distrait
son profit une
certaine partie de succession qu'il permet aux 6trangers de venir
receueiller dans ses 6tats." 4 Merlin, supra, 518, D6traction; Guyot,
supra, D6traction. "Ce droit ... consistait dans un pr~l~vement
op~r6 par le gouverment ... sur le produit net des successions transf6r6s A l'6tranger." (5alvo, supra, D6traction; see also FuilerHerman, RIpertoire G6n6ral du Droit Francaise (1890) Aubaine, 6.

NIELSEN v. JOHNSON.
47

Opinion of the Court.

precursor of the modern inheritance tax, differing from it
in its essentials solely in that it was levied only where
one of the parties to the inheritance was an alien or
non-resident.'
That the present discriminatory tax is the substantial
equivalent of the droit de ddtraction is not open to doubt.
That it was the purpose of the high contracting parties
to prohibit discriminatory taxes of this nature clearly
appears from the diplomatic correspondence preceding
and subsequent to the execution of the Treaty, although
the "sixths and tenths" tax, with which the parties were
immediately concerned, was a removal tax.
We think also that the language of Article 7, interpreted with that liberality demanded for treaty provisions, sufficiently expresses this purpose. It is true that
the tax prohibited by the Treaty is in terms a tax on
property or on its removal, but it is also true that the
modern conception of an inheritance tax as a tax on the
privilege of transmitting or succeeding to property of a
decedent, rather than on the property itself, was probably
unknown to the draftsmen of Article 7. But whatever, in
point of present day legal theory, is the subject of the
tax, it is the property transmitted which pays it, as the
Iowa statute carefully provides.' In the face of the broad
language embracing " charges,- or taxes of any kind
. . . upon any personal property . . . on the removal
'A number of early treaties of the United States clearly recognize

this essential characteristic of the droit de d6traction, either by providing in terms for the abolition of both removal duties and the droit
de d~traction, cf. Treaties with: France of 1778, 2 R. S. 203, 206;
Wurttemberg of 1844, 2 R. S. 809; Saxony of 1845, 2 R. S. 690; or
by words of similar import. Cf. Treaties with: France of 1853,
2 R. S. 249, 251; Switzerland of 1850, 2 R. S. 748, 749, 750; Honduras of 1864, 2 R. S. 426, 428; Great Britain of 1900, 31 Stat. 1939.
5" The tax shall be and remain a legal charge against and a lien
upon such estate, and any and all the property thereof from the death
of the decedent owner until paid." Iowa Code (1927) c. 351, § 7311
See also §§ 7309, 7363.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of the same ..
either upon the inheritance of such
property ... or otherwise," the omission, at that
time, of words more specifically describing inheritance
taxes as now defined, can hardly be deemed to evidence
any intention not to include taxes theoretically levied
upon the right to transmit or inherit, but which nevertheless were to be paid from the inheritance before it could
be possessed or removed. Moreover, while it is true that
the tax is levied whether the property is actually removed
or not, it is, nevertheless, imposed only with respect to a
class of persons who would normally find it necessary so
to remove the property in order to enjoy it, and since
payment of the tax is a prerequisite to removal, the tax is,
in its praatical operation, one on removal. In the light of
the avowed purpose of the Treaty to forbid discriminatory
taxes of this character, and its use of language historically
deemed to embrace them, such effect should be given to its
provisions.
The contention that the present discrimination is not
one forbidden by the language of Article 7, since the
decedent's power of disposal is the same as that of a
citizen, leaves out of consideration both the nature of
the tax contemplated by the contracting parties and the
fact that the treaty provisions extend explicitly to the
withdrawal of such property by the alien heir upon
inheritance and, as already pointed out, protect him in
his right to receive his inheritance undiminished by a tax
which is not imposed upon citizens of the other contracting party.
Reversed.

