320

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CHATTERS.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 414 and 415. Argued March 7, 1929.-Decided April 15, 1929.
1. A foreign corporation is not amenable, without its consent, to suit
upon a transitory cause of action arising outside of the State and
not connected with any act or business of the corporation within
the State. P. 324.
2. In the absence of an authoritative state decision giving a narrower
scope to a power of attorney filed by a railroad company, pursuant
to a statute requiring foreign corporations doing business within
the State to designate an agent there to receive service of "lawful
process," the power will be held to operate as a consent by the
company, which was otherwise present and doing business within
the State, to a suit upon a cause of action arising out of the breach,
in another State, of a contract for passenger transportation, which
contract was evidenced by a through coupon ticket sold within the
State to the plaintiff by an initial carrier under a joint tariff agreement as agent and for account of the defendant company, and
which was accepted by the latter for transportation over its lines
in the State where the breach occurred. P. 325.
3. Where a carrier renders service in interstate commerce under published tariffs, the attendant limitation of liability in the tariff becomes the lawful condition of the carriage, binding alike on the carrier and its patron, and is not subject to waiver. P. 331.
4. In the absence of evidence of joint liability on the part of connecting carriers, there can be no liability of either for injury to a
through passenger occurring beyond its own line except on the
theory that its own negligence caused or contributed to the injury,
and a charge to the jury authorizing them to find a verdict inconsistent with such a theory is erroneous. P. 329.
5. In a suit for personal injuries, resulting from a defect in the condition of a passenger car, the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur cannot
be invoked against an initial carrier, where the accident, out of
which the cause of action arose, occurred after the car in which

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Argument for L. & N. R. Co.

the plaintiff was injured had passed from its control and that of
an intermediate carrier to the lines of a second connecting carrier.
P. 332.
6. In a suit for personal injuries against connecting carriers, a charge
to the jury authorizing a verdict against both the initial and the
connecting carrier, even though they find that the initial carrier
alone was negligent, is prejudicial to the connecting carrier and
erroneous. P. 332.
26 F. (2d) 403, reversed.

WRITS OF CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 590, to the Circuit Court

of Appeals to review a decision affirming a judgment of
the District Court on a verdict for respondent against
both petitioners in a suit for personal injuries.
Mr. Harry McCall, with whom Messrs. A. M. Warren,
George Denegre, Victor Leovy, Henry H. Chaffe, and Jas.
Hy. Bruns were on the brief, for Louisville & Nashville
R. Co.
Under the circumstances, the initial carer is not liable.
MissouriPacific R. Co. v. Prude, 265 U. S. 99; Chicago &
A. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Davis v. Cornwell, 264
U. S. 560; Davis v. Henderson, 266 U. S. 92.
The initial carrier did not waive the provisions of its
contf'act with the passenger limiting its liability to its
own line. Georgia, F. & A. R. Co. v. Blish Milling Co.,
241 U. S. 190; Keogh v. Chicago & N. V. R. Co., 260 U. S.
163; Davis v. Cornwell, 264 U. S. 560; Davis v. Henderson, 266 U. S. 92; Railroad Co. v. Manufacturing Co., 16
Wall. 318; Ins. Co. v. RailroadCo., 104 U. S. 146; Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Maucher, 248 U. S. 359. Its liability
must depend wholly on its alleged negligence in furnishing
a defective car to the succeeding and connecting carriers.
The only possible basis for liability on this theory would
be through the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. But this doctrine can only be invoked against the party having control of the instrumentality causing the accident. Louis45228°-29----21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mink, 189 Ky. 394; Stephens v.
Kitchen Lumber Co., 222 Ky. 736; Glynn v. Central R.
Co., 175 Mass. 510; Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Merrill,
65 Kans. 436; McNamara v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 202
Mass. 491.
There was no joint obligation. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S. 217.
Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Messrs. Monte M.
Lemann, Walter J. Suthon, Jr., L. E. Jeffries, S. R. Prince,
and H. O'B. Cooper were on the brief, for the Southern
Ry. Co. et al.
It is clear that, quoad the Southern, the plaintiff's cause
of action arises out of business done by that corporation
outside of Louisiana, and not out of any business done by
it within Louisiana. Peterson v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R.
Co., 205 U. S. 364; Phila.& Reading R. Co. v. McKibben,
243 U. S. 264; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore &
M. S. Ry. Co., 256 Fed. 160, affirmed 260 U. S. 261; Cancelmo v. Seaboard Air Line, 12 F. (2d) 166; Allen v.
Yellowstone Park TransportationCo., 154 Fed. 504; Maxwell v. Atchison R. Co., 34 Fed. 286.
The charge embodying the theory of joint liability was
clearly erroneous and this error was prejudicial to" the
Southern. Peterson v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 205
U. S. 364; Phila. & Reading Co. v. McKibben, 243 U. S.
264; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & M. S. R.
Co., 260 U. S. 261.
Mr. George Piazza, with whom Mr. St. ClairAdams was
on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent, a citizen of Louisiana, brought suit in the
District Court for Eastern Louisiana against the Southern

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Opinion of the Court.

Railway Company, a Virginia corporation, and the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, a Kentucky corporation, to recover for personal injuries suffered while traveling in a car of the Southern Railway in a through train
from New Orleans, Louisiana, to Washington, D. C. At
the time of the accident, the train was being operated by
the Southern over its tracks in Virginia.
Respondent purchased a through coupon ticket for the
journey at the office of the Louisville & Nashville in New
Orleans, which entitled him to passage over the line of
the Louisville & Nashville from New Orleans to Montgomery, Alabama, over the Atlanta & West Point Railroad from Montgomery to Atlanta, Georgia, and thence
to Washington over the line of the Southern. He took
passage in New Orleans on a car of the Southern and
proceeded in it on his journey until, while on the line of
the Southern in Virginia, a window screen, attached to
the outside of the car, became loosened and swung backward on its hinges so as to strike and break the car window behind it and injure respondent with pieces of flying
glass. The train was made up by the Louisville & Nashville in New Orleans, and was operated under an agreement among the three carriers concerned, which was not
offered in evidence. But it appeared that the cars composing the train were furnished by the three carriers on the
basis of their respective mileage; that each furnished locomotive power and train crews over its own line; and that
each, while in possession of the train, was in exclusive
control of it.
Process against both petitioners was served on their
respective agents in Louisiana, designated by them to
receive service of process as required by a state law exacting formal consent by the corporation that any "lawful
process" served on the designated agent should be "valid

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

service" upon the corporation. Act No. 184 of 1924.'
The Southern, appearing specially before answer, excepted
to the jurisdiction on the ground that the cause of action,
which was transitory, arose outside Louisiana and not out
of any business done by the Southern within that state.
After a hearing, in which evidence was introduced, the
exception was overruled. 17 F. (2d) 305. On the trial
the district court gave judgment on a verdict for respondent against both petitioners, which was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 26 F. (2d) 406.
This Court granted certiorari. 278 U. S. 590.
The Southern alone seeks a review of the order overruling its exception to the jurisdiction. The Louisville &
Nashville assigns as error the refusal of the trial court to
give a requested instruction to the jury. Both petitioners raise for consideration here exceptions to the charge
of the court to the jury and to the admission of certain
testimony.
1. The Southern insists that the case as to it should
have been dismissed on its exception for want of jurisdiction of the person of the corporation upon a suit in
Louisiana on a cause of action arising outside that state.
A foreign corporation is amenable to suit to enforce a
personal liability if it is doing business within the juris-

'The scope of the designation is defined by the state statute as
follows:
"Section 2. The appointment of the agent or agents or officer
upon whom service of process may be made shall be contained in a
written power of attorney accompanied by a duly certified copy of
the resolution of the Board of Directors of said corporation consenting and agreeing on the part of the said corporation that any lawful
process against the same which is served upon the said agent or
officer shall be a valid service upon said corporation and that the
authority shall continue in force and be maintained as long as any
liability remains outstanding against said corporation growing out of

or connected with the business done by said corporation in this
State."

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Opinion of the Court.

diction in such manner and to such extent as to warrant
the inference that it is present there. Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218. Even when present and
amenable to suit it may not, unless it has consented,
Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue Mining Co., 243
U. S. 93; Smolik v. Phila. & Reading Coal Co., 222 Fed.
148, be sued on transitory causes of action arising elsewhere which are unconnected with any corporate action
by it within the jurisdiction. Old Wayne Mut. Life Ass'n
v. McDonough., 204 U. S. 8; Simon v. Southern Ry. Co.!
236 U. S. 115.
It is urged by the Southern that compliance with the
Louisiana statute requiring a foreign corporation doing
business within the state to designate an agent to receive
service of process is, under the state decisions, a consent to
suit only upon causes of action arising out of business conducted within the state, Watkins v. North American Land
& Timber Co., 106 La. 621; Delatour & Marmouget v.
Southern Ry. Co., 4 La. App. 658; Buscher v. Southern
Ry. Co., 4 La. App. 653; see Missouri Pac. R. R. Co. v.
Clarendon Boat Oar Co., 257 U. S. 533, which, it is insisted this is not, and that in any case, in the absence of
an authoritative decision by the state court, this Court
will give a like effect to the designation under the statute.
Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Selden Breck Const. Co., 257
U. S. 213. For present purposes we may assume that
the effect of the designation of the statutory agent by
the Southern is, as the state decisions cited seem to show,
that a cause of action arising wholly outside and wholly
unconnected with any act or business of the corporation
within the state may not be sued upon there, and we address ourselves to the question, decisive of this branch
of the case, whether the Southern, being present within
the state of Louisiana, is amenable to suit, on this cause

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

-

-

279 U. S.

of action as one arising out of business done within the
state, or from such action of the corporation within the
state as to subject it to liability there.
The Southern does not deny that it is carrying on some
business within Louisiana or that it is subject to suit there
on some causes of action. Its relation to the through train
service originating in New Orleans, so far as disclosed, has
already been detailed. It carries on in the state, through
an office and agents of its own there located, continuous
solicitation of freight and passenger traffic. See International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579; International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 103; Block v.
Atchison, Topeka & S. F. R. R. Co., 21 Fed. 529; Walsh
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 256 Fed. 47; but see
Green v. C. B. & Q. Ry., 205 U. S. 530; People's Tobacco
Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79. It maintains
its own office there for the sale of tickets for passage over
its own and connecting lines. Cf. InternationalHarvester
Co. v. Kentucky, supra, at p. 585. It has designated an
agent there to receive service of "lawful process," which
fact, being of significance in determining the extent of the
jurisdiction when the corporation is doing business within
the state, PennsylvaniaFire Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue Mining
Co., supra, is, we think, also of decisive weight in determining its presence for purposes of suit when coupled
with its other corporate activities within the state. It is,
therefore, as petitioner concedes, so far present in the state
as to be amenable to suit there for some purposes. St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. v. Alexander, supra. We disregard the fact that the Southern owns the stock, or most
of it, of the New Orleans Railroad Company and the New
Orleans Terminal Company, Louisiana corporations owning real estate and railroad equipment there, and that its
officers and theirs are the same. Peterson v. Chicago,
R. I. & Pac.Ry., 205 U. S. 364; Phila. & Reading Ry. Co.
v. McKibbin, 243, U. S. 264.

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Opinion of the Court.

The cause of action here asserted is one arising out of
a contract for transportation, evidenced by the through
ticket sold to respondent in New Orleans and accepted
by the Southern for transportation over its line. It purported on its face to be sold by the Louisville & Nashville as agent and was sold under a joint tariff agreed to
by the carriers concerned and filed by them with the
Interstate Commerce Commission providing that the carrier selling the ticket acted as agent of the others. Had
the ticket been sold to respondent by the Southern at
its own ticket office in New Orleans, we may assume that
it would not have been seriously contended that the cause
of action did not arise out of the business of the Southern
in Louisiana, or that the present suit could not have
been maintained there, even though the wrongful act
complained of took place elsewhere. But it is said that
as the ticket was sold by the Louisville & Nashville, that
transaction alone, under the decisions of this Court, would
not constitute doing business within the jurisdiction so
as to make the Southern amenable to suit there. Peterson v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co., supra; Phila. &
Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, supra; General Inv. Co. v.
Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 250 Fed. 160. From this
it is argued that the sale of the ticket cannot be considered any part of the business carried on within the state
by the Southern and that the present cause of action is
therefore not within the consent to suit given by its designation of an agent, or to be implied from its presence and
transaction of business within the state.
But the sale in Louisiana of the ticket for transportation over the Southern was made by the Louisville &
Nashville under the filed joint tariff as the agent and
for account of the Southern. In its legal effect it was
the act of the Southern within the jurisdiction by which
its obligation to respondent on the contract of carriage
over its own lines became complete. It was out of this

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

action within the state that the present obligation of the
Southern arose, although the alleged breach of it occurred
elsewhere.
This was none the less the case because such a transaction would not of itself have been regarded as a doing
of business within the state sufficient to establish the
presence of the Southern there for the purpose of suit.
Cf. Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S.
516. Since the Southern was present and subject to suit
in Louisiana, we are concerned, not with the question
whether the sale of the ticket was sufficient to bring it
there, but only with the question whether, being there,
its liability extended to all causes of action arising out of
its corporate acts within the state, including this one.
No case, either in the Louisiana courts or in this Court,
has held that it did not. Where jurisdiction has been
denied, the cause of action not only arose outside the
state, but it was not shown to have arisen out of any
business conducted by the corporation within it or to
have had any relation to any corporate act there. Cf.
Old Wayne Mutual Life Ass'n v. McDonough, supra;
Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., supra; Mitchell Furniture
Co. v. Selden Breck Const. Co., supra. In such a case,
whether the jurisdiction invoked be deemed to depend
upon the presence of the corporation within the state
through the doing of business there, or on its consent
by the designation of an agent, the Implication is that
the liability to suit does not extend to causes of action
wh'ch have nothing to do with any act of the corporation
within the state. Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Selden Breck
Const. Co., at p. 216. But where the cause of action does
arise out of a corporate act within the jurisdiction, the
presumption would seem necessarily to be the other way.
In the absence of express language limiting the authority of the designated agent, there would certainly be no

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Opinion of the Court.

ground for assuming that the consent extends to causes of
action growing out of some of its acts within the jurisdiction and not others-that respondent here might maintain an action if the ticket had been sold at the office of
the Southern, but not if sold at the office of its authorized
agent in the same city. Once established that the foreign
corporation is within the state for purposes of suit, its
presence for that purpose would seem to be co-extensive
with its presence for the purpose of carrying on any
corporate transaction within the jurisdiction and, granted
the former, its liability to suit on causes of action growing out of the latter should follow. To say that not
every corporate act within the jurisdiction is sufficient to
establish its presence there for the purpose of suit is
very different from saying that a suit founded upon such
an act may not be maintained there, once its presence and
consent to suit are established.
We decide only that, in the absence of an authoritative
state decision giving a narrower scope to the power of
attorney filed under the state statute, it operates as a
consent to suit upon a cause of action like the present
arising out of an obligation incurred within the state
although the breach occurred without. See Pennsylvania
Fire Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue Mining Co., supra.
2. The requested instruction to the jury of the Louisville & Nashville, which was refused, and the actual
charge complained of, related to the alleged joint liability
of the petitioners. The complaint contained no allegation that respondent's injury was due to the negligence
of the Louisville & Nashville. He contented himself
with alleging and proving at the trial the accideint and
injury while he was traveling over the line of the Southern on a through ticket purchased of the Louisville &
Nashville. As already indicated, it appeared that the
Louisville & Nashville had no control of the train after

830

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 Ti. S.

it left its own tracks and each carrier furnished its own
locomotive power and train crew.
Each inspected,
cleaned, washed and repaired the equipment of the train.
It also appeared that the ticket sold by the Louisville &
Nashville contained a clause reading: "In selling this
ticket and checking baggage thereon the selling carrier
acts only as agent and is not responsible beyond its own
line." The through tariff filed by petitioners with the
Interstate Commerce Commission under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat.
379, 380, as amended by Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91,
41 Stat. 456, 483, contained a similar provision.
At the close of the whole case, the Louisville & Nashville moved for a directed verdict, which was denied. The
trial judge also denied its request for an instruction that
if the jury found the ticket contained the clause referred
to, the accident did not occur on the line of the Louisville
& Nashville, and its negligence did not cause or contribute
to the accident, the verdict should be for that carrier.
The court also charged, in a variety of ways, that the
liability of petitioners for the safe delivery of the respondent at his destination was joint and that if petitioners
"failed to satisfactorily explain the accident, then negligence will be presumed and they will therefore be liable
to the passenger for whatever damage he sustained."
But there was no basis, either in pleading or proof, for a
joint liability of both petitioners for the negligence of one.
Neither of them, as a common carrier, was under any duty,
either by the common law or statute, to transport or assume any responsibility for the transportation of respondent beyond its own line. Insurance Company v. Railroad
Company, 104 U. S. 146, 157; see Railroad Company v.
Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318, 324. The Louisville &
Nashville, therefore, might, by stipulation on the through
ticket, provide that it should not be so responsible, Missouri

L. & N. R. CO. v. CHATTERS.
320

Opinion of the Court.

Pac. R. R. Co. v. Prude, 265 U. S. 99; cf. Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Czizek, 264 U. S. 281; and in any case, the transportation service to be performed was that of a common
carrier in interstate commerce under published tariffs and
the attendant limitation of liability in the tariff became
the lawful condition upon which the service was rendered,
binding alike on the carrier and its patron, cf. American
Ry. Express Co. v. Daniel, 269 U. S. 40; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Priester,276 U. S. 252, 259; Chicago & Alton
R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Davis v. Cornwell, 264
U. S. 560, and was not subject to waiver. Cf. Davis v. Henderson, 266 U. S. 92; see Georgia,Fla. & Ala. Ry. v. Blish
Milling Co., 241 U. S.190, 197. There was, therefore, no
evidence of joint liability of the petitioners in the case, and
there could be no liability of either for injury to respondent occurring beyond its own line except on the theory
that its own negligence caused or contributed to the injury.
The court of appeals, in commenting on petitioner's
requested charge, to which we have referred, said that such
a charge would not have been proper because it was calculated to divert the jury from the consideration of the
question whether the accident was attributable to the negligence of the Louisville & Nashville. Even if for this
reason the requested instruction should have been refused,
the charge, to which proper exception was taken, that
petitioners were jointly liable and that on this theory the
jury might find a verdict against the Louisville & Nashville for an accident occurring on the line of the Southern,
was plainly erroneous, as it indicated to the jury that they
might find a verdict for respondent against the Louisville
& Nashville, even though it had exercised due care in the
preparation and inspect.on of the train while on its own
line.
We think also there was no evidence for the jury of negligence of the Louisville & Nashville and that the motion

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

for a directed verdict in favor of that railroad should have
been granted. There was no evidence of the precise cause
of the loosening of the screen which caused the injury.
Whether the screw which fastened it was improperly replaced by the employees of the Louisville & Nashville
after cleaning the window, or whether it broke or otherwise became loosened on account of some hidden or unascertainable defect, or was loosened by others than the
employees of either petitioner, does not appear. There
was evidence of an inspection of the car by the Louisville
& Nashville before it left New Orleans. After the car
left the line of the Louisville & Nashville it came into
the custody of the Atlanta & West Point Railroad Company. The occurrence of the accident after the car passed
beyond the control of the Louisville & Nashville and that
of the intermediate carrier to the tracks of the Southern
does not admit of the application of the doctrine of res
ipsa loquitur,so far as concerns the Louisville & Nashville.
McNamarav. Boston & Maine R. R., 202 Mass. 491, 499;
L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Mink, 168 Ky. 394; of. Glynn v. Central Railroad, 175 Mass. 510; Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. Merrill, 65 Kan. 436. Without resort to this
doctrine, the cause of the accident and the relation of the
Louisville & Nashville to it are matters of mere speculation and conjecture which should have been withdrawn
from the consideration of the jury. Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Coogan,271 U. S. 472, 478; St. LouisSan FranciscoRy. Co. v. Mills, 271 U. S. 344, 347.
The charge as to the joint liability of petitioners was
also excepted to by the Southern " in so far as it makes the
Southern Railway Company responsible for the negligence
of the Louisville & Nashville." To that extent it was
clearly erroneous and prejudicial to the Southern. The
jury was in effect told to return a verdict against both petitioners on a finding of negligence on the part of either.

WEISS v. WIENER.
320

Syllabus.

As there was evidence of repeated inspections of the window screens by the Southern after the car reached its line
and before the accident, from whi.ch the jury might have
found that there was no want of care on the part of the
Southern, the jury may have found that the accident was
due to the negligence of the Louisville & Nashville and so
have returned a verdict against both. Even though the
issue of the Southern's own negligence was for the jury,
it was entitled to have the issue submitted unprejudiced
by the erroneous instruction which authorized a verdict
against the Southern on the theory of joint liability if the
jury should conclude that the Louisville & Nashville alone
was negligent.
3. As there must be a new trial, it is unnecessary to consider the rulings on the evidence which the court below
thought erroneous, but not prejudicial. The order overruling the Southern's exception to the jurisdiction is affirmed. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
WEISS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
WIENER.
ROUTZAHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 482 and 483.

Argued April 12, 1929.--Decided April 22, 1929.

The provision of § 214 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1918, granting
a deduction from income tax of "a reasonable allowance for the
exhaustion, wear and tear of property used in the trade or business,

