LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.

109

Syllabus.

95

time as the arrival of the ships at the jort of transshipment. The use of the tanks at the point of transshipment
can not be distinguished from the storing of the lumber
on the docks, or in the slips between them, till the vessel
to carry it should be ready. The quickness of transshipment in both cases was the chief object each exporter
plainly sought. In both cases the selection of the point
of shipment and the equipment at that point were solely
for the speedy and continuous export of the product
abroad, and for no other purpose. No lumber or oil was
sold there but that to be exported. There was no possibility of any other business there. Whatever hesitation
might be prompted in deciding this case, if the Crain case
stood alone, the effect of the decisions of this Court since
is such as to make it inapplicable to the case before us.
The judgment is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD
are in favor of affirming the judgment on the authority of
General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211.
LONDON GUARANTEE & ACCIDENT COMPANY,
LTD., v. INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMMISSION
OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 491.

Argued March 7, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Employment as sailor and assistant navigator of a vessel capable
of 500 mile sea voyages, registered as a vessel engaged in trans-

porting people for hire, is a maritime employment though the
business be confined to taking patrons on trips of from five to
ten miles to and from deep sea fishing places within the territorial
jurisdiction of the State. P. 123.
2. Where a person so employed lost his life by drowning while
endeavoring, under orders from a superior, to save the vessel with
relation to which he was employed when she was driven by a

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

storm from her faoorings with no one on board, the fact that he
was not employed on board at the time did not take his case from
the admiralty jurisdiction. P. 123.
3. The jurisdiction of the admiralty over a maritime tort does not
depend upon the wrong having been committed on board a vessel,
but upon its having been committed upon the high seas, or other
navigable waters. P. 123.
4. Jurisdiction in admiralty arises from Art. 3, § 2, of the Constitution, extending the judicial power of the United States to all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; it does not depend
on interstate or foreign commerce. P. 124.
5. The business of transporting persons for hire on navigable waters
of the United States is none the less commerce, and within the admiralty jurisdiction, if the object of the trips be to serve the
pleasure of the passengers in fishing. P. 124.
6. Application of a state workmen's compensation act to a claim for
death of a seaman in a case involving no interstate or foreign commerce but having no features other than those characteristically
maritime, is a violation of the exclusive maritime jurisdiction.
P. 125.
75 Cal. Dec. 481, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of California, which, reversing the District Court of Appeal, 53
Cal. App. Dec. 457, affirmed an award of the State Industrial Accident Commission in behalf of relatives of a
deceased seaman, in a proceeding under the state Workmen's Compensation Act. The appellant was the insurer of the employer.
M/r. Leo C. Weiler, with whom Messrs. Win. E. Lowther

and Max Ash were on the brief, for appellant.
It is not -necessary to admiralty jurisdiction that interstate or international navigation or commerce be involved.

Propeller Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443; The
Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S.
17; Rodgers & Hagerty, Inc. v. City of New York, 285
Fed. 362; City of New York v. Rodgers & Hagerty, Inc.,
261 U. S. 621; Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S. 552.

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

111

Argument for Appellant.

See Alaska Packers Ass'n v. Industrial Accident Comm'n,
276 U. S. 467; Sultan R. & T. Co. v. Department of
Labor, 277 U. S. 135. Distinguishing Sherlock v. Alling,
93 U. S. 99; Anderson v. Pafific Coast S. S. Co., 225
U. S. 187; The Daniel Ball v. United States, 10 Wall. 557;
The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; The Robert W. Parsans, 191 U. S. 17; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558. See
also Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629; In re Garnett, 141
U. S. 1.
The motives of the employer's customers in riding upon
its boats for recreation, cannot affect the fact that the
employer was engaged in commerce,--in navigation for
strictly monetary gain.
The contract of employment was maritime. The
Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52.
It is not necessary to the attachment of the admiralty
jurisdiction that the employee shall have been aboard any
vessel at the time of his death. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20;
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, supra. See also
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, dissenting
opinion.
The state compensation act cannot be made applicable
to an accident in which the employee was a seaman or
apprentice navigator, without affecting or impinging upon
the admiralty jurisdiction to an extent heretofore never
permitted by this Court. A seaman's injury or death on
navigable waters can never be a local matter within the
local jurisdiction. Injuries to stevedores or longshoremen,
occurring upon navigable waters, have been held to be
within the exclusive operation of the maritime jurisdiction, as necessary to the maintenance of uniformity in its
general characteristics. In Steamship Bowdoin Co. v.
IndustrialAccident Comm'n, 246 U. S. 648, this was held

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellees.

279 U. S.

of a seaman upon a steamer tied to a wharf. All considerations are equally cogent for requiring a like determination in the case at bar.
Mr. George C. Faulknei, Jr., for appellees.
The rule now is that the application of state workmen's
compensation acts to maritime injuries, or to injuries occurring upon navigable waters, is forbidden only where
it would interfere with the characteristic harmony and
uniformity of the maritime law in its interstate and international aspects. Grant Smith-PorterShip Co. v. Rohde,
257 U. S. 469; Miller's Ind. Underwriters v. Braud, 270
U. S. 59; Rosengrant v. Havard, 273 U. S. 664; Alaska
Packers Ass'n v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 276 U. S.
467; Sultan R. & T. Co. v. Dep't of Labor, 277 U. S. 135;
Eclipse Mill Co. v. Dep't of Labor, 277 U. S. 135.
The maritime law surrenders to the domestic law dll
regulation of matters concerned purely with the domestic
or internal affairs of the vessel, and the civil rights and
duties of its owner in his relation to individuals in the
State of his own domicile. The GeneralSmith, 4 Wheat.
438; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558.
It clearly appears in the Jensen case, that the employee
was unloading a ship engaged in interstate and foreign
commerce. This was true also in every case cited as
adopting the rule in the Jensen case.
By contrast, in every case following the rule in the
Rohde case, the ship was not engaged in interstate or
foreign commerce. This basic differentiation goes on beyond mere coincidence and must indicate the foundation
of the distinction between local maritime matters under
the state courts' concurrent jurisdiction and purely maritime matters under the admiralty courts' exclusive jurisdiction.
The control of the Federal Government over commerce
and navigation is: (1) The power of Congress to regu-

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

113

Argument for Appellees.

late: (a) interstate commerce, and (b) foreign commerce,
that power being the same over both forms of commerce;
(2) the jurisdiction of the federal courts over all cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,-not over " cases"
of non-maritime causes of action.
The exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty courts in certain (admiralty and maritime) cases is exercised concurrently with the jurisdiction of the same courts as granted
by Congress (Jud. Code, §§ 24 and 256) over all civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Netherlands, etc. Co. v. Gallagher, 282 Fed. 171; The Belfast, 7
Wall. 637.
Thus, the inherent power of the federal judiciary as
granted it by the Constitution, Art. III, § 2, over admiralty or maritime cases is strengthened, enlarged and rounded
out by an Act of Congress functioning under its own constitutional grant of power. Art. I, § 8, subd. 3. The two
grants, one constitutional, the other legislative, are exercised by the admiralty courts for a common purpose, i. e.,
to secure, maintain and preserve uniformity in the regulation of interstate and foreign commerce and, thereby, harmony in that branch of our interstate and foreign relations. The two constitutional grants of power, one to the
judiciary and the other to Congress, have thus merged in
a common field and are to be viewed as each supplementing the other. N. J. Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants
Bank, 6 How. 392.
Prior to the decision in the Jensen case, supra, this
Court had always held that the maritime law furnished no
remedy in a death case and the state law might apply.
The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199; The Alaska, 130 U. S. 201;
American S. B. Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522; The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398.
The Jones Act having given a remedy in cases of death
of maritime workers, the admiralty courts now have exclusive jurisdiction in such cases where the casualty oc45228o

29_5

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellees.

279 U. S.

curred on navigable waters. That is the new principle
evolved by this Court in Northern Coal & Dock Co. v.
Strand, 278 U. S. 142. In that case the rule in the Rohde
case did not apply because: (1) The services being rendered by Strand at the time of his injury were a direct
part of interstate commerce; (2) Strand in rendering those
services was a seaman engaged in .that commerce called
"maritime "; (3) As a seaman engaged in interstate commerce, the maritime law furnished him a remedy.
The principles in New York Central R. Co. v. Winfield,
244 U. S. 147, and Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S.
375, gave the admiralty court in the Strand case a jurisdiction exclusive of that of the state courts because: (1)
regulation of interstate commerce by Congress is exclusive; (2) the Merchant .Marine Act incorporated the Federal Employers' Liability Act into the maritime law,
bringing with it exclusive. jurisdiction of cases directly involving interstate commerce; (3) the maritime law thereby furnished a remedy in deaths on navigable waters of
seamen and stevedores engaged in interstate commerce.
But, the Merchant Marine Act did not bring into the
maritime law any rules applicable to domestic or local
or intrastate commerce. Court jurisdiction over this class
of commerce was never relinquished by the States to the
Federal Government through the Federal Constitution.
The Merchant Marine Act did not enlarge the maritime
law so as to furnish a remedy in death cases of seamen
engaged in a domestic or local enterprise.
The cause of action in the case at bar is one over
which admiralty has no jurisdiction because it is not
founded on a maritime tort. Ketchikan L. & S. Co. v.
Bishop, 24 F. (2d) 63. There was no "tort" proven;
only a "casualty" that happened to occur on navigable
waters.
Insurance is not commerce. Appellant's contract,
through regulation by the Compensation Act of the State,

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

115

Opinion of the Court.

necessarily contained a provision whereby appellant became "directly and primarily liable." Enforcement of
that contract by the state courts will not violate the "exclusive" jurisdiction of the admiralty courts. Cf. Northern Coal & Dock Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142; Hooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 653; Western Union v. James, 162
U. S. 656.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This proceeding was begun by a petition to the Industrial Accident Commission of California to obtain an
award for the death of John James Uttley Brooke, an
unmarried minor nineteen years of age, who was drowned
in Santa Monica Bay on April 8, 1926, while in the service of the Morris Pleasure Fishing, Inc. The appellant
was the insurance carrier of the employer, and the question presented in this appeal is whether the case was
for the exclusive cognizance of a court of admiralty under § 256 of the Judicial Code, or might be brought within
the purview of the Workmen's Compensation Act of California.
The petition was filed by the mother and the stepfather
of the deceased before the Commission, which on October 6th, 1926, made its findings and held that he was not
at the time of his death engaged in maritime employment,
and that both he and his employer were subject to the provisions of the Compensation Act. The Commission found
that neither the mother nor the stepfather was dependent
on him, and, accordingly, that the award should be limited
to the reasonable expenses of burial, fixed at $150.
There was a proceeding in certiorari in the District
Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District, Division Two,
to review the award of the Commission. The District
Court of Appeal found that the Workmen's Compensation
Act of California did not give jurisdiction of this cause

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

and annulled the award. 256 Pac. 857. The Supreme
Court of the State reversed the District Court of Appeal
and affirmed the award of the Industrial Accident Commission. 265 Pac. 825. An appeal to this Court was
then allowed.
The facts as shown before the Commission and as stated
by the District Court of Appeal were as follows:
"The Morris Pleasure Fishing, Inc., is a corporation
which carries on the business of maintaining and operating from'Santa Monica Bay a small fleet of fishing vessels
for the accommodation of the public seeking recreation
in deep-sea fishing. In the fishing seasons its practice
has been to have excursions daily from Santa Monica
Bay to the ocean fishing grounds, a distance of three to
five miles, with fixed charges both for half-day and fullday trips. For use in this business the company has several vessels, ranging from four to fourteen tons registry,
equipped with gas engines and capable of cruising a, distance of 500 miles. The business has been confined entirely to the maintenance of these pleasure-fishing vessels and the transportation of patrons to and fro by water,
except that excursionists have also been supplied with
bait. As one of the necessary incidents of its business the
company employs seamen to navigate its vessels; and
before and at the time of the accident which occasioned
Brooke's death, he was in the company's employ as an
apprentice navigator and seaman. In that capacity he
made daily trips as required with the company's vessels,
and at times was substituted as 'spare skipper' for one
of the regular skippers. On April 8, 1926, one of the
company's fishing vessels called 'W. K.,' of about seven
tons registry, was moored, with no one aboard, in Santa
Monica Bay about three-quarters of a mile to a mile from
the pier. A storm having arisen, the vessel broke from
her moorings early in the afternoon and began to drift
toward the shore. In an effort to save the vessel from

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

117

Opinion of the Court. I

destruction, Captain Morris, as Brooke's superior officer,
had Brooke and another employe, named Gregory, put
off from the pier with the captain himself, in a boat about
eighteen feet long, with the purpose in mind of boarding
the 'W. K.' and returning her to her anchorage. But as
they neared the drifting vessel, their boat was capsized
by a heavy wave and all three were drowned."
The appellant contends that, under § 256 of the Judicial
Code, this is a cause of action in admiralty, enforceable
in a court of admiralty, or at common law if the latter
affords a remedy, and is not a matter of which cognizance
may be had under a state workmen's compensation act.
The Commission contends that the matter is one of
local concern which does not affect conunerce or navigation
and of which the Commission is not deprived of jurisdiction.
Section 256 of the Judicial Code provides that jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States in all
civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall
be exclusive of the courts of the several States, saving,
however, to suitors in all cases the right of a common law
remedy where the common law is competent to give it.
In Southern Pacific Company v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205,
where a stevedore, engaged in unloading a ship in navigable waters in New York, was killed, and an award of
compensation was made against the ship-owner under the
state workmen's compensation act, it was held that that
remedy, providing for compensation under a prescribed
scale for injuries and deaths of employees without regard
to fault, and being administered through a state administrative commission, was a remedy unknown to the common law and incapable of enforcement by the ordinary
processes of any court, and hence was not among the
common law remedies saved to suitors under § 256, and
therefore such a remedy was contrary to the Constitution
and laws of the United States. The same principle was

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

- Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

followed in Clyde Steamship Company v. Walker, 244
U. S. 255.
In Knickerbocker Ice Company v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149, it was held that an addition to the saving clause of
§ 256, by which rights and remedies under the workmen's
compensation law of any State were given to claimants
thereunder, was unconstitutional as being a delegation of
legislative power to States and a defeat of the purpose
of the Constitution in preserving the harmony and uniformity of maritime law.
In Union Fish Company v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308, it
was held that a maritime contract of employment was
not affected by the California statute of frauds requiring
such an agreement, where not to be performed within a
year, to be in writing, and that such a contract was not
subject to state limitation, because such limitation would
materially prejudice the characteristically uniform features of the general maritime law.
The same principle was applied in State of Washington
v. W. C. Dawson & Company, 264 U. S. 219, where it was
sought to compel an employer of stevedores to contribute
to an accident fund created by the workmen's compensation act of the State. Under the same title, it was held
on the same principle that workmen's compensation under
a state statute could not be awarded for the death of a
workman killed while engaged at maritime work, under
a maritime contract, upon a vessel moored on navigable
waters and discharging her cargo.
In Robins Dry Dock Co. v. Dahl, 266 U. S. 449, the
same principle was recognized and enforced in a case of
maritime tort suffered by one doing repair work on board
a completed vessel. The case was reversed, on the ground
that the liability of the employer in such a suit could not
be affected by the provision of a state law regulating the
duties of employers generally to furnish safe scaffolds.

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

119

Opinion of the Court.

Another class of cases is illustrated by Western Fuel Co.
v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233. There a stevedore was killed
while at work in the hold of a vessel under charter to the
Fuel Company. The Workmen's Compensation Commission granted an award to the widow and children. This
was annulled by the stdte court, and then the widow and
children brought a suit in admiralty against the Fuel
Company in the District Court of the United States,
alleging death by negligence, and prayed for damages.
The District Court was held to have jurisdiction in adiniralty under La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95; American
Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 531; The Hamilton, 207
U. S. 398. The plaintiff was defeated in the admiralty
suit by application of the state statute of limitations.
This Court thus recognized a well established exception
to the nonapplication of state statutes to admiralty jurisdiction, which is when they give a common law remedy
for death by wrongful act. But this Court, in the Knickerbocker Ice Co. case, decided that it could not extend the
saving clause of § 256 to include an award under a state
workmen's compensation act. Such cases as the Garcia
case, supra, Northern Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142,
and Great Lakes Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479,
are therefore hardly to be regarded as real exceptions to
the exclusive jurisdiction of admiralty by § 256.
Other cases, however, are cited to sustain the state
jurisdiction in this case. The first and chief one is Grant
Smith-Porter Company v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469. That
was a proceeding to recover an award under a workmen's
compensation act, from a ship-builder, for injuries which
a carpenter received while he was working on an unfinished vessel moored in the Willamette River. The contract for constructing the vessel was non-maritime, and
although the uncompleted structure upon which the accident occurred was lying in navigable waters, neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Rohde's general employment nor his activities at the time
had any direct relation to navigation. It was held to be a
matter of merely local concern, in view of the fact that
reference of the rights and liabilities of the parties, under
a contract between them, had been made by their consent
to the local statute; that they had not consciously contracted in view of admiralty, and such an exception would
not injure any characteristic feature of the general maritime law or the harmony or uniformity of that law in its
international and state relations.
In Miller's Indemnity Underwritersv. Braud, 270 U. S.
59, the plaintiff's intestate was employed as a diver by
a ship building company. He submerged himself from
a floating barge anchored in a navigable river 35 feet from
the bank, in order to saw off some timbers of an abandoned set of ways once used for launching ships which
had become an obstruction to navigation. He died from
suffocation for lack of air supply during his work. His
representative was allowed to recover from the employer's
insurer under the Texas Workmen's Compensation Law.
The facts disclosed a possible maritime tort to which the
general admiralty jurisdiction might extend, except that
the state compensation law prescribed an exclusive remedy. The state statute was allowed to have effect. It
was thought that enforcing such a state statute would not
tend to destroy the characteristic features of maritime
law.
In Alaska Packers' Association v. Industria Accident
Commission, 276 U. S. 467, a person engaged by a fishing
and canning company as a seaman, also as a fisherman,
and then for general work in and about a cannery, was
injured after the fishing season was over while standing
upon the shore and endeavoring to push a stranded fishing boat into navigable waters for the purpose of floating
it to a nearby dock, where it was to be lifted out and stored
for the winter. It was held that the injury, even if within

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

121

Opinion of the Court.

admiralty jurisdiction, was of such a local character as to
be cognizable under a state compensation law,-a ruling
which would not injure the characteristic features or uniformity of the admiralty law.
In Sultan Railway Co. v. Department of Labor and
Industries of the State of Washington, 277 U. S. 135, an
award for injuries under the Workmen's Compensation
Law of Washington was sustained. The plaintiff was
engaged in assembling saw logs in booms for towage elsewhere for sale, and the breaking up of the booms, which
had been towed on a river to a saw mill, and the guiding of the logs to a conveyor extending into the river, by
which they were drawn into the mill for sawing. Clearly,
even if this had any admiralty feature, it had only an incidental relation to navigation. The rights and obligations of the employees and their employers could well be
regulated by local rules which would not work material
prejudice to the characteristic features of the general
maritime law.
Nothing in these cases could apply to the case before
us. They may be said to be of an amphibious character.
They have an admiralty feature about them in the locality where they occurred, although even this is doubtful
with respect to the Alaska case. But the contract in the
Rohde case was non-maritime, the ship was incomplete,
and being completed under a non-maritime contract; both
parties had made a non-maritime contract with reference
to their liabilities and not in contemplation of the admiralty law. The Braud case was one of a maritime tort.
But it had no characteristic feature of the general maritime law except locality, and it was very like, in its relation to the state law, to the Rohde case. The employment was not maritime, and the transaction and the circumstances thus seemed to have but one characteristic
that was maritime. This was true of the Sultan Company

case.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 UI. S.

Other cases cited, but which seem to have no application here, rest on the undisputed circumstance of locality
in fixing or excluding admiralty jurisdiction.
In State Industrial Commission v. Nordenholt Corp.,
259 U. S. 263, the tort complained of was committed upon
a dock which was an extension of the land, and was not
"
within the jurisdiction in admiralty atall.
Smith & Son v. Taylor,276 U. S. 179, was a case in which
a longshoreman was struck by a sling while working on a
stage resting solely upon a wharf and projecting a few
feet over the water to or near a vessel. He was knocked
into the water, where sometime later he was found dead.
It was there held that the right of action was controlled
by the state and not by the maritime law, since the blow
was received on the wharf, which was to be deemed an
extension of, the land.
And so in Gonsalves v. Morse Dry Dock & Repair
Company, 256 U. S. 171, where an employee, engaged in the repair of a vessel resting on a dock floating on
navigable waters, was allowed to recover for negligence
of the vessel-owner in the explosion of a blau torch negligently permitted to be out of repair. It was held that
repairs to a vessel while in an ordinary dry dock were
not made on land, and that the admiralty jurisdiction in
tort matters was settled by the locality.
In Messel v. FoundationCo., 274 U. S. 427, it was held
that a boiler-maker, employed to lengthen the smokestack on the deck of a vessel lying in navigable waters, and
injured by negligence of the owner through the sudden
burst of hot steam, was entitled to recovery in admiralty
or under the saving clause of § 256, by virtue of the Louisiana Civil Code, Art. 2315, declaring that every act whatever of a man that causes damage to another obliges him
by whose fault it happened to repair it. This was held
equivalent to the operation of the common law, and so,
under the saving clause of § 256, to support a suit for dam-

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.
109

123

Opinion of the Court.

ages either in admiralty or common law. The Louisiana
Workmen's Compensation Act gave him no right of action.
We have thus examined all the cases in this Court since
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, with respect to the efforts
to apply the workmen's compensation acts in admiralty,
and we have found nothing in them that would justify an
award in the present case.
Here it is without dispute that the deceased was a sailor,
that his employment and relation to the owner of the vessel were maritime. It is without dispute that the vessel,
in the navigation of which he was employed, was registered as a vessel engaged in the navigable waters of the
United States, in the business of transporting people for
hire. He was a skipper engaged in assisting the navigation of these registered vessels from their mooring place
in Santa Monica Bay to the place where the deep sea fishing was to be carried on, a distance of from three to five
miles or more, all in navigable waters. The vessels were
capable of navigation for 500 miles. There was no feature of the business and employment that was not purely
maritime. To hold that a seaman, engaged and injured
in an employment purely of admiralty cognizance, could
be required to change the nature or conditions of his
recovery under a state compensation law, would certainly
be prejudicial to the characteristic features of the general
maritime law.
Objection is made that the deceased here lost his life
by drowning when he was not on a vessel in the navigation of which he had been employed as a seaman. This
is immaterial. He was lost in navigable waters. He was
engaged in attempting to moor and to draw into a safe
place the vessel with relation to which he was employed.
It is clearly established that the jurisdiction of the admiralty over a maritime tort does not depend upon the
wrong having been committed on board a vessel, but

124:

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

rather upon its having been committed upon the high seas
or other navigable waters. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20;
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 59, 60.
.-Another objection to the admiralty jurisdiction here is
that the vessel was not engaged in interstate or foreign
commerce. It was employed only to run from shore to
Santa Monica Bay, five or ten miles to the deep sea fishing
place, and then return, and all within the jurisdiction of
California. This argument is a complete misconception
of what the admiralty jurisdiction is under the Constitution of the United States. Its jurisdiction is not limited
to transportation of goods and passengers from one State
to another, or from the United States to a foreign country,
but depends upon the jurisdiction conferred in Article 3,
Section 2, extending the judicial power of the United
States to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Clifford, in The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 640,
said:
"Difficulties attend every attempt to define the exact
limits of admiralty jurisdiction, but it can not be made
to depend upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce, as conferred in the Constitution. They are entirely distinct things, having no necessary connection with
one another, and are conferred in the Constitution by
separate and distinct grants." Citing The Genesee Chief,
12 How. 452. See also In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 15;
Ex parte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629, 632; The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black 574, 578.
Another objection which is pressed on us is that § 256
of the Judicial Code does not exclude the jurisdiction under the California Compensation Act, because the object
of the trips was for pleasure and not for commerce. This
is a misconception. Commerce is not prevented because
the object of it is to serve the pleasure of passengers. The
business was that of earning money by transporting people
on the navigable waters of the United States, and, strictly

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 125
109

Syllabus.

speaking, it is just as much a part of commerce and of
the admiralty jurisdiction as if these vessels were carrying
cargoes of merchandise. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
215 et seq. The conclusion sought to be drawn by counsel for the Commission from the Rohde and other cases is
that workmen's compensation acts will apply unless their
application would interfere with the uniformity of the
general maritime law in interstate and foreign commerce,
and there is neither here. But this omits one of the
grounds for making an exception-that it shall not be
prejudicial to the characteristic features of the maritime
law. That is just what it would be here, for here we have
a transaction on the navigable waters of the United States
which in every respect covers all the characteristic features
of maritime law and has no other features but those. To
apply to such a case a state compensation law would certainly be prejudicial to those features. We must hold,
therefore, that it was a violation of the exclusive maritime jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution to apply
in this case the California Compensation Act.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissents.
SUTTER BUTTE CANAL COMPANY v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPRENIE COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 403.

Argued March 6, 7, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The record does not disclose any substantial evidence that would
impeach the findings of the Railroad Commission upon the subject
of a fair rate-base and a proper return to the petitioner Company.
P. 134.
2. Contracts between a public utility water company and its consumers are subject to modification in respect of their duration as well

