GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
156

Syllabus.

it does not enlarge common law rights within a State
where the mark has not been used. General Baking Co.
v. Gorman, 3 F. (2d) 891, 894. Some attempt was made
to support the decision upon other grounds, but we .do not
think them presented by the record, and they are not
mentioned by the Ohio Court.
Judgment reversed.
GILCHRIST ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE TRANSIT
COMMISSION, ET AL. v. INTERBOROUGH RAPID
TRANSIT COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 159.

Argued October 16, 17, 18, 1928. Reargued January 14,
15, 16, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

A New York street railway corporation, operating in the City of New
York (1) subway lines belonging to and leased from the city, and
which were part of the city streets, in connection with (2) elevated
lines belonging to and leased from another corporation, and (3)
extensions of such elevated lines, sought to increase the rate of
fare, which had been fixed at five cents for all the lines by the
leases and by the agreement under which the extensions had been
constructed, and to that end proposed a seven cent fare and applied
to the Transit Commission of New York to sanction the change, on
the ground that the existing rate was confiscatory. The commission, acting within the time allowed it by statute, made an order
denying the application for want of power to change the rate fixed
by the subway contracts, and brought proceedings in a state court,
as did also the city, to compel the company to observe, that rate.
On the same day when this formal action was taken, but earlier
and when there was merely a consensus among the commission's
members that it should be taken, the company filed its original
bill in the federal court alleging that the five cent rate had become
confiscatory and that the commission had failed to grant relief, and
praying an injunction against any attempt on the part of the commission or the city to enforce that rate, or to interfere with the
establishment of the one proposed; and thereafter it filed a sup-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of Case.

279 U. S

plemental bill reciting the action taken by the commission after the
filing of the original bill, renewing its prayer for an injunction, and
especially asking that further prosecution of the proceedings in the
state court be forbidden. The case, involving complex contracts
and intricate state statutes, raised questions of state law, particularly as to the binding effect of the contract rate and the power of
the commission to grant a higher one, which had not been authoritatively settled by the state courts. It was not shown with fair
certainty that the contract rate was so low as to be confiscatory,
that the one proposed in lieu was reasonable, or that, before the
original bill was filed, the commission had taken, or was about to
take, any improper action; the attitude of the commission on the
questions presented had been manifested on former occasions; there
had been abundant opportunity to test the questions in the state
courts, and there was no ground for anticipating undue delay or
hardship from having them so decided.
Held that an order of the federal court granting the interlocutory
injunction prayed, was improvident and an abuse of discretion.
P. 207.
26 F. (2d) 912, reversed.

APPEAL from an order of a district court of three judges
granting an interlocutory injunction in a suit brought by
the Interborough Rapid Transit Company against Gilchrist and other individuals constituting the Transit Commission, the same being the Metropolitan Division of the
Department of Public Service of the City of New York;
William A. Prendergast, as Chairman of that Department;
The Manhattan Railway Company, and the City of New
York. The Manhattan Railway Company filed a crossbill praying affirmative relief against the other defendants.
The order, among other provisions, restrained the commis-

sion and the city, pending the suit, from enforcing against
the plaintiff a five cent rate of fare upon the rapid transit
lines operated by it, part of which were elevated railways
leased to it by The Manhattan Company, and from preventing higher charges and from prosecuting actions in
the state court. The commission and the city appealed
and the Interborough and Manhattan Companies ap-

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

159

peared as appellees. An ancillary suit brought in the District Court after the original bill in this case had been
filed, also resulted in an injunction. See 25 F. (2d) 164.
Mr. Irwin Untermyer,* with whom Messrs. Samuel Untermyer and Charles Dickerman WTilliams were on the
brief, for appellant Transit Commission of New York.
The federal court has no jurisdiction to enjoin the Commission, as a contractual party, from instituting judicial
proceedings to enforce the contracts in the state courts,
even assuming the contracts to be unenforceable. St. Paul
Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142; Des Moines v.
Des Moines R. Co., 214 U. S. 179; South Covington Ry.
Co. v. Newport, 259 U. S. 97; Western Union v. Georgia,
269 U. S. 67; Cincinnati v. Cincinnati & Hamilton Traction Co., 245 U. S. 446; St. Augustine v. St. Johns Electric
Co., 286 Fed. 474; American T. & T. Co. v. New Decatur,
176 Fed. 133. Property taken by orderly judicial proceedings, however erroneous the decision may be, is not
taken "without due process of law" (Ross v. Oregon, 227
U. S. 150), and there is no more reason to exercise jurisdiction in cases to which a state contract-making body is
a party than there is to review the decision of a state
court in any ordinary contract case.
The plaintiff could not at the time it instituted this suit
enjoin the Commission in its regulatory capacty from
taking action under the Public Service Commission Law
with respect to its amendatory schedules, on the theory
that the action of the Commission, if taken, would be
unconstitutional. The regulatory powers of the Commission here with respect to rates are indisputably legislative
* Mr. Irwin Untermyer, for the Transit Commission, Mr. Charles L.
Craig, for the City of New York, and Messrs. Wlliam L. Ransom
and George W. Wickersham, for the Interborough and Manhattan
Companies, participated in the first argument of the cause.
°

45228 -29-

11

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

279 U. S.

since it acts under the rate-making authority of the legislature. Prentis v. Atlantic C. L. R. Co., 211 U. S. 210.
If action by the Commission may be enjoined before
it is taken, then upon identical principles, action by the
legislature may be enjoined before it is taken, on the
theory that the legislature intends to enact an unconstitutional statute.
It has been uniformly held that a federal court may not
enjoin the enactment of legislation or the exercise of
powers of a legislative character on the theory that, if
thus exercised, they would be unconstitutional. Such a
suit would, moreover, constitute a suit -against the State.
Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516.
Until a statute has been enacted, or an order made, no
injury to anyone is possible, and thereafter any person is
in a position, in a proper case, to protect himself from injury by an injunction against its execution. New Orleans
Water Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 41; McChord v. L
& N. R. Co., 183 U. S. 483; Southern Pacific Co. v. Bartine, 170 Fed. 725; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Winnett,
162 Fed. 242; Alpers v. San Francisco,32 Fed. 503. Other
cases to the same effect are: Rico v. Snyder, 134 Fed. 953;
Missouri R. Co. v. Olathe, 156 Fed. 624; Gas & Electric
Co. v. Manhattan& Queens Corp'rn,266 Fed. 625; Stevens
v. St. Mary's TrainingSchool, 144 Ill. 332.
Under the construction of § 49 of the Public Service
Commission Law in Matter of Quinby v. Public Service
Comm'n, 223 N. Y. 244, the Commission, in the absence of
contract, would have been authorized to increase, as well
as to reduce, the rate stipulated in any "general or special
statute," including Chapter 743 of the laws of 1894.
Moreover, since the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief
except under the Public Service Commission Law, it may
secure relief only as provided thereby and not by litigation in the federal courts. Henderson Water Co. v. Corp'n

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Transit Commission.

Comm'n, 269 U. S. 279; Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v.
Wallace, 233 U. S. 481; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520;
Farmers'Nat'l Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S. 29; United States
v. Babcock, 250 U. S. 328.
Since the plaintiff had no cause of action at the thne it
filed its original bill, that defect cannot be cured by allegations, by supplemental bill, of facts that occurred thereafter. Chicago Grain Door Co. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R.
Co., 137 Fed. 101; Mellor v. Smither, 114 Fed. 116; Putney v. Whitmire, 66 Fed. 385; N. Y. Security & Trust Co.
v. Lincoln Street R. Co., 74 Fed. 67; Bernard v. Toplitz,
160 Mass. 162.
It must be admitted, and the District Court concedes,
that were it not for the existence of the Public Service
Commission Law, the plaintiff would not be entitled to
relief from the contractual rate of fare, no matter how unremunerative that rate may be. Columbus R. & P. Co. v.
Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Public Service Comm'n v. St.
Cloud, 265 U. S. 352; Paducah v. Paducah R. Co., 261
U. S. 267; GeorgiaR. Co. v. Decatur,262 U. S. 432; Southern Utilities Co. v. Palatka,268 U. S. 232.
Since, therefore, the right to collect a fare in excess of
the contract rate is not a right existing under the Constitution, the " right" asserted here involves the enforcement
of a statutory right which proceeds exclusively from the
Public Service Commission Law. So far as the constitutional rights of the plaintiff are concerned, an increase in
the rate is a mere privilege which the State might withhold
or grant at its pleasure and with respect to which it could
impose whatever conditions it pleased. It must, therefore, be evident that the State was under no obligation to
enact, nor has the plaintiff any standing in a federal court
to compel the execution of the provisions of the Public
Service Commission Law. Arkansas Gas Co. v. R. R.
Comm'n, 261 U. S. 379.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

279 U. S.

That the legislature has provided for review by certiorari of any order made by the Commission under the
statute is merely the grant of an additional privilege, that,
under the Constitution, the legislature was not under any
obligation to allow.
Inherently this is not a rate case in any accurate sense
of that term. It is a case involving contracts from which
the plaintiff claims to be entitled to relief only on account
of the existence of a state statute, which, the plaintiff
contends, is not being properly executed by the administrative agency. For this alleged misconstruction of the
statute, not impairing any constitutional right, neither
the State nor the agent is responsible to any federal
authority. Although under the statute the refusal of the
Commission to act might involve the denial of a legal
right, yet so far as the Constitution is concerned, the
right thus denied is a mere privilege or act of grace, the
denial of which presents no federal question. It is therefore no inconsistency to say that a statutory right may
be a constitutional privilege. Brearly School v. Ward,
201 N. Y. 358; Laird v. Carton, 196 N. Y. 169; Bull v.
Conroe, 13 Wis. 233; In re Seaholm, 136 Fed. 144; Cooley,
Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 546; Henderson Water Co. v.
Corp'n Comnm'n, 269 U. S. 278; People v. Rosenheimer,
209 N. Y. 115; People v. Crane, 214 N. Y. 154, s. c., 239
U. S. 195; Christ Church v. Philadelphia,24 How. 300.
Since no right of the plaintiff under the Constitution
is involved, it is immaterial whether the denial of relief
occurred upon the plaintiff's application under § 29 in
1928, or under § 49 in 1920 and in .1921. It is the nature
of the right that must determine the question of federal
jurisdiction. Wichita R. & L. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 260 U. S.48.
It has been directly held by this Court that the binding
effect of such contracts as between the parties was
not impaired because, under state law or constitution,

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Transit Commission.

the legislature retained "unfettered power" at any moment to revise the contract rate. Southern Utilities Co.
v. Palatka, 268 U. S. 232; Opelika v Opelika Sewer Co.,
265 U. S. 215.
The delegation of legislative power to revise, even
though coupled with the duty, does not constitute an
exercise of the rate-making power. The State would not
exercise its rate-making power until the Conanission exercised that power by making an order increasing, or by
approving the increase of, the contract rate. This is evident from a consideration of the provisions of the Public
Service Commission Law, which show that the provisions
of the Law do not operate directly on the contract or the
rate, but operate only by order to be made by the Commission. Indeed, if it had been intended that the provision of the Law that rates should be "just and reasonable" should operate directly on the contract or the rate,
what was the Commission established for and why was it
required to "(determine" the rate whenever "in its opinion" that was necessary and to "fix the same by order to
be served upon all connon carriers "?
This principle has been sustained and applied by this
Court and by the courts of every State in which the question has arisen. Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Larabee lills,
211 U. S. 612; Manitowoc v. Manitowoc & Northern Traction Co., 145 Wis. 13; Milwaukee Electric R. & L. Co. v.
R. R. Cornzn'n, 238 U. S. 174; Monroe v. Detroit M. & T.
R. Co., 187 Mich. 364; Lanawee County G. & E. Co. v.
Adrian, 209 Mich. 52; Henriciv. South FeatherLand Co.,
177 Cal. 442; Southern Pacific Co. v. Spring Valley Water
Co., 173 Cal. 291; Salt Lake City v. Utah L. & T. Co., 52
Utah 476; Traverse City v. Michigan R. R. Comm'n, 202
Mich. 575.
This also is the law of New York State. People ex rel.
N. Y. etc. R. Co. v. Public Service Conmr'n, 193 App. Div.
445; Buffalo v. Frontier Telephone Co., 203 N. Y. 589;
People ex rel. New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

279 U. S.

The District Court failed to distinguish between a contract that is void and a contract that is subject to modification under the regulatory power of the State. Southern
Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton,255 U. S. 539; San Antonio
v. San Antonio Public Service Comm'n, 255 U. S.547, are
for that reason inapplicable. Henderson Water Co. v.
Corp'n Comm'n, 269 U. S.278.
The question of whether or not the State, in the exercise of its police power, may reduce or increase the rate,
is entirely different from the question of whether the
parties may escape the obligations of the contract in the
absence of action by the State. Cf. Opelika v. Opelika
Sewer Co., 265 U. S.215; Southern Utilities Co. v. Palatka,
268 U. S.232.
The contracts prohibited in the Chariton and San Antonio cases were expressly authorized here by the Rapid
Transit Act.
Every presumption is against the jurisdiction of the
Commission to demolish the very contraots that were
constructed with legislative authority. The rule here applicable is precisely the converse of the rule where the
question is whether the legislature has permanently
alienated its police power over rates. Quinby v. Public
Service Comm'n, 223 N. Y. 241; People ex rel. N. Y., etc.
R. Co. v. Wilcox, 200 N. Y. 423; Silver v. L. & N. R. Co.,
213 U. S.- 175.
There is a fundamental distinction between rate contracts executed without legislative authority and rate
contracts which the legislature has expressly authorized.
The conflict here is not between a private contract and
the Public Service Commission Law of 1907; it is between
the general regulatory provisions of the Public Service
Commission Law of 1907 and the special provisions of the
Rapid Transit Act of 1912 by which the contracts were
authorized to be made. If it be true that the provisions
of the Public Service Commission Law were "written

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Transit Commission.

into" the contracts, People ex rel. City of New York V.
Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356, it is likewise true that the provisions
of the Rapid Transit Act were to the same extent "written
into" them. And, when those provisions are examined,
it is found that the legislature expressly authorized the
contracts to be made, which is equivalent to declaring that
they should be binding during the contract term, unless
the word " contract " is without legal significance. This
distinction is the test to determine whether or not the
contract is entitled to protection under § 10 of Art. I of
the Constitution. Cleveland v. Cleveland City R. Co.,
194 U. S. 517; Home T. & T. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Water Works Co., 206 U. S.
496; Detroit v. Detroit Citizens R. Co., 184 U. S. 368;
Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Water Co., 177 U. S. 558;
Superior Water, L. & P. Co. v. Superior, 263 U. S. 125;
St. Cloud Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S.352;
Georgia R. & P. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432; New
Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650.
By the Rapid Transit Act the State delegated to the
parties the power to contract concerning the rate of fare
both on the subway and elevated lines. The character
of these contracts and the direct participation of the State
in their execution is evident from the fact that they are
required to be executed, not directly between the Interborough and the City of New York, but between the Interborough and the Commission whose action, although
taken on behalf of the City, was that of state officials.
Litchfield Construction Co. v. City of New York, 244
N. Y. 251; Gubner v. McClellan, 130 App. Div. 716. The
only limitation upon the action of the Commission is that
it shall receive the approval of the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment.
The five-cent fare provisions in the certificate and in
Contract 3 were authorized by the Rapid Transit Act,
§ 24. 27.

. 168

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

279 U. S.

A fare provision is plainly authorized by the broad
grant of power contained in § 24 to "fix and determine
...such other terms, conditions and requirements as to
the said boards may appear just and proper." Cleveland
v. Cleveland City R. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Columbus R. &
P. Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Omaha Water Co. v.
Omaha, 147 Fed. 1.
Section 27, under which Contract 3 was executed and
which in part provides "Every such contract shall contain such terms and conditions as to the rates of fare to be
charged . . . as said Commission shall deem to be best
suited to the public interests," granted unqualified authority to contract for a fixed fare for the entire life of the
contract.
On account of the special provisions of the Rapid Transit Act, the fare stipulations in these contracts are withdrawn from the rate-regulatory powers of the Commission. Since a "reasonable" rate of fare as defined by
the Public Service Commission Law, will rarely, if ever,
coincide with a "contractual" rate as determined by the
parties, it follows that the contract made by legislative
authority must be supreme, because if not supreme,
the authority to contract becomes meaningless and
nugatory.
To hold that the contracts concerning rates of fare on
the subway and elevated lines did not protect both parties against an increase or reduction in the rate of fare,
renders those provisions of the Rapid Transit Act authorizing such contracts to be made meaningless, if not ridiculous. The very purpose of the authority thus delegated
to the parties was to permit them to accomplish a result
that could not be secured except by contract and that
might not be consistent with the limitations and provisions of the Public Service Commission Law.
The case at bar falls directly within Public Service Co.
v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Transit Commission.

People ex rel. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Wilcox, 200
N. Y. 423, and other decisions of the Court of Appeals
have established that matters specially authorized by the
legislature are withdrawn from the operation of the Public Service Commission Law. Village of Fort Edward v.
Hudson Valley R. Co., 192 N. Y. 139; New York City v.
Brooklyn City R. Co., 232 N. Y. 463.
The Rapid Transit Act, amended in 1912 to authorize
the contracts here and which deals specially with the subject of rapid transit in cities of over one million inhabitants, withdrew those contracts from the regulatory powers of the Commission with respect to fare. Parker v.
Elmira, etc. R. Co., 165 N. Y. 274.
The conditions under which the amendments of 1912
were enacted, taken in connection with the decision of the
Court of Appeals in the Admiral Realty Company case,
206 N. Y. 110, prove that the rates stipulated in the contracts were not intended to be subject to the Public Service
Commission Law.
Other considerations which establish that the legislature
could not have intended rapid transit contracts to be subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission are to be found
in important amendments of 1921, 1922, and 1923, to the
Public Service Commission Law; in a memorial to the
legislature of 1925 to enact a statute increasing the rate
of fare, and the failure of the legislature to do so; the approval of the contracts by the City required by the Rapid
Transit Act, together with the amendments of 1925 to the
Public Service Commission Law requiring similar approval of any modification thereof, proving that it could
not have been intended to permit the rate of fare to be
altered against the opposition of the Commission and the
City; the amendment of § 7 of the Rapid Transit Act of
1894, which required any franchise privately to construct
and operate a rapid transit railway to contain a provision limiting the rate of fare to five cents. Notwith-

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Transit Commission.

279 U. S.

standing the enactment of the Public Service Commission
Law in 1907, and notwithstanding that the legislature
during that period twice amended the Rapid Transit
Act, it did not undertake to alter this provision of § 7
until, by the amendments of 1909, it further extended
the powers of the Commission by removing this, the only
limitation even with respect to privately constructed
rapid transit lines.
The consequences of holding that the Commission was
under the duty to revise rates in contracts, which it was
its duty to enforce, demonstrate that the Commission was
not intended to exercise such regulatory authority over
these contracts.
The Rapid Transit Act expressly provides for the character of public regulation that may be exercised. It may
be such, and only such, as the Interborough and the Commission might agree upon with the approval of the City.
People ex rel. City of New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y.
356, is inapplicable because the provisions of the State
Constitution under which the franchise contract there had
been granted did not authorize, nor had the legislature
authorized, any stipulation with respect to the rate of
fare.
By Contract 3 the fare provisions of Contracts 1 and 2
were not superseded. Both Contracts 1 and 2 were made
before the enactment of the regulatory provision respecting fares contained in § 49 of the Public Service Commission Law. Hence, as the Court of Appeals has decided,
the provisions of § 49 can, in no event, have any relation
to those contracts. Matter of Quinby v. Public Service
Comm'n, 223 N. Y. 224, s. c. 227 N. Y. 601; People ex rel.
City of New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356; People ex
rel. Garrison v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 645; Matter of Evans
v. Public Service Comm'n, 246 N. Y. 224.
Even if Contract 3 had superseded Contracts 1 and 2,
it is "so related to the earlier contracts'" as to fall within

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for New York City.

the exception stated in the Nixon case and applied in the
Garrison case.
The earnings of the Interborough since 1920, even as
alleged in the complaint, have consistently increased, notwithstanding the increased cost of labor and materials.
The plaintiff is earning more than a fair return on its
property, both subway and elevated, based upon its actual
investment therein.
The value upon which the plaintiff is entitled to a fair
return is determined by the character of its interest in the
property, and that value is limited by the provisions of
Contract 3 and of the certificate. The value of the property upon which the plaintiff is entitled to a fair return
is exactly the equivalent of the value to which it would
be entitled if its property were taken by eminent domain.
On account of the recapture and amortization provisions
of Contract 3 and the certificate, the value of the property
on which the plaintiff is entitled to earn a fair return can
in no event exceed by more than fifteen per cent. its original investment cost.
At a five-cent fare the Interborough is earning a reasonable return upon the present fair value of its property
devoted to the public service. On account of the Interborough's preferentials under Contract 3 and the certificate, it is not entitled to a return of eight per cent.
Mr. Charles L. Craig, with whom Messrs. George P.
Nicholson, Joseph A. Devery, and Edgar J. KohIer were
on the brief, for appellant City of New York.
The contracts between the City and the Interborough
Company are not subject to regulation.
While these contracts contain what is called a "lease,"
they are, in effect, contracts of employment, or for personal service, by which the Company operates for the City
the subway system, constructed at public expense, to effect uate a great city purpose. There is nothing in the Rapid

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for New York City.

279 U. S.

Transit Act that requires the contractor to be a railroad
corporation. Sun PrintingAss'n v. Mayor, 152 N. Y. 257;
City of New York v. Brooklyn City R. Co., 232 N. Y. 470.
People ex rel. Interborough Rapid Transit"Co. v. Tax
Comm'rs, 126 App. Div. 610, affirmed, 195 N. Y. 618;
Interborough Rapid Transit Co. v. Sohmer, 237 U. S. 276.
While the rate of fare was one of the terms and conditions of the first two contracts resulting from the acceptance of a proposal submitted in response to an advertised
letting, it was not a matter that the City or the Board ever
discussed with the contractor or in which he had any voice
any more than in the location of the road.
Chapter 226 of the Laws of 1912, which authorized Contract No. 3 to be made, re-enacted the requirement that
the contract contain the "terms and conditions as to the
rates of fare to be charged." Amendments of 1909 and
1912 provided for readjustment of operator's compensation, but not by a change of fare.
Moreover the statute provided that any readjustment
of compensation was not by regulatory authority under
the Public Service Commission Law, but by agreement,
arbitration or the court. The Interborough conclusively
elected no readjustment of compensation.
In case of municipal operation, changes in the rate of
fare were to be made by readjustment from time to time
by the Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners,
but always with the public interest in mind, of furnishing
service at cost. Laws of 1909, § 34-d, now Rapid Transit
Act, § 30; Matter of Rapid Transit R. Comm'rs, 197
N. Y. 81.
It is clear, therefore, that the rates of fare, and whether
compensatory or not, were no concern of the regulatory
authority created by the Public.Service Commission Law.
Surely, the circumstance that the City employed a contractor to operate, instead of doing so itself, could make
no difference.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for New York City.

The Public Service Commission Law does not purport
to regulate the compensation of individuals who might
constitute any " person " or "firm" performing the service of operation for the City of New York in carrying into
effect the City purpose of providing rapid transit facilities
for its inhabitants; or of any corporation doing so.
Neither the legislature nor the courts of New York have
ever recognized any authority to fix or change the rates
on the rapid transit lines owned by the City of New York,
other than that exercised by the City of New York
through its own Boards. Matter of Rapid Transit R.
Comm'rs, 197 N. Y. 81; Sun Printing Ass'n v. Mayor,
8 App. Div. 230, 152 N. Y. 257; Rapid Transit Act, § 27,
30, 58; Board of Transportation Act, Laws 1924, c. 573,
§ 135. Cf. Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Arkansas R. R.
Comm'n, 261 U. S. 379.
The power of regulation is never exercised except in the
public interest. It is not in the public interest to frustrate
the City's plan and policy of distribution of population.
The powers and duties of the Municipal Government can-

not be transferred to or vested in or subordinated to the
Transit Commission, a body of state officers, in disregard
of the local self-government provisions in the State Constitution.
Among the important powers and duties of the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment, the governing body of
the City, are those relating to streets. Under the Constitution and the Rapid Transit Act, its consent and approval is required for the location of all rapid transit
railroads, and no appropriation for the construction or
operation thereof can be made by any other board or
body.
The order appealed from requires state officers-the
Transit Commissioners--to exercise dominion over the
streets and property of the City, which can only be validly
exercised by local elective officers in the manner prescribed

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for New York City.

279 U. S.

in the State Constitution. Art X, § 2. Cf. Louisiana
Public Service Comm'n v. Morgan's Louisiana & Texas
R. Co., 264 U. S. 393. It makes the Transit Commission
the policy determining board of the City.
Now, when according to the contract the Interborough's
return and accumulated deficits, with compound interest,
have been paid in full, the order appealed from takes
away from the Interborough all of the incentive for careful and economic operation, removes all of the elements
of contingency, and substitutes coercion for contract
right; and decrees virtually immediate discharge of the
City's deficits by extra tolls from its inhabitants, so that
the contingency of profits to the Interborough may be
turned into certainty and cash.
The Interborough is employed by the City to render a
service for it, namely, to maintain and operate its rapid
transit properties. Its preferential of $6,335,000 covered
in part its "services in connection with the operation of
the property." Its compensation is a matter of agreement, requiring for its fixation the exercise of discretion
by the City's officers. It is something that neither the
legislature nor any state officers or agency can do for the
City. People ex ret. Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1.
There is no equity in the Interborough's position. It is
being paid in full according to the contract, the terms of
which were dictated by it. The counterclaim in the City's
answer opens the way for complete relief to the Interborough from existing contracts, upon terms just and
equitable, to be fixed by the Court.
If it be assumed that it is a public service corporation,
as distinguished from a private corporation rendering a
service for the City of New York, valid contracts existing
between the City of New York and the Interborough
fix the rate of fare at five cents during the term thereof.
Such contracts were made under full and express legislative
authority. The validity thereof, and the constitutionality

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for New York City.

of such legislation, have been adjudicated and sustained
by the Court of Appeals of the State of New York. Where
there is a contract, there is no confiscation.
The Rapid Transit Act, pursuant to which such contracts and Elevated Railroad Certificates were made, is a
comprehensive special statute excluding any possible subordination to the Public Service Commission Law.
The legislature has not at any time empowered the
Public Service Commission to regulate the rates of fare
agreed upon in contracts made by the City pursuant to
the Rapid Transit Act.
The decisions of the state courts in gas and street surface railway cases cited in the opinion, do not sustain the
conclusion of the court below, but are contrary thereto.
In particular, the decisions in the Garrison cases on reargument are fatal to the claims of the Interborough Company based on the Nixon case.
Contract No. 3 is not a franchise. Under it the contractor acquires no right, privilege or license in or to the
City's streets or any part thereof. It is a contract for
equipment, maintenance and operation of a road and
equipment wholly owned by the City. The operator is
employed to discharge the duties of operation.
The Rapid Transit Act, which alone gave the Public
Service Commission power to act in the preparation and
execution of Contract No. 3, conferred such power only
"subject to the approval of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment." Whatever terms and conditions as to rates
of fare and character of service the Commission deemed
best suited to the public interests, and whatever supervision, conditions, regulations and requirements were determined upon by the Commission, had to be determined
upon prior to the execution of the contract.
The statutory court concedes Contracts Nos. 1 and 2 inviolable unless controlled by Contract No. 3, executed
after passage of the Public Service Commission Law.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for New York City.

279 U. S.

The entire force of the opinion of the statutory court is
lost unless there was a "modification and waiver" notwithstanding the provisions of the contract to the
contrary.
The property owned by the City, constituting a part of
its streets, is not the subject of confiscation. It is elementary that confiscation relates to private property and
not to public property.
So far as the City is concerned, its subways could be
operated free of charge, as are its bridges; or it could
make such charges as it saw fit and support its subways,
partly from such charges and partly from taxation. The
Interborough Company has no property in subways and
no interest in the cost of reproduction thereof.
The absurdity of the Interborough's claim is illustrated by the fact that, according to it, every time the
City, at its own expense, makes an improvement in its
facilities, the Interborough would be entitled to 8% per
annum on the cost, even though such improvement reduced the Interborough's cost of operation and increased
its profits.
It is wholly immaterial to the Interborough Company •
whether the value of the City's property increases or
diminishes. It has no recourse against anything but
revenues. From revenues it is entitled to the stipulated
rate of interest upon its investment (tax exempt) and
the repayment in annual instalments of the principal
and profit.
Under Contract No. 3 the Interborough Company pays
no rental. While it has a charge upon the revenues, it
has no interest in, ownership of, or lien upon any of the
property by which such revenues are produced.
The Interborough is being paid in full according to the
terms of the contracts and its return on actual investment
under Contracts Nos. 1, 2, and 3, is in excess of 8.3 per
cent. per annum.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

159

The valuation of $898,793,648 claimed by Interborough
Company as the basis of return of eight per cent. is inflated
to the extent of at least $600,000,000.
The Elevated Railroad Certificates for additional tracks
and extensions are affected by like statutory authority and
contract obligations. Section 34 of the Rapid Transit
Act, as amended, Laws of 1894, c. 752, had no reference
or relation to elevated railroads or their additional tracks
or extensions. Section 32-a added by c. 472, Laws of 1906,
was renumbered § 24 by c. 498, Laws of 1909, and as
amended by the Wagner bill, c. 226, Laws of 1912, authorized the certificates. The Act specifically provided that
the acceptance of such certificates should constitute a
contract between the City and the grantee according to
the terms thereof. § 24, subd. 4.
Messrs. Charles E. Hughes and William L. Ransom,
with whom Messrs. James L. Quackenbush, Charles E.
Hughes, Jr., Jacob H. Goetz, Harry L. Butler, and John
Fletcher Caskey were on the brief, for appellee Interborough Rapid Transit Company.
The federal courts have jurisdiction of this case. The
plaintiff is entitled in the federal court to protection
against the enforcement of a confiscatory rate. It has not
contracted away its right to reasonable compensation. To
have such effect, the contract in question must have been
duly authorized by the State. Such authority must be
clearly and unmistakably conferred. Such authority
may not be implied where the legislative policy of the
State, as expounded by its highest court, is inconsistent
therewith. Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255
U. S. 539; San Antonio v. Public Service Co., 255 U. S.
547. See also Railroadand Warehouse Comm'n v. Duluth
Street R. Co., 273 U. S. 625.
The question is not whether the parties have signed
a contract providing the amount of the fare, but is
45228

-

29-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

279 U. S.

whether, in view of existing legislation, they had authority to make an effective contract for an inflexible fare.
The legislative policy of the State of New York, as embodied in the Public Service Commission Law, is prohibitive of unalterable contract rates. People ex rel. City of
New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356; Matter of Quinby v.
Public Service Comm'n, 223 N. Y. 244; People ex rel.
South Glen Falls v. Public Service Comm'n, 225 N. Y.
216; People ex rel. Garrisonv. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 575; Matter of Evens v. Public Service Comm'n, 246 N. Y, 224.
The rdsult of all of the decisions of the New York Court
of Appeals under the Public Service Commission Law is
that no statute authorizing the making of a contract between a municipality and a utility as to a rate or fare
may be deemed, after the passage of that law, to authorize
a contract for an unchangeable rate of fare, and, therefore, that no such contract made after that law may be
deemed effectively to provide for an unchangeable rate or
fare; and that the provisions of the Act providing for
continuous regulation of rates and fares applied also to
rates and fares prescribed in contracts made prior to the
passage of the law, except in the single case of contracts
made as conditions of consents of municipalities under § 18
of Art. III of the State Constitution 'between 1875 and
1,907.
No New York case has ever held that any rate or fare
prescribed in any contract made prior to the Public Service Commission Law was not thereafter subject to regulation, except where the contract was made in connection
with a constitutional consent.
And no New York case has ever held that any such contract made after the passage of the Public Service Commission Law could effectively provide for an unchangeable
rate or fare.
Thus the effect of the Public Service Commission Law,
as interpreted by the highest court of New York, brings

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Interborough Co.

the contracts here involved squarely within the decisions
of this Court in Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton,
255 U. S. 539, and San Antonio v. Public Service Com'n,
255 U. S. 547, supra. The attempt of the defendant
Transit Commission to distinguish these decisions on the
ground that the contracts there involved were "expressly
prohibited " cannot succeed. The question is whether
the legislature has authorized a contract for a permanent
fare. Such a contract was at least as clearly prohibited
by the Public Service Commission Law as were the contracts involved in the Chariton and San Antonio cases.
By that law all rates were to be just and reasonable and
were to be fixed by the Commission by orders made in the
exercise of its regulatory power; the lawful rates were to be
filed, and the charging of "a greater or less or different
compensation" than such filed rates was prohibited.
Rates which were unreasonable because not compensatory
were just as unlawful as those which were unreasonable
because excessive.
The Public Service Commission Law applies to rapid
transit railroads in New York City. They are within its
express definitions and manifest policy.
Every intendment must be against imputing to the
legislature an intention to exclude rapid transit railroads
from the policy of the Public Service Commission Law.
No interest of the City of New York in rapid transit
railroads excludes them from the legislative policy of the
State. The lines are in fact being operated by the plaintiff, which was incorporated under the Railroad Law, and
is certainly both a "street railroad corporation" and a
" common carrier." The traveling public are the "customers" of the plaintiff, not of the City. While rapid
transit may be a city purpose, "it is, however, subject to
regulation at all times by the power of the State except as
the State has divested itself of such power." Matter of
McCabe v. Voorhis, 243 N. Y. 401.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

279 U. S.

If the City took over the operation, an unremunerative
fare supported by taxation would be unlawful. Rapid
Transit Act, as amended, Laws 1906, c. 472, § 34-d;
§ 135, Public Service Commission Law (added by Laws
1924, c. 573).
The state powers reposed in the Commission are not inconsistent with the local self-government provisions of
the New York Constitution. Art. X, § 2.
The Public Service Commission Law had been in effect
for six years when Contract No. 3. was made and was, in
the language of the Court of Appeals, "notice to municipalities that franchises thereafter granted must be coupled
with no conditions inconsistent with the jurisdiction thus
conferred" on the Public Service Commission. In making Contract No. 3, the City of New York was acting not
in any governmental, but purely in a proprietary, capacity.
The City, in dealing with the subway, "is a railroad corporation so far as the construction, operation and leasing
thereof is concerned."
Matter of Rapid Transit R.
Com'rs, 197 N. Y. 81. Even where a five cent fare was
indisputably the chief moving consideration of a contract,
it was subject to later regulation, either up or down.
Ortega Co. v. Triay, 260 U. S. 103.
But Contract No. 3 does not support the City's contention that the five cent fare was the primary inducement.
The emphasis is upon the operation of the lines already
built, in conjunction with those to be built, as a unified
system "for a single fare," rather than for a fare of any
particular number of cents.
The provisions of the Rapid Transit Act do not exclude
contracts regarding the fares of rapid transit railroads
from the operation of the Public Service Commission Law.
Its language in itself does not import such intention.
Even in the absence of an actual existing statute, such
as the Public Service Commission Law, embodying the
public policy of continuous supervision of public utilities,

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Interborough Co.

every doubt is to be resolved against the authority of a
municipality to contract for an unchangeable rate. Home
Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265. See, to the
same effect, Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport,180 U. S. 587;
Milwaukee Electric R. & L. Co. v. R. R. Comm'n, 238
U'. S. 174; Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255
U. S. 539; San Antonio v. Public Service Co., 255 U. S.
547; Paducahv. PaducahR. Co., 261 U. S. 267; St. Cloud
Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352. Tested by
this standard, the provisions of the Rapid Transit Act
upon which defendants rely are utterly insufficient.
The continuation in the Rapid Transit Act after 1907
of the provisions of § § 24 and 27, does not import an intention to exclude the fare provisions from the policy of
the Public Service Connission Law. The language authorizing a provision regarding fares remained unchanged
from the time of its enactment in 1894 through all of the
re-enactments by which that section was in other respects
amended between then and the year 1913 when Contract
No. 3 was executed. These are to be construed as continuations of the prior law modified or amended according
to the language employed, and not as new enactments.
§ 95, General Construction Law of New York. Matter of
Allison v. Welde, 172 N. Y. 421; People ex rel. City of
New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356.
After the enactment of the Public Service Commission
Law, the statutes which had themselves fixed specific
fares, including the five-cent fare provision of § 7 of the
Rapid Transit Act, as amended by c. 752, Laws of 1894,
were for the most part either repealed or amended so as
expressly to be made subject to the Public Service Commission Law. But many statutes which had authorized
simply the making of contracts were continued, and often
"re-enacted" after 1907 without change in this respect.
The Court of Appeals of New York has never held that
after 1907 a contract for an unchangeable rate or fare

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

279 U. S.

could be made thereunder. It has expressly held that
certain of these continued and re-enacted statuteg did not,
at least after 1907, authorize a contract for a rate or fare
which should not be subject to revision up or down.
People ex rel. City of New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356;
People ex rel. Garrison v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 575; Matter
of Evens v. Public Service Comm'n, 246 N. Y. 224; North
Hempstead v. Public Service Corp'n, 231 N. Y. 447; Public Service Comm'n v. PavilionNatural Gas Co., 232 N. Y.
146. The statutes under which the rate contracts involved in those cases were made, were just as clear legislative authority therefor as were the provisions of the
Rapid Transit Act for Contract No. 3 and the Elevated
Extension Certificates.
Amendments to § 49, made in 1921 and 1922, showed
clearly that the legislature regarded rapid transit railroads as governed by the provisions of that section, and
that, if any special provisions were to be made as to those
railroads, they should be embodied in amendments to the
Public Service Commission Law. The amendments of
1921 and 1922 are not here material, because in 1923,
§ 49 was again amended to substantially the same language as had been in force prior to the 1921 amendment.
Matter of Village of Mamaroneck v. Public Service
Comm'n, 208 App. Div. 330, affirmed, 238 N. Y. 588, and
Matter of Brownville v. Public Service Comm'n, 209
App. Div. 640, affirmed, 240 N. Y. 586, held that the final
result of the legislation which defendants emphasize was
to leave the regulatory power over contract rates in exactly the position that it was prior to 1921. The Nixon
and Garrison cases had construed that law as it existed
prior to 1921.
The circumstance that the 1912 amendments of the
Rapid Transit Act were made with particular reference to
proposed Contract No. 3 does not evidence any legislative
intention to authorize an unchangeable fare. The lan-

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Interborough Co.

guage of § 27 of the Rapid Transit Act relating to provisions as to the fare had been in the Act since 1894 and was
not touched in the statute of 1912. The provisions of
proposed Contract No. 3 which necessitated the 1912
amendments were those authorizing both the City and
the plaintiff to invest millions of dollars in the building
and equipment of subways, repayment of which was to be
secured only from the earnings of the roads. Admiral
Realty Co. v. City of New York, 206 N. Y. 110.
See People ex rel. Bridge Operatinig Co. v. Public Service Cornrn'n, 153 N. Y. (App. Div.) 129; People ex rel.
South Glens Falls v. Public Service Comm'n, 225 N. Y.
216.
The fare provisions in Contracts Nos. 1 and 2 do not
affect the plaintiff's right to a compensatory fare. Contract No. 3. which applied to all of the subway lines, both
those already in existence and those to be thereafter constructed, was executed in 1913, six years after the passage
of the Public Service Commission Law. Under all the
New York authorities it could not be regarded as effectively embodying a contract for an unchangeable fare.
The fare provisions of Contracts Nos. 1 and 2 were
wholly superseded by Contract No. 3. Admiral Realty
Co. v. City of New York, 206 N. Y. 110; Matter of Events
v. Public Service Conmm'n, 246 N. Y. 224; 1atter of
Fagal v. Public Service Comm'n, 131 Misc. (N. Y. Sup.
Ct.) 398.
The contention that this case is within the "reservation" in the last paragraph of the opinion of the Court of
Appeals in the Nixon case is wholly inadmissible.
But, whether superseded or not, the fare provisions of
Contracts Nos. i and 2 were subject to the later exercise
by the State of New York of its police power to regulate
them. City of New York v. Campbell, 277 U. S. 573
(involving a contract with the City of New York); Trenton v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182; Englewood v. Denver &

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

279 U. S.

S. P. R. Co., 248 U. S. 294; Hunter v. Pittsburgh,207 U. S.
161; People v. Budd, 117 N. Y. 1; People ex rel. N. Y.
Electric Lines v. Squire, 107 N. Y. 593; People ex reZ.
Bridge OperatingCo. v. Public Service Comm'n, 153 N. Y.
App. Div. 129. The State of New York did exercise its
police power in 1907 by its delegation to the Public Service
Commission thereby created of the power to regulate substantially all public utility rates. People ex rel. City of
New York v. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 356. Under the decisions
of the Court of Appeals, the only contract rates to which
that enactment did not apply retroactively were provisions for stated fares exacted by local authorities under
§ 18 of Art. III of the Constitution between 1875 and
1907 as conditions for giving their consent to the occlipation of public streets. The fare provisions in Contracts
Nos. 1 and 2 were not made as conditions of constitutional
consents.
Since the enactment of the Public Service Commission
Law the Public Service Commission and its successor have .
fully exercised every other regulatory power over the
plaintiff and the railroads operated by it, which that law
conferred.
As to the elevated lines, there i4 even less basis for argument of legislative authority for a contract as to fares.
The five-cent fare on them has its origin in c. 743 of the
Laws of 1894. Section 27 of the Rapid Transit Act, which
was the basis for Contract No. 3, did not apply to the
elevated lines. The sole authority for the Elevated Extension Certificate was § 24 of the Rapid Transit Act,
which did not authorize any contract with respect to fares.
The decisions of this Court upon which the defendants
rely are wholly inapplicable, being all cases interpreting
the laws of the several States and holding that particular
franchises, contracts or licenses amounted to "contracts"
within the meaning of § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution,
which protected the utilities involved from impairment

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument for the Interborough Co.

thereof by subsequent action of the municipality or of the
legislature. Those cases go off on their own particular
facts and statutes, none of which bear sufficient resemblance to the facts and statutes involved in the present
case to require discussion. And in Home T. & T. Co. v.
Los Angeles, 211 U. S 265, this Court held that there was
not such a contract free from impairment because legislative authority therefor did not "clearly and unmistakably" appear.
No more apposite are the cases particularly relied on by
the defendants in which utilities have been denied the
protection of the federal courts against alleged confiscation. In none of these was there at the time the contract
was made any state-wide regulatory statute like the New
York Public Service Commission Law.
The theory that plaintiff was bound by a contract for a
fixed fare, subject to a privilege to apply to the Conumission for an increase thereof, and that a denial of such increase by the Commission raises no federal question, is
contrary to express decisions of this Court. No such
meaning may properly be ascribed to the language of this
Court in the Henderson case, and the contrary has been
more recently directly decided. R. R. Conzm'n v. Duluth
Street R. Co., 273 U. S. 625; Denney v. Pacific T. & T. Co.,
276 U. S. 97.
The action of the Transit Commission was state action
enforcing the five-cent fare against the plaintiff. The
plaintiff has complied with all the procedural requirements of the Public Service Commission Law and its suit
in the federal courts is not premature. North Heinpstead
v. Public Service Corp'n, 231 N. Y. 447. When the Commission rejects the new schedules filed by the utility and
refuses to allow them, there can be no question but that
state action enforcing the old rate has been taken. Denney v. Pacific T. & T. Co., 276 U. S. 97; Banton v. Belt
Line R. Corp'n, 268 U. S. 413; Pacific T. & T. Co. v.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interborough Co.

279 U. S.

Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196; Augusta-Aiken R. Corp'n v.
R. R. Comm'n, 281 Fed. 977.
Nor can there be any question that in this case the
Transit Commission did reject the increased rates filed by
the plaintiff.
Quite aside from the action of the Commission on
plaintiff's application under § 29 in February, 1928, there
had already been state action enforcing the five-cent fare.
The effect of § 28 of the Public Service Commission Law
requiring every common carrier to file with the Commission schedules showings its rates, fares and charges, and
the filing of the five-cent fare from time to time pursuant
thereto, itself constituted a legislative imposition of that
fare. Moreover, as to a substantial part of the elevated
lines, the five-cent fare was imposed by the direct statutory requirement of c. 743 of the Laws of 1894, and it
may be observed that the plaintiff's first cause of action
is directed solely against that state action. The denial by
the Commission of the plaintiff's applications in 1920 and
1922 constituted a fixation by the Commission of the fivecent fare as the rate for the future, and hence was legislative action. The effect of the Commission's adverse
action on plaintiff's new schedules filed under § 29 was to
compel plaintiff to continue the five-cent fare previously
fixed. Banton v. Belt Line R. Corp'n, 268 U. S. 413.
In every substantial respect, the Transit Commission
had rejected plaintiff's filed rates several days before the
complaint herein was filed and nothing remained to be
done but the mere formality of evidencing by a formal
order a decision already made.
To pretend, therefore, that the plaintiff has not exhausted its remedies under the state law, but might have
had relief by further delay or supplication, is the merest
sophistry. To have made further motions looking to consideration of the case by the Transit Commission would
have been an utterly vain thing.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Argument, for Manhattan Ry. Co.

This Court has upheld recourse by utilities to the federal courts where the facts showing state action and exhaustion of state remedies were far less clear. Smith v.
Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 270 U. S. 587; R. R. Comm'n
v. Duluth Street R. R. Co., 273 U. S. 625; Prendergastv.
N. Y. Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43; Oklahoma Gas Co. v.
Russell, 261 U. S. 290; Ban ton v. Belt Line R. Corp'n, 268
U. S. 413; Denney v. Pacific T. & T. Co., 276 U. S. 97;
Pacific T. & T. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196.
The five-cent fare yields such a low return as to be confiscatory. Plaintiff is entitled to a reasonable return upon
all the property used in the public service. The company's application is not for permission to charge a rate
of fare which will enable it to pay its rental obligations,
interest upon its bonds and dividends on its stock. All it
seeks is a fair return upon the value of the property which
it uses in the public service. Darnell v. Edwards, 244
U. S. 564. The figures upon every hypothesis show
confiscation.
Messrs. George WeIwood Murray and William Roberts
were on the brief for appellee Manhattan Railway Company.
The elevated railroads owned by the Manhattan Railway Company and leased to the Interborough Company
were constructed under their own franchise which does not
limit the fare to be charged to five cents a ride. A certificate authorizing the construction of extensions to the elevated railroads was granted to the Interborough Company,
as lessee,.which purported to limit to five cents a ride the
fare on the elevated railroads and on the extensions added
thereto. The statute, Rapid Transit Act, 1891, as amended, § 24, under which the certificate was granted did not
give the Commission, as grantor, the power to change the
fare to be charged on the railroads to which the extensions
were added. Without such statutory authority the Coin-

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Manhattan Ry. Co.

279 U. S.

mission had no power to change the fare and the purported
restriction in the Extension Certificate is invalid. The
City relies on a section of the statute which authorizes the
construction of extensions, but does not refer to rates of
fare and does not apply to the railroads to which the extensions are added. The rule of construction is that, as
the power to regulate fares is part of the police power, it
cannot be delegated by the legislature except by the use
of language which could not fairly and reasonably have
any other meaning.
The Constitution of the State required that no law
should authorize the construction of a street railway except upon condition that the consent of the local authorities having control of the streets upon which it is proposed
to construct the railroad be first obtained. The City urges
that the local authorities in consenting to the construction
of the extensions conditioned their consent on a change
of the fare on the railroads to which the extensions were
added. Such a condition, if it was in fact made, is invalid.
The constitution merely requires the consent to the construction of the railroad. The statute gives authority to
the Commission to authorize the construction of the extensions and prescribes the terms and conditions on which
the local authorities must consent or refuse to consent to
its construction. Under the terms of the statute, the local
authorities had no power to condition their consent to a
change of fare on the properties to which the extensions
were added.
The statute causes the City to assume a fiduciary relation toward the elevated railroads which is inconsistent
with power in the City to regulate the rates of fares on
such railroads. The City under the statute and under
the Extension Certificate is given the following rights:
To share in the profits from the elevated railroads; to
purchase the extensions for less than their value, the balance of the compensation, if any, to come out of earnings;

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

to own easements at the end of the franchise period without payment of any compensation; to compete by cityowned railroads with the elevated railroads in whose
profits the City shares; to participate in the management
of the elevated railroads in order to protect the right to
share in the profits and the right to purchase the extensions for less than their value. The Court will not give
an unnatural and strained meaning to language in order
to give to the City additional and inconsistent power
under such extraordinary circumstances.
The elevated railroads under the restriction of fare contained in the Extension Certificate do not earn the return
on their properties which the franchise and the law permit and which the railroads are capable of earning. A
part of the properties of the elevated railroads consists of
the easements of light, air and access purchased by the
company from the owners of properties abutting on the
streets where the railroads are located, and of improvements to the elevated railroads made by the Interborough
Company as lessee at its own expense after 1913 with
Public Service Commission approval. Before the improvements were made the elevated railroads were a complete operating unit which carried 349,000,000 passengers
in 1917. The actual net earnings from the elevated railroads under the fare restriction contained in the Extension Certificate are not sufficient to pay a reasonable return even on the combined cost of the easements of light,
air and access and the improvements made by the Interborough Company which constitute only a small part of
the elevated railways.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This direct appeal is from an order of May 10, 1928, by
the District Court, Southern District of New York, three
judges sitting, which authorized an interlocutory injunc-

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tion to restrain appellants-the Transit Commission and
New York City-from requiring, or attempting to enforce,
further acceptance by the Interborough Rapid Transit
Company of a five cent passenger fare over the lines operated by it and from seeking to prevent a charge of seven
cents. This Court stayed the order pending further hearing. The cause has been twice orally argued before us
and helpful briefs are on file.
In support of the action below, appellees maintain:The five cent fare originally stipulated and long observed
had become non-compensatory. Although specified in
the agreements with the City under which the transit
lines are being operated, that fare was not immutable,
since, by implication, provisions of the Public Service Law
of 1907 directing that reasonable rates should be granted
to subways, elevated and other street railways, were incorporated into the contracts. The Transit Commission
in effect denied an application for compensatory rates,
insisted upon observance of the five cent one and intended
to take immediate steps to secuire enforcement of it. This
amounted to action by the State which would deprive the
Interborough Company of property without due process
of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The City of New York is a municipal corporation,
whose charter vests control of streets and other executive
powers in the Board of Estimate and Apportionment.
The Transit Commission of three members created by
Chap. 134, New York Laws, 1921, exercises powers theretofore entrusted to the Public Service Commission for the
First District (Chap. 429, Laws, 1907) successor to the
Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners organized
under the Rapid Transit Act of 1891.
The Interborough Rapid Transit Company, a New
York corporation, with $35,000,000 capital stock, operates
elevated and subway lines in four boroughs of Greater

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

New York City. Some of these it owns; some the City
owns and lets to it for operation; others-the original elevated lines-it hired in 1903 from the Manhattan Railway
Company for 999 years, agreeing to pay therefor interest
on $45,000,000 of outstanding bonds, 7% (now 5%) on
$60,000,000 capital stock of the lessor and $35,000 annually for administrative expenses. At this time the total
yearly payments for use of elevated lines is about
$4,900,000.
Greater New York City contains five Boroughs-Manhattan, coterminous with Manhattan Island (ten miles
long) with area of 19 square miles; The Bronx, 41 square
miles; Queens, 117; Brooklyn, 80; and Richmond (Staten
Island), 57. The population of the City in 1910 was
4,785,000 (in 1927, 5,970,000) of whom 2.330,000 resided
within Manhattan, in the southern portion of which are
located the great business centers of the Metropolitan
district. The Bronx, on the mainland north of Harlem
River, and Queens and Brooklyn on Long Island, have undergone very rapid development and increased greatly in
population since 1900. The expanse of the Greater City,
together with its peculiar physical characteristics, render
exceedingly difficult any effort to provide rapid and cheap
transportation for its residents and the crowds of outsiders
who travel therein daily for business or pleasure. See
Sun Publishin~gAssn. v. The Mayor, 152 N. Y. 257, 273.
Prior to 1903, under franchises dating from 1875, the
Manhattan Railway, or its predecessors, constructed,
owned and operated the four original elevated railway
lines extending northward from South Ferry along Second,
Third, Sixth and Ninth Avenues. All these were leased
by the Interborough Company in 1903 and now constitute
the oldest part of its system. Long before, and ever since,
1913 they have charged five cents per passenger, and from
this the lessee for many years derived substantial net

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U3.S.

profits. During 1910 and 1911 the average was
$1,589,348.
The subway first constructed begins at City Hall, Manhattan, and extends northward to 96th St.--six miles.'
From the latter point two branches diverge; one continues
north across Harlem River to 230th St., in The Bronxseven miles; the other (West Farms Branch) runs northeast and under Harlem River to 182nd St. at Bronx Parkseven miles. These lines were constructed for the City,
became its property and were let to the Interborough's
assignor under "Contract No. 1," executed February 21,
1900,2 and authorized by the Rapid Transit Act of 1891
as amended.
This contract-an elaborate instrument of 125 printed
pages--provided with great detail that the lessee should
equip and thereafter operate the road at its own expense
under direction of the Board of Rapid Transit Railroad
Commissioners; and further undertook to secure uninterrupted service. Among other things it declared-" The
Contractor [Interborough's assignor] shall during the
term of the Lease be entitled to charge for a single fare
upon the Railroad the sum of five (5) cents, but not more.
The Contractor may provide additional conveniences for
such passengers as shall desire the same upon not to exceed
one (1) car upon each train, and may collect from each
passenger in such car a reasonable charge for such additional convenience furnished him, provided that the
amount to be charged therefor and the character of such
additional convenience shall from time to time be subject to the approval of the Board. The Contractor may
provide not to exceed one (1) car in each train for persons smoking."
IThese and similar figures are mere rough approximations.
2 This and subsequent contracts designate agreements for operation

as leases.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

The lease was for fifty years (with right of renewal), the
rent a sum equal to the annual interest on City bonds
issued to secure the necessary funds for construction, plus
one per centum for amortization. The lessee retained
title to all equipment and the City agreed to purchase
this at fair value when the lease ended.
Construction under Contract No. 1 cost the City around
$60,000,000.
By " Contract No. 2," dated July 21, 1902, the City contracted with the Interborough's assignor for the construction and operation during thirty-five years (with privilege
of renewal) of an extension to the first subway, commencing at City Hall, Manhattan, and extending under East
River to Borough Hall and thence to Atlantic Avenue,
Brooklyn-4 miles. The lessee undertook to furnish
equipment, act under direction of the Board of Rapid
Transit Railroad Commissioners, and to pay for use of
the lines a sum equal to the interest on bonds issued by
the City to meet construction costs, plus one per centum
for amortization. Also, to carry out the proposal that
passengers should have the right to transportation without
change of cars and for a single fare not exceeding five
cents for one continuous trip over the Railroad and connecting lines. A clause identical with the one above
quoted from Contract No. 1 prescribed a five cent fare;
another provision obligated the City to purchase the
equipment when the lease terminated.
For the construction of this extension the City paid out
$6,600,000.
Under Contracts 1 and 2, ways extending over approximately twenty-four miles (seventy-five of single track)
were constructed and then equipped. The longest posa These and similarly stated figures are intended only to give a

fair idea of the problems presented-they do not indicate adjudication
of any disputed question.
45228°-29-13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

sible continuous trip by a passenger was 17.4 miles. For
equipping them the lessee claims a capital investment of
$60,000,000-but large items are questioned and the true
sum may be less than $40,000,000. This equipment, with
real estate valued at $300,000 and office sundries, is all the
property connected with the subways which the Interborough now owns. The lines were opened for traffic
October 27, 1904, and prior to 1919 their operation yielded
annually large net profits.
The court below thought that, unless modified by Contract No. 3 (infra), Contracts Nos. 1 and 2 established an
inflexible five cent fare, and this view has not been seriously questioned here.
In order to meet the insistent demand for quick transportation, after prolonged negotiations, the Public Service
Commission, acting for the City with approval of the
Board of Estimate (being specially authorized by the
Rapid Transit Act as amended in 1912), entered into
elaborate separate, but related, agreements (dated March
19, 1913) with the Interborough and Manhattan Companies for (1) the construction and operation of extensions
to the old lines and certain new subways--" Contract No.
3;" (2) a third track on the elevated lines--" Third Track
Certificate;" (3) extensions to the elevated lines-" Extension Certificate;" (4) for operation of elevated trains
over designated portions of the new subways--" Supplementary Agreement."
Contract No. 3-122 printed pageE--with great detail
provided for immediate (and possible future) extensions
of and additions to the subway system then existing, also
their equipment and operation until the end of 1967.
Under it the following lines were constructed, equipped
and put into operation.* (1) From the end of old sub* These

new lines in Brooklyn, Queens and The Bronx are mostly

above ground.

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

way in Brooklyn eastwardly with two branches-nine
miles. (2) From Borough Hall, Brooklyn, northwesterly
under East River and lower Manhattan to Seventh Avenue and thence north to 42nd St. (Times Square)-six
miles. (3) The Queensboro Bridge Line from Times
Square eastward under 42nd St. through Steinway Tunnel under East River to Queensboro Bridge Plaza and
beyond-12 miles. (4) From Grand Central Station
northward along Lexington Avenue under the Harlem and
beyond with two branches-eighteen miles. (5) An extension of West Farms Branch northward-five miles.
Fifty miles of subways were thus added to the original
system-146.8 miles of single track. The longest distance
between terminals became 26.78 miles. For the construction of these additions and extensions the City expended
from its own treasury $113,000,000 and the Interborough
Company advanced $58,000.000. For equipment the latter paid not above $62,000,000. Title to both road and
equipment vested in the City and both were let to the
Interborough Company until December 31, 1967, for operation in conjunction with the older subways. The lessee
owns none of the equipment provided under this contract
and is not obligated thereby to pay anything to the City
as rental for the ways; but it did agree to make certain
payments out of the earnings after named deductions are
satisfied. The leases under Contracts 1 and 2 were adjusted to expire with 1967.
The following provisions of "Contract No. 3" are of
special importance here"Article I. . . . The City and the Lessee further agree
upon the modification of Contract No. 1 and Contract No.
2 in the respects herein set forth, but nothing in this
contract shall be construed as a modification or waiver
of any of the rights or obligations of the respective parties
under Contract No. 1 and Contract No. 2, except in the
respect and to the extent herein specifically set forth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S

[Certain modifications of Nos. 1 and 2 are specified
but the five cent fare provisions are not mentioned.]
"Article III. This contract is made pursuant to the
Rapid Transit Act which is to be deemed a part hereof as
if incorporated herein."
"Article XLIX. . . . the gross receipts from whatever
source derived directly or indirectly by the Lessee or on its
behalf in any manner from, out of or in connection with
the operation of the Railroad and the Existing Railroads
[old subways] (hereinafter referred to as the 'revenue')
shall be combined during the term of this contract and
the City shall receive for the use of the Railroad at the
intervals provided a specified part or proportion of the
income, earnings or profits of the Railroad and the Existing Railroads, . . ." [Broadly speaking, the part payable to the City is to be ascertained as follows: The Interborough Company shall deduct and retain each year sums
sufficient to pay rentals on old lines required by Contracts 1 and 2 (say $3,000,000); taxes; operating expenses; maintenance; depreciation; $6,335,000, the estimated average profit derived during the years 1911-1912
from operation of the old lines under Contracts 1 and 2;
6% on $80,000,000 advanced for construction and paid
for original equipment under Contract No. 3; interest on
other cost of equipment. These are cumulative. Thereafter the City shall receive 8.76% on the cost of construction paid out under Contract No. 3. The remainder
will be equally divided between the City and the
Interborough.]
"Article LIV. The payment of the rental [to City] for
the existing Railroads referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of
Article XLIX shall be made as provided in Contract No.
1 and Contract No. 2 for the full term of such contracts
as herein modified. ....
"
"Article LIX. The Lessee shall operate the Railroad
[to be constructed] and the Existing Railroads [those

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

constructed under Contracts 1 and 2] as one complete
system and shall furnish with respect thereto such service
and facilities as shall be safe and adequate and in all respects just and reasonable. Free transfers shall be given,
as required by the Commission . . . so as to afford a continuous trip in the same general direction for a single
fare."
"Article LXII. The Lessee shall during the term of the
contract be entitled to charge for a single fare upon the
Railroad [to be constructed] and the Existing Railroads
the sum of five (5) cents but not more."
"Article LXXVIII. Upon giving one year's notice in
writing to the Lessee the City, acting by the Commission
with the approval of the Board of Estimate, may terminate
this contract as to all of the Railroad [to be constructed]
(including Extensions and Additions) at any time after the
expiration of ten (10) years from the date when operation
of any part of the Railroad shall actually begin; or the
City, acting by the Commission, upon like notice and with
like approval may terminate [certain specified] portions
thereof: . . ." [In the event of such termination the City
agreed to pay the Lessee a varying per centum (never
above 115%) of amounts contributed towards cost of construction or for equipment.]
The "Third Track Certificate" authorized the Manhattan Railway Company (owner of original elevated
lines), subject to definitely prescribed conditions, terms
and requirements, to lay third tracks on the Second, Third
and Ninth Avenue Lines for accommodation of express
trains.
The "Extension Certificate" authorized the Interborough Company to construct and operate four defined
connections between the old elevated and the new subway
lines. It carefully specified conditions intended to insure
uninterrupted operation and protect the parties and contained the following clause-

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

"The Interborough Company shall be entitled to charge
for a single fare for each passenger for one continuous trip
in the same general direction over the Railroads (includifig the parts of the municipal railroad over which the
Interborough Company is provided with trackage rights
as in this Certificate provided) and the additional tracks
(which shall mean the additional tracks authorized by the
Commission by certificate to the Manhattan Railroad
Company bearing even date herewith) and the Manhattan Railroad the sum of five (5) cents but not
more ....
There is also a provision for terminating the right to
operate elevated trains over the extensions and additions
and for taking them by the City upon payment of varying
percentages of their cost, never exceeding 115%.
These extensions and connections rendered possible the
operation of trains far beyond the original extremities of
the old elevated lines over roads in the Boroughs of Queens
and The Bronx belonging to the city.
By the "Supplementary Agreement," the City granted
to the Interborough Company the right to use certain
parts of subways constructed under Contract No. 3 in connection with the elevated roads, extended as above shown,
and reserved as possible compensation a named per centurn of any increased receipts.
January 1, 1919, all the lines, both elevated and subway, were constructed, equipped and in operation with
uniform five cent fare.
The record indicates that when this suit was begun the
City had expended from its own treasury for construction
of subways $180,000,000; that the Interborough Company
had advanced for such construction $58,000,000; and had
expended for equipment not above $120,000,000-probably much less. The cost to the Interborough for laying third tracks on the elevated lines and building extensions thereto was $44,000,000. The original cost of the

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

old elevated lines is not disclosed and perhaps cannot be
definitely ascertained; it did not exceed $90,000,000. Expenditures under Contract No. 3 greatly exceeded estimates; and the cost of operation has been much higher.
The present values of the above-mentioned properties is
very large, but to determine this with fair accuracy would
be exceedingly difficult.
The following excerpts from an affidavit offered by the
City are enEghtening. The record supports the facts and
figures used so far as here important; also in general the
stated conclusions.
"The operation under Contract No. 3 has been highly
profitable to the Interborough, as was the prior operation
under Contracts Nos. 1 and 2. For the year ended June
30, 1926, the Interborough realized from the subway operation a net surplus of $6,569,573.03, after the payment of
all operating expenses, taxes, interest and other fixed
charges, including the rentals of $2,655,186.26 to the City
under Contracts Nos. 1 and 2. The surplus is the amount
available for the payment of dividends upon the capital
stock of the Company so far as subway operation by itself
is concerned. The amount of total capital stock outstanding is $35,000,000 . . . The subway earnings alone,
therefore, under Contract No. 3, provide for dividend payments of over 18% on the par value of the stock . . .
"For 1927 the surplus amounted to $6,380,017.34.
[The decline was due to a strike.]
"For the current fiscal year ended June 30, 1928, the
figures for the first six months are available and show a
net surplus amounting to $3,687,000, which exceeds the
surplus for the corresponding six months of the fiscal year
before by $1,609,000.
"These earnings are, of course, enormous and leave
no room for claim that the five-cent fare fixed by Contract No. 3 is inadequate to give a fair return upon the
investment of the Company in the subway properties, or

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

that the five cent fare is without due regard of the rights
of the Company under the contract ...
'"The financial difficulties of the Interborough during
the past eight years, have been due to the elevated lease
from the Manhattan Railroad Company, and not to the
subway contract with the City. The terms of the elevated lease provide that the Interborough must pay as
.rental the interest upon the Manhattan Railway Company bonds outstanding and dividends after an initial
period, at 7% upon the capital stock. The dividend rate,
however, was adjusted in 1922 so that the Interborough
is now paying 5% upon about 94% of the capital stock,
only if and as earned by the Interborough, and 7% upon
the minority interest. The Manhattan Railway Company bonds outstanding amount to about $45,000,000 and
the capital stock to $60,000,000, . . . In 1927, the interest payments on the bonds amounted to $1,808,240 and
the dividends on the stock to $3,086,756. In addition to
these amounts, however, the Interborough must pay also
interest and sinking fund charges on its own bonds and
notes issued for the third tracking, the extension of the
elevated lines, and other improvements. The total fixed
charges resting on the elevated division, including the
dividend rentals, amounted for the year ended June 30,
1926, to $8,062,274.85. The income above operating expenses and taxes available for these charges, was only
$3,936,396.50. The net revenues from the elevated fell
short of earning all charges, including the dividends to the
Manhattan Railway stockholders, by $4,125,878.35. For
the year ended June 30, 1927, the corresponding shortage
amounted to $4,909,129.66.
"....
The elevated and subway operations have been
kept financially distinct. The revenues, expenses, taxes
and fixed charges have been segregated, so that each system has had its own financial set-up under the contract
controlling its op6ration. . ..

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

"Notwithstanding the extreme crowding which has
existed for several years on the trunk subway lines, the
number of passengers has increased steadily upon the
subways, while on the elevated it has been decreasing.
Since 1920 the transportation revenue [on subways] at a
five cent fare has increased from $29,300,000 to $40,731,000 in 1927. For the first six months of the current
fiscal year, the subway revenue was $21,433,000, compared with $18,647,000 for the same six months the year
before; the growth is still continuing unimpeded.
"On the elevated lines the total transportation revenues in 1920 amounted to $18,450,000 and for the year
ended June 30, 1927, to $17,951,000. During the first
six months of the current fiscal year the elevated
transportation revenues were $8,874,000, compared with
$9,098,000 for the same six months the year before.
The decline has not stopped ..
In 1891 the Legislature of New York enacted what is
known as the "Rapid Transit Act" to '"provide for
Rapid Transit Railways in cities of over one million inhabitants," intended to meet the special needs of New
York City, the only municipality with so large a population. It has been amended some forty times. Originally no provision permitted construction of railways at
public expense-only privately-owned lines were contemplated. A Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners, with general supervisory powers over the construction and operation of rapid transit lines, was
authorized and given authority to contract concerning
fares; also to issue "extension certificates" upon such
terms, conditions, and requirements as might appear just
and proper. In 1894 an amendment directed that the
question whether the City should construct rapid transit
facilities at its own expense be submitted to the voters,
and further provided"In case it shall be determined by vote of the people,
as provided by Sections 12 and 13 of this Act, to construct

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

by and at the city's expense, then, and in that event, the
road or roads so constructed shall be and remain the absolute property of the city so constructing it or them, and
shall be and be deemed to be a part of the public streets
and highways of said city, to be used and enjoyed by the
public upon the payment of such fares and tolls and subject to such reasonable regulations as may be imposed
and provided for by the Board of Rapid Transit Railway
Commissioners.
"The said board for and on behalf of said city shall
enter into a contract with any person, firm or corporation
which in the opinion of said board shall be best qualified
to fulfill and carry out said contract for the construction
of such road or roads ... 2)
"Such contract shall also provide that the person, firm
or corporation so contracting to construct said road or
roads shall at his or its own cost and expense equip, maintain: and operate said road or roads for a term of years to
be specified in said contract not less than thirty-five nor
more than fifty years and upon such terms and conditions
as to the rates of fare to be charged and the character of
service to be furnished and otherwise as said board shall
deem to be best suited to the public interests and subject
to such public supervision and to such conditions, regulations and requirements as may be determined upon by
said board."
The voters approved the proposal. On February 21,
1900, and July 21, 1902, Contracts Nos. 1 and 2 were excuted, and the lines therein specified were constructed and
put into operation.
In 1906 the Rapid Transit Act was so amended as to
require approval by the Board of Estimate and Apportionment of all contracts for construction, equipment, maintenance or operation of rapid transit railways built at public
expense. Another amendment (Chap. 498, Laws of 1909)
authorized the termination of operating contracts and the

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

taking by the City of the equipment upon payment of cost
and not exceeding 15%. In 1912, as specially requested
by the Board of Estimate and with full knowledge of the
circumstances, the Legislature enacted the Wagner Bill
which amended the Rapid Transit Act so as definitely to
authorize the Contracts and Certificates, finally signed
March 19, 1913 and above described, whose provisions,
after long negotiations, had been tentatively agreed upon
prior to the amendment-Admiral Realty Co. v. City of
New York, 206 N. Y. 110.
Concerning Extension Certificates Sec. 24 of the
amended act declares--" 4. The certificate or certificates
prepared by the commission as aforesaid when delivered
and accepted by such person, firm or corporation shall be
deemed to constitute a contract between the said city and
said person, firm or corporation according to the terms
of the said certificate; and such contract shall be enforceable by the commission acting in the name of and in behalf of the said city or by the said person, firm or corporation according to the terms thereof, but subject to the
provisions of this act .
The Public Service Commission Law, entitled "An Act
to establish the public service commissions and prescribing their powers and duties, and to provide for the regulation and control of certain public service corporations
and making an appropriation therefor," Chap. 429, Laws
of 1907, became effective July 1, 1907. It authorized appointment of two commissions and directed: "The
jurisdiction, supervision, powers and duties of tae public
service commission in the first district [New York City]
shall extend under this act: 1. To railroads and street
railroads lying exclusively within that district, and to the
persons or corporations owning, leasing, operating or controlling the same .
This is a general law relative to regulation and control
of public utilities throughout the State. It contains no

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

words purporting to amend or modify the Rapid Transit
Act except:-Those abolishing the Board of Rapid
Transit Railroad Commissioners and directing that, in
addition to other duties, ". . . the Commission in the
First District shall have and exercise all the powers heretofore conferred upon the Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners under Chapter 4 of the Laws of 1891
entitled 'An Act to provide for rapid transit railways in
cities of over one million inhabitants' and the Acts
amendatory thereto." And, "All the powers and duties
of such Board shall thereupon be exercised and performed
by the Public Service Commission of the First District."
Among other things it provides"SEc. 26. Safe and adequate service; just and reasonable charges.-Every corporation, person or common carrier performing a service designated in the preceding section [Railroads, Street Railroads and Common Carriers]
shall furnish, with respect thereto, such service and facilities as shall be safe and adequate and in all respects just
and reasonable. All charges made or demanded by any
such corporation, person or common carrier for the transportation of passengers, freight or property or for any
service rendered or to be rendered in connection therewith,
as defined in section two of this act, shall be just and
reasonable and not more than allowed by law or by order
of the commission having jurisdiction and made as authorized by this act . . ."
"Sc. 28. Every common carrier shall file with the
commission having jurisdiction and shall print and keep
open to public inspection schedules showing the rates,
fares and charges for the transportation of pasengers and
property. .

....

"SEc. 29. Unless the commission otherwise orders no
change shall be made in any rate, fare or charge, or joint
rate, fare or charge, which shall have been filed and published by a common carrier in compliance with the require-

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

ments of this chapter, except after thirty days' notice to
the commission and publication for thirty days . . . The
commission, for good cause shown, may allow changes in
rates without requiring the thirty days' notice and publication herein provided for, . . . Whenever there shall
be filed with the commission by any common carrier as
defined in this act any schedule stating a new individual
or joint rate, fare or charge . . . the commission shall
have and it is hereby given authority, . . . upon reasonable notice, to enter upon a hearing concerning the propriety of such rate, charge, fare, classification, regulation
or practice; and pending such hearing and decision
thereon, the commission upon filing with such schedule,
and delivering to the carrier or carriers affected thereby,
a statement in writing of its reasons for such suspension
may suspend the operation of such schedule . . "
" SEc. 49. 1. Whenever either commission shall be of
opinion, after a hearing had upon its own motion or upon
a complaint, that the rates, fares or charges demanded,
exacted, charged or collected by any common carrier, railroad corporation or street railroad corporation . . . , or
that the maximum rates, fares or charges, chargeable by
any such common carrier, railroad or street railroad corporation are insufficient to yield reasonable compensation
for the service rendered, and are unjust and unreasonable,
the commission shall . . . determine the just and reasonable rates, fares and charges to be thereafter observed and
in force as the maximum to be charged for the service to
be performed, notwithstanding that a higher rate, fare or
charge has been heretofore authorized by general or special
statute, and shall fix the same by order . . ."
No provision of the Rapid Transit Act subjects it to the
Public Service Commission Law. An amendment to the
Railroad Law (Chap. 481, Laws 1910) does this in respect
of that enactment. People ex rel. Ulster, etc. R. R. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 171 App. Div. 607.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

May 28, 1920, the Interborough Company, purporting
to proceed under Sec. 49, Public Service Law, complained
to the Commission that a five cent fare on the subways
was insufficient and asked a higher one. The petition was
denied "for want of jurisdiction to determine and fix
a rate of fare different from that fixed by Contract No.
3." A proceeding begun in a state court to annul this
order was discontinued before final hearing. Another
application-March, 1922-for increased fares upon both
elevated and subway lines was likewise denied for lack of
jurisdiction. No review was sought. In 1925 the Interborough memorialized the Governor and Legislature, set
out the result of operations under the five cent fare, the
refusal of the Commission to grant any increase, and asked
relief. No action was taken upon this application.
February 1, 1928, the Interborough Company, adopting
the method prescribed by Sec. 29, Public Service Law, filed
with the Transit Commission new schedules which purported to establish, effective March 3, 1928, a seven cent
fare upon all its lines and requested permission to put
them into effect on five days' notice. Prior to February
14, 1928, the Commission took-no official action. But, it
appears that counsel for the Commission and the Mayor
expressed the opinion that no relief should or would be
granted and perhaps used some threatening and ill-advised
language; also that the members of the Commission had
concluded no relief could be granted and that proceedings
should be begun at once in a State court to enforce observance of the contract rate.
At 9:20 A. M. February 14, 1928, the original bill now
before us was fied. It alleged the five cent rate had become confiscatory, that the Commission had failed to
grant relief; and asked an injunction against any attempt
to enforce it, also against any interference with the establishment of ai seven cent fare.
Later during the same morning the Transit Commission entered an order which denied its authority to grant

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
159

Opinion of the Court.

any new rate and rejected the new schedules. It further
directed counsel to institute suits in the State court to
prevent threatened violation of law by the Interborough
Company through failure to observe the contract rate.
Thereupon, being already prepared, three proceedings
were begun.
On March 3, 1928, the Interborough Company filed a
supplemental bill r~citing the'action taken by the Commission subsequent to the filing of the original bill, renewed the prayer for relief by injunction and especially
asked that further prosecution of the proceedings in the
State court be forbidden.
Voluminous affidavits were submitted by both sides,
and upon these and the pleadings the District Court, three
judges sitting, heard the cause and authorized the interlocutory injunction described above.
Considering the entire record, we think the challenged
order was improvident and beyond the proper discretion
of the Court.
The record is voluminous; the contracts between the
parties are complex; the relevant statutes intricate. No
decision of this Court or of any court of New York authoritatively determines the questions at issue. The basic
one calls for construction of complicated State legislation.
To support the action of the court below it would be
necessary to show with fair certainty, first, that before the
original bill was filed the commission had taken, or was
about to take, some improper action in respect of the
Interborough Company's new schedules or its application
for leave to discontinue the five cent rate and establish
one of seven cents; and secondly, that the five cent fare
was so low as to be confiscatory while the proposed charge
of seven cents was reasonable. We think neither of these
things adequately appears from the record.
At most, prior to the original bill, the Commission's
members had accepted the view that it lacked jurisdiction

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

to permit a new rate because the existing one was irrevocably fixed by lawful contracts, and had determined
promptly to seek enforcement of the City's supposed
rights by proceedings in the State courts. This was neither arbitrary nor unreasonable. No ground existed for
anticipating undue delay or hardship. The purpose of
the Commission was in entire accord with rulings announced as early as 1920 and seemingly no longer controverted when, in 1925, the Interborough applied for
legislative relief. There had been abundant opportunity
to test the point of law by appeal to the State courts.
The power of the City to enter into contracts Nos. 1
and 2 was affirmed in Sun PublishingAssn. v. The Mayor,
supra; likewise the validity of Contract No. 3 was declared in Admiral Realty Co. v. City of New York, supra.
These cases point out that the object of those contracts
was to secure the operation of railways properly declared
by statute to be part of the public streets and highways
and the absolute property of the City.
The statute under which the Interborough undertook
to proceed gave thirty days after filing of the new schedules during which the Commission might take action.
The effect of the contracts, long the subject of serious
disputation, depended upon the proper construction of
State statutes-a matter primarily for determination by
the local courts. The members of the Commission intended to take official action appropriate to the circumstances, and neither what they did nor what they intended
to do gave any adequate cause for complaint. Alleged
newspaper stories and unbecoming declarations by counsel or City officials can not be regarded here as of grave
importance.
Under the doctrine approved in Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210,231, and HendersonWater Company v. Corp~orationCommission, 269 U. S. 278, the Interborough Company could not have resorted to a federal
court without first applying to the Commission as pre-

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.

209

Opinion of the Court.

159

scribed by the statute. And having made such an application it could not defeat orderly action by alleging an
intent to deny the relief sought.
Both the bill of complaint and the argument of counsel
here proceed upon the theory that under the law of New
York, as clearly interpreted by definite rulings of her
courts, the contracts for operating the transit lines impose
no inflexible rate of fare. With this postulate we cannot
agree. People ex rel. City of New York v. Nixon, 229
N. Y. 356, decided July 7, 1920, is especially relied upon;
but the circumstances there were radically different from
those now presented. The effect of a contract with the
City, expressly authorized by amendment to the Rapid
Transit Act adopted subsequent to enactment of the Public Service Commission Law, was not involved. The
court carefully limited its opinion. And it said: "The
conditions of other franchises may supply elements of distinction which cannot be foreseen. Contracts made after
the passage of the statute (Consol. Laws, ch. 48) [Public
Service Commission Law] may conceivably be so related
to earlier contracts either by words of reference or otherwise as to be subject to the same restrictions. We express
no opinion upon these and like questions. They are mentioned only to exclude them from the scope of our decision.
In deciding this case, we put our ruling upon the single
ground that the franchise contract of October, 1912, was
subject to the statute, and by the statute may now be
changed."
Counsel for appellants refer with confidence to Parker
v. Elmira, C. & N. R. R. Co., 165 N. Y. 274; Village of
Fort Edwards v. Hudson Valley R. R., 192 N. Y. 139;
Matter of Quinby v. Public Service Commission, 223 N. Y.
244; People ex rel. Garrisonv. Nixon, 229 N. Y. 575, 645;
City of New York v. Brooklyn, etc., 232 N. Y. 463.
Although both the elevated and subway lines are operated by the same Company, the two systems have been
45228-29-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

treated as separate and upon this record must be so regarded. The receipts from the subways show steady increase. If this continues, the Interborough Company ultimately will receive its entire investment on account of
subways, with large profits. The elevated roads, the present value of which for rate making purposes is said to be
above $150,000,000, are not prospering; their net receipts
are diminishing. Appellees seek a seven cent fare for all
lines based upon alleged present values and the requirements of a supposed unified system.
The claim for an eight per cent. return upon the values
of subways, which are the property of the City and distinctly declared by statute to be public streets, Sun Publishing Assn. v. The Mayor, supra, is unprecedented and
ought not to be accepted without more cogent support
than the present record discloses. The operating equipment supplied under Contracts Nos. 1 and 2, which originally cost not over $60,000,000, real estate valued at
$300,000 and office sundries of small value, is the only
property connected with the subways to which the Interborough holds title; but it seeks remuneration based upon
total values of all these ways and their equipment said to
represent investments amounting to $360,000,000 and
present value exceeding $600,000,000. At the current
rate of return, after paying operating expenses, taxes, and
rentals to the City, the Interborough will realize annually
from the subways more than $17,000,000. The annual
income of the elevated lines, after deducting operating
expenses, maintenance, taxes, etc., probably will not hereafter exceed $4,000,000, and as the Interborough must pay
rentals therefor amounting to $4,900,000, also interest on
bonds, notes, etc., (issued for third tracks, extensions, etc.)
in excess of $3,000,000, its loss by reason of this lease
is heavy and apparently will increase.
During 1927, passengers carried on the subway lines
numbered 814,600,000; on the elevated 359,000,000; total

PAMPANGA MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
159

Syllabus.

1,173,600,000. An increase of two cents upon each fare
would have added to the subway receipts $16,292,000;
to the elevated $7,180,000.
The transit Commission has long held the view that
it lacks power to change the five cent rate established by
contract; and it intended to test this point of law by an
immediate, orderly appeal to the courts of the State. This
purpose should not be thwarted by an injunction. Upon
the record before us we cannot accept the theory that the
subways and elevated roads constitute a unified system
for rate-making purposes. Considering the probable fair
value of the subways and the current receipts therefrom
no adequate basis is shown for claiming that the five cent
rate is now confiscatory in respect of them. The action
below was based upon supposed values and requirements
of all lines operated by the Interborough Company treated
as a unit; and the effort to support it here proceeds upon
a like assumption.
The interlocutory order must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent.
PAMPANGA SUGAR MILLS v. TRINIDAD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 325.

Argued March 1, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Under § 138 of the Philippine Administrative Code, 1917, which
makes a concurrence of five judges necessary for pronouncement of
judgment by the Supreme Court in a case involving 10,000 pesos
if there is no vacancy, an equal division among eight of the judges

when the ninth does not sit because of disqualification, will not
operate as an affirmance of the judgment below.

P. 214.

