OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

34

Syllabus.

279 U. S

the bankrupts' application for discharge should have been
denied.
It

is not necessary to determine whether the other

specification of opposition to the application for discharge,
which was predicated upon the books of account or records
kept by the firm after January 1, 1920, should also have

been sustained, since even if this were the case the result
would not be changed.
The decree will be reversed and the cause remanded to

the District Court, with instructions to enter a decree
sustaining the specification of opposition relating to the
written statement and denying the bankrupts' application
for discharge.
Reversed and remanded.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
DAVIS, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 70. Argued November 23, 1928.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. Where a railway employee voluntarily abandons one of several
places which are reasonably safe and well adapted to the work in
which he was engaged, and assumes and places himself in a position of extreme danger which was neither furnished for the performance of his work nor well adapted thereto, and this negligence
on his part is the sole and direct cause of his death, there is no
ground upon which liability of the employer, under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, may be predicated. P. 39.
2. In an action for wrongful death, brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, if the charge that the death was caused by
the negligence of the employer in any respect in which it owed
a duty to the decedent is without any substantial support, the
jury should be instructed to find for the defendant. P. 39.
150 S. C. 130, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 614, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina, affirming a judgment

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. DAVIS.
34

Opinion of the Court.

recovered by the administrator of a deceased railway employee in an action for wrongful death, brought under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Messrs. Thomas Wf. Davis and Henry E. Davis for
petitioner.
Mr. Wn. C. Wolfe, with whom Messrs. Adam H. Moss
and Thomas H. Peeples were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr.
Court.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Richards, an employee of the Railroad Company,
suffered personal injuries that resulted in his death.
Davis, the administrator of his estate, brought this action
against the Railroad Company in a common pleas court
of South Carolina. The declaration alleged that the
injury was caused by the negligence of the Railroad Company in failing to provide Richards a safe place in which
to work. At the conclusion of the evidence the Railroad
Company moved for a directed verdict. This was denied.
The jury found for the administrator; and the judgment
entered on the verdict was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State.
It is unquestioned that the case is controlled by the
Federal Employers' Liability Act,' under which it was
prosecuted. Hence, if it appears from the record that
under the applicable principles of law as interpreted by
the Federal courts, the evidence was not sufficient in kind
or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence of
the Railroad Company was the cause of the death, the
judgment must be reversed. Gulf, etc. R. R. v. Wells,
275 U. S. 455, 457; and cases cited.
Richards was injured while on a steam shovel standing
by the side of the railroad track that was being operated
135 Stat. 65, c. 149.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

by an independent contractor employed by the Railroad
Company to fill in trestles on its lines. With this steam
shovel the contractor excavated dirt from the railroad
right of way and loaded it upon a train of dump cars,
which was hauled to the trestles, where the dirt was
deposited. The contractor furnished and operated the
steam shovel, and also furnished the train of cars. The
Railroad Company furnished the locomotive and train
crew "for the operation of the contractor's train while on
the railroad tracks," and hauled the train of cars to and
from the trestles.
Richards was employed by the Railroad Company as a
member of the train crew. He was the flagman, and his
duty was to put out flags and protect the train from
collisions.
In excavating and loading the dirt the steam shovel
was stationed at a convenient distance on the side of the
railroad track. The accessible dirt was excavated and
loaded on the train of cars standing on the track. As each
car was loaded the train was moved to get the loaded car
out of the way and bring the next car into position for
loading. For this it was necessary to signal the engineer
to move the train. This was sometimes done by the
shovel operator by the use of a whistle, and sometimes by
the contractor's crew of laborers who were used "to spot
cars," that is, watch the loading and signal to the engineer.
One of these laborers, called a "spotter," was used for
this particular purpose. The evidence shows, however,
that the cars were frequently spotted by members of the
train crew. This appears to have been entirely voluntary
on their part. The contractor had never requested that
they be required to do this, and the conductor of the
train, who was in sole. charge of the crew, had never
directed them to spot the cars. The conductor also sometimes voluntarily spotted cars, and he had seen other
members of the crew thus engaged; but, understanding

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. DAVIS.
34

Opinion of the Court.

that, like himself, they were doing this voluntarily, did
not stop them from doing this work when they chose.
The main platform of the steam shovel was occupied
by a "shovel house" covering the engine and boiler. By
the Bide of this was a running board extending to the
front corner post of the shovel house. In front of the
shovel house was a crane, having a revolving boom about
thirty feet long, to which a dipper stick and scoop was attached. This scooped up the dirt, and by a circular movement of the boom was brought into position for loading
the dirt on the cars. When the shovel was stationed in
the position occupied on the day of the accident, at a
considerable distance from the track, this required a "full
swing" of the boom. Between the shovel house and the
crane there was an upright steel frame which prevented
the boom from striking the shovel house. But attached
to the side of the boom several feet from its base was an
iron ladder, which would pass above the steel frame, and
when the boom made a full swing the lower part of the
ladder would come within four inches of the upper part
of the corner post of the shovel house. In front of the
running board and at the side of the steel frame the
upper end of a "jack-arm," planted in the ground to
steady the shovel, projected above the platform. This
was not only so small as to afford an insecure footing, but
it was so high and so located that if anyone standing on it
did not move out of the way when the boom made a full
swing he would necessarily be struck by the iron ladder
and crushed against the corner post of the shovel house.
While it does not appear that any specific place had
ever been assigned for the spotter, the uncontradicted
evidence shows that there were at least four safe places
in which he could stand without danger of being struck
by the revolving boom: 1. On the running board by the
side of the shovel house, this being the position usually
taken; 2, on the top of a loaded car, this being the posi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

tion frequently taken; 3, inside of the shovel house, from
which he could signal the engineer through an open
window; and 4, on the ground, on the opposite side of
the track from the shovel.
While a brakeman stated that he had sometimes stood
on the "jack-bar" to spot cars when it was very hot--it
being protected from the sun at certain hours of the
day-he added that when he had done this, realizing the
danger, he had watched the boom "very, very carefully ";
and it did not appear that he had ever stood there when
the shovel was stationed in a position requiring the boom
to make a full swing. Neither the conductor nor the contractor's manager had ever seen anyone standing on the
jack-arm while spotting. And the shovel operator, who
had once seen Richards on the jack-arm at a time when
the shovel was not running, had told him that it was a
dangerous place and "to never get caught there or he
would get killed."
There was also evidence that if a railroad caboose had
been attached to the end of the train a spotter could with
safety have signalled the engineer from the windows of
the cupola; but it appeared that he could not have efficiently spotted the cars from this position as the roof
would have prevented him from seeing when they had
been loaded.
On the day of the accident Richards, without any order
from the conductor, voluntarily took the place of a brakeman who had been engaged in spotting the cars. He first
mounted on the running board by the side of the shovel
house in the position which the brakeman had occupied.
Shortly thereafter, for some unexplained reason-possibly
to get away from the heat of the sun-he left this position of safety and got on the jack-arm; and while standing
there was struck by the iron ladder when the boom swung
into position for loading a car, and received the injuries
which resulted in his death. That this was the manner

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. DAVIS.
34

Opinion of the Court.

of his death is demonstrated by the undisputed physical
facts, and is not controverted.
We pass without determination the question whether
the case was properly submitted to the jury to determine
whether Richards at the time of the accident was engaged
within the scope of his employment by the Railroad
Company or was merely aiding the contractor as a volunteer. However this may be it is clear that, even if the
Railroad Company then owed him any duty in this
respect, there was no substantial evidence that there was
any negligence upon its part in failing to furnish a safe
place in which to work. The evidence is undisputed that
there were several places in which he could have stood in
spotting cars, all of which were reasonably safe and well
adapted to the performance of the work, and in which he
could not have been struck by the swinging boom. And
the inevitable conclusion from all the evidence is that he
voluntarily abandoned the safe position on the running
board which he at first assumed and placed himself in a
position of extreme danger on the "jack-arm," a place
not furnished for the performance of this work and ill
adapted thereto, and one of obvious danger in which he
would inevitably be struck if the boom made a full swing
unless he moved out of its path; and thereby through his
own negligence, as the sole and direct cause of the accident, brought on his own death. Under these circumstances there is plainly no ground upon which the liability
of the Railroad Company may be predicated. Compare
Gt. Northern Ry. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444, 448; Southern
Ry. v. Gray, 241 U. S. 333, 339; Frese v. C., B. & Q. R. R.,
263 U. S. 1, 3; Davis v. Kennedy, 266 U. S. 147, 148.
The contention that Richards' death was caused by the
negligence of the Railroad Company in any respect in
which it owed a duty to him is without any substantial
support; and the jury should have been instructed to find
for the Railroad Company. The judgment is reversed

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

40

Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of South
Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent with

this opinion.

Reversed.
LEONARD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 183. Argued January 17, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. In the Act of June 10, 1922, which adjusts the base pay of officers
of the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, according to rank and
length of service, the clause in ยง 1 providing that "For officers
in the service on June 30, 1922, there shall be included in the computation all service which is now counted in computing longevity
pay," refers only to officers who were in active service on that
date. P. 44.
2. The Act to equalize pay of retired officers, approved May 8, 1926,
in providing that the pay of officers retired on or before June 30,
1922, shall not be less than that of officers of equal rank and length
of service retired subsequent to that date, contemplates that the
standard of comparison in each case shall be an officer continually
in active service until his retirement after that date, and does
not operate to extend to officers retired before June 10, 1922, the
benefits of the clause from the Act of that date quoted supra,
par. 1. P. 45.
3. An officer of the Marine Corps who retired in 1911, and, under
the Act of March 2, 1903, received longevity pay for his retired
service because the retirement was on account of wounds received
in battle, held not entitled, under the Acts of June 10, 1922, and
May 8, 1926, to have the years spent by him on the retired list
counted in determining his base pay period. P. 45.
64 Ct. Cls. 384, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 586, to a judgment rejecting
a claim for additional pay, preferred by a retired officer
of the Marine Corps.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Messrs. Win. B. King
and George R. Shields were on the brief, for petitioner.

