U. S. v. FRUIT GROWERS EX. CO.
347

363

Argument for the United States.

testament of Julia A. Legnard, deceased, and its own
account as executor of her will; but to remand the cause
to the Probate Court for a proceeding by the petitioner
as executor de son tort, and for such further proceedings
as it may be advised and as are permissible by the laws
of Massachustts and the statutes of the United States,
not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. THE FRUIT GROWERS EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 305.

Argued December 3, 1928.-Decided May 13, 1929.

The defendant, a corporation performing the service of icing refrigerator cars under contract with a railroad company, made out and
delivered to the railroad company false reports concerning the
quantity of ice used, which reports were kept by the railroad company as required under the Interstate Commerce Act, and were
made the basis of icing charges rendered by it in its bills to shippers. The railroad company was innocent. Held that the defendant was not punishable under § 20 (7) of the Interstate Commerce
Act as a person who wilfully makes a false entry in a record kept
by a carrier. P. 368.
Affirmed.
APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment of the District Court quashing an indictment.

Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, William H.
Bonneville and William J. Flood, Special Assistants to the
United States Attorney, were on the brief, for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

Refrigeration is a transportation service regulated by
the Interstate Commerce Act, and in performing that service appellee was a person employed by and acting for the
railroad company, and as such it was bound to observe the
statutes regulating the service. ChicagoRefrigerationCo.
v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 265 U. S. 292; Atchison
R. Co. v. United States, 232 U. S. 199; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Spencer Kellogg & Sons v. United States, 20 F. (2d) 459, certiorari
denied 275 U. S. 566.
Section 20 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act is not
limited to common carriers and their employees, but includes and punishes all persons and corporations who
commit the act therein declared to be unlawful. United
States v. Tippitt, 298 Fed. 495; Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194; Kennedy
v. United States, 275 Fed. 182.
The falsified icing reports described in counts 1 to 50
are records "kept" by the railroad company within the
meaning of § 20 (7), and preserved in its files for three
years, in compliance with the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and it is immaterial whether the railroad company compiled or wrote the records so kept.
United States v. Tippitt, 298 Fed. 495; Atchison, T. & S.
F. R. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S. 336.
Through the device of making false entries in the icing
reports, which were accepted in good faith and relied upon
by the railroad company in writing its freight bills, appellee falsified the freight bills described in counts 51 to
65, inclusive, within the meaning of § 20 (7). United
States v. Koenig Coal Co., 270 U. S. 512; Armour Packing
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Grand Rapids & Indiana R. Co. v. United States, 212 Fed. 577; Kennedy v.
United States, 275 Fed. 182; Spencer Kellogg & Sons v.

U. S. v. FRUIT GROWERS EX. CO.
363

365

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 20 F. (2d) 459, certiorari denied, 275
U. S. 566.
The indictment is not invalid for failure to allege collusion between appellee and the railroad company, for
collusion or conspiracy is not an element of the crime defined by § 20 (7).
Mr. William S. Dalzell, with whom Mr. William G.
Brantley was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case is brought here under par. 2 of § 238 of the
Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229; 43 Stat. 936, 938. The paragraph was
originally enacted in the Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564;
34 Stat. 1246. It provides for appeals in criminal cases
where the decision of the District Court is adverse to the
United States and the defendant has not been put in
jeopardy.
This review is of an indictment of 75 counts against
the Fruit Growers Express Company, a corporation of
Delaware, engaged in icing and re-icing refrigerator cars
containing shipments of perishable commodities transported to Pittsburgh by the Pennsylvania Railroad, for
misreporting ice furnished and falsifying the official records of the Railroad Company showing expenditures
made in those shipments. By a contract executed by the
two companies on May 1, 1925, the Express Company
agreed to perform the icing and other service which the
Railroad Company by and through its published schedules and tariffs had stipulated to perform with the shippers of such shipments. The Express Company, as provided in the contract, made and furnished written reports

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of the quantity of ice placed by it in the bunkers of the
cars for the Railroad Company at Pittsburgh. These
reports were received and kept by the Railroad Company,
and from them the Railroad Company prepared its reports of ice delivered, and rendered bills to the consignees
of the shipments .at Pittsburgh in accordance with its
tariffs and schedules. In the performance of the contract, as the recitals of the counts of the indictment show,
the agent of the Express Company in 59 instances delivered less ice in each car, and in 16 instances more ice in
each car, than he reported to the Railroad Company,
knowing that his report would be accepted by the Railroad Company as a true and accurate statement of the
deliveries. The making of 50 falsified ice reports by defendant's agent was charged in counts 1 to 50. Counts
51 to 65 charged that by falsifying ice reports defendant
made and caused to be made false entries in freight bills.
Counts 65 to 75 were not urged by the Government as
valid. Each count of the indictment involved a separate
carload shipment of a perishable commodity, and the
falsification by the Express Company was charged to be of
an official record "kept by the Railroad Company" under
the law. We have inserted in the margin the applicable
parts of sections of the Interstate Commerce Act which
are here involved.*
* Section 10 (1). "Any common carrier subject to the provisions of
this Act or, whenever such common carrier is a corporation, any
director or officer thereof, or any receiver, trustee, lessee, agent or
person acting for or employed by such corporation, who, alone or
with any other corporation, company, person, or party, shall willfully do or cause to be done, or shall willingly suffer or permit to be
done, any act, matter, or thing in this Act prohibited or declared to
be unlawful, or who shall aid or abet therein, or shall willfully omit
or fail to do any act, matter or thing in this Act required to be done,
or shall cause or willingly suffer or permit any act, matter or thing so
directed or required by this Act to be done not to be so done, or shall
aid or abet any such omission or failure, or shall be guilty" of any

U. S. v. FRUIT GROWERS EX. CO.
363

Opinion of the Court.

On behalf of the defendant, a motion was made and
granted by the District Court, to quash the indictment in
all its counts, on the ground, first, that the quoted §§ 10
and 20 relied on to support the indictment are really intended only to apply to common carriers, their directors,
officers, agents and employees, or others acting for and in
the interest of carriers or in collusion with them, and not
to persons whose only relation to a carrier is that of an
independent contractor acting adversely to the carrier's
interest, in fraud of it and without its knowledge or acquiescence; and second, that the counts of the indictment
only denounce the keeping of false or inaccurate official
"records kept by the carrier" and do not include records
not kept by the carrier, like bills, memoranda, and other
data furnished by an independent contractor, intentionally
misleading the carrier or its agents in keeping its official
records.
infraction of this Act for which no penalty is otherwise provided, or
who shall aid or abet therein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof in any district court of
the United States within the jurisdiction of which such offense was
committed, be subject to a fine of not to exceed five thousand dollars
for each offense...." C. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 382.
Section 20 (7). "Any person who shall willfully make any false
entry in the accounts of any book of accounts or in any record or
memoranda kept by a carrier, or who shall willfully destroy, mutilate,
alter, or by any other means or device falsify the record of any such
account, record, or memoranda, or who shall willfully neglect or fail to
make full, true and correct entries in such accounts, records, or
memoranda of all facts and transactions appertaining to the carrier's
business, or shall keep any other accounts, records, or memoranda
than those prescribed or approved by the Commission, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject, upon conviction in any court of the United States of competent jurisdiction, to a
fine of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than five thousand
dollars, or imprisonment for a term of not less than one year nor
more than three years, or both such fine and imprisonment...
C. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 594.

368.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

The question is really one of the construction of the two
sections of the statute quoted in the margin and the intent
of their penal provisions. The general object of the statute was to require that common carriers should keep reliable records of the receipts and expenditures of and for
each shipment which was the subject of transportation.
They were intended to be an ultimate protection, not to
the carriers but to the shippers, to secure a proper accounting of the expenditures that might properly be charged
to each shipper on the basis of the tariff published in accordance with law. Their importance is shown in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224
U. S. 194, 211, and United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 236 U. S. 318, 334, 336.
It was the duty of the common carrier to provide for the
icing and also to furnish reports as to the amount delivered, in a record kept by it for the information of shippers and of the Interstate Commerce Commission. But
there is no reason why this duty with respect to the furnishing of ice might not be performed by an independent
contractor. Cincinnati,New Orleans & T. P. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, 197; Express
Cases, 117 U. S. 1, 24; Baltimore & Ohio S. W. Ry. v.
Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 504; Chicago, St. Louis & New Orleans R. R. v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 139 U. S. 79,
89; Berwind-White Coal Mining Co. v. United States, 9
F. (2d) 429, 439; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 237 U. S. 434, 443. Such contracts, unless forbidden,
are legal; but what their civil consequences are is often a
question. If the duty performed is one which the common
carrier is obliged to perform, the latter is civilly liable for
the failure of the independent contractor to perform the
carrier's duty. Whether a breach of the duty in such case
will lead to criminal liability on the part of the contractor
is a question of construction of the statute. Of course, if

U. S. v. FRUIT GROWERS EX. CO.
363

Opinion of the Court.

the common carrier were privy to the furnishing of short
ice, or to the making of false preliminary data by the
independent contractor, both the carrier and the independent contractor would become criminally responsible for
the shortage and for the misrepresentation of the official
record. But that is not the case we have here. The Railroad Company having certain duties to perform in respect
of the shipments, attempts to perform them by contract
with an outside person not an agent of the carrier, and is
itself deceived and defrauded by the contractor and outsider in his failure to perform his contract, so that by the
falsification the carrier is led into the making of the erroneous report. In such circumstances, is the outsider to be held
guilty of criminality under the above statutory provisions?
Congress of course could render these false statements by
the defendant a crime; but has it done so in the absence
of any collusion by the Railroad Company? It is a nice
question, but the statute is a criminal one, and may lead
to heavy penalties. A defendant under such circumstances
is entitled to a reasonably strict construction of the language used to effect the particular purpose that Congress has in mind. We do not think that Congress was
looking to protect an independent contractor against his
servants or a common carrier against its independent contractor. A fraud as between them was a matter collateral
to the intent and object of the legislation in holding the
common carrier and all its agents to strict responsibility
to the shipper and the Commission.
If the independent contractor colludes with the common
carrier by the false data it furnishes, and the common carrier knowingly uses them, of course the contractor is nothing but an aider and abettor, and so a principal, in the
keeping of the false official records; but otherwise not.
The result is, therefore, that while the independent contractor might well be penalized by a different statute for
45228°-29-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

the fraud he has committed on the common carrier, we do
not think that the present statutes bring them within the
scope of the crime denounced, when the common carrier
and its servants are innocent of offense.
It is clear to us that the words "record or memoranda
kept by a carrier" contained in § 20 mean the official
record kept by the carrier and do not refer to bills or
memoranda kept by the contractor as a basis on which
the carrier keeps its records. The defendant's bills or
memoranda are not in that sense a record at all under § 20.
They are not subject to the supervision of the Interstate
Commerce Commission; and it would seem that if the
data proved to be dishonest and incorrect, the punishment for that, unless with the complicity of the common
carrier, must be found elsewhere than in the provisions
of the present Interstate Commerce Act.
This leads us necessarily to affirm the ruling of the District Court.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. THE JOHN BARTH COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 526.

Argued April 18, 1929.--Decided May 13, 1929.

1. A limitation of five years declared by §§ 250 (d) of the Revenue
Acts of 1918 and 1921, and § 277 (a) (2) of the Revenue Act of
1924, upon the time within which income and profits taxes may be
assessed and suits begun to collect them, is inapplicable to a suit
on a bond given within that time under par. 14 (a), § 234 (a), of
the Revenue Act of 1918, to secure payment, with interest, of taxes
which have been returned and assessed but payment of which has
been postponed pending decision of a claim for abatemont subuaitted by the taxpayer. P. 374,

