FLINK v. PALADINI.
Argument for Petitioner.

FLINK v. PALADINI ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 299. Submitted February 21, 1929-Decided March 5, 1929.
1. The words of the Acts of Congress limiting the liability of shipowners to the value of the vessel and pending freight, and of
part owners to their proportional share, must be taken in a broad
and popular sense in order not to defeat the policy of the acts
to encourage investment in shipping. P. 62.
2. Therefore, where the title to the vessel is in a corporation whose
stockholders are by state law made proportionately liable for obligations of the corporation, the stockholders may limit liability as "part
owners." P. 62.
3. The individual liability assumed under Art. XII, § 3, of the Cali-

fornia Contitution, and § 322 of the Civil Code, by becoming a
stockholder of a California ship-owning corporation, though volun-

tary and contractual, is to be construed as subject to the limited
liability acts of Congress.

P. 63.

26 F. (2d) 21, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 589, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversing an order of the District Court
in a proceeding to limit liability for personal injuries suffered by the present petitioner while serving aboard ship
at sea. The reversed order refused a stay of actions in
state and federal courts, which the petitioner had brought
against the respondents to enforce their liability under
the state law as stockholders of the corporation owning
the ship.

Messrs. H. W. Hutton and R. T. Lynch submitted for
petitioner.
The limited liability is for shipowners. The court has
no jurisdiction to limit the liability of persons not within
the statute. The Irving F. Ross, 8 F. (2d) 313; In re
Reichert Towing Line, 251 Fed. 214.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

279 U. S.

The law must be taken and construed as Congress made
it, and if any amendments or revisions appear desirable,
they can be made by Congress.
The corporation is the sole owner of the legal and equitable title to its property. This rule has even been applied
in the extreme case where all of the stock in the corporation is held by one person, the distinction being very
clearly pointed out in Solas v. United States, 234 Fed. 842.
Ships owned by domestic corporations were held in
England to be free from seizure, during the late war, when
all of the stockholders were alien enemies. Continental
Tyre & Rubber Co. v. Daimler Co., 1915, 1 K. B. 893;
The Queen v. Arnaud, 15 L. J. Q. B. N. S. 50. See also
Hamburg-American Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 138.
The term "equitable owner" in its ordinary legal significance means that the asserted owner has an estate in
the property which is recognized as a right of ownership by
a court of equity, i. e., that he is a cestui que trust of an
express trust, the owner of an equity of redemption,
vendee under a contract of sale of real estate or in some
similar equitable position. A stockholder in a corporation
has, however, no equitable ownership, title, or interest in
the corporate property in the sense in which the term
"equitable ownership" is thus used. United States v.
Eisner, 252 U. S. 189.
An aid to the construction of the Acts is found in the
circumstance that Congress in R. S. 4286 (U. S. C., Tit.
46, § 186), found it necessary specifically to include charterers within the term "owners." A charterer could more
easily be construed to be an owner of a vessel than a stockholder. A charterer has a limited legal ownership in the
vessel in the nature of a leasehold interest, while a stockholder has no legal or equitable rights of ownership in the
vessel whatsoever, upon which a qualified ownership could
be predicated.

FLINK v. PALADINI.
59

Opinion of the Court.

Again, § 4286, R. S., including charterers as owners, is
expressly limited in its application to such charterers as
man, victual, and navigate the vessel at their own expense;
i. e., a bareboat charter. The intent appears to be to include as owners only those having actual control of the
vessel and power of direction and control over its officers
and crew. This does not include stockholders of a corporate owner.
The corporation is the " owner" for the purpose of the
Limited Liability Acts. The stockholders have the status
of deferred creditors of the corporation.
Respondents make much of the policy of Congress of
encouraging investments in ships by relieving shipowners
from the obligation to pay their debts in full in certain
cases. The reasons which presumably led Congress to
this determination are without force as applied to the case
at bar. The vessels of Attilio Paladini, Inc., are immune
from foreign ship, and from railroad, competition. The
protection of the Limited Liability Acts is wholly unnecessary in such case, and to apply them works an injustice
upon petitioner.
The manifest policy of Congress in recent years is to
give greater justice to maritime workers. A forced construction of the Limited Liability Acts should not be indulged to defeat this intent.
Messrs. Ira S. Lillick, J. Arthur Olson, and Chalmers
G. Graham submitted for respondents.
Messrs. Louis T. Hengstler and Frederick W. Dorr filed
a brief as amici curiae on behalf of the American-Hawaiian
Steamship Company, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner suffered a severe injury on the high seas
while employed as an engineer on the tugboat Henrietta,

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

belonging to A. Paladini, Incorporated, a corporation of
the State of California. He sued the corporation and also
the respondents, the stockholders of the same, seeking to
hold the latter liable under the Constitution of the State,
Article XII, § 3 and the Civil Code, § 322, which provide
that each stockholder shall be individually and personally
liable for such proportion of all its debts and liabilities
contracted during the time hi was a stockholder, as the
amount of stock owned by him bears to the whole of the
subscribed capital stock. The respondents took proceedings in the District Court of the United States to limit
their liability under the Acts of Congress, and the limitation was established by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit under R. S. § 4283, (Code, Title 46, §
183,) and the Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, § 18, 23 Stat. 57.
(Code, Title 46, § 189.) 26 F. (2d) 21. These statutes, it
will be remembered, provide for the limitation of the
liability of shipowners to the value of the vessel and pending freight, and of part owners to their proportional share.
The argument of the present petitioner is that the stockholders of A. Paladini, Inc., were not the owners of the
Henrietta and that their liability under the law of California was an independent one voluntarily assumed by
contract, with which the Acts of Congress do not interfere.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disposed of the case after
a thorough discussion. It is unnecessary to do more than
to make a short statement of the points. The purpose of
the act of Congress was "to encourage investment by exempting the investor from loss in excess of the fund he
is williiig to risk in the enterprise." 26 F. (2d) 24. Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96, 103. Hartford Accident
& Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S. 207,
214. For this purpose no rational distinction can be taken
between several persons owning shares in a vessel directly
and making the same division by putting the title in a
corporation and distributing the corporate stock. The

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
59

Syllabus.

policy of the statutes must extend equally to both. In
common speech the stockholders would be called owners,
recognizing that their pecuniary interest did not differ
substantially from those who held shares in the ship. We
are of opinion that the words of the acts must be taken
in a broad and popular sense in order not to defeat the
manifest intent. This is not to ignore the distinction between a corporation and its members, a distinction that
cannot be overlooked even in extreme cases, Behn, Meyer
& Co. v. Miller, 266 U. S. 457, 472, but to interpret an untechnical word in the liberal way in which we believe it to
have been used-as has been done in other cases. InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50.
The other branch of the petitioner's argument seems to
us a perversion of the California law. The effect of that
law so far as it goes is to destroy the operation of a charter
as a nonconductor between the persons injured by a breach
of corporate duty and the members of the corporation, who
but for the charter would be liable. As suggested in Flash
v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, it leaves the members to a certain
extent in the position of copartners. But that is the liability that the Acts of Congress mean to limit. Having
no doubt of the comprehensive purpose of Congress we
should not be ingenious to construe the California statute
in such a way as to raise questions whether it could be allowed to interfere with the uniformity which has been declared a dominant requirement for admiralty law.
Decree affirmed.

LEWIS

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 182. Argued December 3, 4, 1928.-Decided March 5, 1929.
1. An offense, committed within the territorial limits of the Eastern
District of Oklahoma as then existing was indictable and triable

