MORRIS & CO. v. INS. CO.
401

405

Syllabus.

And in Oregon-Washington R. R. Co. v. United States,
255 U. S. 339, 345, this Court held that the personal baggage of an officer is not property of the United States
entitled to transportation at land grant rates.
We are of opinion that the principle of these decisions is
controlling here. The United States demands service from
its army officers which requires the use of things furnished
by them. But it does not own and, as between it and
them, it does not claim to own, hold or have any property
rights in the uniforms, manuals, clothes, private mounts
or other things by them furnished and used in the service. It would be unreasonable to hold valid the Government's claim of ownership asserted merely to secure
land grant rates for the transportation of such mounts.
The construction contended for is without support and
cannot be sustained.
Judgment affirmed.
MORRIS & COMPANY ET AL. v. SKANDINAVIA
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 450. Argued March 7, 1929.--Decided May 13, 1929.
1. A foreign corporation held not suable without its consent in a
State wherein it had done no business. P. 408.
2. In making compacts of reinsurance in one State with insurers of
property situate in another State, a foreign insurance company is
not doing business in the second State. Id.
3. A Danish insurance company, whose business in this country was
confined to reinsurance contracts made in New York, in order to
comply with the law of Mississippi (Hemingway's Code, 1927, §
5864) where property covered by some of the insured risks was
situate, appointed the Mississippi insurance commissioner its attorney upon whom process might be served, the authorization stating
that service upon him should be deemed valid personal service upon
the company and that such authority should continue so long as

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

any liability of the company remained outstanding in Mississippi,
whether incurred before or after such appointment. Held that the
statute and the appointment should not be construed as empowering the Mississippi courts to entertain an action brought against
the company by a Louisiana corporation on a contract of marine
insurance entered into abroad and unrelated to any matter in
Mississippi. P. 408.
4. A defendant does not waive objection to jurisdiction over his person
by removing the case from the state to the federal court; nor by
joining his plea to the jurisdiction with a plea in abatement because
of another action pending, as permitted by the local practice and
the Conformity Act. P. 409.
27 F. (2d) 329, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 592, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Garner Wynn Green, with whom Messrs. John M.
Lee, Marcellus Green, Chalmers Potter, and Sidney Mize
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Messrs. Palmer Pillans and James A. Leathers were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
In April, 1925, petitioner filed its declaration in the
circuit court of Harris county, Mississippi, in an action to
recover $50,000 from respondent, a Danish corporation,
on an insurance policy. Thereupon the sheriff served a
summons upon the state insurance commissioner, and the
clerk of the court mailed a copy addressed to respondent
at its home office in Copenhagen. There being diversity
of citizenship, respondent removed the case to the United
States district court for the Southern District of Mississippi, and filed a motion to quash and plea to the jurisdiction on the ground that respondent was not doing business in the State and had not authorized or consented to

MORRIS & CO. v. INS. CO.
405

Opinion of the Court.

such service. Issue was joined, there was a trial at which
much evidence was heard, the district court found for
respondent, held the service invalid, sustained the plea
and dismissed the case. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 27 F. (2d) 329.
Petitioner was incorporated under the laws of Louisiana and engaged in the business of packing and shipping
meats in the United States and other countries. Respondent was incorporated in Denmark and engaged in
the insurance business. Neither of the parties was a
resident or citizen of Mississippi; and, as found by both
courts, respondent was not doing business in that State.
In 1918 at Buenos Aires, Argentina, respondent issued to
petitioner the policy on which this action was brought.
It covered a shipment of beef belonging to petitioner in
a vessel at Montevideo, Uruguay, to be carried to
Havana, Cuba. The declaration alleged a total loss and
prayed judgment for the full amount of the policy.
In March, 1923, respondent, conformably to § 5864,
Hemingway's Code, 1927, appointed the state insurance
commissioner its attorney upon whom process might be
served. The authorization states that service upon him
shall be deemed to be valid personal service upon the
company, and that such authority shall continue "so
long as any liability of the company remains outstanding" in Mississippi, whether incurred before or after such
appointment. And respondent, in accordance with the
same section,* appointed a resident of the State for trans*

The provisions of § 5864 so far as material follow:

"No foreign insurance, indemnity or guaranty company shall be
admitted and authorized to do business in this state until:
"Third. It shall, by a duly executed instrument filed in his office,
constitute and appoint the commissioner of insurance .. .its true
and lawful attorney, upon whom all process in any action ...
against it may be served, and therein shall agree that any process

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

action of the business of reinsurance therein. It also annually reported such business and paid a license fee. §§
5866, 5877, 5888. It made a deposit with an officer of
the State of New York for the security of its policy holders
in the United States and so complied with Mississippi law.

§ 5868.
Respondent's business in the United States was confined to reinsurance, and all such contracts were made in
New York City. Some of the reinsured risks covered
property in Mississippi, and that made the above-mentioned appointments necessary in order to comply with
the laws of the State. § 5865.
Reinsurance involves no transaction or privity between
the reinsurer and those originally assured. The lower
courts rightly held that the making of the reinsurance
compacts in New York between respondent and insurers
of property in Mississippi was not the doing of business
in that State. And, as its consent to be sued there cannot
be implied from any transaction within the State, there
is no jurisdiction unless respondent's authorization in
respect of service is broad enough to extend to this case.
Phila.& Reading Co.v. McKibbin, 243 U. S.264.
The policy sued on was issued and the loss occurred in
South America. The importation of such controversies
would not serve any interest of Mississippi. The purpose of state statutes requiring the appointment by for-*
against it which may be served upon its said attorney shall be of
the same force and validity as if served on the company, and the
authority thereof shall continue in force irrevocable so long as any
liability of the company remains outstanding in this state ...
"Fourth. It shall appoint as its agent or agents in this state some
resident or residents thereof other than the said commissioner, .. .
.authorizing the agent to acknowledge service of process for and on
behalf of the company, and consenting that service of process on the
agent shall be as valid as if served upon the company, according to

the laws of this state, and waiving all claim of error by reason of
such service,"

MORRIS & CO. v. INS. CO.
405

Opinion of the Court.

eign corporations of agents upon whom process may be
served is primarily to subject them to the jurisdiction of
local courts in controversies growing out of transactions
within the State. Old Wayne Life Ass'n v. McDonough,
204 U. S. 8, 18, 21. Simon v. Southern Railway, 236 U. S.
115, 130. Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Seldem Breck Co.,
257 U. S. 213, 215. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Chatters, ante, p. 320. The language of the appointment
and of the statute under which it was made plainly implies that the scope of the agency is intended to be so
limited. By the terms of both, the authority continues
only so long as any liability of the company remains outstanding in Mississippi. No decision of the state supreme
court supports the construction for which petitioner contends. And, in the absence of language compelling it,
such a statute ought not to be construed to impose upon
the courts of the State the duty, or to give them power, to
take cases arising out of transactions so foreign to its
interests. The service of the summons cannot be sustained.
Petitioner suggests that by removal of the case to the
federal court, objection to jurisdiction over the person of
respondent was waived. Our decisions are to the contrary. General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Ry., 260
U. S. 261, 268. Lee v. Chesapeake& Ohio Ry., 260 U. S.
653. Hassler v. Shaw, 271 U. S. 195, 199. And petitioner
asserts that, by joining its plea to the jurisdiction for lack
of service with a plea in abatement because of another
action pending, respondent appeared generally and submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the court. But the
pleas were authorized by state practice which, under the
Conformity Act, is adopted in the federal court. § 537,
Hemingway's Code. U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 724. Southern
Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 209.
Judgment affirmed.

