OCIOBER TERM, 1928.

218

Syllabus.

279 U. S.

that a manufacturer shall be deemed a merchant. There
is nothing in § 1459 to suggest that the definition of
merchant there given is only to obtain for that section.
The two sections were parts of the same statute. They
are not to be treated as unrelated enactments. In the
absence of express restriction it may be assumed that a
term is used throughout a statute in the same sense in
which it is first defined. It is urged that if the legislature
had intended the word to have the same meaning in both
sections, it would not have added" commission merchant"
in § 1460, as it had defined merchant as including commission merchant in § 1459. The fact that "commission
merchant" is repeated in § 1460, does not show that the
word "merchant"
is used in the two sections with
different meanings.
Fifth. Finally the corporation urges that if it be held
liable under §§ 1459 and 1460 for these taxes, which were
assessed and paid in 1920, 1921 and 1922, sugar centrals
will hereafter be subject to double taxes; since in March,
1923, § 1462-an entirely different section of the Code
which imposes a one per cent tax on the gross receipts of
public utilities, hotels, restaurant keepers, dress-makers
and others-was amended by inserting the words "sugar
centrals." This argument is not persuasive as to the construction to be given to the Act of 1917. The amendment
was enacted six years later than the Act here in question
and six months after this action was begun.
Affirmed.
RIEHLE, RECEIVER, v. MARGOLIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 347.

Argued March 1, 5, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The appointment by a federal court of a receiver on a creditor's
bill gives no right to stay a suit against the debtor then pending in
a state court; and a judgment in personam thereafter recovered

RIEHLE v. MARGOLIES.
218

Opinion of the Court.

against the debtor by default in such suit in the state court establishes conclusively the existence and amount of the claim for the
purpose of proof in the federal court, and will enable the claimant
to participate in the distribution among creditors of the debtor's
property, ordered therein. P. 223.
2. The fact that neither the debtor nor the receiver undertook to
defend in the state court and that the judgment was entered by
default is, in this connection, immaterial. P. 225.
26 F. (2d) 247, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 591, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed an order of the
District Court allowing a claim in a receivership. See
also, 5 F. (2d) 1015; 19 id. 766.
Mr. F. Wright Moxley, with whom Mr. Harry F. White
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Sol A. Rosenblatt, with whom Mr. Nathan Burkan
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This proceeding, commenced in 1923 in the federal
court for southern New York, is what is called a friendly
receivership. The federal jurisdiction was invoked solely
on the ground of diversity of citizenship. The plaintiff,
Hatch, a citizen of New York, is the holder of a dishonored check of the sole defendant, the Morosco Holding
Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, apparently with
its principal place of business in New York. The bill
alleges that the Company has a variety of assets, largely
intangible, and many liabilities; and that, although financially embarrassed, it is solvent. The prayers are that
the court administer its entire property; appoint for this
purpose a receiver; and enjoin all persons from interfering
with his possession. An answer presented with the bill
admitted its allegations and joined in its prayers. Riehle

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of 'the Court.

279 U. S.

was appointed receiver. Thereafter orders were entered
restraining the prosecution of suits against the Company
and directing creditors to file with the receiver their
claims against the Company. So far as appears no order
of distribution has been made.
Among the Company's creditors, but not mentioned in
the bill, was Margolies. Two months before the institution of this suit in the federal court, he had commenced
in the Supreme Court of New York an action against the
Company to recover $124,381 for breach of a contract.
That action, in which the Company had filed an answer
and counterclaim, was pending when the receiver was appointed. It was stayed by the order of the federal court.
Margolies did not, so far as appears, challenge the jurisdiction of the federal court. Compare Harkinb v. Brundage,
276 U. S.36, 51-52; Lion Bonding & Surety Co. v. Karatz,
262 U. S.77, 85; Pusey & Jones Co.v. Hanssen, 261 U. S.
491, 500. He applied to it for a modification of the order
so that he might prosecute his action in the state court;
and he sought to have the receiver directed to contest
or liquidate the claim there. The denial by the District
Court of that motion, and the contention by the receiver
that the judgment later recovered in the state court is
not to be accepted in the receivership proceedings as conclusive proof of the existence and amount of Margolies'
claim, have been the subject of four decisions by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The
last of them only is here for review; but what happened
earlier must be stated. The record of the proceedings
is fragmentary, but supplemented by the opinions of the
Court of Appeals shows the following:
On the first appeal, Hatch v. Morosco Holding Co., 5 F.
(2d) 1015, the unanimous court reversed with costs, as
"a plain violatior1 of § 265 of the Judicial Code," the refusal of the District Court to permit Margolies to prosecute his claim in the state court. In doing so, the ap-

RIEHLE v. MARGOLIES.
218

Opinion of the Court.

pellate court said: "A direction will, however, be included
in our mandate, and in the order to be entered thereupon,
that should any judgment be entered in said action in the
State court, such judgment shall not be taken to be a
liquidation of any claim filed or capable of being filed
under the judgment [sic] creditors' bill herein, or as in
any way affecting the right of the receiver to contest the
claim so reduced to judgment de novo. Nothing, however, in our mandate shall be taken to prevent the court
below permitting liquidation of Margolies' claim by suit
in the state court, should it prefer so to do."
Upon the coming down of the mandate, Margolies
moved in the District Court that the receiver be directed
to liquidate the claim in the action pending in the state
court. The motion was denied. Thereupon, formal notice of trial of that action was served upon both the receiver and the attorney of record of the Company. Neither appeared at the trial. Judgment by default was
taken against the Company; and upon an inquest as to
the amount of the damages, judgment was entered in the
sum of $55,283.88 which included interest and costs.
Thereupon, Margolies moved in the Circuit Court of Appeals that its mandate on the first appeal be recalled and
corrected, so that the receiver should not be permitted
to try de novo in the District Court the issue on his
claim. This motion was denied by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, apparently without an opinion.
Margolies then filed in the District Court his verified
proof of claim; and at a hearing thereon had before a
special master presented an exemplified copy of the judgment in the state court. The receiver thereupon announced his election "to have the claim tried de novo ";
the master recommended that the claim be dismissed
"upon the authority of the opinion of the Court of Appeals," and the District Court ordered that Margolies'
claim be dismissed. This order was the subject of another

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

appeal by Margolies. Hatch v. Morosco Holding Co.,
Inc., Appeal of Margolies, 19 F. (2d) 766. There the
court held, by a majority decision, that the direction in
the mandate to the effect that any judgment recovered
in the state court should not affect the right of the receiver
to contest the claim de novo in the federal court had been
improvidently made. It, therefore, reversed the judgment of the District Court and remanded the cause for
further proceedings.
At the hearing then had before the special master Margolies put in evidence the judgment and rested. The
receiver offered to prove that the claim was less than the
amount of the judgment. The master excluded the evidence and recommended that judgment be entered for the
full amount save for a small deduction directed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the interest allowed by the
state court, which is not challenged here. His report was
confirmed by the District Court. The receiver appealed
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. It affirmed the judgment, Hatch v. Morosco Holding Co., Inc., Ex parte
Margolies, 26 F. (2d) 247; but, in doing so, said: "A
majority of the court, as it is now constituted, think that
our first decision impairs the jurisdiction of the District
Court over assets already in its custody when the judgment of the state court was entered. They believe that
liquidation of claims is a part of the distribution of the
estate, since it determines how much each creditor shall
get, and that the distribution of the estate is part of what
is usually understood as jurisdiction over the res. However, the former decision was reached after unusual deliberation and full presentation of all the questions involved. If it is to be changed, only the Supreme Court
may do so; in the same case and on the same claim the
first ruling must stand." This Court then granted a writ
of certiorari. 278 U. S. 591. We are of opinion that the

RIEHLE v. MARGOLIES.
218

Opinion of the Court.

view there expressed by the majority is erroneous and that
the judgment should be affirmed.
The appointment of a receiver of a debtor's property
by a federal court confers upon it, regardless of citizenship
and of the amount in controversy, federal jurisdiction to
decide all questions incident to the preservation, collection
and distribution of the assets. It may do this either in
the original suit, Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47, 49-50, or
by ancillary proceedings, White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36.
Compare Kelley v. Gill, 245 U. S. 116, 119. And it may,
despite § 265 of the Judicial Code, issue under § 262 or
otherwise, all writs necessary to protect from interference
all property in its possession. Julian v. Central Trust Co.,
193 U. S. 93, 112. But the appointment of the receiver
does not necessarily draw to the federal court the exclusive
right to determine all questions or rights of action affecting the debtor's estate. Calhounv. Lanaux, 127 U. S. 634,
637-639. This is true, a fortiori, as to the subject matter
of a suit pending in a state court when the receivership
suit was begun. Compare Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S.
254. The rule that, when the jurisdiction of a court, and
the right of a plaintiff to prosecute his suit in it, have once
attached the right cannot be restrained by proceedings
in any other court, applies to protect the jurisdiction of
the state court unless the case is within some recognized
exception to § 265 of the Judicial Code. Compare Hull
v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 723; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor,
254 U. S. 175, 182-184; Essanay Film Co. v. Kane, 258
U. S. 358, 361; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v.
Wells, 265 U. S. 101, 103. Here there is no basis for any
such exception.
The contention that the judgment is not conclusive
rests upon the argument that, because the appointment
of the receiver draws to the appointing court control of
the assets, and in the distribution of them among creditors

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

there is necessarily involved a determination both of the
existence of the claim and of the amount of the indebtedness, the federal court must have the exclusive power to
make that determination. The argument ignores the fact
that an order which results in the distribution of assets
among creditors has ordinarily a twofold aspect. In so
far as it directs distribution, and.fixes the time and manner
of distribution, it deals directly with the property. In so
far as it determines, or recognizes a prior determination
of the existence and amount of the indebtedness of the
defendant to the several creditors seeking to participate,
it does not deal directly with any of the poperty. The
latter function, which, is spoken of as the liquidation of a
claim, is strictly a proceeding in personam. Of course, no
one can obtain any part of the assets, or enforce a right
to specific property in the possession of a receiver, except
upon application to the court which appointed him. Lion
Bonding & Surety Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77, 88-9. But
the judgment of the state court does not purport to deal
with the property. The sole question involved there was
the existence and amount of Margolies' claim against the
corporation. And the sole question involved here is the
proof of that claim. There is no inherent reason why the
adjudication of the liability of the debtor in personam may
not be had in some court other than that which has control of the res. It is only necessary that in the receivership proof of the claim be made in an orderly way, so that
it may be established who the creditors are and the
amounts due them.
The power to fix the time for distribution may include
the power, in the exercise of judicial discretion, to decline
to postpone distribution awaiting disposition of litigation
in another court over a contested claim. Compare Win.
Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U. S. 597, 602; Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. New York City Ry., 229 Fed. 120.
But there is no reason why the character of the proof

RIEHLE v. MARGOLIES.
218

Opinion of the Court.

required in the receivership suit for any purpose should
be different from that which would have been required
had the judgment in the state court been rendered prior
to the appointment of the receiver; or from that which
would be required if an independent suit on the judgment were brought in the federal court. It would hardly
be doubted that a final judgment, recovered in a state
court prior to the commencement of the receivership suit,
would establish conclusively the existence and amount of
the claim against the debtor, if later a decree were entered
in the federal court distributing the funds in the receiver's
hands among its creditors. Whether such a judgment recovered in a suit commenced after the appointment of
the receiver would operate as res judicata we need not
consider. For Margolies' suit was begun before. He
had, under § 265 of the Judicial Code, the right to prosecute that suit to judgment despite the institution later of
the receivership proceedings. He must have, as an incident thereof, the further right to have it accepted therein
as an adjudication of the existence of the indebtedness.
The fact that neither the Company nor the receiver undertook to defend in the state court is, in this connection,
immaterial. A judgment of a court having jurisdiction
of the parties and of the subject matter operates as res
judicata, in the absence of fraud or collusion, even if obtained upon a default. Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler
Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 691. Compare Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122.
The establishment of a claim constituting the basis of
the right to participate in the distribution of property in
the possession of one court is often conclusively determined by a judgment obtained in another court. Thus,
a judgment of a federal court may establish conclusively
the fact which entitles one to share in a decedent's estate
in course of administration in a state court. Yonley v.
Lavender, 21 Wall 276; Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73;
45228 -29-15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, 620; Waterman v. CanalLouisiana Bank, 215 U. S. 33. Under the Bankruptcy
Act of 1867, a judgment against the debtor rendered in
a suit in a state court pending at the time of the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings established conclusively in bankruptcy the existence and amount of the
debt provable against the estate. Norton v. Switzer, 93
U. S. 355, 363-364. Compare Hill v. Harding, 107 U. S.
631. A judgment in a state court against a receiver, pursuant to § 66 of the Judicial Code, establishes conclusively
the right to payment from the funds of the receivership,
although the Act makes the suit in the state court "subject to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in which
such manager or receiver was appointed so far as the
same shall be necessary to the ends of justice." 1 Where
a receivership of a national bank is appointed by the
Comptroller of the Currency, a judgment entered after the
appointment in an action commenced in a state court
before the appointment is binding upon the receivers as
well as upon the bank. Speckert v. German National
Bank, 98 Fed. 151, 154.
The rule that the appointment by a federal court of a
receiver on a creditor's bill gives it no right to stay a suit
then pending in a state court and that the judgment in
personam thereafter recovered therein in the state court
against the debtor must be held to have established conclusively the existence and amount of the claim for the
purpose of proof in the federal court, and will enable the
claimant to participate in a distribution among creditors
ICentral Trust Co. v. St. Louis, Arkansas & Texas Ry. Co., 41 Fed.
551; Dillingham v. Hawk, 60 Fed. 494; St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v.
Holbrook, 73 Fed. 112; Willcox v. Jones, 177 Fed. 870; Manhattan
Trust Co. v. Chicago Electric Traction Co., 188 Fed. 1006; American
Brakeshoe & Foundry Co. v. Pere Marquette R. R. Co., 263 Fed.
237, 278 Fed. 832; International& Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Adkins,
14 F. (2d) 149.

RIEHLE v. MARGOLIES.
218

Opinion of the Court.

of the debtor's property ordered therein, has long been
applied in some of the lower federal courts.2 No case has
been found in which the right has been denied. A like
rule has been applied in state courts.3 In Pendleton v.
Russell, 144 U. S. 640, 644, it was sought to prove against
funds of a dissolved corporation in the hands of a receiver
appointed by a court of New York a judgment recovered
in Tennessee after the dissolution. The proof was disallowed because the dissolution had operated, like death, as

an abatement of the suit.

But the court said: "Had the

original judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States been affirmed, instead of being reversed, it having
been rendered when the insurance company was in existence, it would have stood as a valid claim against the
assets of that company after its dissolution."
There are some cases arising under the Bankruptcy
Act and some under state insolvency laws in which a
judgment recovered in the state court was held not to
2 Mercantile Trust Co. v. Pittsburg & Western R. R. Co., 29 Fed.
732; Pine Lake Iron Co. v. Lafayette Car Works, 53 Fed. 853. Compare Shelby v. Bacon, 10 How. 56, 69-70; Wilder v. City of New
Orleans, 87 Fed. 843, 848; Anglo-American Land, etc. Co. v. CheshirF
Provident Institution, 124 Fed. 464, 466; Pennsylvania Steel Co. v.
New York City Ry. Co., 161 Fed. 786, 787; United States v. Illinois
Surety Co., 238 Fed. 840, 846; International& Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Adkins, 14 F. (2d) 149, 152.
3Prin~lev. Woolworth, 90 N. Y. 502; Taylor v. Gray, 59 N. J. Eq.
621; St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co. v Green, (Texas Civil Appeals) 183
S. W. 829, 833. See "Judgment Claims in Receivership Proceedings"
by Judge John K. Beach, 30 Yale Law Journal 674. Compare Central Trust Co. v. D'Arcy, 238 Mo. 676, where the rule was applied to
proof under an assignment for the benefit of creditors; Mattr of Empire State Surety Co., 216 N. Y. 273, 283. See contra Evans V.
Illinois Surety Co., 319 Ill. 105, in which the difference between an
equity receivership and receivers under bankruptcy or insolvency laws
was not referred to. Cases like In re New Jersey Refrigerating Co.,
97 N. J. Eq. 358, where both actions are brought in courts of the same
State, depend, of course, upon the local law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

be conclusive in the bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Thus, it has been held by some lower federal courts
that a judgment recovered after institution of bankruptcy proceedings in an action commenced in a state
court prior thereto, on a claim to which the limited
power to stay action in a state court conferred by § 11
of the Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 549, applies,
is not to be accepted in bankruptcy as conclusive proof
of the claim." Similarly it has been held, where a statutory proceeding for the winding up of an insolvent corporation is brought in the State of the incorporation, that
the assets will be distributed only among those persons
who have been found to be creditors either by that court
or elsewhere with its leave; and that a judgment recovered in another State without leave from it will not entitle the plaintiff, to share in the assets.5 These decisions
are not inconsistent with the conclusion stated above.
They have no application to receiverships in a federal
court sitting in equity, which lacks the power to stay an
action in the state court. Margolies had the absolute
right to prosecute his claim to judgment in the state court;
the order of the District Court staying its prosecution
was properly dissolved; and the judgment entered there
is conclusive as between the parties and their privies in
the federal court. Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260
U. S. 226, 230, 233.

Affirmed.

4 In re Hoey, Tilden & Co., 292 Fed. 269, 271; In re James A.
Brady Foundry Co., 3 F. (2d) 437; In re Barrett & Co., 27 F. (2d)
159. Whether that is the correct rule we have no occasion to consider. See contra In re Buchan's Soap Corp., 169 Fed. 1017. Compare Hobbs v. Head & Dowst Co., 184 Fed. 409; In re Benwood
Brewing Co., 202 Fed. 326, 327-8; In re Havens, 272 Fed. 975; In re
Rothenstein, 276 Fed. 704; In re Kelley, 297 Fed. 676; In re Winter,
17 F. (2d) 153.
5 Attorney General v. Legion of Honor, 196 Mass. 151; Hackett v
Legion of Honor, 206 Mass. 139, 142.

