NEW YORK v. LATROBE.
415

Syllabus.

formed, relief which, it was held, would operate practically
to set aside the order of the Commission. Here respondent
does not ask that the order be set aside or that it be regarded as illegal and void; it insists only that the order
did not purport to deal with the contract between the carriers, and so cannot have the effect, attributed to it by
petitioner, of annulling the contract. The question is
merely one of the legal effect of the order. Neither party
contests its validity or asks that the carrier be compelled
to do anything inconsistent with its terms.
Affirmed.
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK v. GAM1BLE LATROBE, JR., ET A., TRUSTEES IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE THERMIODYNE RADIO CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 601.

Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. The issued capital stock of a foreign corporation may constitu-

tionally be made the basis of a state franchise or license tax at a
flat rate per share, when apportioned to the property and business
of the corporation within the State. P. 426.
2. The kind and number of shares with which a foreign corporation
is permitted to carry on its business within the State is a part of
the privilege which the State extends to it and is a proper element
to be taken into account in fixing a tax on the privilege. Id.
3. The measurement of such a tax upon a foreign corporation at a
flat rate upon its issued stock, either par or non-par, used within
the State, is reasonably related to the privilege granted by the
State and to the protection of its own interest in the maintenance
of its similar policy of taxation with respect to domestic corporations and so does not infringe any constitutional immunity. P. 427.
4. Measurement of the tax at a flat rate per share on non-par value
stock and at a fixed percentage of par value on par-value stock is
based on a reasonable classification because of the different char-

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

acteristics of the two kinds of shares, and is therefore consistent
with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 428.
28 F. (2d) 1017, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming an order of the District Court rejecting a
claim for taxes made by the State of New York in a bankruptcy proceeding. The court below adopted the opinion
of the District Court. 26 F. (2d) 713.

Mr. Wendell P. Brown, Third Assistant Attorney General, with whom Messrs. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New York, and Robert P. Beyer, Deputy Assistant
Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Ralph Montgomery Arkush, with whom Mr. James
L Boyce was oh the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUsTI E STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal under § 240 of the Judicial Code from
a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirming, on the opinion of the court below, 26 F. (2d)
713, an order of the District Court for Delaware expunging the claim in bankruptcy of appellant, the State of
New York, for unpaid taxes assessed by it against the
bankrupt corporation.
Section 181, Article 9, of the Tax Law of New' York, c.
62, Laws of 1909, as amended, imposes on every foreign
corporation doing business in that state a tax computed
upon the basis of the capital stock employed by it within
the state during the first year it does business there; the
amount of its stock so employed being that proportion
of its total issued capital stock which its gross assets employed within the state bear to its gross assets wherever
employed. In the case of stock having a par value, the
tax is fixed at / of 1% of the par value of its stock so

NEW YORK v. LATROBE.
421

Opinion of the Court.

employed; for stock of no par value the fee is 6 cents per
share. The tax, denominated a "license fee," is paid but
once, purports to be imposed on the corporation "for the
privilege of exercising its corporate franchises or carrying on its business in such corporate or organized capacity
in this state," and the obligation to pay it is made a prerequisite to obtaining a certificate of authority from the
state and to the continuance of business there. People
ex rel. Griffith v. Loughman, 249 N. Y. 369. But the
foreign corporation is permitted to transact business and
make valid contracts within the state prior to payment
of the tax, which of necessity cannot be computed or paid
until after the first year has elapsed. The tax is evidently the complement of the organization fee, computed
in like fashion on the authorized capital stock of domestic corporations by Chapter 143 of the Laws of 1886. See
People ex rel Elliott-FischerCo. v. Sohmer, 148 App. Div.
514, aff'd 206 N. Y. 634.
The bankrupt is a Delaware corporation whose authorized capital stock consists of 250,000 shares without par
value, all of which has been issued at an average price
of $2.32 per share. It commenced doing business in New
York in November, 1924, and its total assets were used
in its business in that state during the following year.
The value of its tangible assets is alleged to have been
but $280,000, or about $1.12 per share, and its intangible
property to have been of no value. A tax of $15,000,
computed at 6 cents per share, was assessed against it,
and is the basis of the present claim.
The rejection of the claim by the referee was upheld
by the district court on the sole ground that the tax on the
bankrupt's non-par stock at the fixed rate of 6 cents per
share, without regard to its true value or the amount paid
into the corporation upon its issue, infringed the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

court thought that, as the tax could not be regarded as a
true admission fee imposed as a condition of entrance into
the state and the corporation was thus in a position to
invoke the equal protection clause, see Hanover Ins. Co. v.
Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 510, the invalidity of the taxing
statute was established by the decision of this Court
in Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71,
83, since foreign corporations having the same amount of
business and property both within and without the state,
but with a different number of issued non-par shares,
might be required to pay a tax differing from each other
and from other foreign corporations with par value stock
having like property within and without the state. The
Court of Appeals of New York has since reached the opposite conclusion both as to the nature of the tax and its
constitutionality. People ex rel. Griffith v. Loughman,
supra.
For present purposes we need not determine whether
the tax may be sustained because imposed as a condition
of entrance into the state, for, assuming that the bankrupt corporation was within the state and thus entitled to
equal protection, Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding, supra;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 417, we do not
deem the decision in the Air-Way case controlling, nor the
tax so unreasonable or discriminatory as to deprive the
bankrupt of.any constitutional immunity.
The question presented in the Air-Way case was
whether a state franchise tax imposed on a foreign corporation, based upon its total authorized non-par shares,
only a small part of which had been issued, was forbidden.
In holding that the tax infringed the equal protection
clause, the Court was careful to point out that it was a
tax computed upon the number of authorized shares of
such a corporation, whether or not subscribed for or issued,
and so had no relation to the value of the privilege exercised by the foreign corporation within the state and was

NEW YORK v. LATROBE.
421

Opinion of the Court.

not a reasonable measure of the tax imposed on such a
privilege. And in Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson,
271 U. S. 50, in upholding a franchise tax similar to that
here involved upon a domestic corporation having non-par
shares, whose entire authorized stock had been issued, this
Court, in speaking of the decision in the Air-Way case,
said (p. 54):
"While one factor in the computation of the tax was
properly the proportion of the corporation's business done
and property owned within the State, the other factor
was the amount of its authorized capital stock, only a part
of which had actually been issued. The authority to issue
its capital stock was a privilege conferred by another
State and bore no relation to any franchise granted to it
by the State of Ohio or to its business and property within
that State. When authorized capital stock is taken as the
basis of the tax, variations in the amount of the tax are
obtained, according as the corporation has a large or small
amount of unissued capital stock. This was held, in the
Air-Way Case, to be an unconstitutional discrimination,
since it resulted in a tax larger than the tax imposed on
other corporations with like privileges and like business
and property within the State, but with a smaller capital
authorized under the laws of the State of their creation."
But the computation of the present tax is not, as in the
Air-Way case, based upon the mere authority of the corporation to issue stock, a privilege conferred by another
state and not fully exercised. Instead it is calculated on
the number of shares of stock actually issued and used by
the corporation in carrying on its business within the
state. There is no complaint of discrimination between
foreign and domestic corporations and no attempt to tax
property outside the state, since the tax is apportioned to
the property used within it. See InternationalShoe Co.
v. Shartel, post, p. 429. So we come to different questions
from any presented in the Air-Way case: Whether issued

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

capital stock of foreign corporations may be made the
basis of a franchise or license tax at a flat rate per share
when apportioned to the property and business of the corporation within the state, and whether the taxing act may
discriminate by placing in one class corporations having
par value stock and in another corporations having stock
without par value.
1. It is said that the tax computed on the number of
non-par shares at a flat rate may bear little relation to
the property and business of the corporation within the
state and consequently corporations having like property
and business within the state, but with a different non-par
capitalization, may be required to pay a different tax.
But this is equally true of corporations having par value
stock, even though full value be paid in on its issue. Par
value and actual value of issued stock are not synonymous
and there is often a wide disparity between them. Par
value has long been a familiar basis of computing a franchise tax upon foreign corporations, and when otherwise
unobjectionable has been repeatedly upheld by this Court.
See St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350; Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290;Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts,246 U. S. 147.
We have likewise sustained a state franchise tax on foreign corporations, measured by a fixed percentage of its
non-par stock valued, as required by the statute, at $25
per share, and apportioned to the property and business
of the corporation within the state. Margay Oil Corporation v. Applegate, 273 U. S. 666; aff'g 167 Ark. 614; Gilliland Oil Co. v. Arkansas, 274 U. S. 717, aff'g 171 Ark. 415.
The kind and number of shares with which a foreign
corporation is permitted to carry on its business within the
state is a part of the privilege which the state extends to it
and is a proper element to be taken into account in fixing
a tax on the privilege. It may be assumed that if the
doing of business with a greater number of non-par shares

NEW YORK v. LATROBE.
421

Opinion of the Court.

is not deemed by the taxpayer to be a valuable privilege,
it will reduce the number of shares as the statute permits.
A state which has adopted a permissible scheme of franchise tax for domestic corporations, based on capital stock,
Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, supra, has a legitimate interest in imposing a like burden on foreign corporations which it permits to carry on business there, and
we can perceive no constitutional objection to its protecting that interest by such a tax where, as here, it is limited
to shares actually issued, is not assailed as confiscatory,
does not reach either directly or indirectly property beyond
the state and does not discriminate between foreign and
domestic corporations, or between foreign corporations of
like organization and property.
There is nothing in the Constitution which requires a
state to adopt the best possible system of taxation.
Southwestern Oil Company v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 126;
DelawareRailroadTax Cases, 18 Wall. 206,231. Although
permissible, a franchise tax need not be based solely on
the amount of business done or property owned within
the state. It may be rested on the nature of the business.
Southwestern Oil Company v. Texas, supra; Quong Wing
v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; American Sugar Refining Co.
v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.
270, 275; see Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540, 562, or the particular form in which if is carried on,
see Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606,
so long as it bears some real and reasonable relation to the
privilege granted or to the protection of the interests of
the state. See Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson,
supra, at p. 57.
We think that the measurement of such a tax upon a
foreign corporation at a flat rate upon its corporate stock,
either par or non-par, used within the state, is likewise
reasonably related to the privilege granted by the state
and to the protection of its own interest in the mainte-

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

nance of its similar policy of taxation with respect to
domestic corporations and so does not infringe any constitutional immunity.
2. Nor is such a tax to be deemed a denial of equal protection because a different measure or method of computing the tax is applied to corporations having non-par
stock from that applied to corporations having stock of
par value. In Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson,
supra, at p. 56, it was pointed out that there were such
differences between par and non-par shares, both in their
legal incidents and their actual use, and such practical
difficulties in measuring a tax by the latter except by
assigning to them an artificial or fixed value or assessing
them at a flat rate, as to justify the classification for purposes of a franchise tax on domestic corporations. It was
accordingly held that such a tax may be based on the par
value of shares of corporations having par value stock,
and on a fixed value assigned to non-par shares, regardless
of their actual value or the varying amounts paid in upon
them.
But these differences between the two classes of stock,
and especially the difference in the rights of creditors of the two classes or corporations,' equally justify
classification and discrimination between them in fixing a
franchise tax based on corporate stock of foreign corporations. The inequalities in the tax result from a classification founded upon real differences, hence the resulting
1 The use of non-par stock which may be issued at any price
deemed wise, at the particular time, by the directors or stockholders,
see New York Stock Corporation Law, § 69; Missouri Stock Corporation Law, § 5, or in many cases for property without fixing a price,
and which has no fixed or designated amount dedicated to capital or
surplus respectively, makes difficult the determination of the true
capital of the corporation which it is required to keep intact and the
amount which any particular stockholder is bound to pay for his
stock. See Berle, Problems of Non-Par Stock, 25 Columbia Law

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. SHARTEL.
421

Syllabus.

discrimination is not arbitrary or prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in the result.
INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY v. SHARTEL,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 579. Argued April 25, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. In assessing an annual franchise tax upon foreign and domestic
corporations, on the basis of the value of outstanding capital stock
employed in business within the State, the amount of the tax
against a corporation having shares of stock without nominal or
par value, may be ascertained by assigning a specific value to
such shares and applying to it the rate applicable to the parvalue stock; and a statute so providing does not operate as a
denial of the equal protection of the laws. P. 432.
2. This method does not operate to tax the property or franchise
of a foreign corporation without the State, even though the value
so assigned to its non-par shares that are apportioned to the State
exceed their present worth or the present value of its assets within
the State. Giving to the shares a specified value by which the tax
is measured, only affects the rate of tax on the privilege taxed.
P. 432.
Rev. 43; Ballantine, Corporations (1927) § 217; cf. Johnson v. Louisvle Trust Co., 293 Fed. 857. Resulting difficulties in the enforcement by creditors of the liability of directors for improper diversion
of capital or of stockholders for unpaid subscriptions, have been
often urged as arguments against any use of non-par stock. 1 Cook,
Corporations (1923) § 45d; Bonbright, Dangers of Shares without
Par Value, 24 Columbia Law Rev. 449; Ripley, Railroads-Finance &
Organization (1915) 91; Cook, Stock without Par Value, 19 Michigan Law Rev. 583.

