SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
737

Syllabus.

laches on the part of the white order, but also that the circumstances were such that its laches barred it from asserting an exclusive right, or seeking equitable relief, as
against the negro order. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias,
225 U. S. 246, 261-263; Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson
Co., 179 U. S. 19, 35-37; Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405, 416;
Hayward v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 611, 617; French Republic v. Saratoga Vichy Co., 191 U. S. 427, 436-437;
Benedict v. City of New York, 250 U. S. 321, 328; Du
Boulay v. Du Boulay, L. R. 2 P. C. 430, 446.
As it is apparent that had this view of the question of
laches prevailed in the state court, the federal right set
up by the negro order must have been sustained, the
decree must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Decree reversed.
SINCLAIR

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 748.

Argued April 22, 23, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

1. By the procurement of the defendant in a criminal case and of
others acting by his direction, the jurors, throughout the progress
of the trial, were systematically shadowed by a corps of private
detectives, each of whom, having at first identified his subject
within the court room, would follow him closely while away from
it. Jurors were thus kept under strict surveillance from early
morning until late at night, whenever not actually within the
court house. Investigations were also made by the operatives
concerning encumbrances on the home of one juror and to determine whether another had indicated his views during the trial.
Daily reports were made by the operatives to one of their employers. Held:
(1) That such surveillance of jurors was a criminal contempt,

under Jud. Code § 268, on the part of its instigators, although it
did not appear that any operative actually approached or com-

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

279 U. S.

municated with a juror, or attempted to do so, or that any juror
was conscious of observation. P. 762.
(2) To establish misbehavior within the statute, it was not essential to shnw some act both known to a juror and probably sufficient
to influence his mind. The reasonable tendency of the acts done
was to obstruct the honest and fair administration of justice; and
this is the proper criterion. P. 764.
(3) The acts in question were sufficiently near the court to
obstruct the administration of justice, most of them having been
within the court room, near the door of the court house, or within
the city where the trial was held. P. 765.
2. A defendant in a criminal trial and others acting for him, when
accused of contempt in causing the jurors to be shadowed, can not
exculpate themselves by proving like wrongful conduct, amounting
to a practice, by the Department of Justice, in other cases. P. 765.
3. A refusal to call and hear very numerous witnesses offered by persons who had been convicted of contempt in the shadowing of jurors
and who sought by such witnesses to prove like conduct of the
Department of Justice in other cases in mitigation of their punishment, held within the proper discretion of the trial court, the defendants having been allowed full opportunity to advise the court of
their knowledge, beliefs and state of mind by answer and affidavits
and by the verbal statements of themselves and their counsel.
Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517, distinguished. P. 766.
4. The language used in an opinion must be read in the light of the
issues presented. P. 767.
5. Where the court decides the fact and the law without the intervention of a jury, the admission of illegal testimony, even if material, is
not of itself a ground for reversing the judgment. P. 767.
Sup. Ct. D. C., affirmed in part; reversed in part.

REvIEw of a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia sentencing appellants for contempt.
Appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of the District.
Several questions of law were certified by that court, and
thereafter this Court ordered up the entire record. The
conviction is here reversed as to one of the appellants,
William J. Burns, for want of sufficient evidence, but
affirmed as to the others.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Martin W. Littleton and George P. Hoover for
Sinclair.
Messrs. Daniel Thew Wright and Philip Ershler for
Day.
Mr. Charles A. Douglas, with whom Messrs. Jo V.
Morgan and Frederick C. Bryan were on the brief, for
William J. Burns and W. Sherman Burns.
Mr. Owen J. Roberts for the United States.
MR. JusIc

MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
November 22, 1927, the United States, by their attorney, presented to the Supreme Court, District of Columbia,
a written petition for an order requiring appellants Harry
F. Sinclair, William J. Burns, W. Sherman Burns, and
Henry Mason Day to show cause why they should not be
punished for contempt of that court.
This petition alleged:That on October 17th, 1927, United States v. Harry F.
Sinclair and Albert B. Fall, wherein the defendants were
charged with conspiracy to defraud, came on for trial.
Twelve persons selected as jurors were sworn at 12:20
P. M., October 18th, and thereafter the United States
proceeded to present evidence. The jury was respited
from day to day, until November 2nd when it was discharged and a mistrial entered because of charges of improper conduct by a juror, and proof showing that "there
were a large number of operatives of the William J. Burns
International Detective Agency of New York, then engaged in the District of Columbia, since October 18th,
1927, in a close, intimate, objectionable, and improper surveillance and investigation of the jurors aforesaid and the
relatives, neighbors, and friends of said jurors."

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court

279 U. S.

That immediately after the jury was sworn Sinclair
directed Day to engage the William J. Burns International
Detective Agency, to receive reports therefrom and supervise the activities of its operatives for the following objects: "To spy upon said jurors and each of them, to bribe,
intimidate and influence said jurors and each of them,
and to do anything calculated to interfere with and impede
said jurors and each of them in the unbiased discharge
of their duties in the trial of said cause, and to influence
pervert, impede, and prevent said jurors in the discharge
of their duties as jurors, and to impede, pervert, and prevent the due administration of justice in said court in the
trial of said criminal prosecution, either by corruptly influencing said jurors to decide the issues of said prosecution in favor of the defendants therein, or to disagree as
to said issues, by unlawfully spying upon the said jurors
and each of them for the purpose of concocting false
charges against one or more of the said jurors, in case such
a course should seem advantageous to said defendants in
said cause, with a view of bringing about a mistrial of
the cause aforesaid.; or otherwise accomplish such purpose."
That Day employed the Agency through W. Sherman
Burns, an officer then in New York; on the following day
fifteen named operatives were amsembled in Washington
and assigned to spy upon, investigate, and shadow jurors.
They continued so to do until November 2nd.
That William J. Burns then actively engaged in ronducting the affairs of the Detective Agency visited Washington October 12 and 13th and arranged for the intended operations. November 3rd he returned and in
pursuance of the general plan, procured a false affidavit
concerning the conduct of Juror Glasscock which was
presented to the trial Judge.
That operatives and employees of the Detective Agency
investigated encumbrances on the home of one juror,

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

also the affairs of his neighbors; made an investigation of
the brother and father of another juror; and one of them
[McMullin] falsely reported that Juror Glasscock was
seen in conference with an attorney for the United States.
That the operatives reported daily to their superior
officer who disclosed the result to Day and Sinclair, the
original reports being sent to W. Sherman Burns, New
York City.
"That, at all times hereinbefore mentioned, each of the
persons above named as respondents to this petition well
knew all the premises aforesaid, and well knew that said
criminal prosecution was being conducted in said court as
aforesaid, that said prosecution was not finished, that said
jurors were sworn jurors trying the issues in said cause in
said court as aforesaid; that they the said respondents
were not, as in fact they were not, called upon or authorized by said court, or by anybody in authority, to spy
upon said jurors or any of them, or to bribe, molest, intimidate, or influence said jurors or any of them, or to do anything calculated to interfere with or impede said jurors
of [or] any of them in the unbiased discharge of their said
duties, or to influence, pervert, prevent, or in any manner,
or to any extent, impede, the due administration of justice
in said court in the trial of said criminal prosecution,
either by corruptly influencing said jurors to decide the issues of said prosecution in favor of the defendants therein,
or to disagree as to said issues, by unlawfully spying upon
said jurors or any of them for the purpose of concocting
false charges against one or more of said jurors, in case
such a course should seem advantageous to said defendants in said cause, with a view of bringing about a mistrial
of the cause aforesaid."
The rule issued. Appellants presented separate answers
under oath.
They challenged the sufficiency of the petition to charge
anything done in the presence of the court or near thereto
45228°-29-----48

754

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

which obstructed or impeded due administration of justice, or tended so to do. They denied any purpose to
establish "contact" between an operative and a juror,
or that there was such contact; also any purpose to exert
improper influence. They asserted the legal right under
the circumstances to shadow jurors without contact; admitted employment of detectives who diligently followed
the jurors while without the court room and made daily
reports in respect of them.
The answer of William J. Burns stated that since
August, 1921, he had not actively directed the affairs of
the Detective Agency and was not aware until October
31st, 1927, when advised by a newspaper correspondent,
that it had been employed to shadow the jury. He admitted presence in Washington October 12th and 13th,
1927, but denied that his visit had any connection with
employment by Sinclair or his representatives. He also
denied improper connection with the false affidavit concerning juror Glasscock by William J. McMullin, alias
Long, also any association, directly or indirectly, with that
operative until after the mistrial. And further: "This
respondent says that had his advice been sought upon the
subject he would unhesitatingly have advised that such
employment was a lawful and proper practice frequently
followed by the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice of the United States on behalf of the
Government, as well as by private litigaans, both plaintiffs and defendants, in instances where juries are not
kept together during the trial of a cause."
The answer of W. Sherman Burns admitted that he was
secretary and treasurer of the Detective Agency and with
his brother directed its operation; that on October 18th
he accepted employment from Day to watch individual
members of the jury and to report whether any person
sought or established contact with them, but he averred
that all operatives obeyed their strict instruction to do

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

nothing calculated to interfere with or intimidate any
juror. He denied that he procured the making of any
false affidavit or was guilty of improper conduct. And
further: " If by the statement in said petition that 'they,
the said respondents, were not, as in fact they were not,
called upon or authorized by said court or by anybody
in authority' to spy upon the said jurors or any of them,
it is meant to charge or to imply that the right to exercise surveillance of a jury empanelled in any cause is a
right reserved exclusively to, and one that can be exercised only by, the government of the United States or
its prosecuting officers, this respondent is advised by counsel that there is no warrant in law therefor, and this respondent is further advised by counsel that the Agency
and its officers and operatives were strictly within the
letter and spirit of the law in accepting the employment
hereinbefore described and defined, and in doing the work
thereunder, and that no contempt of this honorable court
was committed thereby."
The answer of Harry F. Sinclair admitted that he authorized the employment through Day of operatives of the
Detective Agency for the purpose of shadowing the members of the jury without establishing contact, and that
some fifteen operatives were assembled in Washington on
October 19th who for a number of days thereafter kept
the jurors under surveillance and made daily reports.
He averred that he had cause to believe he had been under
surveillance by representatives of the United States and
feared efforts would be made unlawfully to influence the
jury. Also that in the circumstances he rightly put the
jury under observation. And further: "Having in mind
the matters and things herein set forth, and believing that
in cases involving great public interest the government
from time to time had kept jurors under surveillance during the time of such trials, and, entertaining such belief
that the government of the United States had exercised

756

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

such right and privilege, he believed that he, as a citizen
of the United States, had the same right and privilege."
The answer of Henry Mason Day. admitted that by
direction of Sinclair he engaged the services of the Detective Agency, supervised their activities, received their reports and forwarded the same to Sinclair as deemed
expedient. He alleged that he had reason to believe an
attempt would be made unlawfully to influence the jury
and that he had the right to cause the operatives to observe
the jurors with the view of detecting any unlawful interference. He admitted that detectives were assembled in
Washington and assigned to shadow the jurors and make
reports; but he expressly denied any purpose improperly
to influence or permit any operatives to establish contacts
with them. He further said: "As the representative,
friend and business associate of Harry F. Sinclair, this
respondent, after consultation with him and instructions
from him, did take part in the employment of the said
Burns International Detective Agency, as he had a -right
to do, and this respondent did, as he had a right to do, give
instructions to representatives of the said Burns International Detective Agency who were in charge of its operatives, to observe as far as they lawfully could, what
persons, if any, came in* contact with the said jurors
during the recesses of Court, and detect, so far as it was
lawfully possible so to do, whether any person or persons,
endeavored or undertook improperly and unlawfully to
approach and communicate with any of said jurors for
the purpose of improperly influencing them in the decision of the said cause."
It is not questioned that counsel for the United States
presented evidence to the court showing the activities of
Burns detectives in shadowing jurors, also the misconduct
of one of the jurors, and that by reason of these things a
mistrial was entered on November 2d in United States v.
Sinclair& Fall.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

Trial upon the charge of contempt under the petition
and answers above summarized commenced December
5th, 1927, and terminated February 21st, 1928. Much
evidence was taken in open court-the condensation for
the record occupies more than 750 printed pages. The
appellants, except Sinclair, testified; also the fourteen
operatives who shadowed the jurymen. Their daily reports were presented-more than 200 of them. These
showed the details of the shadowing of each juror-except
Flora, described in the sketch of him as a "bull-headed
man." More than a hundred witnesses were called. During the hearing on question of guilt counsel made proffer
of many witnesses to come from all parts of the United
States for the purpose of showing that for a long time
United States attorneys throughout the Union, under direction of the Department of Justice, by agents of the
Department as distinguished from local marshals, had
indulged in the custom of shadowing jurors, also to show
indulgence in such practices on different occasions. This
proffer was rejected.
Charged with conspiracy to defraud, Sinclair and Fall
were put on trial October 17th, in the Supreme Court,
District of Columbia. The jury-ten men and two
women-was selected and finally sworn about mid-day
October 18th. The Court made no order to lock them up.
There was no request therefor. Immediately thereafter
(about 3:30 o'clock) Sinclair gave biographical sketches
of the jurors, secured by counsel before the trial began,
to Day and instructed him to employ the William J. Burns
International Detective Agency to supply a corps of operatives who should shadow them. On the 19th some
fifteen operatives, including a manager, field men, etc.,
were assembled in Washington. One of them was assigned to each juror, except Flora, with instructions to go
to the court room, identify and thereafter to keep his subject under as strict surveillance as possible "outside of the
court" and report to the manager.

758

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

Day delivered the biographical sketches to Manager
Ruddy. The latter testified: "At the first meeting with
Mr. Day he told me that he wished daily reports made
from each operative. We did that. I designated the
jurors to the operatives by numbers that I obtained from
the list given me by Mr. Day. As I understand it was the
position they sat in in the jury box, and they counted from
left to right. I was never in the court room. I had a
newspaper photograph of the jurors. I told the operatives
which of the jurors they were to follow. I did not show
them the picture at that time. I got it later. It was not
given me by Mr. Day. I instructed each one of the agents
to come down to the court room to pick up his particular
juror. When the jurors left the court room, the operatives
were instructed to hold them under surveillance until they
went home, and up to a reasonable hour at night. All the
operatives reported to me each day."
For some days these instructions were carried out.
Jurors were kept under strict surveillance from early
morning until late at night-l, 12, 3 o'clock, whenever
not actually within the court house; daily reports were
turned in and their contents conveyed to Day. On October 24th a majority of the operatives were sent away and
the remainder concentrated their efforts upon three jurors
whose history did not indicate strength of character. Investigation was made concerning encumbrances upon the
home of one of these; also to determine whether another
had indicated his views during the trial. A report by Operative McMullin October 22, 1927, purposely and falsely
stated that the third (Glasscock) had consulted a representative of the United States.
The evidence does not disclose that any operative was
instructed to approach, or did approach a juror, nor does
it disclose that any juror actually knew that he was being

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

shadowed. Some were suspicious. The court did not
know, nor does it appear that Sinclair's counsel knew, the
jury was being shadowed.
Called as a witness, Day gave rather full account of
himself from his youth up, including his army service. He
was not permitted to say that he had knowledge of a practice by United States Attorneys to shadow juries in criminal cases after they were sworn.
He testified: The first conversation I had with Sinclair
upon the subject of shadowing the jury was about 3 P. M.
on October 18, 1927, "after Mr. Sinclair had come back
from court.

.

.

. We were at the Mayflower Hotel in

Suite 1031, and Mr. Sinclair stated that he was terribly
disappointed that the jury had not been locked up, and
that he was very much exercised, that some of his enemies,
competitors, and those who had written us so many malicious letters might in some way try to influence this
jury, and stated he wanted me to tell one of the secretaries
to call up Jeffries in New York and ask him to have one
of the Burnses communicate with me at a place which
would be convenient for me, and that he wanted from 12
to 14 operatives, with a lieutenant and a captain, sent to
Washington to cover those who were sworn as jurors in
this case. He said they were to cover these jurors, not
to approach them, not to speak to them, not to in any
way come in contact with them. They were simply to
observe and report any suspicious acts which in their
opinion might be done by the respective jurors, or those
coming in contact with them, and to report also, if it was
feasible, the people who did come in contact with them in
a way which the operatives could do without arousing
suspicion. That is the substance of the instructions."

Sinclair did not take the stand. The operatives severally testified that they were instructed in harmony with
Sinclair's directions to Day and acted accordingly.

760

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

On November 2nd and 3rd William J. Burns was in
Washington apparently with the purpose of doing something to off-set criticism of the Detective Agency aroused
by the disclosures concerning surveillance of the jury. He
consulted with Operative McMullin and procured the
making of an affidavit by the latter based upon the false
report of October 22, 1927, concerning Juror Glasscock
and caused it to be presented to the presiding judge. A
few days later he spoke of efforts by parties representing
the United States to tamper with the jury and the affidavit of McMullin to that effect.
The trial judge held the petition stated a case upon
which appellants might be adjudged guilty of contempt
and the evidence showed their guilt. Among other things,
he said: "I cannot escape the conviction, therefore, that
respondent Sinclair, respondent Day, respondent Sherman Burns and respondent W. J. Burns, have been, 1erhaps in different degrees, all involved, more or less directly involved, in the establishment of this surveillance,
a surveillance which I have already announced in my
opinion constituted an obstruction to the administration
of justice by this court. If it had not been for that surveillance, from aught that appears in this testimony, there
never would have been a mistrial in this case, a surveillance that at least in part, together with the publication of the affidavit regarding it, but at least in part, necessitated a mistrial."
After l 6 se of the evidence and arguments and after the
court had declared appellants were guilty of contempt
counsel announced that upon the question of mitigation
they re-offered the evidence tendered but excluded during
the main case as to the custom of the Department of
Justice to place juries under surveillance. This was overruled. Before sentence each appellant was called upon to
make such statement as he might desire.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

W. Sherman Burns was sentenced to pay a fine of One
Thousand Dollars ($1000); Sinclair to imprisonment for
six months; Day for four months; and William J. Burns
for fifteen days.
Appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals. That court
certified certain questions here for instructions. Thereafter, we directed the entire record to be sent up for
our consideration.
Both Sinclair and William J. Burns were in Washington
on October 12th and 13th, 1927, but there is no evidence
of communication between them at that time. Sinclair
had been a client of the Burns Agency. Circumstances
connected with the making and filing of the false affidavit
by McMullin, alias Long, based upon his false report of
October 22nd concerning Juror Glasscock, and its presentation to the court on November 4th, also certain statements then or thereafter made by him, might reasonably
cause one to suspect William J. Burns was party to the
plan for surveillance. But he emphatically denied this
and we can find no material evidence to support the charge
against him. As to him, the judgment below must be
reversed.
The Act of Congress approved March 2, 1831, 4 Stat.
Chap. 99, p. 487, provides"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That the power of the several courts of the
United States to issue attachments and inflict summary
punishments for contempts of court, shall not be construed
to extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any person or persons in the presence of the said courts, or so
near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice,
the misbehavior of any of the officers of the said courts
in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any officer of the said courts, party, juror, wit-

762

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ness, or any other person or persons, to any lawful writ,
process, order, rule, decree, or command of the said
courts."
Section 2 is in the margin.*
Section 1, of that Act, became R. S. § 725; Judicial Code
§ 268; U. S. Code, Title 28, § 385. The substance of
§ 2 appears in §§ 5399 and 5404, R. S.; Federal Criminal
Code § 135; U. S. Code, Title 18, § 241. See Ex parte
Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Savin, Petitioner,131 U. S.267.
Counsel maintain that the petition does not adequately
charge and the record fails to show misbehavior by appellants which obstructed the administration of justice within
§ 268, Judicial Code, since there is neither averment nor
evidence that any operative actually approached or communicated with a juror, or attempted so to do, or that any
juror was conscious of observation. The insistence is that
to establish misbehavior within that section it was essential to show some act both known by a juror and probably
sufficient to influence his mind. We cannot accept this
view. It would destroy the power of courts adequately
to protect themselves--to enforce their right of self-preservation. Suppose, for example, some litigant should endeavor to shoot a juror while sitting in the box during
progress of the cause. He might escape punishment for
contempt if some quick-witted attendant quietly thwarted
*" Smo. 2. And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons shall, corruptly, or by threats or force, endeavor to influence,
intimidate, or impede any juror, witness, or officer, in any court of
the United States, in the discharge of his duty, or shall, corruptly,
or by threats or force, obstruct, or impede, or endeavor to obstruct
or impede, the due administration of justice therein, every person
or persons, so offending, shall be liable to prosecution therefor, by
indictment, and shall, on conviction thereof, be punished, by fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding

three months, or both, according to the nature and aggravation of
the offence,"

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

the effort and kept the circumstances secret until the trial
ended.
Toledo Newspaper Company v. United States, 247 U. S.
402, 418, 421, adjudged the Company guilty of contempt
by publishing, in the city where the court was sitting,
articles concerning a pending equity case. Counsel there
maintained that it was not alleged, proved, or found that
any of the publications was brought into the court building or read by the judge and, therefore, he lacked power
to punish under § 268, Judicial Code. Also that publication of newspaper articles outside the court room was not
misbehavior amounting to contempt unless actually known
to the judge. Replying, this Court, through Mr. Chief
Justice White, said:"Clarified by the matters expounded and the ruling
made in the Marshall Case [Marshall v. Gordon, 243
U. S. 521], there can be no doubt that the provision
[§ 268] conferred no power not already granted and imposed no limitations not already existing. . . . Theprovision therefore, conformably to the whole history of the
country, not minimizing the constitutional limitations nor
restricting or qualifying the powers granted, by necessary
implication recognized and sanctioned the existence of
the right of self-preservation, that is, the power to restrain
acts tending to obstruct and prevent the untrammeled
and unprejudiced exercise of the judical power given
by summarily treating such acts as a contempt and punishing accordingly. The test, therefore, is the character
of the act done and its direct tendency to prevent and
obstruct the discharge of judicial duty,-a conclusion
which necessarily sustains the view of the statute taken
by the courts below. .
"True, it is urged that, although the matters which were
made the basis of the findings were published at the place
where the proceedings were pending and under the cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

cumstances which we have stated, in a daily paper having
large circulation, as it was not shown that they had been
seen by the presiding judge or had been circulated in the
-court room, they did and could form no basis for an inference of guilt. But the situation is controlled by the
reasonable tendencies of the acts done and not by extreme
and substantially impossible assumptions on the subject. Again, it is said there is no proof that the mind of
the judge was influenced or his purpose to do his duty obstructed or restrained by the publications and, therefore,
there was no proof tending to show the wrong complained
of. But here again not the influence upon the mind of
the particular judge is the criterion but the reasonable
tendency of the acts done to influence or bring about the
baleful result is the test. In other words, having regard
to the powers conferred, to the protection of society, to
the honest and fair administration of justice and to the
evil to come from its obstruction, the wrong depends upon
the tendency of the acts to accomplish this result without reference to the consideration of how far they may
have been without influence in a particular case. The
wrongdoer may not be heard to try the power of the
judge to resist acts of obstruction and wrongdoing by
him committed as a prelude to trial and punishment for
his wrongful acts."
Under the doctrine so stated, we think the trial judge
rightly held it unnecessary to allege or show actual contact between an operative of the Detective Agency and
a juror, or that any juror had knowledge of being observed.
The reasonable tendency of the acts done is the proper
criterion. Neither actual effect produced upon the juror's
mind nor his consciousness of extraneous influence was
an essential element of the offense.
That the acts here disclosed, and for which three of the
appellants were certainly responsible, tended to obstruct
the honest and fair administration of justice we cannot

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

doubt. The jury is an essential instrumentality-an appendage-of the court, the body ordained to pass upon
guilt or innocence. Exercise of calm and informed judgment by its members is essential to proper enforcement of
law. The most exemplary resent having their footsteps
dogged by private detectives. All know that men who
accept such employment commonly lack fine scruples,
often wilfully misrepresent innocent conduct and manufacture charges. The mere suspicion that he, his family,
and friends are being subjected to surveillance by such
persons is enough to destroy the equilibrium of the average juror and render impossible the exercise of calm
judgment upon patient consideration. If those fit for
juries understand that they may be freely subjected to
treatment like that here disclosed, they will either shun
the burdens of the service or perform it with disquiet
and disgust. Trial by capable juries, in important cases,
probably would become an impossibility. The mistrial of
November 2nd indicates what would often happen. We
can discover no reason for emasculating the power of
courts to protect themselves against this odious thing.
See United States v. Shipp, 203 U. S. 563, 575.
The acts complained of were sufficiently near the court.
Most of them were within the court room, near the door
of the court house, or within the city. Certainly, they
were not more remote than the publication denounced
in Toledo Newspaper Company v. United States. The'e
was probable interference with an appendage of the court
while in actual operation; the inevitable tendency was towards evil, the destruction, indeed, of trial by -jury. In
re Savin, Petitioner, supra.
During the hearing and before conviction of guilt counsel proffered many witnesses by whom they proposed to
show a practice of the Department of Justice to cause its
officers to shadow jurors. This evidence was rightly excluded. That Department is not a lawmaker and mis-

766

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

takes or violations of law by it give no license for wrongful conduct by others.
After the judge had declared the appellants guilty, counsel offered in mitigation of punishment the same evidence
concerning the alleged custom of the Department of Justice theretofore tendered on the issue of guilt. The tender
was refused. Very many witnesses, who it was said would
testify to such custom, had been proffered and the proposed evidence rejected; all were again tendered. The
offer did not limit the proposal to the appellants' knowledge or belief or mental state. They had answered under
oath, with full opportunity to present whatever they
deemed important. Before sentence each was accorded
opportunity to make a statement. There was no request
for permission to file affidavits. Counsel were fully
heard. In the circumstances, the court did not exceed the
limits of proper discretion.
Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517, 537, 538, is relied
upon. There, we declared: "Due process of law, therefore, in the prosecution of contempt, except of that committed in open court, requires that the accused should
be advised of the charges and have a reasonable opportunity to meet them by way of defense or explanation.
We think this includes the assistance of counsel, if requested, and the right to call witnesses to give testimony,
relevant either to the issue of complete exculpation or in
extenuation of the offense and in mitigation of the penalty
to be imposed. . . . In cases like this, where the intention
with which acts of contempt have been committed must
necessarily and properly have an important bearing on
the degree of guilt and the penalty which should be imposed, the court can not exclude evidence in mitigation."
By this language we did not intend to lay down any
new or hard and fast rule concerning evidence to be heard
in mitigation in proceedings for contempt; and certainly
there was no purpose to restrict the discretion of the trial

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
749

Opinion of the Court.

judge in such cases more narrowly than in ordinary criminal trials. See Wharton's Criminal Procedure, 10th ed.,
§ 1890. Moreover, the conscious purpose of Cooke was
regarded as an essential element of the offense charged.
Always the language used in an opinion must be read
in the light of the issues presented. Cooke was not accorded due opportunity at any stage of the proceedings
to state the facts which might excuse or mitigate his conduct and the words quoted were addressed to that situation. Here there was abundant opportunity for presentation of anything really important.
Under the circumstances here disclosed to hear the many
witnesses offered by counsel would have required unnecessary and intolerable extension of the long drawn out trial
without material benefit. The answers relied or might
have relied upon the knowledge possessed by appellants.
By short affidavit or verbal statement any appellant could
have advised the court again. concerning facts within his
knowledge, his beliefs, or general state of mind-matters
which might possibly affect the degree of guilt.
The exclusion of some other evidence is assigned as
error; but we think the claim is without merit and demands no extended comment.
Objections are offered to the admission of certain evidence. In answer, we need only refer to what was said in
The United States v. King, 7 How. 833, 854, 855: "In
some unimportant particulars, the evidence objected to
was not admissible. But where the court decides the fact
and the law without the intervention of a jury, the admission of illegal testimony, even if material, is not of
itself a ground for reversink the judgment, nor is it properly the subject' of a bill of exceptions. If evidence appears to have been improperly admitted, the appellate
court will reject it, and proceed to decide the cause as if
it was not in the record."

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

Considering the whole record, we think appellants had
a patient hearing upon adequately defined issues, with
abundant opportunity to put forward all proper defenses
and explanations. With the exception already stated,
there is ample evidence to support the judgment; the
punishments imposed are not excessive; the court kept
within the limits of its reasonable discretion and did nothing which injuriously affected the substantial rights of
the parties. Judicial Code, § 269; U. S. Code, Title 28,
§ 391.
The judgment as to William J. Burns must be reversed;
as to the other appellants it is affirmed.
MR. JusTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or determination of this cause.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES E AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STAT S
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 466.

Argued April 11, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

The plaintiff railroad offered standard rates on wheat over its line
from Dodge City to Kansas City, a primary grain market, and
from Kansas City to the Gulf, and a through rate from Dodge
City via Kansas City to the Gulf which was lower than the
sum of the standard rates. Under the practice known as
"through rates with transit privilege," owners of wheat which,
within a certain period, had been shipped from Dodge City to
Kansas City without other destination and for the standard rate
between those points, could reship the same or substituted wheat
from Kansas City to the Gulf by paying only a ".proportional rate"
or "balance of the through rate," allowing them a discount equal
to the difference between the through rate from Dodge City to the
Gulf and the sum of the standard rates. To overcome the competition of a railroad with a line from Kansas City to the Gulf
which offered a lower rate from Kansas City to the Gulf on

