INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. SHARTEL.
421

Syllabus.

discrimination is not arbitrary or prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in the result.
INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY v. SHARTEL,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 579. Argued April 25, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. In assessing an annual franchise tax upon foreign and domestic
corporations, on the basis of the value of outstanding capital stock
employed in business within the State, the amount of the tax
against a corporation having shares of stock without nominal or
par value, may be ascertained by assigning a specific value to
such shares and applying to it the rate applicable to the parvalue stock; and a statute so providing does not operate as a
denial of the equal protection of the laws. P. 432.
2. This method does not operate to tax the property or franchise
of a foreign corporation without the State, even though the value
so assigned to its non-par shares that are apportioned to the State
exceed their present worth or the present value of its assets within
the State. Giving to the shares a specified value by which the tax
is measured, only affects the rate of tax on the privilege taxed.
P. 432.
Rev. 43; Ballantine, Corporations (1927) § 217; cf. Johnson v. Louisvle Trust Co., 293 Fed. 857. Resulting difficulties in the enforcement by creditors of the liability of directors for improper diversion
of capital or of stockholders for unpaid subscriptions, have been
often urged as arguments against any use of non-par stock. 1 Cook,
Corporations (1923) § 45d; Bonbright, Dangers of Shares without
Par Value, 24 Columbia Law Rev. 449; Ripley, Railroads-Finance &
Organization (1915) 91; Cook, Stock without Par Value, 19 Michigan Law Rev. 583.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

3. A franchise tax imposed on a corporation, foreign or domestic, for
the privilege of doing a local business, if apportioned to business
done or property owned within the State, is not invalid under the
commerce clause merely because a part of the property or capital
included in computing the tax is used by it in interstate commerce.
P. 433.
4. The Constitution of Missouri, § 28, Art. IV, which provides that
"no bill ... shall contain more than one subject, which shall be
expressed in its title," is not violated by the Stock Corporation Act
of 1921, the title of which describes it as "regulating" corporations
having non-par stock and as "prescribing the method of determining . . . the capital of corporations" issuing
such shares,

although § 12 of the Act operates, by reference to the Franchise
Tax Law, to change the tax on corporations having non-par stock.

P. 434.
5. The purpose of this constitutional provision is to prevent the
inclusion of incongruous and unrelated matters in the same measure
and to guard against inadvertence, stealth and fraud in legislation.
It is sufficiently complied with when the title of an Act indicates
the subject so as to give notice of the general character of the
legislation, without entering into minute details. Id.
29 F. (2d) 604, affirmed.

APPEaL from a decree of a District Court of three judges
denying an interlocutory injunction to restrain state officials from levying and collecting franchise taxes on the
plaintiff corporation.
Messrs. Guy A. Thompson and James D. Williamson,
with whom Messrs. Frank A. Thompson and R. E. Blake
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Walter E. Sloat, pro hac vice, by special leave of
Court, with whom Messrs. Stratton Shartel, Attorney
General of Missouri, Lieutellus Cunningham, and Smith
B. Atwood, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the
brief, for respondents.
Mr. Guy A. Thompson filed the brief of Mr. John F.
Green, as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court.

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. SHARTEL.
429

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a direct appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code
from an order of a district court of three judges for the
Western Distr.ct of Missouri, denying an interlocutory
injunction restraining the appellees, state tax officials,
from levying and collecting certain franchise taxes assessed
under the Corporation Annual Franchise Tax of Missouri,
29 F. (2d) 604. The case involves, among others, the
questions this day decided in New York v. Latrobe, ante,
p. 421.
Section 9836 of the Missouri Revised Statutes imposes
an annual franchise tax upon both foreign and domestic
corporations of 1/20th of 1% of the par value of their outstanding capital stock and surplus employed in business
within the state. For the purpose of ascertaining the tax
every corporation subject to it is "deemed to have employed " within the state "that proportion of its entire
[outstanding] capital stock and surplus that its property
and assets in this state bears to all its property and assets
wherever located."
The Stock Corporation Act of the Missouri Laws of 1921,
p. 661. first provided for the formation and regulation of
corporations with stock of no par value. By § 12 of that
act it was enacted that for the purpose of ascertaining any
organization taxes imposed by the laws of the state, computed on the basis of the par value of shares of stock, each
share of stock without nominal or par value should be
considered the equivalent of a share having a par value of
$100. In State of Missouri v. Pierce Petroleum Corporation, 318 Mo. 1020, the Supreme Court of Missouri
held that this section supplemented and amended the
earlier provisions of the franchise tax law of the state by
prescribing the method of computing the tax, imposed by
§ 9836, in the case of corporations having non-par stock.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

The tax was thus fixed in effect at the rate of not less than
5 cents on each share of non-par stock employed within
the state regardless of its actual value.
Appellant is engaged in the business of manufacturing
and selling shoes in both intrastate and interstate commerce. It has gross assets of more than $97,000,000, of
which 54% are located in Missouri. It has 100,000 shares
of preferred stock of the par value of $100 and 3,760,000
shares of non-par stock, for which latter it received $9.60
per share. The total paid in capital was thus $46,082,631.09. Appellant alleges that prior to the enactment of
§ 12, its non-par stock was assessed on the basis of the
amount paid for it. Cf. State v. FreeholdInvestment Co.,
305 Mo. 88, 103. But, applying the statute as interpreted
by the state court in State v. Pierce Petroleum Corp.,
supra, the taxing authorities have assigned to appellant's
outstanding non-par stock a value of $376,000,000, resulting in an increase of appellant's annual franchise tax from
approximately $25,000 to a sum in excess of $100,000.
The market value of appellant's stock does not appear
and no foundation is laid for assailing the tax as so excessive as to be a denial of due process, but appellant argues,
as did respondent in New York v. Latrobe, supra, that the
tax is a denial of the equal protection of the laws. For
reasons, stated more at length in our opinion in that case,
we conclude that the present statute does not infringe
that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Although it
directs that the tax be ascertained by assigning a specific
value to the non-par stock, and applying to it the rate
applicable to par value stock, the resultant inequalities do
not differ from those complained of in that case where the
tax was computed at a flat rate on non-par stock, used in
the state, without assigning to it any value.
The assignment to the shares of a value in excess of
their present worth or of the present value of the assets

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. SHARTEL.
429

Opinion of the Court.

within the state does not operate to tax property or
business without the state. The tax is a privilege and
not a property tax. Giving to the shares a specified value
by which the tax is measured, only affects the rate of tax
on the privilege and does not give the statute an extraterritorial effect. The result is the same as if a flat tax
of 5 cents per share upon that part of the capital which
is justly apportioned to the state had been imposed. So
apportioned the tax cannot be said to reach the property
or the franchise of the corporation without the state.
Other objections to the tax require but brief comment.
The mere fact that a corporation is engaged in interstate
commerce does not relieve it of local tax burdens in respect of its property within the state or its intrastate business. Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688, 696. Appellant does a substantial amount of local
commerce. A franchise tax imposed on a corporation,
foreign or domestic, for the privilege of doing a local
business, if apportioned to business done or property owned
within the state, is not invalid under the commerce clause
merely because a part of the property or capital included
in computing the tax is used by it in interstate commerce.
St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. v. Middlekamp, 256 U. S.
226, 231 (ruling on the Missouri franchise tax); Hump
Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290; Underwood
Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 119; St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350;
Kansas City, &c. Railway Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227;
Kansas City, &c.R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111; Southern
Railway Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519; cf. United States
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v. Carter,
252 U. S. 37.

The tax is distinguishable from those con-

sidered in Air-Way Electric Appliance Corporationv. Day,
266 U. S. 71, Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, and
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Hinkle, 278 U. S. 460, which either
45228°-29-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

were measured by authorized instead of issued capital
stock or were not limited to the part of the capital stock
justly apportioned to the taxing state.
It is urged also that the Stock Corporation Act of 1921
violates § 28 of Article IV of the Missouri constitution,
which provides that "no bill . . . shall contain more than
one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title."
The title of the Act in terms described it as authorizing
corporations to make provision ". . for the issue of
either or both preferred or common shares without nominal or par value; regulating the same and such corporations; and prescribing the method of determining the
number of shares and capital of corporations issuing shares
in such manner."
It is said that as § 12 operates, by reference to the Franchise Tax Law, to change the tax on corporations having
non-par stock, it is in effect a taxing act and hence its title
does not clearly express the subject of the legislation.
But its subject was the method of ascertaining the value
of non-par shares for taxation and other statutory purposes, a subject matter clearly embraced in the title which
described the legislation as "regulating" corporations
having non-par stock and as "prescribing the method
of determining . . . the capital of corporations" issuing
such shares. The purpose of the constitutional provision
is "to prevent the inclusion of incongruous and unrelated
matters in the same measure and to guard against inadvertence, stealth and fraud in legislation," see Posados
v. Warner, Barnes& Co., ante, p. 340; Dickason v. County
Court, 128 Mo. 427, 441, and it is only necessary that the
title indicate the subject so as to give notice of the general
character of the legislation without entering into minute
details. Dickason v. County Court, supra, at p. 441;
Garesche v. Roach, 258 Mo. 541, 560; Coca Cola Bottling
Co. v. Mosby, 289 Mo. 462, 472; Barrettv. Imhof, 291 Mo.
603, 619; State v. Mullinix, 301 Mo. 385, 389; Missouri

U. S. v. AM. LIVESTOCK CO.
Syllabus.

429

Pacific R. R. Co. v. Danuser, 6 S. W. (2d) 907. The title
of the present act satisfies these requirements. One having but slight familiarity with earlier Missouri legislation
would have known that upon the enactment of legislation dealing with corporations having a non-par stock,
some method of assigning a value to such stock might
appropriately be adopted in order to adapt and subject
the new type of corporation to existing legislation. This
purpose was plainly and sufficiently anticipated in the title
of the present act. It was not necessary that the title
should go further and indicate the earlier laws which
were thus made applicable to the new type of corporation.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS thinks the effect of the
statute is to tax property beyond the state.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIVESTOCK

COMMISSION COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 513.

Argued March 5, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.

1. A boycott of one by others of the dealers or market agencies on a
live-stock exchange may be an unfair practice within the meaning
of the Packers & Stockyards Act. P. 436.
2. Though part of the dealings of a duly registered co-operative market agency may have been ultra vires, the maintenance of a general
boycott against it on this account by other associations is not
justified; and, under the Packers and Stockyards Act, the Secretary of Agriculture has authority to order the discontinuance of the
discriminatory practice, to the extent at least that it applied to the
legitimate business of the complainant. P. 437.
3. A co-operative association organized under the state laws and
found by the Secretary of Agriculture to be duly registered as a
market agency under the Packers & Stock-yards Act is within the

