ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
438

Syllabus.

III of the Constitution, for this section applies only to

constitutional courts. Even if the proceeding is not such
a case or controversy, the Court of Customs Appeals,
being a legislative court, may be invested with jurisdic-

tion of it, as is done by § 316.
Of course, a writ of prohibition does not lie to a court
which is proceeding within the limits of its jurisdiction,
as the Court of Customs Appeals appears to be doing in
this instance.
Prohibitiondenied.
ST. LOUIS & O'FALLON RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. ST. LOUIS & O'FALLON

RAILWAY COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 131 and 132.

Argued January 3, 4, 1929.-Decided May 20,
1929.

1. Under Jud. Code § 23S, as amended, this Court has jurisdiction to
review directly the final decree of a District Court of three judges
in a suit to annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
directing a railway company to place in a reserve fund one-half of
its excess net income, as determined under § 15a of the Interstate
Commerce Act, and to pay the other one-half to the Commission.
P. 481.
2 This Court accepts the conclusion of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the District Court that the two carrier plaintiffs
in this suit-one operating a switching railroad in St. Louis, Mssouri, and the other a coal-carrying railroad in Illinois, the two
being separated by 12 miles and communicating only over the tracks
and bridge of a terminal company-were not proved to be under
common control and management and operated as a single system
within the meaning of par. (6), § 15a of the Interstate Commerce
Act. P. 483.
3. Where a carrier resists by suit a recapture order made by the
Commission under § 15a, denying, unsuccessfully but bona fide and

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellants. "

279 U. S.

under circumstances justifying the contest, that there was any
excess income, no interest should be imposed for any time prior to
the final order of the District Court. P. 483.
4. Recapture of excess earnings of a carrier, under pars. (5) and (6)
of § 15a of the Act, does not depend upon a prior fixing of a
general level of rates intended to yield fair return upon the aggregate value of carrier property either as a whole, or in some prescribed rate or territorial group, under pars. (5) and (6). Id.
5. Under par. (4) of § 15a, which directs that in determining values
of railway property for purposes of recapture the Commission
"shall give due consideration to all the elements of value recognized by the law of the land for rate-making purposes, and shall
give to the property investment account of the carriers only that
consideration which under such law it is entitled to in establishing
values for rate-making purposes," it is the duty of the Commission
to give consideration to present or reproduction costs in estimating
the value of a carrier's property. P. 484.
6. It appearing from the report of the Commission in this case, and
from opinions delivered by some of its members, that reproduction
costs were not considered, the order is invalid, because of failure to
obey this mandate of the statute. P. 485.
7. The weight to be accorded to reproduction costs in valuing railroad property for recaption purposes is not a matter before the
Court in this case. P. 487.
8. As the making of a recaption order without consideration of reproduction costs in valuing the property is beyond the power
conferred on the Commission by the statute, an order so made can
not be sustained upon the ground that the income it permits the
railroad to retain is sufficient to negative any suggestion of confiscation. Id.
22 F. (2d) 980, reversed.

CROSS APPEALS from a decree of the District Court,
three judges sitting, in a suit brought by the two railway companies to set aside a recaption order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The decree annulled so
much of the order as provided for payment of interest,
but in other respects denied relief.
Messrs. DanielN. Kirby and Frederick H. Wood, with
whom Messrs. Robert H. Kelley, Leslie Craven, and

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for Appellants.

Charles Nagel were on the brief, for appellant railway
companies.
Irrespective of any issue of confiscation, the appellants
were entitled to a review of the Commission's finding of
value, which was attacked for errors of law and because
unsupported by and contrary to the evidence, and upon
which its determination of the carrier's excess income
depended.
The court erred in not holding that if the amount ordered paid to the Government exceeded that authorized
by the statute, the order deprived the carrier of.property
without due process of law.
Section 15a, if construed according to the theory enunciated by the lower court, is an improper delegation of
arbitrary power to the Commission, and both the statute
and the order made thereunder are therefore void.
Whether the order deprived the carrier of its property
without due process of law, depended upon a determination of the value of the carrier's property. This being so,
the O'Fallon was entitled to the independent judgment of
the court as to both the law and the facts. Ohio Valley
Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287; Bluefield
v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679.
It was the duty of the Commission to find the present
value of the property of the O'Fallon in accordance with
the decisions of this Court. The report of the Commission, instead of following the decisions of this Court in
determining value, constitutes a direct and deliberate
challenge thereto.
This Court has repeatedly held that present value is not
synonymous with original cost, nor is it a matter of mathematical formula, but must be determined by a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances.
Instead of undertaking to determine the present value
of the carrier's property in accordance with these deci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellants.

279 U. S.

sions, the Commission's findings of value are based on a
mathematical formula, the primary purpose of which was
to determine the amount of investment in the carrier's
property.
It expressly appears on the face of the report that the
Commission's primary purpose was to determine investment instead of value. The effect of the formula employed was to determine the value of the major portion of
the carrier's property in each of the recapture years on
the basis of obsolete pre-war prices. The only consideration given to enhanced cost of labor and materials in
determining the value of the major portion of carrier's
property, was to reject it as not a relevant fact entitled to
any consideration whatever.
This Court first rejected the prudent investment theory
because of its obvious hardship to the public, at a time
when prices were substantially below those prevailing during the original construction and when the railroads insisted that their investment should be protected. Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466. It held that the value of such
property should be determined as the value of property is
customarily determined, viz., as a matter of judgment reflecting a proper consideration of all relevant facts and
circumstances. The same question and substantially the
same arguments were presented, and the same decision
reached in San Diego Land Co. v. Nat'l City, 174 U. S.
757; Cotting v. Goddard, 183 U. S. 91; San Diego Land
Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439; StanislausCo. v. San Joaquin,
etc. Co., 192 U. S. 214. These cases are significant because they show that following the decision in Smyth v.
Ames, supra, the utilities vainly attempted to establish
the very propositon which the Commission now seeks to
establish.
In the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 252, when the
level of prices had become substantially higher than those
during original construction, this Court adhered to its

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for Appellants.

prior decisions and, in so dong, considered and rejected
substantially every argument now advanced in support of
the "dollars invested" theory.
Notwithstanding the great enhancement in prices which
has taken place since the World War, this Court has adhered to its prior decisions. S. W. Bell Telephone Co. v.
Public Service Comrn'n, 262 U. S. 276; M1lcCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400; Bluefield Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679; Pacific Gas Co. v.
San Francisco, 265 U. S. 403; cf. Standard Oil Co. v.
Southern Pacific Co., 268 U. S. 146.
The present value theory is supported by principle as
well as by precedent. The investment theory is economically unsound and rests upon the illusion that the dollar
is a fixed and unchanging standard of value. Consolidated Gas Co. v. New York, 157 Fed. 849.
Even under the Commission's theory of value, its order
is void because its findings are unsupported by any evidence. The method pursued, as described by the Commission itself, is one by which it is impossible to determine
the approximate investment in the property of this or
any other carrier.
The order is void because the findings of value are arbitrary and artificial. In the last analysis, the order may
be supported only on the theory that the Commission is
at liberty to adopt any basis for the determination of
value that suits its convenience or its conceptions of supposed economic expediency.
The court below erred in holding that appellants,although found by the Commission and held by the court
to be "a group of carriers under common control and
management,"-were not "operated as a single system."
The general purpose of the act is to grant constructive
benefits to the carriers, and to smaller groups of carriers.
Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S.
456. Congress clearly intended that the Commission
45228°-29-

30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appelants.

279 U. S.

should look through matters of form and grant the benefit
of single system treatment whenever the essential nature
of the relations between the different parts of such a group
was in accord with the fundamental purpose of the Act;
and that, in administering the Act, the Commission should
give it a liberal-not a strict, harsh, or technical-interpretation.
By requiring that the properties shall be "operated"
as a single system, Congress merely intended that their
mechanical operation or functioning should be substantially the same as they would have been if owned by the
same corporation and operated as a single "operating"
unit.
The grounds on which the District Court and the Commission held against single system operation, are erroneous, being contrary to the undisputed facts and without
supporting evidence.
Both the District Court and the Commission erred in
not according to the decisions of this Court in the" Terminal" cases their necessary effect as conclusively holding
that there was no "gap" between the respective transportation services rendered by appellants. United States
v. Terminal R. Ass'n, 224 U. S. 383; United States v.
Terminal, 236 U. S. 194; Terminal v. United States, 266
U. S. 17.
Compliance by the Commission with the rate-making
rule of § 15a is a condition precedent to the enforcement
of its recapture provisions. The inter-dependence of the
rate-making rule and the recapture provisions appear on
the face of the Act and from the history of the times, and
from the decisions of this Court. Dayton-Goose Ck. Ry. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456; Wisconsin Comm'n v. C. B.
& Q., 275 U. S. 563; New England Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for Appellants.

In no event can income arising prior to August 26, 1920,
be subjected to recapture, because none of the carrier's net
railway operating income during this period was received
Vnder the provisions of § 15a.
The order is invalid because the provisions of the statute requiring the creation of a reserve fund usable only
for restricted purposes is unreasonable and in violation of
the Fifth Amendment. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 18; United States v. Lynah, 184
U. S. 445.
Interest is not recoverable. Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 Wall.
132; Redfield v. Iron Co., 110 U. S. 174; In re Nesmith,
148 N. Y. 609; Southern Pacific R. Co. v. United States,
228 U. S. 618; InternationalPaper Co. v. Beacon Oil Co.,
290 Fed. 45; Great Northern R. Co. v. PhiladelphiaCo.,
242 Fed. 799; Valentine v. Quackenbush, 239 Fed. 832;
Security State Bank v. Gannon, 40 S. D. 495. It is established that the Commission is not a court and has no
judicial power. Baer Bros. Co. v. D. & R. G., 233 U. S.
479. The order of the Commission, therefore, is not a
judgment which can have the effect of liquidating a claim.
Moreover, there is no analogy here to interest recoverable
as damages on reparation allowances made by the Commission. In such cases the liability of the carrier for both
principal and interest is fixed by established law. When,
as here, the beneficiary of a trust makes a claim upon
his trustee for the payment of alleged trust funds admitted to be lawfully in the trustee's custody, it is essential to the running of interest that the amount of the
claim be first liquidated in a judicial proceeding.
The court erred in the exclusion of evidence of the value
of the property. The law is well established that if a
constitutional issue is present in the case, the appellants
are entitled to a trial de novo before the court, with the
right to introduce evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U.S.

Mr. George W. Wickersham, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Sargent
was on the brief, for the United States.
The District Court correctly affirmed the conclusion
reached by the Commission that the railways of the appellant companies did not constitute "a group of carriers under common control and management and operated as a single system" within the meaning of the
statute. Passing over the question whether or not two
can make "a group," in our view no conclusive evidence
of common control is to be found in the record.
The question whether or not there was "single system
operation" is almost entirely one of fact. Insofar as it
is a question of fact, we submit this Court will not review
it further than to ascertain that the findings of the Commission and of the District Court were supported by the
evidence.
The District Court rightly refused to enter upon a trial
de novo of the question of valuation. Ample opportunity
has been afforded the appellants to submit to the Commission all evidence which they considered pertinent and
material. There is no pretense to the contrary. No case
is presented, therefore, requiring the court to substitute
itself for the Commission as a fact finding body. Distinguishing Manufacturers' R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 246 U. S. 457. Citing Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541; Illinois
Central v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206 U. S.441;
Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S.564.
The Commission, in finding the value of the property
of the O'Fallon held for and used by it in the service of
transportation, proceeded in precise conformity with the
statute. It gave "due consideration to all the elements
of value recognized by the law of the land for rate-making
purposes," and gave "to the property investment account
of the carriers only that consideration which under such

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for the United States.

law it is entitled to in establishing values for rate-making
purposes."
The Commission did not, as contended by appellants,
base its findings of value "on a mathematical formula, the
avowed purpose of which was to determine the approximate investment in the property as distinguished from its
present value."
The true basis for the determination of public utility
valuation was laid down in the case of Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466, which is still the law. The decision in that
case sets up, not a formula, but a standard of evidence,
holding that neither reproduction cost nor original cost is
alone a criterion of value, or to be given dominant consideration, but that the rate-making body must take all
elements and measures of value into consideration, and
analyze and ascribe to each its proper weight in the
light of the evidence of the case.
This doctrine has been quoted in most of the cases involving the question of valuation which have arisen since
Smyth v. Ames, and has been approved in practically
every one of them, including the most recent, McCardle v.
Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400. It is still unquestionably the law.
During the decade that followed Smyth v. Ames, however, circumstances conspired to enhance the reputation
of the reproduction cost basis at the expense of all the
other measures of value. This was before regulation of
utilities by commissions had become comnnon, and the
care-free methods of the promoters of utilities in financing
and construction had rendered estimates of original cost
difficult and unreliable, and capitalizations in most cases
frankly unrepresentative of any sort of value. Reproduction cost, not being subject to the effects of the business
ethics of the time, profited by the suspicion and disrepute
into which capitalization and original cost had fallen, and
became the commonly accepted measure of value. This

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

was generally satisfactory to both commissioners and
utilities, because the price level maintained itself fairly
stable during most of the period.
That this is the real reason for the frequent use of the
reproduction cost basis before the war, is very well illustrated by the case of Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1, which often is cited in support of the reproduction cost rule.
An examination of any of the pre-war cases will show
that the Supreme Court was doing no more than holding
that a rate-making body could, in the light of all the facts
of the particular case, find a value based primarily on
reproduction cost, rather than on any of the other elements of Smyth v. Ames. Compare Wilcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352; Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S.
153; Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S.
655; Omaha v. Omaha Water Co., 218 U. S. 180; San
Diego Land Co. v. Nat'l City, 174 U. S. 739; San Diego
Land Co. v. Jasper,189 U. S. 139; Newton v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 258 U. S. 165; Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388; Denver v. Denver Union Water
Co., 246 U. S. 178.
There are other cases, but these cases include all prewar cases relied on by appellants, and all are essentially
the same. To contend that any of them holds that, as
a matter of law, a valuation not based on reproduction
cost new (less depreciation, of course) is confiscatory, is
utterly unjustifiable.
Every one of them is based on the rule of Smyth v.
Ames, and if they are authority for the proposition that
rate-making bodies could and should give dominant consideration to reproduction cost at a time when other elements of value were admittedly unreliable and undesirable
as bases, and when reproduction cost was not only the only
reliable base, but actually did approximate the value of

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for the United States.

the investment, they are equally good authority for the
proposition that at a time when abnormal prices have
swollen reproduction cost out of proportion, the rate-making bodies may, in the light of all the facts, accord it less,
rather than more weight. Especially is this so, since the
other elements of value are now, due to strict regulation,
fairly certain and wholly reliable-in fact, infinitely more
so than the now fluctuating reproduction cost.
We turn now to the cases which arose after the war,
when the enormous rise in prices had transformed the
reproduction cost basis as far as the utilities were concerned, from a sometimes convenient, but usually annoying, measure of value, to a veritable El Dorado,-cases
in which the utilities strive to get rid of the restrictions
which the broad rule of Smyth v. Ames wisely permitted
commissions and courts to place on their claims, and to
substitute therefor the reproduction cost theory as a minimum requirement in valuation. This O'Fallon case is one
step in that drive. There have been four previous cases
in which this valuation question was raised,-at least
raised well enough to have merited attention from this
Court. They are the Southwestern Bell Telephone case,
the Georgia R. & P. Co. case, and the Bluefields Water
Co. case, all in 262 U. S., and the McCardle case in 272
U. S. All these adhere to the rule of Smyth v. Ames.
We submit that the procedure of the Commission in the
present case was in exact conformity with the law. Mature and deliberate consideration was given to every possible element of value, and the result was the reasoned
opinion of the Commission.
The Commission had a broad discretion in weighing the
various elements of value in evidence before it and in
reaching a conclusion based thereon. This discretion will
not be reviewed by the courts; and the order made by the
Commission, in the exercise of such discretion, is not invalid as made without due process.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

The action of the Commission in rejecting the spot cost
of reproduction as the sole basis of valuation in the recapture years was in conformity with the intention of Congress in framing the Transportation Act of 1920. The
history of the legislation is helpful in its interpretation.
This Court, in a measure, reviewed it in the Wisconsin
Passenger Case, 257 U. S. 563. And see Cong. Rec. Vol.
59, Pt. 4, p. 3269; Report of hearings before the Special
Committee on Interstate Commerce in 1916; Cong. Rec.,
Vols. 58 and 59 (especially Vol. 59, Parts I, III, and IX);
and the files of The New York Times, The New York
Tribune, and the Financial Chronicle during 1019 and
1920.
Appellants in effect attack the whole 1920 scheme of
legislation, first by urging a construction which would
make it impracticable, and secondly by challenging its
constitutionality. This Court has broadly upheld the
constitutionality of the Act in all the cases which have
involved its consideration. The application of the recapture clause invades no constitutional rights of appellants.
R. R. Comm'n v. C. B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New
York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456.
Appellants' argument, when analyzed, is in effect a contention that the Commission erred because it did not fix
the value of the carrier's railway solely on the basis of
cost of reproduction based on the prices prevailing at the
recapture dates.
The required payments by the O'Fallon are not confiscation. They leave to the company in each -of the
years affected a net railway operating income in excess
of six per centum of the value of the railway property
held for and used in the service of transportation, even on
the basis of valuation contended for by the O'Fallon.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

473

Argument for the I. C. C.

The provisions of § 15a, par. (6), so far as the income of
appellant companies is concerned, took effect from and
after the passage of the Act. Appellants' contention that
the recapture provision could not be applied to either of
them until the results of the whole rate structure established by the Commission should realize the congressional
intention, is unsupported by the statute itself or by reason.
The District Court erred in holding that the Commission exceeded its power in directing the payment of interest on the sums which it found were payable by the
O'Fallon.
Mr. Walter L. Fisher, with whom Messrs. Oliver E.
Sweet and Roland J. Lehman were on the brief, for the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
This case is chiefly important because it presents for the
consideration of the Court the validity of the administrative measures and methods which the Interstate Commerce Commission, after mature consideration, regards as
necessary to the effective operation of the recapture provisions of the Transportation Act. The principal ground
of attack is that the order of the Conmmission is invalid
because the recapture base or "value for rate-making
purposes" upon which the excess earnings have been computed is less than the hypothetical cost of reproducing the
railroad on the basis of current commodity prices for the
periods in question.
The answer of the Commission to the principal attack
is that the valuations it has fixed are the results of "due
consideration " by the Commission of "all the elements
of value recognized by the law of the land for rate-making
purposes" as provided by the Act and (quoting the language of this Court) that reproduction cost, or "the
present as compared with the original cost of construction," is only one of the many elements to be given "due
consideration" in determining "fair value," or "reason-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the I. C. C.

279 U.S.

able value," or "value for rate-making purposes," or
"rate base," which by the Act is made the recapture base
upon which excess earnings are to be figured; that the
recapture of excess earnings is an exercise of the power to
regulate rates, and that its determination in the rate regulating process is a "legislative function," properly entrusted to an expert commission "appointed by law and
informed by experience," whose judgment will be set
aside by the courts only when it clearly results in the
denial of constitutional rights; that its determination "is
not controlled by artificial rules" and "is not a matter of
formulas, but there must be a reasonable judgment having
its basis in a proper consideration of all relevant facts ";
that it is "fundamental that the judicial power to declare
legislative action invalid upon constitutional grounds is
to be exercised only in clear cases" and that this is "true
of asserted value as of other facts "; that if the alleged constitutional invalidity "rests upon disputed questions of
fact, the invalidating facts must be proved "; that the
"property" of a railroad is "dedicated" to the performance of a "function of government" and is to be valued
in the light of the fundamental restrictions upon its use
arid disposition inherent in this dedication; that in determtuning the weight to be attached to current "reproduction
cost" there is a clear and vital distinction between local
public utilities and railroads, especially the railroads of
the United States considered as a whole under the provisions of the Transportation Act; that this Act "introduced into the federal legislation a new railroad policy"
in which the recapture of excess earnings is "the key
provision of the whole plan "; that its fundamental purpose is to recognize the interstate railroads of the entire
country as a national transportation system and to "foster, protect, and control" them so that they will most
efficiently and economically perform the service to the
public for which they were originally created as govern-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

475

Argument for the I. C. C.

mental agencies; and that by the Act "new rights, new
obligations and new machinery were created" by which
this new and constructive policy is to be made effective;
that it imposes an unprecedented task on the Commission; that it "puts the railroad systems of the country
more completely than ever under the fostering guardianship and control of the Commission," that "obviously
Congress intended that a method should be pursued by
which the task which it imposed upon the Commission
could be performed "; that the Act is to be interpreted
in no narrow legalistic fashion, but with constant regard
to the economic and administrative factors involved, chief
of which is such treatment of the capital already invested
as will encourage and promote the procurement of the
new capital upon which the whole future of the railroads
as a national transportation system fundamentally depends; that the Act definitely and specifically provides
that the Commission "shall give due consideration among
other things to the transportation needs of the country
and the necessity (under honest, efficient, and economical
management of existing transportation facilities) of enlarging such facilities in order to provide the people of
the United States with adequate transportation "; that
the treatment which has been given by the Commission
since the passage of the Act to the existing investment
has already produced unprecedented prosperity and financial stability for the railroads and is already proving
attractive to new capital investment in railroad securities,
stocks as well as bonds; that the continuance of these
methods, as they have been continued in the O'Fallon
case, will maintain and increase these highly desirable
results, and certainly can not be regarded as "confiscatory," while the adoption of the theory of reproduction
cost at current commodity prices as the controlling element in fixing "value for rate-making purposes" as the
"recapture base" will have the opposite effect as well as

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the I. C. C.

279 U.S.

being contrary to " the law of the land" and destructive
of the beneficent purposes of the Transportation Act;
that it is impracticable in administration, inconsistent
with the history and nature of railroad construction and
development, grossly unfair to the public in a period of
abnormally high commodity prices and disastrous to the
railroads in a period of declining commodity prices.
As to the relatively minor objections made to the Commission's order, it is respectfully insisted (a) that under
the Act it is only when "the Commission finds" that two
or more railroads are "under common control and management and are operated as a single system" that the
value and net operating income of such railroads are to
be computed for the group as a whole, and that the Commission has not only not made the finding which is the
essential condition of any such treatment, but that the
facts of record clearly show that these roads are operated
separately, that their stockholers are not the same, and
that there is no "common pocketbook" out of which the
excess earnings of one can be or ever have been used for
the benefit of the other, and that the decision of the Commission upon this particular point is not reviewable; (b)
that the establishment of rates that will actually produce
the "fair return" contemplated by the Act is not a
condition precedent to the operation of the recapture
provisions, as the Act did not intend anything whatever
in the nature of a guaranty but simply directed the Commission to fix rates from time to time that would produce
the results intended '"as nearly as may be "; (c) that the
Transportation Act became effective on and after the
date of its passage on February 28, 1920, and that recapture must be effective on excess earnings after the effective date of the Act and not on August 26, 1920, when
the first rate increases became effective; (d) that the "Reserve Fund" provisions of the Act and their application

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Argument for the I. C. C.

in the Commission's order do not constitute the taking
of private property without just compensation or without due process of law, because the railroad is "only a
trustee for the excess over a fair return received by it"
and "never had such a title to the excess as to render
the recapture of it by the Government a taking without
due process," as expressly decided by this Court; (e) that
" the steps prescribed in the Act constitute a direct and
indirect legislative fixing of rates," but that the procedure
is adequately prescribed, and this Court has repeatedly
held that an administrative tribunal may fill in procedural
details; (f) that interest on the recapturable excess is
properly recoverable from the dates respectively when
the several instalments of such excess became payable to
the Commission under the statute, which was four months
after the expiration of each period for which there was
recapturable excess. By a cross appeal and the assignment of cross errors, the Commission asks this Court to
reverse the decision of the trial court as to this feature
of the order, and to sustain the provisions of the Commission's order with respect to the payment of interest.
The questions here involved were questions of law, as
well as of fact, but they were to be correctly solved in no
narrow, legalistic fashion. The law was to be interpreted
in the light of the economic factors and purposes. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S.
456; Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 162 U. S. 197; New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184.
If these recapture provisions can not be made practically effective for the accomplishment of the fundamental
purpose of the Act, which is the protection and promotion
of the interests of the entire public, including both users
and owners of railroads, the whole plan will necessarily
fail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Mr. Donald R. Richberg participated in the oral argument and filed a brief, as amicus curiae, in behalf of The
National Conference on Valuation of American Railroads,
by special leave of Court.
Messrs. F. G. Dorety and Fletcher Rockwood filed a
brief, as amici curiae, in behalf of the Great Northern
Railway Company, by special leave of Court.
MR.JusncE. McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are cross appeals from the final decree of the
District Court, Eastern Missouri,-three judges sitting-in
a suit to annul an Interstate Commerce Commission order, dated February 15, 1927, which directed St. Louis and
O'Fallon Railway Company to place in a reserve fund
one-half of its determined excess income for the years
1920 (ten months), 1921, 1922 and 1923 (that is half of
the sum by which the net railway operating income for
each of those years exceeded six per cent of the ascertained value of property devoted to public service); and
to pay to the Commission the remaining one-half with
six per cent interest beginning four months after termination of the year, i. e., May 1, 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924.
Section 15a, added to the Interstate Commerce Act by
Transportation Act, 1920, contains nineteen paragraphs.
Of those specially important here, 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 8 are
copied in the margin;* 4 and 6 follow:" (4) For the purposes of this section, such aggregate
value of the property of the carriers shall be determined
*"

Section 15a.

(1) [This defines the terms employed.]

"(2) In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates the Commission shall initiate, modify, establish or adjust such
rates so that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each of such rate
groups or territories as the Commission may from time to time
designate) will, under honest, efficient and economical management

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Opinion of the Court.

by the Commission from time to time and as often as may
be necessary. The Commission may utilize the results of
its investigation under section 19a of this Act, in so far as
deemed by it available, and shall give due consideration
to all the elements of value recognized by the law of the
and reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures and
equipment, earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income
equal, as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate
value of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in
the service of transportation: Provided, That the Commission shall
have reasonable latitude to modify or adjust any particular rate
which it may find to be unjust or unreasonable, and to prescribe different rates for different sections of the country.
"(3) The Commission shall from time to time determine and
make public what percentage of such aggregate property value constitutes a fair return thereon, and such percentage shall be uniform
for all rate groups or territories which may be designated by the
Commission. In making such determination it shall give due consideration, among other things, to the transportation needs of the
country and the necessity (under honest, efficient and economical
management of existing transportation facilities) of enlarging such
facilities in order to provide the people of the United States with
adequate transportation: Provided, That during the two years beginning March 1, 1920, the Commission shall take as such fair return a sum equal to 51/2 per centum of such aggregate value, but may,
in its discretion, add thereto a sum not exceeding one-half of one
per centum of such aggregate value to make provision in whole or
in part for improvements, betterments or equipment, which, according to the accounting system prescribed by the Commission, are
chargeable to capital account.
"(5) Inasmuch as it is impossible (without regulation and control in
the interest of the commerce of the United States considered as a
whole) to establish uniform rates upon competitive traffic which will
adequately sustain all the carriers which are engaged in such traffic
and which are inlispensable to the communities to which they render
the service of transportation without enabling some of such carriers
to receive a net railway operating income substantially and unreasonably in excess of a fair return upon the value of their railway
property held for and used in the service of transportation, it is
hereby declared that any carrier which receives such an income so

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

land for rate-making purposes, and shall give to the property investment account of the carriers only that consideration which under such law it is entitled to in establishing values for rate-making purposes. Whenever pursuant to section 19a of this Act the value of the railway
property of any carrier held for and used in the service of
transportation has been finally ascertained, the value so
ascertained shall be deemed by the Commission to be the
value thereof for the purpose of determining such aggregate value."
"(6) If, under the provisions of this section, any carrier
receives for any year a net railway operating income in
excess of 6 per centum of the value of the railway property
held for and used by it in the service of transportation,
one-half of such excess shall be placed in a reserve fund
established and maintained by such carrier, and the remaining one-half thereof shall, within the first four months
following the close of the period for which such computation' is made, be recoverable by and paid to the Commission for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a
general railroad contingent fund as hereinafter described.
in excess of a fair return, shall hold such part of the excess, as hereinafter prescribed, as trustee for, and shall pay it to, the United
States.
"(7) For the purpose of paying dividends or interest on its stocks,
bonds or other securities, or rent for leased roads, a carrier may draw
from the reserve fund established and maintained by it under the
provisions of this section to the extent that its net railway operating
income for any year is less than a sum equal to 6 per centum of the
value of the railway pioperty held for and used by it in the service
of transportation, determined as provided in paragraph (6); but such
fund shall not be drawn upon for any other purpose.
"(8) Such reserve fund need not be accumulated and maintained by
any carrier beyond a sum equal to 5 per centum of the value of its
railway property determined as herein provided, and when such fund
is so accumulated and maintained the portion of its excess income
which the carrier is permitted to retain under paragraph (6) may be
used by it for any lawful purpose."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Opinion of the Court.

For the purposes of this paragraph the value of the railway property and the net railway operating income of
a group of carriers which the Commission finds are under
common control and management and are operated as
a single system, shall be computed for the system as a
whole irrespective of the separate ownership and accounting returns of the various parts of such system. In the
case of any carrier which has accepted the provisions of
section 209 of this amendatory Act the provisions of this
paragraph shall not be applicable to the income for any
period prior to September 1, 1920. The value of such
railway property shall be determined by the Commission
in the manner provided in paragraph (4)."
After an investigation instituted under § 15a, May 14,
1924, for the purpose of determining incomes received by
St. Louis and O'Fallon Railway Company (The O'Fallon)
and Manufacturers' Railway Company (The Manufacturers'), asserted to be parts of one system, for the years
1920-1923, the Commission found: (1) Although the stock
of both corporations was mostly owned by the Adolphus
Busch Estate and their principal officers were the same,
they were not carriers operated under common control
and management as a single system within paragraph 6.
(2) The Manufacturers' had received no excess operating income. (3) The value of The O'Fallon's property
devoted to public service in 1920 (ten months) was $856,065; in 1921, $875,360; in 1922, $978,874; in 1923, $997,236; and during each of those years it received net operating income exceeding six per cent upon the stated
valuation.
The above-described recapture order followed.
The cause is properly here under the Judicial Code, as
amended by Act of February 13, 1925, (U. S. C., Title
28, § 345)"See. 238. A direct review by the Supreme Court of
an interlocutory or final judgment or decree of a district
45228°-29------31

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

court may be had where it is so provided in the following
Acts or parts of Acts and not otherwise:
"(4) So much of 'An Act making appropriations
for the fiscal year 1913, and for other purposes,'
approved October 22, 1913, as relates to the review of
interlocutory and final judgments and decrees in suits
to enforce, suspend, or set aside orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission other than for the payment of
money.
The Act of October 22, 1913, (38 Stat. 219, 220) transferred to District Courts the jurisdiction granted to the
Commerce Court by Act of June 18, 1910, (36 Stat. 539);
and provided for review by this Court of causes embraced
therein. The jurisdiction of the Commerce Court included"First. All cases for the enforcement, otherwise than
by adjudication and collection of a forfeiture or penalty
or by infliction of criminal punishment, of any order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission other than for the
payment of money.
"Second. Cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or
suspend in whole or in part any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. .
Paragraph (4), § 238, applies to all those causes formerly cognizable by the Commerce Court and reviewable
here. The words" other than for the payment of money"
were taken from clause First, Act of 1910, above quoted
and, as there, they delimit the trial court's jurisdiction
They do not inhibit review here of any cause formerly
cognizable by the Commerce Court. Moreover, the order under consideration was not merely for payment of
money; and the proceeding below was to set aside, not to
enforce it.
Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S.563, and Dayton-Goo8e

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

483

Opinion of the Court.

Creek Railway Co. v. The United States, 263 U. S. 456,
point out the general purpose of the Transportation Act,
1920, and uphold the validity of § 15a.
The Manufacturers' is a switching road with thirty
miles of track within St. Louis, Missouri. The O'Fallona coal-carrying road-has nine miles of main line, all in
Illinois, and this connects with The Terminal Railroad
at East St. Louis. Through the latter deliveries are made
to sundry points in St. Louis, some of which are on The
Manufacturers' line. "The distance between the railroad of the O'Fallon and the railroad of the Manufacturers' is about 12 miles, and all communication by rail
between the two properties is effected over the tracks of
the Terminal, including a bridge over the Mississippi
River." Both the Commission and the District Court
held that the record failed to show these two roads were
under common control and management and operated as
a single system within the meaning of paragraph 6. We
accept their conclusion.
The Commission directed The O'Fallon to pay 6% interest on the recaptured one-half of its ascertained excess
net railway operating income beginning four months from
the end of the year during which the excess accrued (§ 6).
The District Court rightly ruled that as the carrier made
bona fide denial of any excess under circumstances sufficient to justify a contest, no interest should have been imposed for any time prior to the final order. Not until
then could the carrier know what, if anything, it should
pay.
Also, we think the District Court rightly rejected the
claim that excess earnings were not recapturable unless
and until the Commission had fixed a general level of
rates intended to yield fair return upon the aggregate
value of carrier property either as a whole, or in some
prescribed rate or territorial group. Congress, of course,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 J. S.

realized that final valuations would require prodigious expenditure of time and effort; but the language concerning recapture indicates that prompt action was expected.
Practical application of paragraphs 5 and 6 does not necessarily depend upon prior compliance with paragraphs
2 and 3. The Act should be construed so as to carry out
the legislative purpose. The proviso of paragraph 3 prescribing action to be taken during two years beginning
March 1, 1920, and the clause of paragraph 6 excepting
the income of certain roads prior to September 1, 1920,
are hardly compatible with this claim by the carrier.
Paragraph 4, § 15a, directs that in determining values
of railway property for purposes of recapture the Commission "shall give due consideration to all the elements
of value recognized by the law of the land for rate-making purposes, and shall give to the property investment
account of the carriers only that consideration which under such law it is entitled to in establishing values for
rate-making purposes." This is an express command;
and the carrier has clear right to demand compliance
therewith. United States ex rel. Kansas City Southern
Railway Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 252
U. S. 178.
"The elements of value recognized by the law of the
land for rate-making purposes" have been pointed out
many times by this Court. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Wilcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352; Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S. 276;
Bluefield Water Works & Improvement Co. v. Public
Service Commission, 262 U. S. 679; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400. Among them is the present cost of construction or reproduction.
Thirty years ago, Smyth v. Ames announced (546):
"We hold, however, that the basis of all calculations
as to the reasonableness of rates to be charged by a cor-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Opinion of the Court.

poration maintaining a highway under legislative sanction must be the fair value of the property being used by
it for the convenience of the public. And in order to ascertain that value, the original cost of construction, the
amount expended in permanent improvements, the
amount and market value of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of construction,
the probable earning capacity of the property under particular rates prescribed by statute, and the sum required
to meet operating expenses are all matters for consideration, and are to be given such weight as may be just and
right in each case. We do not say that there may not
be other matters to be regarded in estimating the value of
the property. What the company is entitled to ask is a
fair return upon the value of that which it employs for
the public convenience. On the other hand, what the
public is entitled to demand is that no more be exacted
from it for the use of a public highway than the services
rendered by it are reasonably worth."
In Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service
Commission, supra (287), we said: "It is impossible to
ascertain what will amount to a fair return upon properties devoted to public service without giving consideration to the cost of labor, supplies, etc., at the time the
investigation is made. An honest and intelligent forecast
of probable future values made upon a view of all the
relevant circumstances, is essential. If the highly important element of present costs is wholly disregarded
such a forecast becomes impossible. Estimates for tomorrow cannot ignore prices of today."
The doctrine above stated has been consistently adhered to by this Court.
The report of the Commission is long and argumentative. Much of it is devoted to general observations relative to the method and purpose of making valuations;
many objections are urged to doctrine approved by us;
and the superiority of another view is stoutly asserted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

It carefully refrains from stating that any consideration
whatever was given to present or reproduction costs in
estimating the value of the carrier's property. Four dissenting Commissioners declare that reproduction costs
were not considered; and the report itself confirms their
view. Two of the majority avow a like understanding of
the course pursued.
The following from the dissenting opinion of Commissioner Hall, concurred in by three others, accurately describes the action of the Commission:"In order to determine the value of the O'Fallon property devoted to carrier service during the recapture periods, 10 months in the year 1920 and the years 1921, 1922,
and 1923, we start with a valuation or inventory date of
June 30, 1919. The units in existence on that date are
known. Original cost of the entire property can not be
ascertained. As to the man-made units we estimate the
cost of reproducing them in their condition on that date
and in so doing apply to the units installed prior to June
30, 1914, the unit prices of 1914, representing a fairly consistent price level for the preceding 5 or 10 years. To like
uits, installed after June 30, 1914, and prior to June 30,
1919, we apply the same prices, but add a sum representing price increases on those units during that period. For
the third period, from June 30, 1919, down to each recapture date, we abandon estimate and turn to recorded net
cost of additions less retirements. On this composite,
made up of estimated value for two periods and ascertained net cost for the third period, the majority base a
conclusion as to value at recapture date of the man-made
items. Land goes in at its current value as measured by
that of neighboring lands.
"Without summarizing the other processes, all clearly
stated in the majority report, it will be observed that the
rate-making value arrived at for the successive recapture
periods, as for example the year 1923, rests upon 1923

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

Opinion of the Court.

market value of lands; costs of other property installed
since June 30, 1919; unit prices of 1914, enhanced by allowance for increased cost of units installed during June
30, 1914-1919; and, for the units installed prior to June
30, 1914, constituting by far the major part of the property, unit prices of 1914 without any enhancement whatever. As to this major part of the carrier's property devoted to carrier purposes in 1923 no consideration is given
to costs and prices then obtaining or to increase therein
since 1914."
In the exercise of its proper function this Court has
declared the law of the land concerning valuations for
rate-making purposes. The Commission disregarded the
approved rule and has thereby failed to discharge the
definite duty imposed by Congress. Unfortunately,
proper heed was denied the timely admonition of the
minority-" The function of this commission is not to
act as an arbiter in economics, but as an agency of Congress, to apply the law of the land to facts developed of
record in matters committed by Congress to our jurisdiction."
The question on which the Conmnission divided is this:
When seeking to ascertain the value of railroad property
for recapture purposes, must it give consideration to current, or reproduction, costs? The weight to be accorded
thereto is not the matter before us. No doubt there are
some, perhaps many, railroads the ulthnate value of which
should be placed far below the sum necessary for reproduction. But Congress has directed that values shall be
fixed upon a consideration of present costs along with all
other pertinent facts; and this mandate must be obeyed.
It was deemed unnecessary by the Court below to determine whether the Commission obeyed the statutory
direction touching valuations since the order permitted
The O'Fallon to retain an income great enough to negative any suggestion of actual confiscation. With this we

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

cannot agree. Whether the Commission acted as directed
by Congress was the fundamental question presented. If
it did not, the action taken, being beyond the authority
granted, was invalid. The only power to make any recapture order arose from the statute.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed. A
decree will be entered here annulling the challenged
order.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

or determination of this cause.
MR.

J sTiCE BRANDEIs,

dissenting.

The main question for consideration is that of statutory
construction. By Transportation Act, 1920, February 28,
1920, c. 91, § 15a, 41 Stat. 456, 488, Congress delegated to
the Interstate Commerce Commission the duty to establish and maintain rates which will yield "a fair return
upon the aggregate value of the railway property" of
the United States. By paragraph 4 thereof, it directs
that in ascertaining value the Commission shall "give
due consideration to all the elements of value recognized
by the law of the land for rate-making purposes "; and
shall "give to the property investment account only that
consideration which under such law it is entitled to in
establishing values for rate-making purposes." The report of the Commission, which accompanies the order
challenged, declares: "In the methods of valuation which
we have followed in this proceeding we have endeavored
to give heed to this direction [that contained in paragraph
4] . . ." Excess Income of St. Louis and O'Fallon
Ry.Co., 124 I. C. C. 3, 19. Speaking for the dissenting
members, Mr. Commissioner Hall said: "If the law needs
change, let those who made it change it. Our duty is to

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

apply the law as it stands." (pp. 63, 64.) And Mr. Commissioner Aitchison added: "If we anticipate grave results will follow, our responsibility will be fully met if
we suggest to the Congress, under our statutory powers
to recommend new legislation to that body, the enactment of a rule for rate making under the commerce clause
which will have no such unfavorable effects." (p. 64.)
Section 15a makes no specific reference either to the
original cost of the property, or to prudent investment, or
to current reproduction cost, or to the then existing price
level. Section 19 (a) (the valuation provisions of the Act
of 1913), to which § 15a refers, directs the Commssion
to report, among other things, "in detail as to each piece
of property, . . the original cost to date, the cost of
reproduction new, the cost of reproduction less depreciation "; and also " other values, and elements of value."
After the enactment of § 15a and before entry of the
order challenged, it was held in Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S. 276,
a case arising under a state law, that the rate-base on
which a public utility is constitutionally entitled to earn
a fair return is the then actual value of the property used
and useful in the business, not the original cost or the
amount prudently invested in the enterprise. The Government concedes that current reproduction cost is admissible as evidence to show present value under § 15a.
The carrier concedes now that neither Congress, nor the
common law, made current reproduction cost the measure
of value. The question on which the Commission divided
is this: Did Congress require the Commission when acting under § 15a to give, in all cases and in respect to all
property, some, if not controlling, effect to evidence establishing the estimated current cost of reproduction?
Or did Congress intend to leave to the Commission the
authority to determine, as in passing upon other con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

troverted issues of fact, what weight, if any, it should give
to that evidence?
The O'Fallon contends, among other things, that the order is confiscatory. The claim is that the order left to the
company a return of only 4.35 per cent upon the value ascertained in accordance with the rule declared in the Southwestern Bell case and McCardle v. Indianapolis Water
Co., 272 U. S. 400. If this were true, it would be immaterial whether Congress purported to authorize the course
pursued by the Commission. But the fact is that, in each
of the recapture periods, the earnings were so large as to
leave, after making the required payments to the Commission, about 8 per cent on what the carrier alleged was
the fair value of the property. The O'Fallon argues that,
sihce the statute and the order required it to hold as a
reserve one-half of the excess over 6 per cent, it is deprived of that property. This is not true. The requirement that one-half of the earnings in excess of 6 per cent
shall be retained by the carrier until the reserve equals
5 per cent of the value of the railroad does not deprive
the carrier of any property. It merely regulates the use
thereof. Compare Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
United States, 231 U. S. 423, 453. The provision is one designed to secure financial stability; and is similar to those
prescribing sinking funds, depreciation, and other appropriate accounts.' Congress may regulate the use of railroad property so as to ensure financial as well as physical
stability. Both are essential to the safety and the service
of the public. In Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
'See Report of Senate Committee reporting S. 3288, Report No.
307, p. 19, 66th Congress, 1st Session: "The Company reserve fund
may be drawn upon by the carrier whenever its annual railway
operating income falls below 6 per cent of the value of the property.
The reserve fund is, of course, the absolute property of the carrier)
and the purpose in requiring it to be established and maintained is
to give stability to the credit of the carrier and enable it to render
more efficiently the public service in which it is engaged."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

491

J., dissenting.

States, 263 U. S. 456, 486, where the facts were in this
respect identical with those in the case at bar, the constitutional validity of the order was sustained. If the failure to give to the evidence of current reproduction costs
the effect claimed for it by the O'Fallon was error, it is
not because the carrier's constitutional rights have been
invaded, but because the Commission failed to observe a
rule prescribed by Congress for determining the amounts
to be recaptured and reserved.
The claim of the O'Fallon is in substance that, since
construction costs were higher during the recapture periods than in 1914, the order should be set aside, because
the Commission failed to find that the existing structural
property and equipment which had been acquired before
June 30, 1914 was worth more than it had been then.2
The Commission undertook, as will be shown, to find present actual value and, in so doing, both to follow the direction of Congress and to apply the rule declared in the
Southwestern Bell case. It is true that this Court there
declared that current reconstruction cost is an element
of actual value; and that Congress directed the Commission " to give due consideration to all the elements of
value recognized by the law of the land for rate making
purposes." But, while the Act required the Commission
to consider all such evidence, neither Congress nor this
Court required it to give to evidence of reconstruction
cost a mechanical effect or artificial weight. They left untrammeled its duty to give to all relevant evidence such
probative force as, in its judgment, the evidence inherently possesses. The Commission concluded that in respect to the evidence of reproduction costs the differences
between the Southwestern Bell case and that at bar were
2

The complaint concerns all the structural property and equip-

ment acquired before June 30, 1919. But, as nearly all of this had
been installed before July 1, 1914, the discussion is limited to the
property acquired before that date.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J.,

dissenting.

279 U.S.

such as to lead to different results in the two cases. It
did so mainly because "in the administration of the valuation and recapture provisions," ascertainment of value
" is affected by a vast variety of considerations that either
do not enter into, or are less easily perceived in, problems
incident to the regulation of local public utilities." (p.
27.) In my opinion the conclusions of the Commission
are well founded. To make clear the reasons, requires
consideration of the function of the Commission in applying § 15a and of the problems with which it is confronted.
First. The Commission is a fact-finding body. The
question whether it must give to confessedly relevant
facts evidential effect is solely one of adjective law. Statutes have sometimes limited the weight or effect of evidence. They have often created rebuttable presumptions
and have shifted the burden of proof. But no instance
has been found where under our law a fact-finding body
has been required to give to evidence an effect which it
does not inherently possess. Proof implies persuasion.
To compel the human mind to infer in any respect that
which observation and logic tells us is not true interferes
with the process of reasoning of the fact-finding body. It
would be a departure from the unbroken practice to require an artificial legal conviction where no real conviction exists.'

An arbitrary disregard by the Commission of the probative effect of evidence would, of course, be ground for setting aside an order, as this would be an abuse of discretion.
Orders have been set aside because entered without
evidence; I or because matters of fact had been considered
Compare Best on Evidence (seventh English edition) §§ 69, 70;
Manley v. Georgia, 279 U. S. 1.
'See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R., 222
U. S. 541, 547; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 92; Florida East Coast Ry. v. United
States, 234 U. S.167; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184,
203.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

which were not in the record; ' or because the Colmnission excluded from consideration facts and circumstances
which ought to have been considered;' or because it took
into consideration facts which could not legally influence
its judgment.7 But no case has been found in which this
Court has set aside an order on the ground that the Commission failed to give effect to evidence which seemed to
the Court to be of probative force, or on the ground that
the Commission had drawn from the evidence an inference
or conclusion deemed by the Court to be erroneous.8 On
See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 93; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263.
6 See Texas & Pac. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162
U.S. 197; Interstate Commerce Commission v.Alabama Midland Ry.,
168 U. S. 144; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Northern Pacific
Ry., 216 U. S. 538.
7 See FloridaEast Coast Line v. United States, 234 TT. S. 167, 187;
Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 247.
gAlleged errors of the Interstate Commerce Commission in weighing evidence or drawing inferences therefrom have been urged as
grounds for reversal in many cases. This Court has consistently held
that the Commission's decisions as to such matters are not the proper
subject for judicial review. See e. g., Cincinnati,&c. Ry. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 142, 154; Illinois Central R. R. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R., 215 U. S.452, 470; Los
Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294; United States v. New River
Co., 265 U. S.533; Western Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U. S.
268; Virginian Ry. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658; Chicago, R. I.
& Pac. Ry. v. United States, 274 U. S.29; Assigned Car Cases, 274
U. S. 564. The following excerpts from recent opinions succinctly
express the Court's position in the matter:--" The courts will not
review determinations of the Commission made within the scope of
its powers or substitute their judgment for its findings and conclusions." United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S.533, 542. "To
consider the weight of the evidence is beyond our province." Western Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U. S.268, 271. "This Court
has no concern with the correctness of the Commission's reasoning,
with the soundness of its conclusions, or with the alleged inconsist-

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

the contrary, findings of the Commission involving the
appreciation or effect of evidence have been treated with
the deference due to those of a tribunal "informed by
experience" and "appointed by law" to deal with an
intricate subject. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454. Unless, therefore, Congress required the Commission, not only to consider evidence of reconstruction cost in ascertaining values
for rate making purposes under § 15a, but also to give,
in all cases and in respect to all property, some weight
to evidence of enhanced reconstruction cost, even if that
evidence was not inherently persuasive, the Commission
was clearly authorized to determine for itself to what extent, if any, weight should be given to the evidence; and
its findings should not be disturbed by the Court, unless it
appears that there was an abuse of discretion.
Second. While current reproduction cost may be said
to be an element in the present value of property, in the
sense that it is "evidence properly to be considered in the
ascertainment of value," Standard Oil Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 268 U. S. 146, 156, it is clear that current cost
of reproduction higher than the original cost does not
necessarily tend to prove a present higher value. Often
the fact of higher reconstruction cost is without any in-'
fluence on present values. It is common knowledge that
the current market values of many office buildings and
residences constructed prior to the World War have failed
to reflect the greatly increased building costs of recent
years, although the need of new buildings of like character was being demonstrated by the large volume of conency with findings made in other proceedings before it." Virginian
Ry. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 665-666. "But if the determination of the commission finds substantial support in the evidence, the
courts will not weigh the evidence nor consider the wisdom of the
commission's action." Chicago, R. L & Pac. Ry. v. United States,
274 U. S. 29, 33-34,

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

struction at the higher price level. Many railroads built
before the World War have never been worth as much as
their original cost, because high construction cost combined with adverse operating conditions and limited traffic have at all times prevented their earning, despite reasonable rates, a fair return on the original cost. The
Puget Sound extension of the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul is a notable example.9 Many branches, and indeed whole lines of railroad, have been scrapped since
1920. Abandonment of 2,439 miles of railroad was authorized under paragraph 18 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act between 1920 and 1925; and in the three fol9
The Puget Sound extension of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Railway was completed in 1909 at a cost of about $257,000,000.
It earned, during fifteen years, little more than operating expenses.
As late as 1925, its net operating income was "only about one-half
of 1 per cent on this investment." Investigation of Chicago, Muwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 131 I. C. C. 615, 617, 619, 621. The
upset cash price fixed by the court in the foreclosure proceeding
was $42,500,000. Guaranty Trust Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.,
15 F. (2d) 434, 443.
Another striking example of the discrepancy often existing between
market price or actual value, and reproduction cost is to be found in
the case of the Detroit, Toledo & Ironton Railroad, which Mr. Ford
purchased in 1920 for $6,800,000. It was said to have a physical
value of between $16,000,000 and $20,000,000. Railway Age, Vol.
69.1, p. 132.
In an order granting, on March 8, 1929, the application of the
Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. to abandon its Middle Tennessee & Alabama branch, which had been in operation more than
thirty years, the Interstate Commerce Commission said: "The applicant contends that the project was poorly conceived and doomed
to failure from the outset." 150 I. C. C. 539, 540.
"But cost of reproduction obviously does not measure value in
the sense of what a purchaser would pay for a property. Let the
owners of the old Wabash Pittsburgh Terminal put their road upon
the market to prove the truth of this assertion." Homer D. Vanderblue in Railway Age, 1920-Vol. 68.2, p. 1105.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

lowing years 2,010 miles more.1" These properties had, in
the main, become valueless for transportation, either because traffic ceased to be available or because competitive
means of transportation precluded the establishment of
remunerative rail rates." Obviously, no one would contend that their actual value just before abandonment was
what it originally cost to construct them or what it would
then have cost to reconstruct them.
Third. The terms of § 15a and its legislative history
preclude the assumption that Congress intended by paragraph 4 to deny to the Commission in respect to evidence
of reconstruction cost the discretion commonly exercised
in determining what weight, if any, shall be given to an
evidential fact. In 1920, no fact was more prominent in
the mind of the public and of Congress than that the
cost of living was far greater than that prevailing when
the existing railroads were built. 2 But, neither in Transportation Act, 1920, nor in any Committee report, is there
even a suggestion that the Commission would be required
10 Motor Bus and Motor Truck Operation, 140 I. C. C. 685, 727.
See Annual Reports of the Commission, 1921, p. 19; 1922, p. 219;
1923, p. 237; 1924, p. 253; 1925, p. 263; 1926, p. 286; 1927, p. 294;
1928, p. 298.
II Motor competition has to some extent been a factor in such
abandonments. For instances arising since October 31, 1927, see
Abandonment of Potato Creek R. R. Co., 131 I. C. C. 481, 482;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 131 I. C. C. 547, 548; Grand Rapids and
Indiana Ry. Co., 138 I. C. C. 345; Spokane, Coeur d'Alene & Palouse
Ry. Co., 138 I. C. C. 722, 723; Illinois Traction, Inc., 145 I. C. C. 20;
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 145 I. C. C. 232; Southern Ry. Co., 145
I. C. C. 355; St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co., 145 I. C. C. 379, 383;
Pere Marquette Ry. Co., 145 I. C. C. 560, 561; Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry Co., 145 I. C. C. 6098, 699; Southern Pacific Co., 145
I. C. C. 705, 707. Compare Hill City Ry. Co., 150 I. C. C. 159.
12 Senator Cunmins stated that the cost of living was then from
80 to 100 per cent above prewar prices. 59 Cong. Rec., Part I, p. 129.
See, also, Senate Committee Hearings, Vol. 148, Part II, p. 277;
House Committee Hearings, Vol. 232, Part I, pp. 376-377.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

497

J., dissenting.

to give to that fact any effect in ascertaining values for
rate making purposes under § 15a. If it had been the intention of Congress to compel the Commission to increase
values for rate making purposes because the price level
had risen, it would naturally have incorporated such a
direction in the paragraph. On the other hand, the Committee reports and the debates show that the opinion was
quite commonly held that the actual values were less than
the property investment account appearing on the books
of the carriers; 13 and the proposal made by the railroads
that the investment account be accepted as the measure
of value was resisted as being excessive."4 The property
13 Senator Cummins said "I think there are a great many instances
in which the investment accounts are larger than any possible value
that could be attributed to the property." 59 Cong. Rec., Part 1, p.
126. "My own judgment is, however, that the value of the properties is less than the aggregate investment accounts

.

. ." pp.

135-136. For other expressions of opinion to the same effect see
pp. 224, 228, 905. Senator Cummins stated that the aggregate
of the investment accounts was about $19,000,000,000. (p. 127.)
See also p. 130. Compare Mr. Esch, 59 Cong. Rec., Part 4, p. 3269.
14 The Commission says (124 I. C. C. 39): "In this connection it
is significant that when the legislation of 1920, of which § 15a is a
part, was under congressional consideration there was offered in behalf of the carriers a proposed bill in which their recorded investment in road and equipment was made the sole element in the determination of the rate base. It is also worthy of note that when
the legislation of 1920 was under such consideration a representative
of this commission on September 26, 1919, in response to a question,
publicly informed the congressional committee that he knew of no
warrant for an assumption 'that the commission will base the value
of the property wholly or in part on present prices.'"
The investment in road and equipment as stated on the books of
the Kansas City, Mexico and Orient R. R. Co. (of Kansas) as of
June 30, 1919, was $22,190,935. The final valuation by the Commission as of that date was $6,453,528. After that date $1,064,782
was expended for additions and betterments, making a total value
of $7,518,310. The Kansas City, Mexico & Orient of Texas (with
expenditures for additions) was valued at $6,854,522. Kansas City,
45228--29-----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BuNimns, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

investment account in 1920 was about 19 billions of dollars.'1 The then reproduction cost of the railroads, applying index figures to estimated actual cost, was over
40 billions.' " It is inconceivable that Congress, after rejecting property investment account as excessive, intended by § 15a to make mandatory on the Commission
the consideration of elements which would give a valuation double that which had been rejected. The insertion
in § 15a of the provision that the Commission "shall give
to the property investment account of the carriers only
that consideration which under the law it is entitled to
in establishing values for rate making purposes" and the
rejection of other proposed measures of value show that
Congress intended not to impose restrictions upon the
discretion of the Commission."
Congress did intend to provide a return on the existing
railroad property which should be only slightly more
than that which had been enjoyed during the six preceding years. To have required that the then price level be
reflected in the values to be fixed under § 15a would have
resulted in a rate-base of double the property investment
account of the carriers. For the cost of living was then
about double prewar prices. The prescribed fair return
Mexico & Orient R. R. Co., 135 I. C. C. 217; Kansas City, Mexico &
Orient Reorganization,145 I. C. C. 339, 344. These properties, with
an aggregate book value of $29,045,457 were valued by the Commission at $14,372,832 and, with 320 miles of road in Mexico added,
were purchased by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe R. R. for
$14,507,500. See Control of Kansas City, Mexico & Orient Ry. Co.,
145 I. C. C. 350.
15 See note 13.
1 Excess Income of St. Louis and O'Fallon Ry. Co., 124 I. C. C.
3, 32.
17 Contemporary opinion of the railroads to this effect was expressed in their behalf in the hearings held before the Interstate
Commerce Commission on March 22-24, 1920 (Hearings, In re: § 422
of the Transportation Act, Ex parte 71, p. 134).

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

applied to such a rate base would have produced more
than double the average net earnings from operation of
the several properties during the three years preceding
federal control; more than double the amount which the
carriers agreed to accept under the Federal Control Act,
March 21, 1918, c. 25, 9 1, 40 Stat. 451, as fair compensation for the use of their property; more than double the
guarantee provided by Transportation Act, 1920, § 209,
for the six months' period after the surrender of control.
The sum which the railroads had thus earned net in those
six years equalled 5.2 per cent on the property investment
account, as carried on their books.
In making provision for a fair return, the main purpose was not to increase the earnings of capital already
invested in railroads, but to attract the new capital
needed for improvement or extension of facilities." This
was to be accomplished by raising the rate of return from
5.2 per cent to 5.5 per cent (Senate Reports, Vol. 1, No.
304, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.):
"The basis adopted by the Committee is three-tenths of
1 per cent higher than the basis of the test period [the
three years preceding June 30, 1917]; and assuming,
though not conceding that the value of the property is
equal to the property investment accounts, it will yield
for all the railways a net operating income of $54,000,000
in excess of the income of the test period. There were two
considerations which led the majority of the conunittee
" " The writer of this report is firmly convinced that when the
Government assumed the operation of the railways they were, taken
as a whole, earning all that they should be permitted to earn; but,
in the inevitable distribution of these earnings among the various
railway companies, the railways which carried 30 per cent of the
traffic were earning so little that they could not, by any economy or
good management, sustain themselves." Senate Reports, No. 304,
Vol. 1, 66th Cong., 1st Sess. A rate base which reflected the then
increase in price levels over 1914 would have yielded about $700,000,000 more than the income of the test period,

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

to believe that this increase is not only warranted but
necessary:
"First. The railways are being returned to their
owners when everything is unsettled and abnormal; when
there is suspicion and distrust everywhere. Just what
rate of return will enable the carriers to finance themselves under such conditions can not, with certainty be
determined. It was felt, therefore, that some increase
over the prewar period was justifiable.
"Second. As compared with all kinds of commodities,
money is much less valuable than it was a few years ago,
and it would seem to be only fair that the returns from
railway investments should be reasonably advanced."
The means by which the bill was to accomplish the
desired end are thus stated in the report:
"First: By prescribing a basis of return upon the value
of the railway property, to give such assurance to investors as will incline them to look with favor upon railway securities; that is to say, by making a moderate return reasonably certain to establish credit for the carriers.
"Second: In making the return fairly certain to secure
for the public a lower capital charge than would otherwise be necessary.
"Third: In requiring some carriers, which under any
given body of rates will earn more than a fair return, to
pay the excess to the Government and in so using this
excess that transportation facilities or credit can be furnished to the weaker carriers, and thus help to maintain
the general system of transportation."
Either increase in the rate of return or increase of the
base on which that return is measured would have served
to adjust compensation to higher price levels. The adoption by Congress of the increase in the return, as the
means of compensating for the decreased purchasing
power of the dollar, precludes the assumption that it intended that the valuation should reflect that lessened pur-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

chasing power. By explicitly choosing the former Congress implicitly rejected the latter."9 For to have allowed
an increase in both would have gone beyond adjusting
earnings to increased costs and have made this increase a
mere pretext for allowing unwarranted profits to the railroads. The proceedings which led to the passage of the
Act make it clear that Congress intended no such result.
Fourth. The declared purpose of Congress in enacting
§ 15a was the maintenance of an adequate national system of railway transportation, capable of providing the
best possible service to the public at the lowest cost consistent with full justice to the private owners. Following
the course consistently pursued by this Court in applying
other provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
162 U. S. 197, 211, 219; New England Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184,189-190; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S. 456, 478, the Commission construed
§ 15a in the light of the declared purpose of Congress and
of the economic factors involved. From its wide knowledge of actual conditions and its practical experience in
rate making, it concluded that to give effect to enhanced
reproduction costs would defeat that purpose. (p. 27.)
It knew that the value for rate making purposes could
not be more than that sum on which a fair return could
be earned by legal rates; and that the earnings were
19Senator Kellogg in the debate on the bill justified the 51/2
per cent return by the same argument as used by the Committee in
reporting the bill: "Again it must be remembered that 51/2 per cent
today is not equal to 51/2 per cent five years ago. The great inflation
of currency and the general rise in all commodities have made a dollar very much less in purchasing power." 59 Cong. Rec., Part 1, p.
224. The same recognition of increased costs had been given as a
justification for the liberal return authorized by the Federal Control
Act. 1916 and 1917, two of the three years taken as a basis for
measuring the return, were the most prosperous in the history of the
railroads. See 56 Cong. Rec., Part II, p. 2021.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

limited both by the commercial prohibition of rates higher
than the traffic would bear and the legal prohibition of
rates higher than are just and reasonable. It knew that a
rate-base fluctuating with changes in the level of general
prices would imperil industry and commerce. It knew
that the adoption of a fluctuating rate-base would not,
as is claimed, do justice to those prewar investors in railroad securities who were suffering from the lessened value
of the dollar, since the great majority of the railroad securities are represented by long term bonds or the guaranteed stocks of leased lines which bear a fixed return;
and that only the stockholders could gain through the
greater earnings required to satisfy the higher rate base.
It recognized that an adequate national system of railways, so long as it is privately owned, cannot be provided
and maintained without a continuous inflow of capital;
that "obviously, also, such an inflow of capital can only
be assured by treatment of capital already invested which
will invite and encourage further investment," (p. 30) ; and

that as was said in Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S. 456, 481: "By investment in a business
dedicated to the public service the owner must recognize
that as compared with investment in private business,
he cannot expect either high or speculative dividends but
that his obligation limits him to only fair or reasonable
profit."

20

20 Mr. Esch, in submitting the conference report to the House, said:
"Investors want something definite and fixed upon which they can
reckon. The provisions of section 422 give that stability, that stand-

ard which I trust, will encourage investment

.

.

." 59 Cong. Rec.,

Part 4, p. 3269. The Commission points out (p. 32): "In other
words, assuming a static property [valued at $18,000,000,000] there
would have been a gain of 23.4 billions in 1920, a loss of 6.3 billions
in 1921, a further loss of 6.8 billions in 1922, and a gain again of 3
billions in 1923. These huge 'profits' and 'losses' would have occurred without change in the railroad property used in the public
service other than the theoretical and speculative change derived
from a shifting of general price levels."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

503

J., dissenting.

The conviction that there would in time be a fall in the
price level was generally held. As a fluctuating rate-base
would thus directly imperil industry and commerce and
investments made at relatively high price levels during
and since the World War; "' would tend to increase the
cost of new money required to supply adequate service to
the public; and would discourage such investment, the
Commission concluded that Congress could not have intended to require it to measure the value or rate-base by
reproduction cost, since this would produce a result contrary to its declared purpose. And as confirming its construction of § 15a the Commission showed that, with the
stable rate-base which it had accepted as the basis for
administering the Act, the aim of Congress to establish
an adequate national system had been attained. It
pointed out that: "During the period 1920-1926, inclusive, the investment in railroad property increased by 4
billions of dollars. A substantial part of this money was
derived from income, but much of it was obtained by
the sale of new securities. The market for railroad securities since the passage of the transportation act, 1920, has
steadily improved and the general trend of interest rates
has been downward. The credit of the railroads in general is now excellent. . . ." (p. 33.)
Fifth. Other considerations confirm the construction
given by the Commission to the phrase "value for rate
making purposes," as used in § 15a. In condemnation
proceedings, the owner recovers what he has lost by the
" During the seven years, 1920 to 1926, inclusive, there was an
approximate net investment in additions and betterments and new
construction of 4 billions. These were paid for at then current prices,
all above, in many cases far above, present prices. Assuming that
there has since been an average decline in unit price level of 25 per
cent, a valuation under the current reproduction cost doctrine would
wipe out one billion of that additional investment. The effect upon
any railroad entirely or largely constructed during the period 1920 to
1926 may be imagined." (p. 32.)
21

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

taking of the property, Boston Chamber of Commerce v.
Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195; and such loss must be determined "not merely with reference to the uses to which
it is at the time applied, but with reference to the uses to
which it is plainly adapted." Boom Co. v. Patterson,98
U. S. 403, 408. Compare Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S. 430, 435. But the
actual value of a railroad-its value for rate making purposes under § 15a-may be less than its condemnation
value. As was said in Southern Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 274
U. S. 76, 81-82, a case involving state taxation: "The
value of the physical elements of a railroad-whether that
value be deemed actual cost, cost of reproduction less depreciation or some other figure-is not the sole measure
of or guide to its value i n operation. Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466, 557. Much weight is to be given to present and
prospective earning capacity at rates that are reasonable,
having regard to traffic available and competitive and
other conditions prevailing in the territory served."
Value has been defined as the ability to command the
price." Railroad property is valuable as such only if, and
so far as, used. If rates are too high, the traffic will not
move. Hence, the value or rate-base is necessarily dependent, in the first place, upon the commercial ability
of the property to command the rates which will yield a
return in excess of operating expenses and taxes; and such
value cannot be higher than the sum on which, with the
22 The value of the plant is "a result of the rates rather than a
basis for rates. . . . If rates are established upon a basis of
reproduction cost, value will tend to approximate such cost, but this
will be through the operation of economic law and not because a certain figure has been decreed as value." F. G. Dorety, "The Function
of Reproduction Cost," 37 Harvard Law Rev. 173, 189. Compare
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 328;
C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445; 1 Taussig,
Principles of Economics, 115; Laughlin, Elements of Political
Economy, pp. 75-77.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

available traffic, the fair return fixed under § 15a can be
earned. Persistent depression of rates or lessening volume
of traffic, from whatever cause arising, ordinarily tends to
lower actual values of railroad properties. It follows, that
since the Commission is required by the rule of Smyth v.
Ames, re-affirmed in the Southwestern Bell case, to determine the rate-base under § 15a by actual value as distinguished from prudent investment, it must in making
the finding consider the effect upon value of both the
commercial and the legal limitations upon rates and,
among other things, the effect of competition upon the
volume of traffic.
Recent experience affords striking examples of commercial limitations upon rates. In Ex parte 74, Increased
Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220, the Commission sought to
establish rates which would yield 6 per cent upon the aggregate values of the railroads in the several groups. The
carriers claimed as the aggregate value $20,040,572,611that amount being carried on their books as the cost of
road and equipment. The Commission fixed the value
about 5 per cent lower-at $18,900,000,000. In order to
produce on that sum net earnings equal to 6 per cent, it
increased freight rates, in the eastern group, 40 per cent
over the then existing rates; in the southern group 25
per cent; in the western group 35 per cent; and in the
mountain-Pacific group 25 per cent. 3 As a result of
these increases, the average gross revenue per ton mile in
1921 was in the eastern district 96.1 per cent greater than
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1914; in the southern,
61.4; in the western, 59.3; and in the United States as a
whole, 76.2. Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676, 702.
2s Large increases had been made theretofore.
A general rate increase of 5 per cent in 1914, Five Per Cent Case, 31 1. C. C. 351;
32 I. C. C. 325; 15 per cent in 1917, Fifteen Per Cent Case, 45 I. C. C.
303; and 25 per cent in 1918, General Order of Director General,

No. 28.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRAxDIS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

Passenger rates were subjected by the order in Ex parte
74, to a flat increase of 20 per cent and surcharges were
added. (p. 242.)"
On a large number of basic commodities, which were
among the most important articles of commerce, the rates
proved to be higher than the traffic would bear. Reductions became imperative. Within a year after the entry of
that order, many applications for reductions were made to
the Commission, not only by shippers but also by the
carriers themselves. It was estimated that the reductions
in freight rates made by the carriers prior to March 15,
1922, would aggregate for that year $186,700,000; and
would lower the general rate level nearly 5 per cent. On
some important articles of traffic the entire increase made
by Ex parte 74 was cancelled. "5 Further reductions were
then ordered by Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676, the
Commission saying (pp. 732-3): "High rates do not
necessarily mean high revenues, for, if the public cannot
or will not ship in normal volume, less revenue may result than from lower rates. Shippers almost unanimously
contend, and -many representatives of the carriers agree,
that 'freight rates are too high and must come down.'
2

4They had been raised 40 per cent before.

25

See Rate Reductions, House Doe. No. 115, 67th Congress, 1st
Session, e. g., p. 7: "Reductions in all rates on iron ore throughout
the so-called eastern territory, including generally points east of
the Mississippi and north of the Potomac and Ohio Rivers, including,
of course, ex-Lake ore moving from Lake Erie ports. These reductions will eliminate all increases effected under Ex parte 74, and it
is conservatively estimated the amount will reach in round figures
$5,000,000 per year." For instances of important reductions made
by the carriers voluntarily, see Smelter Products from Nevada &
Utah, 61 I. C. C. 374; Grain from Illinois Points to New Orleans, 69
I. C. C. 38; Copper-Duquesne Reduction Co. v. PennsVlvania R. R.
Co., 96 1. C.C.351, 354-355.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

507

J., dissenting.

This indicates that transportation charges have mounted
to a point where they are impeding the free flow of commerce and thus tending to defeat the purpose for which
they were established, that of producing revenues which
would enable the carriers 'to provide the people of the
United States with adequate transportation.'" Further
reductions made in the year 1923 are said to have again
lowered freight rates 5 per cent.2" The effect of the several
reductions made in the rates authorized by Ex parte 74 is
said to have lowered by $800.000,000 the freight charges
otherwise payable on the traffic carried during the eighteen months ending December 31, 1923. 2 Each year
since has witnessed a further lowering in the revenue per
ton mile and per passenger mile. -8
This constant lowering of the weighted average of rates
since 1920 must have been due to causes other than desire on the part of the Commission. Its aim was to adjust
rates so that they would yield the prescribed return. But
for the period from 1920 to 1927 inclusive, there was only
one year in which the railroads of the United States as a
whole, despite general prosperity and greater efficiency,
earned on the value found in Ex parte 74 brought down
to date, the full average return prescribed as fair under
26 Railway Age, 1924-Vol. 76.1, p. 726.

Letter of Chairman Hall to Senator E. D. Smith, May 28, 1924,
68 Cong. Rec., Part 10, p. 10275.
1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927
28 Revenue perTon mile (cts.) ...... 1.294 1.194 1.132 1.132 1.114 1.096 1.095
Passenger mile (ets.). 3.093 3.037 3.026 2.9S5 2.944 2.941 2.901
Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for 1928,
p. 115. It is impos~ible to say to what extent this persistent shrinkage has been the result of miscellaneous rate adjustments and to what
27

extent to fluctuations in character of traffic. Statistics of Railways
in the United States, I. C. C. 1927, p. X.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

§ 15a.29 The Commission repeatedly refused to permit
carriers to make reductions, because the reduction would
lower the revenues sought to be provided under § 15a. °
On the other hand, carriers, although earning less than the
fair return prescribed under § 15a, have often voluntarily
reduced rates.8' The lowering of rates was probably due
29 The

fair return for the first two years was fixed by Congress at
5Y per cent, and the Commission was authorized to add one-half of
one per cent for improvements, betterments and equipment. This
additional allowance was granted in Ex parte 74, 58 1.C. C. 220. For

the rest of the period it was prescribed by the Commission at 58
per cent. Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676, 683. The rate of
return calculated on Ex parte 74 value of the railroads as a whole
brought down to date, was:
1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928
Per cent ........ 3.2 4.0 5.1 4.9 5.5 5.8 5.1 5.5

The return on that basis in the Southern group has in most years
exceeded that prescribed as fair. In the Eastern group the return has
since 1924 exceeded that prescribed. In the Western groups the prescribed return appears never to have been reached. Compare Bonbright, "Economic Merits of Original Cost and Reproduction Cost,"
41 Harvard Law Review 593, 618.
80 Trunk Line & Ex-Lake Iron Ore Rates, 69 I. C. C. 589, 610-611;
Import and Domestic Rates on Vegetable Oils, 78 I. C. C. 421; Grain
& Grain Products from Kansas and Missouri to Gulf Ports, 115
I. C. C. 153, 164; Grain & Grain Products to Eastern Points, 122
I. C. C. 551, 563-4; Lake Cargo Coal, 139 I. C. C. 367, 392-5. See
Rates from Atlantic Seaboard, 61 I. C. C. 740; Salt from Louisiana
Mines, 66 I. C. C. 81; Coal to Kansas City, 66 I. C. C. 457; Coal
from Wyoming Mines, 68 I. C. C. 254; Coal from Southwest, 73
I. C. C. 536; TranscontinentalCases of 1922, 74 I. C. C. 48; Canned
Goods from Pacific Coast, 132 I. C. C. 520; Cement in Carloads, etc.,
140 I. C. C. 579, 582. Compare Henry Wolf Bikl6, "Power of the

Interstate Commerce Commission to Prescribe Minimum Rates,"
36 Harvard Law Rev. 5, 30.
31 See Smelter Products from Nevada and Utah, 61 I. C. C. 374;
Coal from Illinois to Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas, 68 I. C. C. 1;
Coal from Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia, 68 I. C. C. 29;
Rates from Chicago via Panama Canal, 68 I. C. C. 74; Grain from
Illinois Points to New Orleans, 69 I. C. C. 38; Trunk-Line and Ex-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

509

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

in large measure to the influence of competing means of
transportation. "2
Sixth. Since 1914, the railroads have been obliged, to
an ever increasing extent, to compete with water lines and
with motors. This competition has been fostered by the
Government"' through the Panama Canal Act ;3 through
Lake Iron Ore Rates, 69 I. C. C. 589; Sugar Cases of 1922, 81 I. C. C.
448; Grain to Texas, 96 I. C. C. 727; Pig Iron from Southern Points,
104 I. C. C. 27; Grain and Grain Products from Western States, 104
I. C. C. 272; Coal to Cincinnati, 123 I. C. C. 501. The suspension
docket for the calendar year 1928 shows that of the cases in which
rates proposed by the carrier were permitted to become effective without suspension, after protest, 81 were reductions of existing rates and
93 were increases.
32
Compare F. G. Dorety, "The Function of Reproduction Cost,"
37 Harvard Law Review 173, 194.
38Transportation Act, Feb. 28, 1920, c. 91, § 500, 41 Stat. 456, 499:
"It is hereby declared to be the policy of Congress to promote, encourage, and develop water transportation, service, and facilities in
connection with the commerce of the United States, and to foster
and preserve in full vigor both rail and water transportation."
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 274 U. S.
29, 36. Compare Transcontinental Cases of 1922, 74 I. C. C. 48;
United States War Department v. Abilene, etc. Ry. Co., 77 I. C. C.
317; 92 I. C. C. 528; Houston Cotton Exchange & Board of Trade v.
Arcade, etc. Corp., 87 I. C. C. 392; 93 I. C. C. 268; Reduced Commodity Rates to Pacific Coast, 89 I. C. C. 512; Southern Class Rate
Investigation, 100 I. C. C. 513; Commodity Rates to Pacific Coast
Terminals, 107 I. C. C. 421; Consolidated Southwestern Cases, 123
I. C. C. 203; Canned Goods from Pacific Coast, 132 I. C. C. 520;
Tinplate to Sacramento, 140 I. C. C. 643; American Hawaiian S. S.
Co. v. Erie R. R. Co., 152 I. C. C. 703.
34 The Panama Canal Act, Aug. 24, 1912, c. 390, § 11, 37 Stat. 566,
now incorporated in the Interstate Commerce Act as par. 10 of
§ 5 (see Transportation Act, Feb. 28, 1920, c. 91, § 408, 41 Stat. 482),
prohibits any railroad from having any interest "in any common carrier by water operated through the Panama Canal or elsewhere with
which said railroad . . does or may compete for traffic." Compare Application of United States Steel Products Co., 57 I. C. C.
513; 77 I. C. C. 685; 151 I. C. C. 577.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRaNDnis, J., dissenting

279 U. S.

the intracoastal waterways acts;"5 through the inland
waterways acts; 6 through the development of coastwise
3

5 The Cape Cod Canal purchased pursuant to Act of Jan. 21, 1927,
c. 47, § 2, 44 Stat. 1015, resulted in the elimination of tolls and an
immediate large increase in vessel traffic. "The use of the canal
under present conditions will undoubtedly operate to reduce freight
rates." Report of Chief Engineers to the Secretary of War, Oct.
2, 1928, p. 76. The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal was acquired
and improved pursuant to Act of March 2, 1919, c. 95, § 1, 40 Stat.
1277, and Act of Jan. 21, 1927, c. 47, § 3, 44 Stat. 1016. "The
opening of the canal at sea level to navigation within the limits of
the dimensions authorized under the project has resulted in increasing
the number and size of vessels passing through. New vessels to
take advantage of the increased facilities are being constructed.
Freight rates have been lowered as a result of the increased competition between carriers. Its effect on rail rates is to hold them at a
minimum." Annual Report of Chief of Engineers to the Secretary of
War, Oct. 2, 1928, pp. 408, 410. See Proposed Intracoastal Waterway from Boston, Massachusetts to the Rio Grande, Act of March
3, 1909, c. 214, § 13, 35 Stat. 822; Letters of Secretary of War
transmitting to Congress letters from the Chief of Engineers on Surveys, House Dc. 391, January 5, 1912, 62 Cong., 2d Sess.; House
Doec. 229, September 11, 1913, 63 Cong., 1st Sess.; House Doe. 233,
September 11, 1913, 63 Cong., 1st Sess.; House Doc. 610, January 17,
1914, 63 Cong., 2d Sess.; House Dc. 1147, June 3, 1918, 65 Cong., 2d
Sess.; House Doc. 238, April 12, 1924, 68 Cong., 1st Seas.; Senate
Doc. 179, December 8, 1924, 68 Cong., 2d Sess.; House Doe. 586,
December 14, 1926, 69 Cong., 2d Sess.
s1The river improvements on the Ohio, the Mississippi and the
Warrior rivers, and the creation of the government owned Inland
Waterways Corporation to operate barge lines has been followed by
legislation requiring the railroads to join in through routes and joint
rates and providing for differentials. Act of May 29, 1928, c. 891,
§ 3 (e), 45 Stat. 980. Although barge lines are still limited in their
sphere of operation, the through routes with differentials applied for
by the Inland Waterways Corporation and ordered by the Commission pursuant to the direction of Congress cover a large part of the
United States. Ex parte 96, 153 I. C. C. 129, 132. Compare Annual
Report Inland Waterways Corporation, 1928,

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

511

J., dissenting.

shipping by means of harbor improvements," and through
federal aid in the construction of highways." There has
also been increased competition by pipe lines. Competition from other means of transportation has tended to
arrest the normal increase in the volume of rail traffic;
and as to some traffic it has actually produced a reduction
in both the volume and the rates. It has resulted in a
general shrinkage in the passenger business; " in some
regions, in a lessening of the carload freight;4 and in
37 For an instance of the effect of harbor improvement in increasing coastwise shipping and thereby reducing rail rates, see Annual
Report of the Chief of Engineers (1928) upon Miami, p. 722: "The
completion of the 20-foot project has had a pronounced effect on
railroad and water-transportation rates." The domestic water-borne
commerce on the Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific Coasts rose from 114,557,241 tons in 1920 to 231,530,937 tons in 1927. The tonnage on
the rivers, canals and connecting channels rose from 125,400,000
in 1920 to 219,000,000 in 1927. Annual Report of the Chief of Engineers for 1928, Commercial Statistics, p. 3. On the New York State
canals the tonnage increased steadily from 1,159,270 in 1918 to
2,581,892 in 1927. Commerce Year Book, 1928, Vol. 1, p. 617. The
tonnage of the shipping occupied in the coastwise and internal trade
increased from 6,852,000 tons in 1914 to 9,743,000 tons in 1928.
p. 619.
38The competition by motor has, in large measure, been stimulated and made possible by the grants by Congress since 1914 of federal aid to highway construction. The highways completed with
federal aid to June 30, 1928, aggregate 72,394 miles. The aggregate
mileage comprised in what is designated as federal-aid highway systems is 187,753 miles. Report of Chief of Bureau of Public Roads,
Sept. 1, 1928, pp. 3, 7.
39 The passenger miles per mile of road dropped gradually from
199,708 in 1920 to 141,800 in 1927; the passenger revenues from
$1,286,613,000 in 1920 to $974,950,000 in 1927. 42 Annual Report
I. C. C., Dec. 1, 1928, pp. 115, 117. This shrinkage continued
throughout 1928.
40 For an example of reduction in carload traffic, see note 45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIs, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

many, in a reduction of the volume of the less than car-

load freight. 4'
The influence of water competition on rates is strikingly illustrated by the effect of the Panama Canal on
transcotinentaI freight rates.4 2 In order to meet this
water competition carriers have repeatedly asked leave
to make sweeping reductions. 3 Rates voluntarily established by the rail carriers are lower now, on some articles
of traffic, than they were in 1914. On others they are
only a little higher." The influence of competition by
-The less-than-carload freight on all the railroads of the United
States shrank from 44,338,000 tons in 1923 to 38,440,000 tons in 1927.
In the Eastern District (including the Pocahontas region) it shrank
from 23,321,000 tons in 1923 to 19,363,000 tons in 1927.

Statistics

of Railways in the United States, 1927 [I. C. C.], p. XVII. This
reduction has continued in 1928.
42 "The volume of general cargo carried in United States vessels,
particularly in United States intercoastal traffic, has been increasing
from year to year." Annual Report of Governor of Panama Canal
for 1928, p. 12.
"Like all other western lines we feel rather severely the effect of
Panama Canal competition." J. S. Pyeatt, president, Denver & Rio
Grande Western Ry., Railway Age, 1926--Vol. 80.1, p. 10.
-3 Class and Commodity Rates for Transshipment via Panama
Canal, 68 I. C. C. 74; Reduced Rates from New York Piers, 81
I. C. C. 312, 315; Reduced Commodity Rates to Pacific Coast, 89
I. C. C. 512; Reduced Rates to Pacific Coast Terminals, 107 I. C. C.
421. Compare American Hawaiian S. S. Co. v. Erie R. R. Co.,
152 I. C. C. 703, 705, 707.
-4" Shortly after the opening of the Panama Canal, a rate of $10.90
per ton was established on copper, lead and mine smelter products
from certain far west mines to the eastern refineries for movement
by rail to the Pacific Coast and thence by water through the canal.
This forced a reduction in all rail rates from the same points to New
York, first from $22.50 per ton to $16.50 per ton, and then to $12.50
per ton which is the present rate." Brass, Bronze and Copper Ingots, 109 I. C. C. 351, 355. Compare Eastbound Tariffs, San Francisco and Los Angeles to Kansas City and Chicago, Agent Countiss

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

513

J., dissenting.

the inland waterways on the volume of rail traffic is illustrated in the effect which improvement of the Ohio
River and its tributaries has had in the Pittsburgh district.
The rail tonnage in 1927 was materially less than in 1914,
while the water tonnage more than doubled." The influence of barge lines in reducing or holding down rail
rates is illustrated by the rail rates in competition with
those of the barge lines on the Ohio, the Mississippi and
I. C. C. 978, July 1, 1914, with Agent Toll, March 25, 1929, I. C. C.

1209; Westbound, Kansas City and Chicago to Portland and Seattle,
Agent Countiss I. C. C. 984 with Agent Toll, March 25, 1929, I. C. C.
1211; Agent Toll, I. C. C. 1209 with Agent Countiss, I. C. C. 1065;
Agent Toll, I. C. C. 1206 with Agent Countiss, I. C. C. 1084; Agent
Toll, I. C. C. 1210 with Agent Countiss, I. C. C. 1077; Agent Toll,
I. C. C. 1211 with-Agent Countiss, I. C. C. 1068. See Applications of
the Southern Pacific-Atlantic S. S. Lines for fourth section relief, Nos.
13638, 13639.
A striking illustration of the effect of Panama Canal competition
is furnished by the reduction in proportional rates made by the
Illinois Central R. R. Co. to New Orleans, May 31, 1928, on shipments via the Redwood (steamship line) to California in order to
place manufacturers in the Chicago District on a parity with those
in the Pittsburgh District shipping via the Atlantic seaboard. The
domestic rate on iron and steel from Chicago to New Orleans was
55 cents; and the proportional rail and water rate to California had
been 391/ cents. It was reduced to 31 cents, leaving the domestic
rate unchanged. Tariff I. C. C. No. A-10314.
45 In 1914, 158,327,451 tons were transported by rail and 17,601,661 by water; in 1927, 152,872,882 by rail and 39,998,562 by water.
"The advantages of the utilization of the Ohio and its connecting
waterways have been amply demonstrated and the rail carriers
should realize that they cannot continue to handle by all rail routes
much traffic which can be more economically transported by all
water or rail-and-water routes. The interveners express fear that
lower rates over a rail-and-water route will jeopardize the present
rate structure, but assuming such fear to be well founded, that fact
would not justify us in withholding approval of any plan which
promises to reduce substantially the cost of necessary transportation."
Construction of Branches by P. L. 4-W, Co., 150 I. C. C. 43, 52, 55,
45228"-29----83

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BAm.s, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

the Warrior rivers. " The widespread effect of competition by motor truck in lowering both the rates and volume
of rail traffic is obvious.' Not obvious, but indisputable,
has been the effect of the potential competition of pipe"The establishment of barge lines, especially when followed by
the establishment of through rail and barge line routes, tends both to
reduce rail rates and the volume of rail tonnage. See Inland Waterways Corporationv. Alabama G. S. R. R., 151 I. C. C. 126; Coal
and Coke from Western Kentucky, 151 I. C. C. 543, 549; Rates on
Fertilizer, etc., Within Florida, 151 I. C. C. 602, 608. Compare
Vanderblue, "The Long and Short Haul Clause Since 1910," 36 Harvard Law Review 426, 437. As to the development of the barge lines,
see Annual Report of the Inland Waterways Corporation for 1928.
47 For instances on Boston & Maine R. R., compare authority
I. C. C. Nos. A-2535, 2540, 2565, 2597, 2600 with.issue I. C. C. Nos.
A-2556, 2657, 2600, 2654; M. D. P. U. 1706, 1717, 1719, 1728, 1729,
1730; N. H. P. S.C. 1166. Many illustrations of this are afforded
by applications made under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act for
permission, because of motor competition, to change rates on less than
30 days' notice. In the period from Nov. 23, 1928 to March 19,
1929, six such applications were made by the Boston & Maine Railroad; five by the New York, New Haven & Hartford, and two by
the Boston & Albany. In one instance the rate was reduced to less
than one-half; in another to just one-half; and in the others by
varying percentages. The reductions related, among others, to articles as bulky as crushed stone and lumber, and as heavy as scrap
iron and wire rods. Among such applications made by western lines
in 1928, are those of the Southern Pacific and Atchison for carload
rates on sugar (Nos. 87,723, 87,724) and on dried fruits (86,227);
and that of the Southern Pacific for carload rates on iron or steel
pipe (No. 90,219).
I'n a paper delivered before the Mid-West Transportation Conference, R. C. Morse, general superintendent, Pennsylvania R. R.,
said: "The truck has proved more economical than the box car for
the transportation of less than carload freight for short hauls and,
under special circumstances, for comparatively long hauls." Railway Review, 1925-Vol. 76, p. 1116.
In an address before the Western Railway Club, T. C. Powell,
president, Chicago & Eastem Illinois Ry., said: "The great change,
'therefore, that has taken place since 1920 has been this growth of
automobile traffic, and by this I mean not simly the ownership of

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

515

J., dissenting.

lines shown by reductions in oil rates caused by the threat
of competing pipe-lines. "8
Moreover, rates which are not so high as to prevent
commercially the movement of traffic are often required to
be lowered because they conflict with some statutory provision. Thus, Congress compels reduction of rates which
discriminate unjustly against individuals, localities, articles of traffic or other carriers. Perhaps the most striking
instance of the limitation by law of rates which the traffic
would bear commercially is furnished by cases under the
long and short haul clause. By that clause, a rail carrier
is often obliged (unless relieved by order of the Commission) to elect between suffering practically a total loss of
existing traffic between competitive points or suffering a
loss in existing revenues by reducing rates at both the
competitive points and intermediate noncompetitive
points. The effect of this limitation upoh rates, and
hence upon the actual value of railroads, has become very
great. Its influence has grown steadily with the growth
automobiles, but the diversion to the passenger automobile and
freight motor truck of a large number of passengers and a large
tonnage of freight, respectively, of the character heretofore handled
by the steam carriers, and this loss of gross-revenue producing traffic
has brought about a reduction in train service on main lines as well
as on branch lines, which has a very marked effect upon the number
of employees engaged in train service." Railway Review, 1925-Vol. 77, p. 768.
For further comment on the motor bus and motor truck as competitive and auxiliary instruments of transportation, see Railway
Age, Vol. 71.1, p. 432; Vol. 75.2, p. 995; Vol. 76.1, p. 319; Vol. 77.1,
p. 275; Vol. 78.2, p. 1513; Vol. 79.2, p. 1017; Vol. 80.1, pp. 12,547,918;
Vol. 80.2, pp. 1401, 1981; Vol. 81.1, pp. 153, 381; Vol. 81.2, p. 801;
Vol. 82.2, p. 1651; Vol. 83.1, p. 601; Vol. 83.2, p. 753; Vol. 84.2, pp.
1025, 1315; Vol. 85.1, p. 399; Railway and Locomotive Engineering,
Feb., 1928, p. 37; Engineering News-Record, Vol. 96.1, p. 305; Railway Review, Vol. 77, p. 604.
" Petroleum and Petroleum Products from Oklahoma (I. & S.
3144, April 6, 1929), 153 I. C. C. 483, 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDnis, J., dissenting.

279 U. R

of competition by water and motor, with the growth in
the size of the individual railroad system, with the growth
in the dependence of railroads for their revenues upon
long-haul freight traffic and with the growing length of
the average haul. 9 It has become so important for rail
carriers to hold a share of the long-haul freight traffic at
competitive points, that the long and short haul clause,
if not relieved from, results in the carriers' giving, in large
measure, to the intermediate non-competitive points
which otherwise would be subject to monopoly exactions,
the full benefit of that lowering of rates required to meet
the competition. The many applications for reductions
made in petitions for relief from the operation of the long
and short haul clause illustrate the influence of rail, as
well as of water and motor, competition in thus depressing rates."
Congress has by that clause limited values
for rate making purposes under § 15a, almost as effectively as by its promotion of competitive means of transportation.
Seventh. In requiring that the value be ascertained for
rate making purposes, Congress imposed upon the ratebase as defined in Smyth v. Ames, still another limitation
which is far-reaching in its operation. By declaring in
§ 15a that the Commission shall, "in the exercise of its
4

19
In the period from 1914 to 1927 the average freight haul for the
individual railroad increased from 144.17 to 172.11 miles; and the
average haul, treating all the railroads as a single system, increased
from 255.43 to 314.75 miles. Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for 1928, p. 114.
50
See e. g. Trunk-Line & Ex-Lake Iron Ore Rates, 69 I. C. C. 589;
Reduced Rates from New York Piers, 81 I. C. C. 312, 317; Sugar
Cases of 192, 81 I. C. C. 448; Vinegar Rates from Pacific Coast,
81 I. C. C. 666; Iron from Southern Points, 104 I. C. C. 27; Reduced
Rates on Commodities to Pacific Coast Terminals, 107 I. C. C. 421,
486; Pacific Coast Fourth Section Applications, 129 I. C. 0. 3, 23.
Compare Vanderblue, "The Long and Short Haul Clause Since 1910,"
36 Harvard Law Rev. 426, 437,

ST. L. & 0'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

517

J., dissenting.

power to prescribe just and reasonable rates" so adjust
them that upon the value a fair return may be earned
"under honest, efficient and economical management"
Congress made efficiency of the plant an element or test
of value." Efficiency and economy imply employment
of the right instrument and material as well as their use
in the right manner. To use a machine, after a much
better and more economical one has become available, is
as inefficient as to use two men to operate an efficient
machine, when the work could be performed equally well
by one, at half the labor cost. Such an instrument of
transportation, although originally well conceived and
remunerative, should, like machines used in manufacturing, be scrapped when it becomes wasteful.
Independently of any statute, it is now recognized that,
when in confiscation cases it is sought to prove actual
value by evidence of reproduction cost, the evidence must
be directed to the present cost of installing such a plant
as would be required to supply the same service. For
valuation of public utilities by reproduction cost implies
that "the rates permitted should be high enough to allow
a reasonable per cent of return on the money that would
now be required to construct a plant capable of rendering the desired service"; and does not mean " that the
plant should be valued at what would now be needed to
51 In confiscation cases the term "used and useful" had been commonly employed in making the valuations. The specific provision,
requiring efficiency and economy, was doubtless inserted in § 15a
because the Commission had theretofore expressed a doubt as to the
extent to which it could, in determining the reasonableness of rates,
consider the efficiency and economy of the management. Compare
Advances in Rates-Eastern Case, 20 I. C. C. 243, 278-280. This
provision must be read in the light of paragraph (5) of § 20, also
added to the Interstate Commerce Act by Transportation Act, 1920,
which directed the Commission to prescribe what depreciation charges
should be allowed as a part of the operating expenses.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
B

sANDEis,
J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

duplicate the plant precisely." 52 Proof of, value by evidence of reproduction cost presupposes that a plant like
that being valued would then be constructed. To the
extent that a railroad employs instruments which are inconsistent with efficiency the plant would not be constructed; and because of the inefficient part, the railroad
is obviously not then worth the cost of reconstructing the
identical plant. While a part often has some service
value, although not efficient according to the existing
standard, its use may involve such heavy, unnecessary
operating expense as to render it valueless for rate making
purposes under § 15a. The Commission when requested
to consider evidence of reproduction cost must, therefore,
examine the value of every part of the plant, and that of
the whole plant, as compared with the value of a modem,
efficient plant. Upon such consideration the Commission
may conclude that the railroad is so largely obsolete in
construction and equipment as to render evidence of the
reproduction cost of the identical plant of no probative
force whatsoever. The duty so to deal with the evidence
seems to flow necessarily from the rejection by the Court
of prudent investment as the measure of value and the
adoption, instead, of the actual value of the property at
the time of the rate hearing as the governing rule of substantive law.
52tarry Gunnison Brown, "Present Costs," p.,6. (Reprinted
from Public Utilities Fortnightly, March 7, 1929); F. G. Dorety,
"The Function of Reproduction Cost," 37 Harvard Law Rev. 173,
passim; James C. Bonbright, XL Quarterly Journal of Economics,
pp. 295, 317. Compare 42 Proceedings, Am. Soc. of Civil Engineers,
1916, pp. 1719, 1772. Compare City of S'pokane v. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co., 15 I. C. C. 376, 393-4; Goddard, "The Evolution of the
Cost of Reproduction as the Rate Base," 41 Harvard Law Rev. 564,
572; Robinson, "Duty of a Public Utility to Serve at Reasonable
Rates: The Valuation War," 6 No. Car. Law. Rev. 243, 256; "Railroad Valuation," by Leslie Craven, Railway Age, 1923-Vol. 75.2,
pp. 807, 808,

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

The physical deterioration of a railroad plant through
wear and tear may be very small as compared with a
plant new, while its functional deterioration may be very
large as compared with a modern efficient plant. Thislessening of service value may be due to any one of several
causes. It may, in the first place, be due to causes wholly
external. Freight terminals, originally well conceived and
wisely located in the heart of a city, may have become
valueless for rate making purposes under § 15a, because
through growth of the city the expense of operating
therein has become so high, or the inescapable cost of
eliminating grade crossings so large, that efficient management requires immediate abandonment of the terminals." And, even if the cost of continuing operation
there is not so high as to require abandonment, the property may have for rate-making purposes a value far below
its market value.
Compare Minneapolis & St. Louis
In a paper delivered before the Western Society of Engineers,
F. J. Scarr, supervisor motor service, Pennsylvania R. R., said: "We
are conducting inefficient terminal operations through inadequate facilities, and by means of antiquated methods. . . . Before the general acceptance of the motor vehicle as a dependable means of transportation, we had only the horse drawn vehicle available for the
movement of freight over the highways. The limited effective radius
of action, slow speed, and low capacity, of this instrument forced the
railroads to place on track freight stations as near the centers of production and consumption as possible, almost regardless of cost or
future expansion requirements. This factor, with reckless competition between carriers, influenced the railroads to engage in what approaches retail transportation, by the establishing of innumerable
small stations and private sidings. It is my firm conviction that
had the motor truck, with its greater radius of action, greater capacity, greater flexibility, and greater endurance, been available, the
carriers would have developed terminals better adapted to take advantage of these characteristics." Railway Review, 1926-Vol. 78, p.
790.
5,"'The time is fast approaching when railroads will stop buying
expensive downtown city property for freight houses, and will, by the
use of trucks, handle freight from outside and less costly freight
53

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
B

-ANDEIS,
J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, 268; Willcox v.
Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 52.
The lessening of the service value of a part of the railroad plant may flow from changes in the volume or character of its traffic. For economy and efficiency are obviously to be determined with reference to the business of
the carrier then being done and about to be done." A station warehouse for less-than-carload freight may have become valueless for rate making purposes, because, through
motor competition, the railroad had lost substantially all
its less-than-carload business at that point. Large reductions in the value of passenger stations and equipment
may have resulted from decline in the passenger traffic.
Branch lines may lose all their service value so that they
should be abandoned because motor transportation has
become more efficient. On the other hand, the traffic may
have grown so much as to render inefficient a part of a
houses direct to consignees' door. . . . Where is the economy
in hauling freight into terminals situated on the most valuable land
in Chicago, and why should this same freight be hauled through
Chicago's most congested district for delivery? . . . The delays
in switching, due to congestion, are so costly that their elimination,
if only in part, would pay very handsome dividends on a very large
capital investment." Railway Review, 1926-Vol. 78, p. 403. See,
also, Railway Age, Vol. 71.1, p. 21; Vol. 81.2, p. 968; Engineering
News-Record, Vol. 96.1, p. 354.
55
See Advance in Rates-Eastern Case, 20 I. C. C. 243, 271:
"Assume that a railroad is originally constructed over a mountain,
it being more economical to haul the traffic up and down the steep
grades than to incur the great outlay which would be required by
constructing a tunnel. With the development of traffic the time
comes when this mountain must be pierced, and a tunnel is accordingly constructed at a large expenditure. When the tunnel is put into
service and the line over the mountain abandoned the cost of the
tunnel is added and the cost of the abandoned railroad subtracted
from construction cost, so that, as shown by the books, the cost of
construction is the same as though the tunnel had been built at the
outset."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

line originally wisely constructed with heavy grades " or

curves. ' In that event economy and efficiency will demand elimination of the grades and curves and may even
5"C. A. Morse, chief engineer, Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.,
in an address before the Western Society of Engineers in 1926, said:
"Comparatively little has been done in the reduction of grades and
today a great majority of the trunk line railroads in this country
are operating over grade lines that were considered economical 50
or 75 years ago. These railroads were built in the days before steam
shovels and other mechanical grading devices had been developed,
and when rock was handled with hand drills, black powder and carts.
The result was that grading was very expensive and they sought to
minimize it. . . . The reduction in the ruling grade and in the
rate of curvature will result in both cheaper transportation and a
saving in time. . . . During the last twenty-five years, it has
been the practice of most railroads to reduce their grades in connection with the construction of a second track, but unfortunately
additional main track has been constructed on many of the older
roads before the value of the lighter ruling grade was appreciated.
The reduction of grade means practically the rebuilding of such
lines and the expense of this together with the interruption to traffic
while it is being done has prevented much of this from being carried
out, for unless the subject is thoroughly investigated, we are apt to
consider it as impracticable. . . . Simply maintaining in first
class condition a roadway that, as far as grades and alinement are
concerned, is of a type such as was constructed a half century ago, is
not maintaining a modern railroad. . . . With the great majority of the railroads operating over lines that have the grade line
and curvature of a half century ago, the big job is to modernize
the roadway." Railway Age, Vol. 80.1, p. 279. See also Engineering
News-Record, Vol. 96.1, p. 309; Vol. 96.2, p. 803; Railway Review,
Vol. 72, p. 937; Vol. 73, p. 124; Vol 78, p. 187; Railway Age, Vol.
81.1, p. 181.
'" Curves, it is a matter of long record, have an important relation to speed of trains and cost of transportation as well as to track
maintenance, while very sharp curves have a relation to safety of
traffic. It has been found that in a 10-year period, with no rail renewals on 1 deg curves, the rails were renewed once on 2 deg. curves,
once or twice on 3 deg., and twice on 4 degree curves. Furthermore,
track displacement by traffic has necessitated double or triple the

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1928..
BR&MEmm,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

require the building of tunnels or a cut-off28 In so far
as such a condition exists, the railroad would obviously
not be reconstructed with the heavy grades and curves;5"
and when considering the reconstruction cost of the whole
amount of surfacing on the sharper curves, and there is a correspondingly greater wear on driving wheels, so that an engine working regularly over numerous sharp curves has a shorter period of
service before it has to be sent to the shop for re-turning the tires.
(Engineering News-Record, 1926-Vol. 96.1, p. 306.) For
further comment on improvements in grades and curves, see Railway Age, Vol. 73.1, p. 94; Vol. 75.2, p. 1191; Vol. 78.1, pp. 502, 519;
Vol. 79.1, p. 75; Vol. 81.1, p. 551; Vol. 85.1, p. 403; Railway Review,
Vol. 77, p. 507; Enginering News-Record, Vol. 94.1, p. 392.
"8
" Tracks, though, are just as important as cars and locomotives
in the railroads' program of reducing costs by moving heavier trains
faster. The New York Central has just finished spending more than
$20,000,000 to get freight trains around Albany and across the Hudson river without having to lower them to the river level and pull
them up again. The Illinois Central is spending $16,000,000 for a
straighter, flatter and more economical line through Illinois and
Kentucky, crossing the Ohio river. The Southern Pacific is spending a similar sum to build its Natron cut-off in Oregon and California to get a better grade over the Siskiyous. The Central of
Georgia is spending $5,000,000 to relocate and rebuild its line between Columbus, Ga. and Birmingham. The Central of New Jersey
is putting a four-track steel trestle three miles across Newark Bay,
a $10,000,000 job. The Louisville & Nashville is spending $5,000,000
or more to raise and move its Gulf Coast line out of the reach of
storms. The Southern Ry. is spending a couple of millions to
shorten the haul and cut the grades for coal trains moving out of
the Appalachian fields to the South Atlantic. These projects represent the kind of improvement that will make it possible in the future to carry on the same line of development that American railroads have followed whenever and wherever they could. Each will
pay for itself in reduced transportation costs, and along with hundreds of other improvements will make possible lower rates." Railway Review, 1925--Vol. 77, p. 522.
59 " If it is reasonable to expect that large amounts of heavy freight
will be offered, the question of grades to be adopted is of paramount
importance and should be given most careful consideration, and the
lightest grades possible should be adopted, even if some increase in
."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
481

BRANDEIs, J., dissenting.

property that part of the line must be given merely scrap
value. Compare Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 231 U. S. 423.
Perhaps the most common cause of the lessening of service value of parts of railroad plants originally well conceived
and still in good physical condition is the progress in the
art of rail transportation. Science and invention have
wrought since June 30, 1914, such extraordinary improvements in the types of automobiles and aeroplanes that no
one would contend that the present service value of such
machines should be ascertained by enquiring what their
original cost was or what their reproduction cost would be.
The progress since June 30, 1914, in the art of transportation by railroad has been less spectacular; but the art
has been far from stagnant."0 In railroading, as in other
distance and considerable increase in cost is caused thereby, because
grade and curve resistance govern the tonnage that any locomotive
will haul; and as the limit in the size of the locomotive that can
be built within clearances of 10 feet wide and 15 feet high has been
nearly reached, we must improve our grades to secure lower costs

of handling.
"As an illustration of the importance of light grades to increase
train loads and thereby reduce cost of movement, we may cite the
fact that about three times as much tonnage can be hauled on a
grade of two tenths, or 10.6 feet per mile, as on a grade of one per
cent, or 52.8 feet per mile, with the same expenditure of energy. On
a grade of four-tenth only half as much tonnage can be hauled as on
a level with the same power." F. S. Stevens, engineer maintenance
of way, Phila. & Reading Ry., Railway Review, 1923-Vol. 72, p. 937.
60Alba B. Johnson, president of the Railway Business Association,
testifying before the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce in
1924, said: "The heavier locomotives and cars and the longer trains
brought about a new standard of rails, road-bed, bridges and other
structures. If it were possible to show on a chart the rise in cost of
replacing the railroad as a whole we would still not be telling the
whole story, because the increase would represent not only a higher
level of wages and prices but a change in the character of the plant.
Rails and ballast are heavier, frogs and switches more powerful, bridges
stronger. Capacity of track was increased by installation of signal

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDws,J., dissenting.

279 U.S.

fields of business, the great rise in the cost of labor and of
supplies, and -the need of better service, have stimulated
not only inventions but also their utilization. Through
technological advances instruments of transportation
with largely increased efficiency and economy have been
developed. The price of lower operating costs is the
scrapping of those parts of the plant which progress in
the art renders obsolete." The present greatly increased
efficiency of the railroads as compared with 1920, their
greatly improved credit, and their present prosperity are,
in large measure, due to the advances made toward introducing the improved instruments of rail transportation
which have become available.6" Obviously much remains
to be done.
systems. Repairs have been expedited and cheapened by new shop
machinery.

rail. .

.

.

.

. The 90 pound rail

.

.

.

replaces a 60 pound

. Instead of replacing worn out locomotives with new

ones of the same design

.

.

.

the railroad orders a type which

costs more in original outlay but is expected to earn the difference
by the economy with which it does the work. The same principle runs
through all the schedules of maintenance of road and equipment and
additions and betterments." Railway Age, Vol. 76.2, p. 1039. See,
also, Railway Age, Vol. 71.2, p. 1295; Railway Engineering and
Maintenance, Vol. 21, p. 274; Railway Review, Vol. 78, p. 601.
61
"A glance at the operating returns of the railways of this country
will show that those roads which have added most liberally to their
facilities in recent years are today making the best showings." Railway Age, 1921-Vol. 71.2, p. 1295.
62
The investment account of the railroads of the United States
increased between December 31, 1919 and December 31, 1927, $5,152,751,000-that is about 25 per cent. Nearly all of that sum was
expended in improving the road, terminals and shop facilities and in
replacing outworn and obsolete equipment. During that period the
operating ratio improved greatly. The percentage of operating revenues consumed in the several years by operating expenses was: 1920,
94.38 per cent; 1921, 82.71 per cent; 1922, 79.41 per cent; 1923,
77.83 per cent; 1924, 76.13 per cent; 1925, 74.10 per cent; 1926,
73.15 per cent; 1927, 74.54 per cent. The improvement in the operating ratio (after the 1920 rate increase) was due in large measure to
the improvement of the railroad plant. This made possible, among

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

The extent of this technological progress may be illustrated by the modern locomotive. The development of the
superheater, the mechanical stoker, the booster, and other
devices, the increase in the size of the boiler, and other
radical changes in size, weight, and design have resulted
in the production of engines which are recognized by railway experts as having set such an entirely new standard
of efficiency in fuel consumption," in tractive power,"
and in speed 6 as to render wasteful, under many condiother things, a reduction in the number of employees from 2,022,832 in
1920 to 1,735,105 in 1927. The reduction in the operating ratio and
in the number of employees has continued in 1928 and 1929. See
Monthly Labor Review, Vol. 28, No. 5, p. 215. The number of locomotives on December 31, 1927 was 3,629 less than on December 31,
1919; the number of freight cars 48,089 less. Annual Report of Interstate Commerce Commission for 1928, pp. 111-114.
6 " There are numerous cases where the unit fuel consumption of
locomotives that represented good practice five or six years ago has

been reduced almost one-half by locomotives of thoroughly modem
design. This saving alone goes far toward paying a return on the
additional investment required to produce a thoroughly modem
traveling power plant." Railway Age, Vol. 82.1, p. 171.
"As a result of intensive development and improvement, it is not
unheard of for a modem locomotive to handle 80 per cent more tonmiles per hour on 50 per cent of the unit fuel consumption formerly
considered good locomotive performance." Railway Age, Vol. 84.1,
p. 659. See, also, Railway Age, Vol. 72.2, pp. 1295, 1686; Vol. 79.1, p.
256; Vol. 83.1, p. 45.
6,Ralph Budd, president of the Great Northern Ry., in an address delivered in 1927, said: "It is just beginning to be realized that
while in principle the steam locomotive is the same as it was a few
years ago, the efficiency of the locomotive, as exemplified by the
modem type, has been practically doubled, measured in ton-miles
of transportation per unit of fuel consumed." Railway Age, Vol. 83.1,
p. 250. See, also, Railway & Locomotive Engineering, Nov., 1927,
p. 326; Railway Age, Vol. 78.1, p. 26.
65 " By producing more ton miles of transportation per hour it

reduces the total number of locomotives required; it postpones the
time when increased investment in tracks and most other fixed properties to increase capacity will be necessary; it reduces the number of

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Ba Dms, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

tions, the use of older locomotives, no matter how good
their condition. Statistics as to actual performances of the
locomotive of today as compared with that built but a
few years ago graphically illustrate this great advance
in efficiency. 6

Its economies are compelling. But important changes
in roadway and equipment are conditions of its effective
use. Heavier locomotives make greater demands on the
road structure which carry them. To obviate large maintenance expenses attendant upon frequent repair and replacement the roadway must be made more durable."' To
employees required; or that would be required in train service; it
reduces the number of employees required in signaling and dispatching trains-in fact, there is hardly any form of fixed charges or
transportation expenses that is not made less than it otherwise would
be by locomotives that produce an increased output of ton miles per
locomotive hour." Railway Age, Vol. 81.1, p. 493. See, also, Engineering News-Record, Vol. 98.1, p. 58; Railway Review, Vol. 74, p.
203; Vol. 78, p. 601; Railway Age, Vol. 83.1, p. 240.
Il See Transactions of American Society of Mechanical Engineers
(1921), Vol. 43, p. 334; Railway Age, Vol. 78.1, p. 26; Vol. 81.1,
p. 487; Vol. 82.1, p. 928; Vol. 83.1, p. 322; Vol. 84.1, p. 659; Vol.
84.2, p. 1153; Railway and Locomotive Engineering, Feb., 1927, p.
42; Nov., 1927, p. 326; Feb. 1928, p. 41; Railway Mechanical Engineer, July, 1927, p. 405; Railway Review, Vol. 77, p. 521. Compare
15 The Commonwealther, No. 2 (April, 1929), pp. 14, 19.
7,, There has been a steady development in the track structure in
recent years. Rail of 75-1b. and 85-lb. sections have given way to
that of 110-lb., 115-lb. and 130-lb. on many divisions; cinder ballast
has been replaced by gravel and gravel by stone; stronger joints have
been installed and more tie plates, rail anchors and other acceasories
used. At the same time and in spite of these improvements the impression remains among those most directly in touch with maintenance work that the roads can still afford to go much further in
this direction with economy." Railway Engineering and Maintenance,
1926-Vol. 22, p. 174. See, also, Ibid., p. 190.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

this end rails of heavier section," and of increased length
are adopted." Anti-creepers are freely used to prevent
rail movement."0 Larger ties are selected; and they are
treated to prevent deterioration.7 1 Ballast is made deeper
and heavier; and of gravel or stone rather than of cinders.
Bridges are of stronger construction. 3 And to
68 Rail of 85 lb. section or lighter was the type most commonly used
prior to 1914. Railway Age, 1921-Vol. 70.2, p. 998. 68.8 per cent

of the 2,806,930 tons of rail rolled in the United States in 1927 was
100 lb. section or heavier. Railway Age, 1928-Vol. 84.2, p. 900.
See, also, Railway Age, Vol. 71.1, p. 413; Vol. 78.1, p. 181; Vol. 79.1,
p. 393; Railway Review, Vol. 74, p. 101.
6" The American Railway Association has announced that new
specifications increasing the length of standard rails from 33 to 39 ft.
have been approved by that organization. This change will result
in a 16 per cent reduction in the number of rail joints and a saving
of about one-sixth of the total of bolts, nuts, angle bars and spring
washers now required." Engineering News-Record, 1925-Vol. 95.2,
p. 816.
70" The rail anti-creepers thus saved 26,400 hours of labor on this
thirty mile stretch in one year entirely aside from the saving arising
from the lessening of damage to rail, fastenings, and equipment caused
by wide expansion and uneven line and surface where the rail was
permitted to creep. As a result of the test the entire track was securely anchored and the practice inaugurated of anchoring all double
track and whatever single track showed a tendency to creep." Railway Engineering and Maintenance, 1923-Vol. 19, p. 114.
71
SSee Engineering News-Record, 1925-Vol. 94.2, p. 844; Railway
Engineering and Maintenance, 1926--Vol. 22, p. 15.
7See
Engineering News-Record, 1925--Vol. 94.2, p. 674; Vol.
95.2, p. 958; Railway Age, 1928-Vol. 84.1, p. 3.
78 In noting that the Chicago & Northwestern Railway is replacing
a bridge which, "while still as good as the day it was built," is too
light for the heavier loads now being carried, the Railway Age observes, "This is characteristic of many units of railway construction
which, if properly maintained, show little or no evidences of wear but
must give way just as truly as though they wore out." (1924--Vol.
77.2, p. 918.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

facilitate the movement of traffic, watering stations "' and
automatic signals 5 of improved design are introduced.
Moreover, the effective employment of the modern locomotive involves ordinarily the use of larger cars of steel
construction, displacing the wooden car of small capacity
with which so many of the railroads were equipped in
1914.'
Engine terminals and carshops built prior to
1914 are, in many cases, inadequate 7 for the efficient and
74

,,
More efficient pumping equipment is rapidly replacing antiquated machinery." Railway Engineering and Maintenance, 1926Vol. 22, p. 132. See, also, Railway Age, 1928-Vol. 84.2, p. 1329.
77"The improvement in equipment and in methods of locating
signals to meet the requirements of modem train operation, have to a
great extent rendered obsolete much of the automatic signaling placed
in service 20 years or more ago."- Railway Age, 1927-Vol. 832,
p. 761144.
"An investigation made by one railroad a few years ago disclosed
the fact that the retirement of a large number of cars of all-wood construction, and their replacement with new cars of steel or steel underframe construction, would effect a saving in maintenance alone which
in five years it was estimated would amount to about 68 per cent of the
entire cost of the new equipment.

.

.

.

A thorough study of the

economics of freight car maintenance and operation today would lead
to equally startling conclusions with respect to the 300,000 or 400,000
weak and unsuitable freight cars which are still in service." Railway
Age, 1921-Vol. 71.1, p. 52, 53. See, also, Railway Age, Vol. 70.1, p.
490; Vol. 72.2, p. 1515; Vol. 73.2, p. 645; Vol. 74.2, p. 989; Vol.
75.2, p. 1023; Vol. 78.2, p. 1443; Vol. 79.1, p. 186; Vol. 80.1, p. 462;
Vol. 80.2, p. 1301; Vol. 82.2, p. 1556; Vol. 85.2, p. 916. Railway Review, Vol. 72, p. 1073; Vol. 77, p. 522; Vol. 78, p. 767.
7 " The advent of the overhead, electric traveling crane, as well as
the modem smoke exhausting devices and other such improvements,
have thrown many of the older type buildings into the obsolete class.
.

.

.

It is very difficult to add modern facilities to an existing

plant which is designed and constructed without the contemplation
of such added facilities.

.

.

.

It is impossible to install crane run-

ways and other labor saving devices in existing buildings, due to lack
of clearance and insufficient strength in the existing structures."
Railway Review, 1921-Vol. 68, pp. 449, 450.
"The enlargement of locomotive terminal facilities and the modernization of locomotive terminal equipment is admittedly the most

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

529

BrANDEms, J., dissenting.

economical handling, housing and repairing of the modern
locomotives and cars, and must be replaced to prevent
curtailment of the productive capacity of the rolling-stock
by needless idle hours while awaiting service or repair.78
And the waste incident to the use of shop-tools and machinery long since rendered obsolete by progress in the
art must be stopped. 9
Thus, the efficient post-war railroad plant differs widely even from the efficient one of 1914. That during the
recapture period here in question the plants of most of
needed physical improvement in the railway structure of today . .
there are many railways on which the locomotive terminals have
received practically no improvements for more than fifteen years."
Railway Review, 1924-Vol. 74, p. 151.
"These are days of rapid improvement in methods, in which many
facilities become obsolete long before their normal service life has
been reached. This is particularly true of terminal facilities." Railway Age, 1927-Vol. 83.2, p. 966. See, also, Railway Age, Vol. 66.2,
p. 994; Vol. 68.2, p. 1702; Vol. 69.2, p. 729; Vol. 71.2, p. 890; Vol.
76.1, pp. 269, 314; Vol. 76.2, p. 1494; Vol. 782, p. 1071; Vol. 83.1,
p. 249; Railway Review, Vol. 72, pp. 112, 495; Vol. 77, p. 522.
78 " The real terminal problem, therefore, is that of providing facilities that will enable the railways to effect some reduction in the
enormous investment in idle locomotives now held at terminals."
Railway Review, 1923-Vol. 72, p. 176. See, also, Railway Review,
Vol. 70, p. 344; Railway Age, Vol. 68.2, p. 1745; Vol. 74.2, p. 1354;
Vol. 75.2, p. 1141.
79 ,,It is said that 'any machine that xill run' is good enough for a
railroad shop and while most railroad men realize the falsity of this
statement, it is seemingly borne out by the large number of obsolete,
worn-out machine3 now in use." Railway Age, 1921-Vol. 71.1, p. 1.
"Without doubt, railroad net earnings are appreciably reduced by
the many obsolete and inefficient machines now used in railroad shops
and enginehouses." Railway Age, 1923-Vol. 74.1, p. 211.
"The tools to be seen on any trip of inspection through your own
shops or those of other roads, are in many cases a generation outgrown." Railway Review, 1924-Vol. 74, p. 733. To the same
effect, see Railway Age, Vol. 67.2, p. 1101; Vol. 69.1, p. 90; Vol. 70.1,
p. 222; Vol. 72.2, p. 1205; Vol. 74.2, pp. 1082, 1351; Vol .81.2, p. 629;
Vol. 83.2, p. 706; Vol. 85.1, p. 599.
45228*-29----34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

the railroads of the United States built before the War
were lacking in improved instruments of transportation
made available by recent progress in the art is of common knowledge." That this is true even today of many
of the railroads will not be denied.8 To the extent that
there is inefficiency in plant, there was and is functional
depreciation, lessening actual value. That this functional
depreciation, arising through external changes, through
80 " Little attention is ordinarily given to obsolescence or the economy of replacement with more modem equipment solely because of
the reduced cost of operation with the newer units. In their failure
to appreciate this principle the railways trail far behind many of the
utilities with the result that they are paying the penalty in high op-

erating costs.

.

.

.

The engineering and maintenance of way de-

partment is cluttered with equipment that it cannot afford to operate." Railway Engineering and Maintenace, 1926-Vol. 22, p. 2.
To the same effect, see Railway Age, Vol. 81.2, p. 621, p. 1091;
Railway Review, Vol. 68, p. 784.
"Our railroads were built for the locomotive of the past. They
were and are operated in accordance with the locomotive of the
past.

.

.

. It remains to do on railroads the things manufac-

turers have done-to build better locomotives, improve old ones
and to operate them according to the new conditions these improvements themselves have created." Railway Age, 1922-Vol. 72.1, p.
178. See, also, Transactions, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (1919), p. 999; Railway Review, Vol. 70, p. 43; Engineering
News-Record, Vol. 98.1, p. 58; Railway Age, Vol. 69.2, p. 729; Vol.
76.1, p. 269; Vol. 79.1, pp 256, 505; Vol 81.1, pp. 45, 123, 492;
Mechanical Engineering, Vol. 43.1, p. 311; Railway Engineering &
Maintenance, Vol. 22, p. 2
81 In 1920 there were 68,942 locomotives in use on American Railways. (41st Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, p. 107.) Of these 12,000 were reported to be obsolete by the
Railway Age (Vol. 68.1, p. 33). Of the 2,648 locomotives in service
on the B. & 0., on December 31, 1920, 633 were more than twenty
years old. On the Southern, 501 locomotives out of a total of 1,865;
on the Erie, 474 out of 1,540; on the Seaboard Air Line, 142 out of
581; on the Lackawanna, 57 out of 757; and on the Pennsylvania,
624 out of a total of 7,599, exceeded that age. In 1926 it was esti-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

competitive means of transportation, and through progress in the art of transportation, may, in respect to a particular railroad, have become so large as to more than
counterbalance that increase in its actual value which
would otherwise flow from the rise in the price level since
1914, seems clear.
It may be urged that the continued use of the inefficient
plant"' and the repairing rather than replacement of its
antiquated parts,8" has been due to lack of capital and
mated by the editor of the Railway Age that 68 per cent of the locomotives then in use were over ten years old. (Railway Age, Vol.
81.1, p. 493. In 1928 there were about 65,000 locomotives in use.
Of these, according to the Railway Age (Vol. 84.2, p. 950): "There
are probably between 15,000 and 20,000 locomotives in this country,
20 years old or older, which have practically none of those features
of locomotive equipment that are now regarded as the ear-marks
of modem motive power."
82
e. g. Locomotives no longer capable of pulling heavy loads, instead of being scrapped or rebuilt, have frequently been continued
in use for branch-line or suburban service; or in switch-yards. It
is said that their use in such passenger service has been rendered
wasteful by the comparative economies of the modern motor railcar. See Railway Age, Vol. 72.1, p. 315; Vol. 72.2, p. 1372; Vol. 76.2,
p. 975; Vol. 82.1, p. 563; Vol. 83.1, p. 601; Vol. 84.1, p. 753; Railway
and Locomotive Engineering, Feb., 1928, p. 37. And "just what
measure of economy is effected by retaining locomotives in yard and
work train service after their condition has become such that they
are no longer capable of performing their assigned duties in road
service, is not apparent, to say the least." Railway Review, 1924Vol. 74, p. 771. The replacement of antiquated power with modern
locomotives in its sitch-yards by the Seaboard Air Line Ry. is estimated to have effected a savings in operating costs which will pay
an annual return of fifty per cent on the investment in the new
engines. Railway Age, 1927-Vol. 83.1, p. 45. See, also, Railway
Age, Vol. 79.1, p. 209; Railway Review, Vol. 75, p. 396.
8 " There is too much tendency to patch up and perpetuate an obsolete, inadequate and uneconomical unit of equipment rather than
to retire it and purchase new equipment to derive the benefit of the
advanced state of the art in building." F. H. Hardin, assistant to the

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRAm S, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

insufficient revenues." Such an excuse for failing to install the improved plant might have been conclusive if
prudent investment had been accepted as the measure
of value. But the fact that the management may have
been wholly free from blame in continuing to use the inefficient parts obviously does not add to their actual value.
The actual value of an existing plant, and the difference
between its value and the present cost of constructing a
modern efficient plant which will render the service, is
precisely the same whether the continued use of the obsolete part was due to lack of capital, or to lack of good
judgment, or to somnolence on the part of the management. As was said in Board of Commissioners v. New
York Telephone Co., 271 U. S. 23, 32: "Customers pay
for the service, not for the property used to render it."
Only the then service value of the property is of legal
significance under the rule of Smyth v. Ames.
It may also be urged that such functional depreciation
of the railroad plant since 1914 is allowed for in the depreciation customarily estimated by the Commission.
But this is not true. Functional depreciation prior to
June 30, 1914, was included when valuing as of that date
president, New York Central Ry. (Railway Age, 1926-Vol. 81.2, p.
670, 671.) To the same effect, see Transactions, American Society
of Mechanical Engineers, 1925--Vol. 47, p. 179; Railway Review,
Vol. 78, pp. 195, 271.
8
4 Samuel Rea, president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, in an address before the eastern division of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce
delivered in 1923, said: "From an engineering viewpoint. there are
many improvements which could be adopted, or the present use
of which could be greatly extended, and which would very materially
increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of railroad operation.
The initial installations, however, would require the investment of
very large sums of money, and it is difficult to see how these sums
can be raised.

.

.

."

Railway Review, Vol. 74, p. 262, 263.

To

the same effect, see statement of R. H. Aishton, president, American
Railway Association. Railway Review, 1921-Vol. 68, pp. 783, 784.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

the then property of the railroads. But the instructions
of the Commission provided that functional depreciation
arising after that date should not be considered unless
" imminent." And the Commission made clear that it
did not intend by the term to include functional depreciation of the character described above arising from external causes, from the competition of new methods of
transportatioh, from the extraordinary urban growth,
from the need of new economies arising from the largely
increased labor and fuel costs, and from other incidents
of the war and post-war developments in industry and
transportation. Texas Midland R. R., 75 I. C. C. 1, 47-52,
124-130. Compare, DepredationCharges on Steam Railroads, 118 I. C. C. 295."
If weight is to be given to reproduction cost in making
the valuation of any railroad for rate making purposes
under § 19a and § 15a, there must be a determination of
the functional depreciation of the individual plant as
compared with a modern, efficient plant adequate to perform the same service. To make such a determination
for any railroad involves a detailed enquiry into the
character and condition of all those parts of the plant
which may have reduced functional value because of the
post-war changes affecting transportation above referred
to, and also into the character and the volume of the carrier's business. For the efficient plant means that plant
which is economical and efficient for the particular carrier in view of the peculiar requirements and possibilities
of its own business. To make such a determination justly,
the Commission must have the data on which a competent and vigilant management would insist when required to pass upon the advisability of making capital
S5

e. g. "With respect to account No. 3, 'Grading,' it appears that

the retirement of grading is a contingency sufficiently remote in

most cases so that it is not practicable to treat it as depreciable
property." (118 I. C. C. 295, 362.)

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIs,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

expenditures. And the Commission would be obliged to
give them the same careful coasideration. The determination of the extent of functional depreciation is thus a
very serious task; a task far more serious than that of
determining merely physical depreciation.
To make such a determination of functional depreciation annually for each of the railroads of the United
States would be a stupendous task, involving perhaps
prohibitive expense. To make the necessary decisions
promptly would seem impossible, among other reasons,
because railroad valuation is but a small part of the many
duties of the Commission. On the other hand, to adjust
rates so as to render a fair return, and to provide through
the recapture provision funds in aid of the weaker railroad, are tasks which Congress deemed urgent; and which
must be promptly performed if its purpose is to be
achieved. Obviously Congress intended that in making
the necessary valuations under § 15a a method should be
pursued by which the task which it imposed upon the
Commission could be performed. Compare New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 197. Recognizing this, the
Commission construed § 15a as it had paragraph (f) of
§ 19a. That is, as permitting the Commission to make a
basic valuation as of some general date (June 30, 1914
was selected); and, unless good reason to the contrary
appeared, to find the value for any year thereafter by
adding to or subtracting from the 1914 value the net increases or decreases in the investment in property devoted
to transportation service as determined from the carrier's
annual returns with due regard to the element of depreciation.8"
86 Upon the completion of the valuation herein provided for the
Commission shall thereafter in like manner keep itself informed of
all extensions and improvements or other changes in the condition
and value of the property of all common carriers, and shall ascertain the value thereof and shall from time to time, revise and or-

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

Eighth. The significance, in connection with current
reproduction costs, of the requirement in § 15a that value
be ascertained "for rate making purposes" as there defined becomes apparent when the position of railroads,
in this respect, is compared with that of most local utilities enjoying a monopoly of a necessary of life. The fundamental question in the Southwestern Bell case was one
of substantive constitutional law, namely: Is the ratebase on which the Constitution guarantees to a public
utility the right to earn a fair return the actual value of
the property at the time of the rate hearing or is it the
cost or capital prudently invested in the enterprise? The
Court decided that the rate-base is the actual value at the
time of the rate hearing. That proposition of substantive
law the Commission undertook to apply to the facts presented in the case at bar. Recognizing that evidence of
increased reconstruction costs is admissible for the purpose of showing an actual value greater than the original
cost or the prudent investment, it found in respect to
some of the carrier's property that the evidence of enhanced reconstruction cost was persuasive of higher present value. As to the rest of the property, it held that the
evidence was neither adequate nor persuasive.
Of both railroads and the local utility it is true, under
the rule of substantive law adopted in the Southwestern
Bell case, that value is the sum on which a fair return
can be earned consistently with the laws of trade and
legal enactments. But the operative scope upon railroads of the limitations so imposed upon the rates, and
rect its valuations, showing such revision and correction classified and
as a whole and separately in each of the several States and Territories and the District of Columbia which valuations, both original
and corrected, shall be tentative valuations and shall be reported to
Congress at the beginning of each regular session."
Compare Frederick K. Beutel, "Due Process in Valuation of Public Utilities," 13 Minnesota Law Review 409, 426-427.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDPIS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

hence upon values, is much greater than in the case of
local utilities.87 Rail rates are being constantly curbed
by the competition of markets and of rival means of transportation. Rail rates are curbed also by the influence of
high rates upon the desires of individuals. The public
can, to a considerable extent, do without rail service. If
the rates are excessive traffic falls off. Thus, when passenger rates are too high travel is either curtailed or
people employ other means of transportation. But the
service rendered by a local water company in a-populous
city is practically indispensable to every inhabitant.
There can be no substitute for water and to escape taking
the service is practically impossible; for an alternative
means of supply is rarely available. Even the common
business incentive of establishing low prices in order to
induce an enlarged volume of sales is absent; since the
volume of the business done by a water company will not
be appreciably affected by a raising or lowering of the
rates, except in so far as water in quantity is used for
manufacturing purposes. In other words, the commercial
limitation upon rates-what the traffic will bear-is to
a large extent absent in the case of such a local monopoly.
The city water user must submit to such rates as the
utility chooses to impose, unless they are curbed by legislative enactment.
The legal limitations upon rates (so potent in the case
of railroads) are, in the main, inoperative in the case of
such a water company. Rail rates* are sometimes held
illegal because the exaction is greater than the value of
the service to the shipper. There is in fact no corresponding limitation upon water rates. The charge is so small,
as compared with the inconvenience which would be
87 Compare "Railroad
Valuation" by Leslie Craven, counsel,
Western Group, [Railroad] Presidents' Conference Committee on
Federal Valuation of Railroads, 9 Amer. Bar Assn. Journal, 681,
683, 684.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

suffered in doing without the service, that the worth to
the water taker could rarely be doubted. The prohibition
of discrimination against persons, places, or articles of
commerce, which so frequently interferes to prevent railroads from charging higher rates, although the traffic
would easily bear them, affords no protection to city water
users; and seldom causes a loss of revenue to the water
company. There is in respect to the water rates no prohibition comparable to that embodied in the long and
short haul clause, which has an important effect in limiting rail rates. Hence, under the rule of substantive law
declared in the Southwestern Bell case, practically the
only limitation imposed upon water rates is the denial to
the utility of rates which will yield an excessive" return
upon the actual value of the property. In applying that
rule of substantive law, the then actual cost of reproducing the plant would (assuming it to be efficient) commonly be persuasive evidence of its actual value, as the
current cost of reproducing the vessel was held to be in
Standard Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 268 U. S. 146,
156.
It is true that in the Southwestern Bell case the Court
passed also upon a subsidiary question-the weight and
effect of the evidence of reconstruction cost. But the
question of adjective law arose upon a record very different from that in the case at bar; and the action of the
Commission here is entirely consistent with that decision.
In the Southwestern Bell case direct testimony as to the
then value of the property was introduced. The efficiency
of the plant was unquestioned. Witnesses had testified
both to the actual cost of constructing identical property
at that time; and that the specific property under consideration was worth at least 25% more than the estimate
of the state commission. The Court believed those witnesses. Concluding that this direct and uncontradicted
evidence had been ignored by the state commission be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRAxnIs, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

cause of error as to the governing rule of substantive law,
this Court set aside the rate order as confiscatory, saying:
"We think the proof shows that for the purposes of the
present case the valuation should be at least $25,000,000."
(262 U. S. 276, 288.)
The action of the Commission in the case at bar was
consistent also with McCardle v. IndianapolisWater Co.,
272 U. S. 400, and Bluefield Water Works Co. v. Public
Service Commission, 262 U. S. 679. Each of these water
companies enjoyed a local monopoly of an indispensable
service. In order to provide a substitute, the community
would have either to take the utility's property by eminent domain; or, if it was free to do so, build a competing
plant.' There was practically no commercial limitation
upon the earning power of these water companies except
the extent of the local market; and practically no legal
limitation except the requirement that the rates charged
should not be so high as to yield an excessive return upon
the actual value of the utility's property. The current
cost of constructing then a plant substantially like the
utility's (assuming it to be efficient) would be persuasive
evidence of its actual value. For upon that issue, concerning a local water monopoly, the enquiry would naturally be: How much would it cost the community to substitute for the private monopoly a publicly owned plant?
But evidence of the cost of reconstructing a railroad built
before 1914 might, for the reasons stated above, be no indication whatever of its post-war value for rate making
purposes under § 15a. And where, as in the case at bar,
the probative force of the evidence may be considered
free from any question of confiscation, the rule declared
in Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon, 253 -U. S. 287,
which requires in confiscation cases a judicial determna,
tion on the weight of the evidence, does not apply.
Ninth. A further question of construction requires consideration. It is suggested that, even if the Commission

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

is not required to give effect to the higher price level when
finding values for rate making purposes wnder § 15a, it
must do so when fixing the amount of the excess income
to be recaptured from a particular railroad under paragraphs 6 to 18. The language of the section affords a
short answer to that contention. The valuation prescribed in paragraph 4 is declared to be "for the purposes
of this section "-that is, for recapture purposes as well
as for rate making. And paragraph 6, which provides for
the recapture, declares: "The value of such railway
property shall be determined by the Commission in the
manner provided in paragraph (4)."
The recapture of excess earnings and the establishment
of reserves are a part of the process of establishing such
rates
".. . that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each of
such rate groups or territories as the Commission may
from time to time designate) will, under honest, efficient
and economical management . . , earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income equal, as nearly as may
be, to a fair return upon the aggregate value of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation." (par. 2.)
The recapture and reserve are the readjustment made
necessary:
"Inasmuch as it is impossible (without regulation and
control in the interest of the commerce of the United
States considered as a whole) to establish uniform rates
upon competitive traffic which will adequately sustain
all the carriers which are engaged in such traffic and which
are indispensable to the communities to which they render
the service of transportation, without enabling some of
such carriers to receive a net railway operating income
substantially and unreasonably in excess of a fair return
upon the value of their railway property held for and
used in the service of transportation, it is hereby declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

that any carrier which receives such an income so in excess
of a fair return, shall hold such part of the excess, as hereinafter prescribed, as trustee for, and shall pay it to, the
United States." (par. 5.)
Thus, the direction in the order here challenged to pay
or reserve the excess over 6 per cent of the amounts earned
from 1920 to 1923 by rates established pursuant to Ex
parte 74, IncreasedRates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220, is merely
a readjustment of those rates.
Tenth. The question remains whether the Commission,
in valuing the structural property acquired before June
30, 1914, abused its discretion by declining to- give effect
to the evidence of enhanced reconstruction cost.8 The
O'Fallon insists that the Commission, in fact, adopted a
mathematical formula; that it declined to determine the
present value of the carrier's property in accordance with
"the flexible and rational rule of Smyth v. Ames, under
which value is a matter of judgment to be determined by
a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances";
that it erected "an arbitrary standard of its own based on
no relevant facts "; that if it had given consideration to
all relevant facts and circumstances, including as one its
cost of reproduction at current prices, "the value found
must have been substantially higher "; and that its primary purpose was to determine the amount of the investment in the carriers' property. In short, the "0'Fallon
asserts that the Commission refused to find actual value;
and instead, found the prudent investment.
88 The

nature of the order here challenged is described in the report
which accompanied it: "At the outset it is to be borne in mind that
in no sense can these proceedings properly be treated as lawsuits. No
issue is raised between parties. There is no controversy between disputants, each contending for protection of its rights. They are purely
administrative proceedings wherein we are following the direction of
Congress to create a contingent fund to be used in furtherance of the
public interest in railway transportation" Excess Income of St.
Louis and O'FaUonBy. Co., 124 I. C. C. 1, 7.

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

In support of this assertion, the O'Fallon points to the
statement in the report that "the value of the property
of railroads for rate-making purposes . . . approaches
more nearly the reasonable and necessary investment in
*the property than the cost of reproducing it at a particular
time." (p. 41.) The statement just quoted does not
mean that the Commission accepted prudent investment
as a measure of value. It means merely that the Commission deemed the estimated original cost a better indication of actual value than the estimated reconstruction
cost. While this Court declared in the Southwestern Bell
case that prudent investment is not to be taken as the
measure of value, it has never held that prudent investment may not be accepted as evidence of value, or that
a finding of value is necessarily erroneous if it happens
to be more nearly coincident with what may be supposed
to have been the cost of the property than with its estimated reproduction cost. The single-sum values found
by the Commission do not coincide either with the estimated prudent investment or with the estimated reconstruction cost. They are much nearer the estimated original cost of the property than they are to its estimated reproduction cost. But the values found do not conform to
any formula. 8
" The O'Fallon has calculated that the single-sum values found by
the Commission for the several recapture periods exceed by $32,660.88
the sums of the following amounts: (1) the cost of reproduction less
depreciation, as of June 30, 1919, of all property exclusive of lands
and working capital at 1914 or pre-war prices; (2) the amount by
which the actual cost of the property installed between July 1, 1914,
and June 30, 1919, exceeded its cost of reproduction at 1914 prices;
(3) the present value of the land; (4) the allowance for working capital; (5) the actual investment in additions and betterments, less retirements, subsequent to June 30, 1919. The calculation is correct;
but the assertion that the $32,660.88 (which is about 5% of the
aggregate of the other amounts) must have been allowed as overhead
is without foundation in the record and is inconsistent with state-

ments in the Commission's report.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDsiS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

The general method pursued by the Commission in
reaching its conclusion closely resembles that approved
by the Court in Georgia Ry. & Power Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 262 U. S. 625, 629-630. It appeared that the
O'Fallon Railroad had been constructed long prior to June
30, 1914. The Commission had before it "the cost of reproduction new of the structural portion of this property
estimated on the basis of our 1914 unit prices, coupled
with the knowledge that costs of reproduction so arrived
at were not greatly different from the original costs." As
bearing upon the value of those parts of the Railroad's
property which were added or replaced later the Commission had the actual cost. As bearing on the then value
of the railroad land it had current values of adjacent lands.
It had evidence concerning the railroad and the character
and volume of its traffic, the working capital, revenues and
expenses. It had evidence of increased price levels after
1914 and estimates of current reproduction costs during
the recapture periods.
The carrier insisted that physically the property had
appreciated more than it had depreciated; and urged the
Commission to take as the basic measure of value the
"cost of reproduction new at current prices to the exclusion of everything else, or at least of everything that
might tend to a lower value." (124 I. C. C. 28.) This
the Commission declined to do. It gave full effect to increased current market values in determining the value of
the land. It gave to the additions and betterments made
after June 30, 1914, a value approximating their cost less
physical depreciation.
But, in respect to structural
The method which we therefore find logical and proper for
determining the value in the subseqjuent recapture periods is to add
to or subtract from the 1919 value the net increases or decreases in
the investment in property devoted to transportation service as determined from the carrier's returns to valuation order No. 3, with
'due regard to the element of depreciation." 124 I. C. C. 3, paaim,
particularly pp. 37, 42.
90,

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

property and equipment acquired before June 30, 1914, it
declined to give weight to the evidence introduced to
show current reproduction costs greater than those of
1914. It concluded, despite the estimates of higher reconstruction costs, that, except for the additions, the
actual value of this part of the O'Fallon Railroad had not
increased; and it found the single sum value for rate
making purposes in 1920 to be $856,065; in 1921, $875,360; in 1922, $978,874; in 1923, $978,246.
The Commission recognized, as stated in Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 434, that the determination of
value is "not a matter of formulas, but there must be a
reasonable judgment having its basis in a proper consideration of all relevant facts." Georgia Ry. & Power Co.
v. Railroad Commission, 262 U. S. 625, 630. It states
that "it considered and weighed carefully, in the light
of its own knowledge and experience, each fact, circumstance and condition called to its attention on behalf of
the carrier" as well as the evidence otherwise introduced;
and that "from this accumulation of information we
have formed our judgments as to the fair basic single-sum
values, not by the use of any formula but after consideration of all relevant facts." The report makes clear that
its finding was the result of an exercise of judgment upon
all the evidence; that the Commission accorded to the
evidence of reconstruction cost all the probative force to
which it deemed that evidence entitled on the issue of
actual value; and that it considered, as bearing upon
value, not only the probable cost and the estimated reproduction cost, but also "descriptions of the carrier, of its
traffic, of the territory in which it operates, its history, and
summaries of the results of its operation." (p. 25.)
The difficulties by which the Commission was confronted when requested to apply the evidence of reproduction cost can hardly be exaggerated. In the first
place, the evidence was of such a character that it did

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEiS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

not satisfactorily establish what wquld have been the
current cost of reproduction during the recapture periods." During the years here in question there was practically no construction of new lines. 2 Thus, the current
cost of reproduction for those years had to be obtained by.
using index figures as the basis for a guess as to what it
would cost to build then the identical railroad. To give
91As to the evidence the Commission said: "The use of cost of
reproduction is by no means free from practical difficulties. For
example, the record here shows that there was a dearth of reliable
data from which an accurate estimate of such cost could be made
for the period 1920 to 1923. In proof of this assertion reference need
only be made to the sources of the data relied upon by the witnesses
both for the bureau and for the carriers. Their estimates for those
years were founded in large part upon manufacturers' records and
price statistics appearing in various publications, and to a lesser extent upon cost of construction actually incurred by railroads in that
period. There was, in fact, very little new railroad construction in
those years.
"Synthetic estimates of cost of reproduction based upon statistics
showing price and wage changes do not make allowance for improved
methods of assembly and construction. As will hereinafter be more
fully indicated, we found in Texas Midland Railroad, supra, [75 I.
C. C. 1] at page 140, that the increase in the cost of labor and materials between 1900 and 1914 was largely offset by improvement in
the art of construction. How far there may have been a similar offset, so far as costs in the period from 1920-1923 are concerned, is not
disclosed of record." (p. 29.)
And later (p. 41): ". . . even if the cost of reproduction new in
1920 were to be regarded as a controlling element there is not in the
present record evidence showing what it might have cost to reproduce the property of the O'Fallon at that time. The only evidence
in this respect is that of the relation of general prices in 1914 and
.n 1920 and the other recapture years."
92 Compare United States v. Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal
Co., 271 Fed. 877, 889, where the Court said that the jury "should
not consider the evidence of reconstruction cost upon the question
of value, unless they were satisfied that a reasonably prudent man
would purchase or undertake the construction of the property at
such a figure."

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

to such figures effect as proving what it would then have
cost to reproduce the O'Fallon Railroad, it must be assumed that there had not been introduced since June 30,
1914, new cost-saving methods of construction which
would overcome, in whole or in part, the effect of the
higher price level upon the cost of reproducing the identical property. This, in view of its experience, the Commission properly declined to do.9" In the second place
there was a lack of evidence to show to what extent, if
any, higher reconstruction cost, in the several recapture
periods, implied a value higher than that theretofore pre-

vailing."

The Commission believed that it could act

only on proof; that it was not required or permitted to
base findings on conjecture; and that to assign, under the
circumstances, any weight to the evidence of reconstruction cost would be mere conjecture.
Moreover, the Commission had, through its valuation
department, special knowledge of the property of this carrier. It had acquired necessarily in the performance of its
many duties the general knowledge, already referred to,
9 " Costs of railroad building, owing to improvements in methods
and economies thereby effected, did not vary greatly during the period of 20 years preceding 1914, although the prices of labor and material fluctuated. There is no testimony here as to how much it cost
to build any railroad or any substantial part of one in any recapture
periods, and for that reason it is impossible to make a comparison
of costs in the two periods. It is not safe to assume, as the O'Fallon
has assumed, that costs of building railroads have varied in recent
years in direct ratio to the variation in costs of commodities in general use, or in the costs of materials or labor generally. The fallacy
of basing reproduction cost upon price curves or ratios is clearly indicated by the tabulations introduced by the carrier." (p. 41.)
9,The Commission says (p. 40): "Weighing the figures previously
mentioned in the light of these considerations and the entire record,
and viewing the carrier as a common carrier in successful operation
and with an established business, we conclude that the value for ratemaking purposes of the entire common carrier property of the
O'Fallon on June 30, 1919, was $850,000."
45228 °-29-----85

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BRANDEiS, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

concerning changes in transportation conditions and of
the advances in the art; and it knew how great was their
effect upon the actual values of railroad property. The
value of the O'Fallon Railway not having been finally
ascertained under § 19a, it was obliged by paragraph 4
to utilize "the results of its investigation under section
19a of this Act in so far as deemed by it available." The
evidence introduced in the recapture proceedings showed,
among other things, that of the five locomotives in the
O'Fallon's service, December 31, 1920, one had been built
as early as 1874, and that their average age was .20.8
years; also that the aggregate outlays for additions and
betterments in the railroad, less small retirements, had in
eleven years been only $98,148.25. The O'Fallon did
not introduce any evidence bearing upon functional depreciation of the property. The Commission may reasonably have concluded that, even if there had been
introduced persuasive evidence that the cost, during the
recapture periods, of reproducing new the. identical plant
approximated the rise in the general price level, still the
actual value of the O'Fallon Railway, as it existed June
30, 1914, had not increased, because the functional depreciation plus the physical depreciation since that date
counterbalanced fully what otherwise might have been
the higher value of the plant.
The O'Fallon urged that its large net earnings during
the recapture periods and earlier fully established a higher
value, independently of the evidence of reproduction cost.
This contention ignores the peculiar character of the
property. The Railroad, which is owned by the Adolphus
Busch estate and family and lies wholly in Illinois, operates
about 9 miles of main line from two coal mines also owned
by the Busch estate and family, to the tracks of the Terminal Company in East St. Louis. There are 12 miles of
yardage tracks, located largely at the Busch mines. While
the Railroad is legally a common carrier, it io actually

ST. L. & O'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

BRANDEIS,

J.,

dissenting.

an industrial railroad. Ninety-nine per cent of its revenues are derived directly from the carriage of coal; and
of the remaining one per cent, about half appears to come
from a payment of $300 a month made by the Busch coal
company for carrying its miners to and from its mines.
Besides the coal from the Busch mines there is a substantial, but diminishing amount carried under a long
time contract, from two mines located on an electric road,
the East St. Louis and Suburban Railway, which crosses
the O'Fallon. This coal it carries from the junction to
East St. Louis. See St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. East
St. Louis & Suburban Ry. Co., 81 I. C. C. 538. Obviously
the value of this railroad property is wholly dependent
upon the operation of the mines.
How long the four mines will continue to be operated
was and still is entirely uncertain. Their product is subject to the competition of 221 other bituminous coal mines
in Illinois. These, which are all located on other railroads, enjoy low rates to St. Louis. See Perry Coal Co. v.
Alton & Southern R. R., 5 Illinois Commerce Commission 461. The vicissitudes of coal mining, the diminishing use of coal since the war because of increased fuel
efficiency, the competition of oil as fuel, and the growing
use of hydro-electric power are matters of common knowledge; as are the diminishing operations during recent
years of the Illinois coal mines as compared with the
mines in non-union territory. 5 Moreover, the decline in
the volume of traffic, the reduction in coal rates made by
Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676, and the growing
expenses of the carrier due to increased payroll, were put
in evidence by it. In view of these facts, the Commission
was dearly justified in refusing to find that the Railroad
had a higher value than in 1914, although the net earning
95 See Geological Survey: "Coal in 1923," pp. 528-535; Bureau
of Mines: "Coal in 1924," p. 460; "Coal in 1925," pp. 394-398;
"Coal in 1926," pp. 420-431, 443-461.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

as reported showed a return for the earlier period averaging 7 per cent upon the amount claimed as reproduction cost.
This Court has no concern with the correctness of the
Commission's reasoning on the evidence in making its
findings of fact, since it applied the rules of substantive
law prescribed by Congress and reached its findings of.
actual value by the exercise of its judgment upon all the
evidence, including enhanced construction costs. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.658, 665-666;
Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564, 580. We must bear in
mind that here we are not dealing with a question of confiscation; that we are dealing, as was pointed out in
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 527, with a legislative question which can "be more easily determined by a commission composed of persons whose special skill, observation
and experience qualifies them to so handle great problems
of transportation as to do justice both to the public and
to those whose money has been used to construct and
maintain highways for the convenience and benefit of
the people."
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

this opinion.

Dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTCE STONE.
I agree with what Mr. Justice Brandeis has said and
add a word only by way of emphasis of those aspects of
the case which appear to me sufficient, apart from all
other considerations, to sustain the finding of the Commission.
The report of the Interstate Commerce Commission is
rejected and its order set aside on the sole ground that
in a recapture proceeding under § 15 (a) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, it has failed to consider present reproduction cost or value of appellant's property and so to "give

ST. L. & 0'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

STONE,

J., dissenting.

due consideration to all the elements of value recognized
by the law of the land for rate making purposes." No
constitutional question is involved.
The Commission was called upon to value a railroad,
with less than nine miles of main line track, which had
been constructed prior to 1900. Much of its equipment
was purchased before 1908, a considerable part being
second hand. Its traffic was very largely dependent on
the output of a few coal mines which it served.
In performing its task the Commission had before it
the cost of reproduction new of appellant's structural
property, estimated on the basis of 1914 unit prices, "with
the knowledge that the costs of reproduction so arrived
at were not greatly different from the original costs." It
had evidence of the actual cost of later additions and
replacements, of the physical condition of the railroad
and equipment, of the character, volume and sources of
its traffic, of its working capital and revenues and expenses. It possessed, through its valuation department,
special knowledge of the property of this carrier.
Through its own experience it had the benefit of an expert knowledge of all the factors affecting value of railway property growing out of changes in methods of transportation, of improvement in transportation appliances
and the consequent obsolescence of existing equipment,
of improvement in methods of railroad construction and
consequent reductions in cost. Although it had estimates
of present construction costs in the form of index figures
based on the comparative general price levels of labor
and materials for 1914 and each of the recapture years,
which it considered and discussed in its report, there
was no evidence before it of the actual present cost of
construction of this or any other railroad or any affirmative showing that, if appellant's road was to be built and
equipped anew, competent railroad engineers would deem
the present structure and equipment suitable for or adapt-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
SToNB, J., dissenting.

279 U.S.

able to the economical and efficient management contemplated by the statute.
After stating that ithad before it the evidence above
outlined, including that of revroduction cost, and such
other matters as the carrier desired to bring to its attention, the Commission added, "From this accumulated information we have formed our judgment as to the fair
basic single sum values, not by the use of any formula,
but after consideration of all relevant facts." That the
Commission gave consideration to present reproduction
e.osts appears not only from its own statement, but from
the fact that it gave full effect to increased current market values in determihing the value of land and to additions and betterments since June 30, 1914, taken at their
cost less depreciation. In the light of those considerations which affect the present value of appellant's structural property which Mr. Justice Brandeis has mentioned,
J cannot say that the Commission did not have before
it the requisite data for forming a trustworthy judgment
of the value of appellant's road or that it failed to give to
proof of reproduction cost all the weight to which it
was entitled on its merits. Had the Commission not
turned aside to point out.in its report the economic fallscies of the use of reproduction cost as a standard of value
for rate making purposes, which it nevertheless considered
and to some extent applied, I suppose it would not have
occurred to anyone to question the validity of its order.
I cannot avoid the conclusion that in substance the objection, now upheld, to the order of the Commission is
not that it failed to consider or. give appropriate weight
to evidence of present reproduction cost of appellant's
road, but that it attached less weight to present construction costs than to other factors before it affecting adversely
the present value of the structural property. That this
was the real nature of the objection voiced by the dissenting Commissioners seems to me apparent fkorn their opin-

ST. L. & 0'FALLON R. CO. v. U. S.
461

STONE, J., dissenting.

ion. They seem to assume that as a result of Southwestern Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm., 262 U. S. 276, and
other cases in this Court, the Commission as a matter of
law may never, under any circumstances, find that the
value of the structural part of a railroad does not exceed
its fair value of an earlier date, if the Commission has
before it evidence of later increased construction costs.
They say "under the law of the land," in valuing a railroad under § 15a "we must accord weight in the legal
sense to the greatly enhanced cost of material, labor and
supplies" during the recapture periods. Weight in the
legal sense is evidently taken to be not that accorded by
an informed judgment but imposed by some positive rule

of law.
Without discussion of the evidence and other data
which received the consideration of the Commission, the
opinion of this Court seems to proceed on the broad assumption that the evidence relied on, mere synthetic estimates of costs of reproduction, must so certainly and
necessarily outweigh all other considerations affecting
values as to require the order of the Commission to be set
aside. In effect the Commission is required to give to
such index figures an evidential value to which it points
out they are not entitled when applied to railroad properties in general or to this one in particular, and this, so
far as appears, without investigation of- the soundness
of the reasons of the Commission for rejecting them.
This Court has said that present reproduction costs
must be considered in ascertaining value for rate making
purposes. But it has not said that such evidence, when
fairly considered, may not be outweighed by other considerations affecting value, or that any evidence of present reproduction costs, when compared with all the other
factors affecting value, must be given a weight to which
it is not entitled in the judgment of the tribunal "informed
by experience" and "appointed by law" to deal with the

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
SToNm, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

very problem now presented. Illinois Central, &-c. R. R.
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454.
But if "weight in the legal sense" must be given to evidence of present construction costs, by the judgment now
given we do not lay down any legal rule which will inform
the Commission how much weight, short of its full effect,
to the exclusion of all other considerations, is to be given
to the evidence of synthetic costs of construction in valuing a railroad property. If full effect were to be given to
it in all cases then, as the Commission points out in its
report, the railroads of the country, valued by the Commission in 1920 at nineteen billion dollars, would have had
in that year a reproduction value of forty billion dollars
and we would arrive at the economic paradox that the
value of the railroads may be far in excess of any amount
on which they could earn a return. If less than full effect
may be given, it is difficult for me to see how, without departure from established principles, the Commission could
be asked to do more than it has already done--to weigh
the evidence guided by all the proper considerations-or
how, if there is evidence upon which its findings may rest,
we can substitute our judgment for that of the Commission. Such, I believe, is the "due consideration"
which the statute requires of "all the elements of value
recognized by the law of the land for rate making purposes."
As I cannot say a priori that increased construction
costs may not be more than offset by other elements
affecting adversely the present value of appellant's property, and as there was evidence before the Commission to
support its findings, I can only conclude that the judgment
below should be affirmed. In any case, in view of the
statement of the Commission that it considered all relevant facts, including the elements of value brought to its
attention by the carrier, I should not have supposed that
we could rightly set.aside the present order without some

U. S. v. CALIFORNIA CANNERIES.
461

553

Argument for Respondent.

consideration of the probative value of the evidence of
present reproduction costs which the Commission dis-

cussed at length in its report.
MR. JUsTICE HOLMES

and Mr. Justice BRANDEIS

concur

in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA COOPERATIVE
CANNERIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 375.

Argued April 16, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.

1. Judicial notice is taken of proceedings in the trial court shown
by the record of the case in this court at an earlier stage. P. 555.
2. Under the Expediting Act of Feb. 11, 1903, in suits in equity
under the Anti-Trust Act "in which the United States is complainant," appeal must be direct to this Court from the final decree
of the trial court. P. 558.
3. The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia had no jurisdiction over an appeal by a private person from an order of the
Supreme Court of the District refusing leave to intervene in a
suit brought by the United States under the Anti-Trust Act. P. 559.
299 F. 908, reversed.

Ca'rmoRARI, 278 U. S. 592, to review an order of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia refusing to
set aside its earlier one, which reversed an order of the
Supreme Court of the District denying a petition to intervene in a suit under the Anti-Trust Act. See Swift &
Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 311.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell, Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, and
Mr. H. B. Teegarden, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Nelson T. Hartson,with whom Mr. Frank J. Hogan
was on the brief, for respondent.

