CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
80

Syllabus.

quoted in the majority opinion, and hence must be determinable in favor of the United States."
Whatever might have been the effect of more completed
procedure in the perfecting of the liens under the law of
the State, upon the priority of the United States herein,
the attitude of the state court relieves us of consideration

of it.
Judgment affirmed.
CARSON PETROLEUM COMPANY v. VIAL,
SHERIFF AND TAX COLLECTOR, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 306.

Argued February 28, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Goods purchased at interior points for export do not lose their
character as goods in foreign commerce and become subject to state
taxation because, after shipment to the exporter to a domestic port,
they are temporarily stored there for reasons of expedition and
economy, preparatory to their loading on the vessels of foreign
consignees. P. 101.
2. An exporter bought oil in interior States to fill orders from abroad;
had it shipped by rail in tank cars to a port in Louisiana, on bills
of lading to the exporter at export rates; pumped it from the
car tanks into storage tanks at the port; and from these delivered
it into the ships of foreign consignees, the title passing from the
exporter to them upon such delivery. The oil in each tank car, and
as stored, was not segregated or destined to any particular cargo
or shipment abroad; but it was all bought and held to fill foreign
orders previously received; none of it was or could be otherwise
disposed of at that port; none of it was subjected to any treatment
of manufacture there; and the storage was but a necessary means
of securing prompt transshipment and avoiding .demurrage charges,
by accumulating the oil from the tank cars pending the arrival of
a foreign consignee's ship, or to make up a full cargo for one already waiting. Held that the continuity of the journey was not
broken by the storage, and that a Louisiana tax on the oil while so
stored was unconstitutional.
166 La. 378, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondents.

CmTIORARI,

279 U. S.

278 U. S. 595, to review a decree of the

Supreme Court of Louisiana which reversed a decree of a
district court enjoining the levying of a tax, in the suit
of the Petroleum Company against a sheriff, an assessor,
and the Louisiana Tax Commission.
Messrs. George M. Burditt and John K. Murphy, with
whom Messrs. Win. E. Leahy, Harry A. Newby, and
HaroldA. Moise were on the brief, for petitioner.
The interstate and foreign journey started when the oil
left the refineries in the mid-continent field, and the continuity of that journey was not broken by the interruption
at St. Rose. Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260
U. S. 366; Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. R. Co. v. Settle,
260 U. S. 166; Hughes Bros. Timber Co. v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 469; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375;
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498; R. R. Comm'n v. Worthington,
225 U. S. 101; Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram
Co., 227 U. S. 111; R. R. Comm'n v. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co., 229 U. S. 336; Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v.
Hancock, 253 U. S. 284. Cases distinguished, General
Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504.
The equipment at St. Rose was solely a safety appliance used in the continuous transit of the oil from the
mid-continent field to its foreign destination. Citing
some of the above cases, and State v. Engle, 34 N. J. L.
425; State v. Carrigan,39 id. 35.
The tax was repugnaat to the Constitution. Article I,
§ 8, cl. 3; § 9, cl. 5; § 10, cl. 2; Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247
U. S. 165; ChamplainRealty Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S.
366; Hughes Bros. Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U. S.
469; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
Mr. Harry P. Sneed, with whom Messrs. A. P. Frymire,
R. R. Ramos, and C. S. Lagarde were on the brief, for
respondents.

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Argument for Respondents.

The title to the oil is in the Company. Insurance is
carried on the oil for account of the Company, and it remains the property of the Company until, by loading
aboard ship, it actually starts on its foreign journey destined to a new consignee. No oil ever passes through
St. Rose on a through bill of lading; and the quantity of
a foreign shipment is never exactly determined until loading is accomplished, the Company having the option of
shipping, and the buyer of taking, ten per cent. more or
less than his order.
No showing is made that the oil in each railroad tank
car is segregated, or assigned, or destined, to any particular cargo or shipment abroad. A cargo is made up of the
contents of from three to five hundred tank cars, twelve
to sixteen trainloads, and up to fifty tankers per year are
shipped.
It is thus completely shown that appellant's plant at
St. Rose is an entrep6t for the accumulation of oil which
is not in transit in either interstate or foreign commerce.
Oil in the tanks is property at rest in Louisiana and under
the complete control of petitioner.
It is idle to assert that the oil was on a continuous
journey from the oil fields to foreign destinations. There
are two journeys, or rather two kinds of journeys: many
interstate journeys of the various cars or trainloads from
the refineries to St. Rose, and one journey from St. Rose
to points abroad.
The stoppage at St. Rose was not an interruption only
to promote safe and convenient transit, as in Champlain
Realty Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S. 366, where " the boom
at the mouth of the West River did not constitute an
entrep6t or depot for the gathering of logs preparatory for
the final journey," but, as in the case of General Oil Co. v.
Crain, 209 U. S. 211, the stoppage of the oil was because,
"It had reached the destination of its first shipment, and
it was held there, not in necessary delay or accommoda45228°-29----7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tion to the means of transportation, but for the business
purposes and profit of the company. It was only there
for distribution, it is said, to fulfill orders already received.
But to do this required that the property be given a locality in the State beyond a mere halting in its transportation. It required storage there,-the maintenance of the
means of storage; of putting it in and taking it from
storage."
It is impossible to distinguish the case from that of
General Oil Co. v. Crain,supra. The fact that petitioner
enjoyed a low freight rate because of its intention to export the oil, does not indicate that the State is without
power to tax such oil as is at rest in the State. Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 400.
The safety of the oil was but a single factor in the equipment set up at St. Rose for its handling.
Mr. CHIEF JuSTICE, TAiTr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a petition by the Carson Petroleum Company,
a corporation of Delaware, to enjoin Leon C. Vial, sheriff
and tax collector of the Parish of St. Charles, Louisiana,
R. A. De Broca, assessor for the Parish, and the Louisiana Tax Commission, from laying and levying against it
an alleged illegal assessment of duties on a quantity of oil
in storage tanks at St. Rose in the Parish. They were
ad valorem duties levied on all the property of the petitioner subject to taxation. The taxation was objected to
because it was deemed an interference with interstate and
foreign commerce.
The District Court granted the injunction on the ground
that the oil was in transit from another State to a foreign country, and was halted only temporarily at St. Rose,
and had no situs in the Parish or State. The Supreme
Court of Louisiana reversed the decree and ordered that
the tax be collected, with the penalties imposed by law.

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Opinion of the Court.

166 La. 398. There is no dispute about the facts. We
avail ourselves of the statement made by the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which is a clear and
fair representation of the case:
"The Petroleum Import & Export Corporation is a subsidiary of the Carson Petroleum Company, and owns and
operates the system of tanks and pumping equipment for
receiving the contents of the railroad tank cars of oil into
the tanks owned by the Petroleum Import & Export Corporation and afterwards loading it into ships for export.
The Port of New Orleans has no facility or equipment for
assembling or receiving from railroad tank cars cargoes
of oil and loading it aboard ships for export. The tanks
and equipment at St. Rose, a few miles above New Orleans,
were constructed for that purpose. No oil is sold at St.
Rose except what is exported. The only business conducted there .is the unloading of oil from railroad tank
cars into the storage tanks and the loading of the oil from
the storage tanks aboard the tankers for shipment to England, France, and other foreign ports. The oil is bought
by the Carson Petroleum Company from the refiners in the
Mid-Continent Field, comprising Kansas, Oklahoma and
Texas, and is shipped to St. Rose, Louisiana, in railroad
tank cars consigned to the Carson Petroleum Company.
The shipments are not on through bills of lading, but on
an export rate, which is lower than the domestic rate.
The oil is a higher grade of gasoline than is used in this
country generally, and is made especially for export, because the automobiles in England, France and other foreign countries require a higher grade of gasoline than that
which is used in this country. The Carson Petroleum
Company takes orders for cargoes of oil from the foreign
buyers, who charter the vessels to transport the oil from
St. Rose to the foreign ports. The company always has
orders on hand in excess of the quantity of oil at St. Rose,
and buys the oil in the Mid-Continent Field for the pur-

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

pose of filling orders already received from the foreign
buyers. The oil in each railroad tank car, however, is not
segregated or assigned or destined to any particular cargo
or shipment abroad, but is pumped into the large storage
tanks, having the capacity of many tank cars, and is held
in the tanks until a ship arrives, or until a sufficient quantity' of oil is accumulated to make up a cargo. A ship carries from two to three million gallons; hence it takes 300
to 500 railroad tank cars, or 10 to 16 trains of tank cars,
to make up a cargo of oil. The buyers are allowed a ten
per cent leeway on the quantity of oil bought for each
shipment; which, as we understand, means that, if the
capacity of the ship is either more or less than the quantity
of oil contracted for, the buyers can demand a delivery of
the ship's capacity, at the contract price of the oil per
gallon, provided the quantity shall be not more than ten
per cent above or below the quantity contracted for. A
delivery of the oil thus sold is made by loading the oil
aboard the ship chartered by the buyer. Until the oil is
thus loaded aboard a ship it belongs to the Carson Petroleum Company and is insured in the name of the company, loss payable to the company. There are times when
an accumulation of oil in the tanks is awaiting the arrival
of a ship, and at other times a ship is awaiting the accumulation of a sufficient quantity of oil to make up a cargo.
In order to save demurrage on ships, which amounts to
$1,500 or $2,000 per day on a ship, the Carson Company
endeavors to have a sufficient quantity of oil on hand
at St. Rose to fill each order promptly on arrival of the
ship. On account of the demurrage charges on tank cars,
as well as on steamships, it would be impracticable to
carry on the export oil business by any other method than
by storing the oil in large storage tanks as the train loads
of oil arrive, and shipping from the accumulation when the
ships arrive. The oil is shipped from the storage tanks in
the same condition in which it was received from the tank

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Opinion of the Court.

cars, without being treated in any way. The oil is never
kept on hand at St. Rose any longer than is necessary.
The quantity on hand is always awaiting either the arrival
of a ship or the accumulation of a sufficient quantity to
load a ship."
The Oil Company asserts that the interstate and foreign
shipment of the oil, from the refineries in the Mid-Continent Field, into and across the State, and across the sea
to the foreign ports, is a continuous interstate and foreign
shipment, notwithstanding the stoppage and storage of
the oil at St. Rose, where it had to await either the arrival
of a ship or the accumulation of a sufficient quantity of
oil to load a ship. On the other hand, the state authorities
claim that there were two separate shipments-the one
which ended when the tank cars arrived and were unloaded
at St. Rose, and the foreign shipment, which began when
the oil was loaded aboard ship for a foreign port. Hence
they contend that while the oil was stored in the tanks
at St. Rose, under the protection of the state and local
government, it was subject to state and local taxation,
even though intended and prepared for exportation.
The crucial question to be settled in determining
whether personal property or merchandise moving in interstate commerce is subject to local taxation is that of
its continuity of transit. The leading case is that of Coe
v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, in which Mr. Justice Bradley for
this Court laid down the principles that should be applied.
It was a case of floating logs. There were two lots, one
where the logs were cut in Maine, and were floated down
the Androscoggin on their way to Lewiston, Maine, but
after starting on the trip were detained for a season in
New Hampshire by low water. It was held that they
were free from local taxation in New Hampshire because
they had begun the interstate trip and the cause of detention was to be found in the necessities of the passage and
trip back to Maine, which was held to be continuous.

102

OCTOBER TEiRM, 1028.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

This ruling, which was by the state court of New Hampshire, was approved by this Court. But, in respect to the
other lot, this Court found that the logs were gathered in
New Hampshire in what the Court termed an "entrepat,"
looking to ultimate transportation to another State, but
that when taxed they had not started on their final and
continuous journey, and hence were not in interstate commerce, and were taxable.
In ChamplainRealty Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S. 366,
logs gathered on the West River in Vermont for a destination in New Hampshire, were held not taxable in Vermont, though detained for a considerable time by a boom
at Brattleboro to await subsidence of high water in the
Connecticut River. It was held that as the interruption
was only to promote the safe or convenient transit, the
continuity of the interstate trip was not broken, as shown
in State v. Engle, 34 N. J. L. 425; State v. Carrigan,39 N.
J. L. 35, and in Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S.1, where sheep
driven 500 miles from Utah to Nebraska, traveling 9 miles
a day, were held immune from taxation in Wyoming,
where they stopped and grazed on their way.
In Hughes Brothers Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U. S.469,
pursuant to a contract of sale, logs cut were gathered on
the Swamp River, in Minnesota, by the vendors and were
floated by river to Lake Superior, there loaded on to the
vendee's vessels, and transported to their destination in
Michigan. This Court said, p. 475:
"The conclusion in cases like this must be determined
from the various circumstances. Mere intention by the
owner ultimately to send the logs out of the State does not
put them in interstate commerce, nor does preparatory
gathering, for that purpose, at a depot. It must appear
that the movement for another State has actually begun
and is going on. Solution is easy when the shipment has
been delivered to a carrier for a destination in another

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Opinion of the Court

State. It is much more difficult when the owner retains
complete control of the transportation and can change
his mind and divert the delivery from the intended interstate destination, as in the Champlain Company case.
The character of the shipment in such a case depends
upon all the evidential circumstances looking to what the
owner has done in the preparation for the journey and in
carrying it out. The mere power of the owner to divert
the shipment already started does not take it out of interstate commerce, if the other facts show that the journey
has already begun in good faith and temporary interruption of the passage is reasonable and in furtherance of the
intended transportation, as in the Champlain case. Here
the case is even stronger in that the owner and initiator
of the journey could not by his contract divert the logs
after they had started from Swamp River without a breach
of contract made by him with his vendee, who, by the
agreement of sale, divided with him the responsibility for
the continuous interstate transportation."
The principle of continuity of journey is shown in Ohio
Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101,
where coal from the Ohio mines, intended for transportation on the lakes and stored for some weeks or months on
docks in Cleveland for delivery beyond the lakes, was
held to be subject to interstate rates. So in Western Oil
Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346, in which, speaking of the
effect of billing and rebilling in causing a break in the
trip, it was said, p. 349:
" Ordinarily the question whether particular commerce
is interstate or intrastate is determined by what is actually
done and not by any mere billing or plurality of carriers,
and where commodities are in fact destined from one
State to another, a rebilling or reshipment en route does
not of itself break the continuity of the movement or require that any part be classified differently from the re-

OCTOBER TERM. 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. &

mainder. As this court has often said, it is the essential
character of the commerce, not the accident of local or
through bills of lading, that is decisive."
An instance of interruption of railroad transportation is
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504. Bacon, the owner of the
grain, and the taxpayer, had bought it in the South and
had secured the right from the railroads transporting it
to remove it from their custody to his private grain elevator in Illinois, where, for his own purpose, he proceeded
to inspect, weigh, clean, clip, dry, sack, grade or mix it,
and had power, under his contract with the carriers, either
to change its ownership, consignee or destination or to
restore the grain, after the processes mentioned, to the carriers to be delivered at the destination in another State
according to his original intention. The question was
whether the removal of the grain to his private elevator
interrupted the continuity of the transportation and made
the grain subject to local taxation there. It was held that
it did; that the grain was locally dealt with in the interest
of the owner, while it was in his custody and was subject
to his complete disposition for a collateral business purpose of his own.
Another case is that of General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209
U. S. 211. The company conducted a large oil business
in Memphis, where it gathered from the North much oil
and maintained an establishment for its distribution. It
had tanks of various sizes, from which the oil was put
in barrels or other small vessels to be sold locally or in
other States, or to fill orders already received from customers in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi. For years
the company had unloaded its oil from its tank cars on
arrival into large stationary tanks indiscriminately, and
had sold and distributed it as required in its business.
After a time, in order to escape the local inspection tax,
part of the oil was deposited in a stationary tank No. 1

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Opinion of the Court.

marked "Oil already sold in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi," while the local oil and that yet to be sold was
kept in other tanks. The oil in No. 1 was divided, according to the orders already received, into barrels and larger
containers, to be forwarded by rail to customers in the
three States named. It was contended that oil of tank
No. I was on a continuous trip through Memphis from
sources in the North to the ascertained customers in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, and was not taxable
at Memphis. It was held that the doings of the company,
in thus separating the oil after it reached Memphis into
various amounts in different containers, was itself a local
business in Memphis, and that the delivery into Memphis
of the oil, and its subsequent shipment made two separate
interstate shipments and permitted local taxation on the
oil while it awaited the second shipment. The Court
seemed to regard the redistribution of the oil at Memphis
as a rest interrupting the journey, and the Memphis yard
for the tanks as an assembling entrep6t like that described
by Mr. Justice Bradley in Coe v. Errol.
The Court was divided and there was very vigorous dissent. The case has caused discussion, and it must be
admitted that it is a close one and might easily have been
decided the other way. The result was probably affected
by the impression created by the original situation and
the somewhat artificial rearrangement of tanks in a large
entrepbt for redistribution of oil to avoid previous
taxability.
We do not think, in deciding the case at bar, that we
should give the Crain case the force claimed for it by the
court below and by counsel for the State. Since its decision this Court has had to consider several cases where
there was transshipment of the commodity from local carriage in a State to a ship at an export port and conveyance
thence to a foreign destination. There has been a liberal

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

construction of what is continuity of the journey, in cases
where the Court finds from the circumstances that export
trade has been actually intended and carried through.
In Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498, cotton oil cake and
meal destined for export was bought by the intending
exporter in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana. It was
shipped to him on bills of lading and way bills showing
the point of origin in those States and the destination at
Galveston. The purchases were made for export, there
being no consumption of the products at Galveston. His
sales to foreign countries were sometimes for immediate
and sometimes for future delivery, irrespective of whether
he had the product on hand at Galveston. At times he
had it on hand. At other times orders must be filled
from cake or meal to be purchased in the interior or then
in transit to him. When the cake reached Galveston, it
was ground into meal and sacked by the exporter, and
for the meal thus ground, and such meal as had been
bought in ground form, he took out ships' bills of lading
made to his order. The Court said, p. 526:
"... the manufacture or concentration on the
wharves of the Terminal Company are but incidents, under the circumstances presented by the record, in the
transshipment of the products in export trade and their
regulation is within the power of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. To hold otherwise would be to disregard,
as the Commission said, the substance of things and make
evasions of the act of Congress quite easy. It makes no
difference, therefore, that the shipments of the products
were not made on through bills of lading or whether their
initial point was Galveston or some other place in Texas.
They were all destined for export and by their delivery
to the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway
they must be considered as having been delivered to a
carrier for transportation to their foreign destination, the

CARSON PETROLEUM CO. v. VIAL.
95

Opinion of the Court.

Terminal Company being a part of the railway for such
purpose. The case, therefore, comes under Coe v. Errol,
116 U. S. 517, where it is said that goods are in interstate,
and necessarily as well in foreign, commerce when they
have 'actually started in the course of transportation to
another State or delivered to a carrier for transportation.' "
In Texas & New Orleans R. R. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227
U. S. 111, the question was whether the rates charged
on shipments of lumber on local bills of lading from one
point in Texas to another, but destined for export, were
intrastate or foreign commerce. The exporter purchased
the lumber from other mills in Texas with which to supply its sales in part. It did not know, when any particular car of lumber left the starting point, into which ship
or to what particular destination the contents of the car
would ultimately go, or on which sale it would be applied;
this not being found out until its agents inspected the
invoice mailed to and received by him after shipment.
The lumber remained after arrival at the shipping port,
in the slips or on the dock, until a ship chartered by the
exporter arrived, when the exporter selected the lumber
suited for that cargo and shipped it to its destination.
There was no local market for lumber at the port of shipment, the population of which did not exceed fifty, and the
exporter had never done any local business at that point.
This Court held that the shipments to the point of shipment from other points of Texas were in interstate and
foreign commerce and should pay rates accordingly. The
Court said, p. 126:
"The determining circumstance is that the shipment
of the lumber to Sabine was but a step in its transportation to its real and ultimate destination in foreign countries. In other words, the essential character of the commerce, not its mere accidents, should determine. It was
to supply the demand of foreign countries that the lumber was purchased, manufactured and shipped and to give

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

it a various character by the steps in its transportation
would be extremely artificial. Once admit the principle
and means will be afforded of evading the national control
of foreign commerce from points in the interior of a State.
There must be transshipment at the seaboard, and if that
may be made the point of ultimate destination by the
device of separate bills of lading, the commerce will be
given local character, though it be essentially foreign."
Again this Court said, p. 130:
"And the shipment was not an isolated one but typical
of many others, which constituted a commerce amounting
in the year 1905 to 14,667,670 feet of lumber, and in the
year 1906, 39,554,000 feet. Nor was there a break, in the
sense of the Interstate Commerce law and the cited cases,
in the continuity of the transportation of the lumber to
foreign countries by the delay and its transshipment at
Sabine. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
Nor, as we have seen, did the absence of a definite foreign
destination alter the character of the shipments."
See also Railroad Commission v. Texas & Pacific Ry.,
229 U. S. 336; Spaulding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S.
66, 70.
We do not think the Sabine Tram case can be distinguished from the one before us. It has been suggested
that, in the present case, there was a failure to fix the exact
point of destination abroad before shipment, and that this
prevents the continuity required in a continuous export&tion. But there was the same indefiniteness on this point
in the Sabine Tram case. Then, it is said, there was no
separation of the various shipments of oil from the interior points to the tanks and thence to ships at the port
of shipment. But in the Sabine Tram case cars of lumber
were sent to the transshipment point without regard to
the filling of one order or another. In both cases the
delay in transshipment was due to nothing but the failure
of the arrival of the subject to be shipped at the same

LONDON CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM'N.

109

Syllabus.

95

time as the arrival of the ships at the jort of transshipment. The use of the tanks at the point of transshipment
can not be distinguished from the storing of the lumber
on the docks, or in the slips between them, till the vessel
to carry it should be ready. The quickness of transshipment in both cases was the chief object each exporter
plainly sought. In both cases the selection of the point
of shipment and the equipment at that point were solely
for the speedy and continuous export of the product
abroad, and for no other purpose. No lumber or oil was
sold there but that to be exported. There was no possibility of any other business there. Whatever hesitation
might be prompted in deciding this case, if the Crain case
stood alone, the effect of the decisions of this Court since
is such as to make it inapplicable to the case before us.
The judgment is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD
are in favor of affirming the judgment on the authority of
General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211.
LONDON GUARANTEE & ACCIDENT COMPANY,
LTD., v. INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMMISSION
OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 491.

Argued March 7, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Employment as sailor and assistant navigator of a vessel capable
of 500 mile sea voyages, registered as a vessel engaged in trans-

porting people for hire, is a maritime employment though the
business be confined to taking patrons on trips of from five to
ten miles to and from deep sea fishing places within the territorial
jurisdiction of the State. P. 123.
2. Where a person so employed lost his life by drowning while
endeavoring, under orders from a superior, to save the vessel with
relation to which he was employed when she was driven by a

