SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 125
109

Syllabus.

speaking, it is just as much a part of commerce and of
the admiralty jurisdiction as if these vessels were carrying
cargoes of merchandise. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
215 et seq. The conclusion sought to be drawn by counsel for the Commission from the Rohde and other cases is
that workmen's compensation acts will apply unless their
application would interfere with the uniformity of the
general maritime law in interstate and foreign commerce,
and there is neither here. But this omits one of the
grounds for making an exception-that it shall not be
prejudicial to the characteristic features of the maritime
law. That is just what it would be here, for here we have
a transaction on the navigable waters of the United States
which in every respect covers all the characteristic features
of maritime law and has no other features but those. To
apply to such a case a state compensation law would certainly be prejudicial to those features. We must hold,
therefore, that it was a violation of the exclusive maritime jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution to apply
in this case the California Compensation Act.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissents.
SUTTER BUTTE CANAL COMPANY v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPRENIE COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 403.

Argued March 6, 7, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The record does not disclose any substantial evidence that would
impeach the findings of the Railroad Commission upon the subject
of a fair rate-base and a proper return to the petitioner Company.
P. 134.
2. Contracts between a public utility water company and its consumers are subject to modification in respect of their duration as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

279 U. S.

as their rates through a proper exercise of the state police power.
P. 137.
3. A California corporation, which owned a water right dedicated to
public use and, under the state constitution and laws, was a public
utility whose rates and service were subject to regulation by the
State Railroad Commission, served the water to two classes of consumers: (1) consumers who, in virtue of early contracts, were entitled to water in perpetuity for designated tracts and were under a
continuing obligation to pAy service and water charges each season
on the acres for which they desired water and also to pay the service charges on the remaining acres for which, in any season, they
did not desire it; and (2) consumers who obtained water at these
same rates under periodical applications defining the lands to be
served but limiting the obligation to pay service charges on acres
not irrigated to three years from date of application. For the purpose of preventing this discrimination against contract consumers,
and resulting difficulties of administration, the Commission made an
order under which they might release themselves from the continuing obligation to pay charges on lands not irrigated and acquire a
status like that of the consumers under applications. Held that
the order did not deprive the water company of contract rights in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 134-137.
4. Upon review of a judgment of the Supreme Court of California
upholding, on certiorari, an order of the State Railroad Commission affecting the rates and contracts of a water company, held that
a construction of the order made by that court and which the
counsel for the Commission, in the oral argument here, declared
to be regarded by the Commission as binding, should not be given
an independent construction by this Court. P. 139.
202 Cal. 179, affirmed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
California affirming an order of the State Railroad Commission relating to the rates and contracts of the Canal
Company, and the valuation of its property for rate-fixing
purposes.

Mr. Isaac Frohman, with whom Mr. Douglas Brookman was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The Commission has attempted to preserve what might
be found desirable by the contract holders, and to de-

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 127
125

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stroy what they deem undesirable. The right to do this
very thing was involved in the Live Oak Water Users'
Ass'n case, 192 Cal. 132. See also Butte County Water
Users' Ass'n v. R. R. Comm'n, 185 Cal. 218, where it is
recognized that the right of a consumer "is a vested right
of which he cannot be deprived by the diversion of water
to others." Stanislaus Water Co. v. Bachman, 152 Cal.
716; Southern Pacific Co. v. Spring Valley Water Co.,
173 Cal. 291; Palermo L. & W. Co. v. R. R. Comm'n, 173
Cal. 380; Henrici v. South Feather Land Co., 177 Cal.
442; Allen v. R. R. Comm'n, 179 Cal. 68.
The right of the Company to reasonable compensation
for its duty to hold itself in readiness to serve water to
the contract holders as provided in the contracts, at such
times as they desire to use it, is likewise a vested property
right which cannot, under the Constitution, be made subject to the right of the contract holders to say, at their
option, whether they want to pay at all, or at intervals
only. The Commission is not vested with the power to
deal with the contracts in any of these ways. It cannot
interpolate optional rights in favor of either of the parties.
Its orders must be germane to its power to control and
regulate, and must necessarily not be violative of rights
guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States;
and it must regularly pursue its authority.
If, as is declared in the case at bar by the court below,
it is within the power of the Commission to release the
contract holders, or to go to the extent of ordering an
"out-and-out termination" of the contracts, notwithstanding what has been previously held by that court in
cases involving these types of contracts, the fact remains
that the Commission has left the contracts in effect, but
operative only when and if the contract holders, at their
option, want them to be operative. It is admitted in the
opinion below that "it is true that the contracts may be
retained at the election of the consumer." This, we

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

279 U. S.

contend, is not "regulation" in any proper sense of the
word.
The decision is plainly inconsistent with Live Oak
Water Users' Ass'n case, 192 Cal. 132.
As to discrimination, it was held in the Live Oak case,
and it is correct to say now, that the classification into
contract and non-contract consumers was neither unfair
nor unreasonable, and that there was no unlawful discrimination as between them.
It is suggested by the court below in its opinion that
"any contract consumer who elects to avail himself of
the status of a non-contract consumer may not, if petitioner [plaintiff in error] properly protests, return to his
former status under the contract." It is manifest that the
order of the Commission does not so provide, and the controversy here necessarily concerns that order. It must be
kept in mind that plaintiff in error is subject to the orders
of the Commission in so far, of course, as its orders are
lawful and do not violate rights guaranteed by the
Constitution.
It cannot be said that the Commission can change,
limit and modify the contracts so as to strip them of their
mutual, dependent and concurrent conditions and convert
them into unilateral contracts, or mere options or privileges, in favor of the contract holders.
It was error to exclude the so-called Sutter County Extension donations from the valuation of property of the
Company for the purpose of fixing water rates. The failure of the Commission to give any consideration to reproduction cost of the physical properties of the Company
was likewise erroneous.
Rates yielding a net return of less than 5Y2% are
confiscatory.
Messrs. Arthur T. George and Carl i. Wheat were on
the brief for defendant in error,

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 129
125

Argument for Deferidant in Error.

Under the rules, non-contract consumers pay a service
charge of $1.25 per acre and fixed irrigation charges per
acre (dependent upon the water use) on all lands covered
in their respective applications-so long as the water is
used for active irrigation. The service charge of $1.25 on
such acreage continues for a period of two years after such
use is discontinued. Such consumers, of course, are under
no obligation to take water or pay service charges except
as obligated by their respective applications.
In an effort to terminate all discrimination in rates between contract and non-contract consumers, it is provided
that the contract consumers, if they so elect, can avail
themselves of the same rate schedule as is applicable to
non-contract consumers, and once such contract consumer
so elects to abide by such rate schedule, no provision
is made in the rules or otherwise for his return to the
rate schedule provided for those who remain contract
consumers.
Under this rule any contract consumer so electing to
obtain water under his contract must pay the service
charge of $1.25 per acre and the other charges fixed in the
schedule of rates (dependent upon the nature of the use)
on all land for which service is desired in any particular
year, and, for a period of two years, the service charge of
$1.25 per acre on the land covered by the contract as to
which no service is desired. This service charge of $1.25
per acre is also payable on the land for which service is
desired-for a period of two years after said service is
discontinued.
Either class of consumer under the new rules may elect
to discontinue using water and by following the requirements of the rules, effect his release from further payments.
Thus, it appears that the various objections which are
urged as to the alleged options open to the contract users
are more apparent than real, and that the contract and
45228'-29

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

279 U. S.

non-contract rate schedules are, for the first time, truly
comparable.
The California Supreme Court has repeatedly held that
the Commission, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, is vested
with authority to alter, modify or abrogate contracts existing between such utility companies and consumers. Law
v. R. R. Comm'n, 184 Cal. 737; Limoneira Co. v. R. R.
Comm'n, 174 Cal. 232; Southern Pacific Co. v. Spring Valley Water Co., 173 Cal. 291; Traber v. R. R. Comm'n,, 183
Cal. 304; Market Street Ry. Co. v. Pacific Gas Co., 6 F.
(2d) 633.
All waters covered by the contracts in question are
waters impressed with a public use. King v. B. R.
Comm'n, 190 Cal. 321.
Dictain Allen v. R. R. Comm'n, 179 Cal. 68, that might
well be construed to hold that contracts for the use of
waters devoted to public use create vested rights which
cannot be altered by the State in the exercise of its police
power, do not represent the law in California today.
Leavitt v. Lassen Irrigation Co., 157 Cal. 82.
It is now well established that the owner of water devoted to public use cannot, by contract or otherwise, carve
out of the public trust a preferential private right; that
any contracts purporting to grant permanent and continuous rights to such waters "of course, would not technically
attach it to the land as an appurtenance. It would do
nothing more than bring the land within the territory to
which the public use extended and establish its status as
land permanently entitled to share in the public use."
Glenn-Colusa IrrigationDistrict v. Paulson,75 Cal. App.
57; Southern Pacific Co. v. Spring Valley Water Co., 173
Cal. 291.
Under the above cited authorities, the Commission has
complete authority to modify the rate provisions of the

contracts or to establish new rates and rules in their stead.

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 131
125

Opinion of the Court.

The order now in question concerns only rates and the
computation of rates. No attempt was made to adjudicate the rights of the parties under the contracts in any
particular other than in the matter of rates. These rights,
in the light of the order, could not be litigated in this proceeding, but only before some other tribunal and in some
other proceeding which properly puts them in issue.
In fixing the rate base the Commission properly excluded sums contributed to the development of the socalled Sutter County Extension, and refused to be controlled by an alleged reproduction cost estimate submitted
by plaintiff in error.
There is no basis in the record for the claim that the
rates fixed by the Commission will not yield a full and
fair return.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to an order of the Supreme Court
of California reviewing on certiorari an order of the Railroad Commission of the State fixing water rates and contracts. 202 Cal. 179. The Sutter Butte Canal Company,
a corporation of the State, petitioned for a review and the
annulment of an order of the Railroad Commission designated as decision No. 16289, made on March -20, 1926, relating to water rates, the valuation of its property for ratefixing purposes, the rate of return thereon and the modification and practical abrogation of certain continuous
contracts for the furnishing of water held by it with a certain class of consumers.
The history of the Company as a public utility engaged
in the business of appropriating water from the Feather
River and selling and distributing it for irrigation purposes in Butte and Sutter counties, is set forth in Butte
County Water Users Association v. Railroad Commission,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

185 Cal. 218; King v. Railroad Commission, 190 Cal. 321,
and Live Oak Water Users Association v. Railroad Commission, 192 Cal. 132, s. c. 269 U. S. 354.
The Canal Company is a public utility subjected by law
to the power and direction of the State Railroad Commission and is in possession of a water right dedicated to the
public use. Its consumers are divided into two classescontract consumers and non-contract consumers. The
water was originally furnished to the contract consumers
under water right contracts which were continuous supply
contracts, whereby the consumer paid an initial amount,
which varied somewhat, and agreed to pay a stipulated
rate for irrigation water service each year thereafter upon
the total acreage covered by the contract, and the Company on its part agreed to furnish water as required for all
of the acres covered thereby. Non-contract consumers,
or applicants, pursuant to the order of the Commission
made in March, 1918, were served upon the basis only of
applications for water made from year to year.
In December, 1924, a decision, numbered 14422, on
application by the Company, further increased the water
rates over those allowed under a decision of 1922, and
abolished the differential in rates which had theretofore
existed between cbntract and non-contract consumers. It
created what was called a stand-by or service charge, of
$1.25 per acre, payable by both classes, effective as to noncovered by their
contract holders for all of their lds
applications during such time as they should continue
thereunder, and in any event for not less than three years,
and to be continuously effective as to contract holders for
all of the lands covered by their contracts; provided that
if such contract holder did not desire to use in any year
the whole or any part of said water to which he was entitled, and filed with the Company on or before February
1st of that year notice in writing of what he did not
desire in respect to the service of the water, he should then

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 133
125

Opinion of the Court.

be obligated to pay in that year, and in each year thereafter, on or before February 1st thereof, the service charge
of $1.25 per acre of the land for which no water was desired, as specified in the notice, and as to the remainder
of his land he was to pay such rates or charges based upon
the extent and character of the use of the water which he
desired to use as were in effect.
This, however, was not a satisfactory adjustment, as
the Commission ultimately determined, and in 1925 there
was a completely new investigation by the Commission of
the rates, charges, classifications, contracts, rules, regulations and service of the Canal Company, in view of existing protests and dissatisfaction. This led to a hearing of
all parties in interest covering the main question as to the
jurisdiction of the Conunission, under the California law,
to modify the obligations of the parties, not only by use
of the rates, but by direct variation of the terms between
the Canal Company and the owners of so-called continuous contracts; and also to a consideration of the fairness
and equity of the rates to be fixed for the payment for
water furnished by both contract and non-contract users,
and other details involved in a broad investigation.
The proceedings resulting in decision No. 16289, modified the previous rules so as to give each continuous contract holder the right, at his option, either (1) to obtain
water under applications for so much of his land as he
desired to irrigate, similarly with applicants generally who
were not holders of continuous contracts, or (2) to obtain
water under his continuous contract, provided that if he
so elected, he might still, by notifying petitioner that he
did not desire to use in any year the whole or any of the
water which he was so entitled to receive, and filing with
the Company on or before February 1st of that year notice
in writing of what he did desire in respect to the non-service of water, be obligated in that year, and in the next
succeeding year thereafter, but for no further period in

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

which said notice remained in effect, to pay, on or before
February 1st thereof, the service charge of $1.25 per acre
of the land for which no water was desired, as specified in
said notice; or (3) to release himself from any obligation
to pay any charges to petitioner under his continuous
contract by giving notice that he did not desire any water
for his land in any year, or to give notice or use the water.
The substance of this was to release all contract consumers. The contracts might be retained at the election
of the consumer, but the whole plan was really to get rid
of the troublesome dual situation and to abolish all distinction between the two classes of consumers and put
them on a parity, in order that there might be removed
from controversy this source of friction and trouble. The

Commission said:
"Rates fixed herein will, therefore, be on the basis that
all service be charged for under a uniform schedule of rates
and under application forms which will exclude any consideration of the continuous contract and preclude the
making of charges for unirrigated lands under such contracts, as such."
In view of the finding of the Supreme Court that the
record does not disclose any substantial evidence which
would impeach the findings of the Railroad Commission
upon the subject of a fair rate-base and a proper return to
the Company, with which we agree, our decision will be
limited to a consideration of the charge that the decision
here under review is a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment by taking away from the Company its contract
rights and depriving it of payment to it for water service
for all the lands which under the original contract the land
owners were to pay for, whether the water was used or

not.
The case made on behalf of the Commission and its decision is that there has been delegated by the State to the
Commission the regulation for the public benefit of the

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMM'N. 135
125

Opinion of the Court.

rates and revenue to be received by the public utility for
the service it renders to the public; that included in such
power of regulation is the modification and qualification
of the original contracts held by the public utility corporation in this public service; that in being a public utility
under the California Constitution it necessarily submits
itself to the police power of the State for the benefit of
the public; that the ordinary rules that apply to the protection of contracts as between private persons under the
Constitution of the United States, or to the maintenance
of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment
and the rights of property as between individuals, do not
apply, but that, by the acquisition of such contracts and
property, knowing that the police power controls in their
regulation, the owner holds them without the usual sanctions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution between individuals. This power is said to operate upon property and property rights, including contracts, to the extent necessary for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals and welfare, and its exercise
has been committed to the Railroad Commission in regulating the public utilities in California.
The State Constitution of 1879, Article 14, ยง 1, provides:
" The use of all water now appropriated, or that may
hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental, or distribution,
is hereby declared to be a public use, and subject to the
regulation and control of the State, in the manner to be
prescribed by law ..
Article 12, by ยง 23, an amendment added in 1911,
provides:
"Every private corporation, and every individual or
association of individuals, owning, operating, managing or
controlling any . . . canal, pipe-line, plant or equipment,
or any part of such . . . canal, pipe-line, plant or equipment within this state, . . . for the production, generation, transmission, delivery or furnishing of heat, light,

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S,

water or power . . . to or for the public
is hereby
declared to be a public utility subject to such control and
regulation by the Railroad Commission as may be provided
by the legislature, and every class of private corporations,
individuals, or associations of individuals hereafter declared
by the legislature to be public utilities, shall likewise be
subject to such control and regulation. The Railroad
Commission shall have and exercise such power and jurisdiction to supervise and regulate public utilities in the
State of California, and to fix the rates to be charged for
commodities furnished, or services rendered by public
utilities as shall be conferred upon it by the legislature,
and the right of the legislature to confer powers upon the
Railroad Commission respecting public utilities is hereby
declared to be plenary and to be unlimited by any provision of this Constitution."
Section 67 of the Public Utilities Act, enacted in 1911,
provides that the exercise of the power thus conferred
upon the Railroad Commission is to be reviewed only by
the S-ipreme Court, to determine whether the Commission has regularly pursued its authority, including a determination of whether the order or decision under review
violates any right of the petitioner under the Constitution
of the United States or of the State of California. The
findings and conclusions of the Commission on questions
of fact shall be final and shall not be subject to review.
Such questions of fact shall include ultimate facts and the
findings and conclusions of the Commission on reasonableness and discrimination. The Commission and each
party to the action or proceeding before the Commission
shall have the right to appear in the review proceeding,
and upon the hearing the Supreme Court shall render
judgment either affirming or setting aside the order or
decision of the Commission. (Deering's Gen. Laws of
1923, p. 2734.)

SUTTER BUTTE CANAL CO. v. R. R. COMIa'N.
125

137

Opinion of the Court.

Without now affirming or denying all that is claimed
for them, we think that the above recited clauses from the
constitution and statute are sufficient to subject the contracts in question to the regulating action of the Commission upheld by the decision under review.
The power to increase charges for service had been twice
exercised by the Railroad Conmission at the behest of the
Canal Company, and the times and terms of payment
under the contracts had been changed by the same power,
and so far as the petitioner was concerned, its privileges
and emoluments under the contract had been greatly increased. So far as the consumer was concerned, the contract has slight, if any, benefit to him left in it. The
consumer of water who came in last, and who had no
contract, was really served with water upon less onerous
terms than the contract consumer, and he might satisfy all
demands made against him in three years, if not sooner,
and be completely released. This the Supreme Court
held was a discrimination. It decided that it was within
the power of the Commission to remove it. The only
provision of the contract which had not been theretofore
modified by the Commission or the Court was the one
with respect to the duration of the contract. As the contract was necessarily made in view of the power of the
Commission to change its terms, to avoid discrimination
in dealing with the consumers of water of a public utility,
it is very difficult to see why the situation may not be
reduced to a uniform one under the power of the Commission, if that body deems it equitable and fair to do so
in the interest of the public. The record shows with
much clearness the complicated situation that must continue unless the duration of the obligations of the so-called
contract and non-contract consumers be made the same.
This change would seem to be well within the police
power, subject to which these contracts were made, and
there is no such difference between the fixing of rates

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and the modification of the duration of a contract as
would prevent the application of the police power to the
one and not to the other. There are a number of authorities that leave no doubt that such an exercise of the police
power under the Constitution of 1879 must be sustained.
Limoneira Co. v. Railroad Commission, 174 Cal. 232, 237;
Law v. Railroad Commission, 184 Cal. 737, 740; In re
Murray, 2 Cal. R. R. Comm. Dec. 465, 494; Sausalito v.
Marin Water Co., 8 Cal. R. R. Comm. Dec. 252, 261. The
same question was before the Supreme Court of the State
of Washington in the case of Raymond Lumber Co v. Raymond Light & Water Co., 92 Wash. 330. The power of
the Commission to abrogate the contract between a utility
and its consumers was upheld. An admirable statement
of the principle is to be found in Re Guilford Water Co.'s
Service Rates, 118 Me. 367. The general principle supporting such an exercise of the police power under the
Fourteenth Amendment is sustained in Louisville & Nashville RailroadCo. v. Motley, 219 U. S. 467. In this case it
was held that the power of Congress to regulate commerce
among the States, which is analogous to the police power
of the States in regulating public utilities, extended to
rendering ippossible enforcement of contracts made between carriers and shippers, although valid when made,
because they were all made subject to the possibility that,
even if valid when made, Congress might, by exercising
its power, render them invalid. That is exactly the situation presented here. Those who made these contracts for
water made them subject to the power of the Commission
to change them for the benefit of the public, and that is
all that has been done in this case by the Commission's
order. See also Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 480;
Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
357; Chicago,B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549,
567; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.
548, 558; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Corp., 248 U. S.

ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
125

Syllabus.

372, 375; Producers' TransportationCo. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 228, 232.
At the bar counsel for the appellant expressed some
anxiety lest the Commission might not accept the interpretation put on the order in question by the Supreme
Court of the State, and for that reason he asked that we
interpret the order independently. But the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State is conclusive on us as to
the interpretation of the order, that being a state question; and counsel for the Commission announced at the
bar that the Commission regarded that decision as binding
on them. Thus it is apparent that an independent interpretation by us of the Commission's order cannot and
ought not to be attempted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.
ALBERTO v. NICOLAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 364. Argued March 6, 1929.--Decided April 8, 1929.
1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands based
upon a construction of an Act of the Philippine Legislature, which
construction was in turn based upon a construction of the Organic
Act, is reviewable by this Court under ยง 7 of the Act of Congress
of February 13, 1925, providing that a certiorari may issue to that
court in any case "wherein the Constitution or any statute or
treaty of the United States is involved." P. 142.
2. The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the power of the
Governor General of the Philippines to remove, suspend or transfer
justices of the peace and to merge their districts, is intended for
the prevention of abuses of their offices resulting from the ease
with which their authority lends itself to the creation of caciques,
or local bosses, exercising oppressive control over ignorant neighborhoods. P. 147.

