82"

OCTOBER TERM, 192_.
Counsel for Respondents.

279 U. S.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY ET AL. v, CITY OF

MARYSVILLE

E

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 545. Argued April 19, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.
1. Where legislative action is within the scope of the police power,
fairly debatable questions as to its reasonableness, wisdom and
propriety are not for the determination of courts, but for that of
the legislative body on which rest the duty and responsibility of
decision. P. 584.
2. The court takes judicial notice that gasoline and kerosene stored
in large quantities are dangerously inflammable. Id.
3. A city ordinance requiring that all tanks with a capacity of more
than ten gallons, used within the city limits for the storage of
gasoline and kerosene, be buried at least three feet under ground,
held a legitimate exercise of the police power in the interest of public safety, and not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 585.
4. Legislation may not be held invalid merely because compliance
with it is burdensome. P. 586.
27 F. (2d) 478, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 596, to review a decree of the

Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the
District Court, entered in two consolidated cases, enjoining the City of Marysville, and city officials, from enforcing by prosecution of the plaintiff companies, an ordinance
requiring that tanks for storage of petroleum products be
buried underground.
Messrs. Earle W. Evans and Thomas F. Doran, with
whom Messrs. L. L. Stephens, R. R. Vermilion, Joseph G.
Carey, W. F. Lilleston, Henry V. Gott, Roy T. Osborn,
Clayton E. Kline, and M. F. Cosgrove were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Messrs. Edgar C. Bennett and Harry W. Colmery for
respondents.

STANDARD OIL 00. v. MARYSVILLE.
582

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. James M. Beck, Ira Jewel Williams, and
Francis Shunk Brown, filed a brief on behalf of American
Petroleum Institute and The Atlantic Refining Company,
as amici curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on certiorari, 278 U. S. 596, to review
a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, reversing a decree of the District Court for Kansas
which enjoined the enforcement of an ordinance of respondent, the City of Marysville, as in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. 27
F. (2d) 478.
The ordinance, No. 350, of October 8, 1923, requires
that all tanks within the city limits used for the storage
of petroleum products or other inflammable liquids shall
be buried at least three feet underground. Tanks of a
capacity of 500 gallons or less, if used for the storage of
crude oil, distillate or fuel oil, and of less than ten gallons,
if used for the storage of gasoline, kerosene or naphtha,
are exempted from this requirement. Violation of the
ordinance is punishable by a fine of $25.00 for each day
of its continuance. Petitioners, who are dealers in petroleum products licensed under a former ordinance, have
each for many years maintained within the city limits
two tanks for the storage of gasoline and kerosene of
approximately 12,000 gallons capacity each. They assert
that compliance with the ordinance will impose upon
them a large and unnecessary expense and that the ordinance is so arbitrary and capricious as applied to them
as to deprive them of their property without due process

of law.
At the trial before a master voluminous evidence was
taken, much of it conflicting, speculative and theoretical
in character, concerning the relative safety of the storage

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of petroleum products above and beneath the surface of
the earth and their relative likelihood of ignition, and
danger to life and property in the vicinity if ignited, when
so stored. The master made elaborate findings of. fact
from which he inferred generally that it is more dangerous, from the standpoint of public safety, to store underground than above, gasoline or kerosene in quantities of
ten gallons or more. From this he drew the legal conclusion, adopted by the district court, that the ordinance was
so arbitrary and capricious as not to be a permissible
exercise of the police power.
We need not labor the point, long settled, that where
legislative action is within the scope of the police power,
fairly debatable questions as to its reasonableness, wisdom
and propriety are not for the determination of courts,
but for that of the legislative body on which rests the
duty and responsibility of decision. Zahn v. Board of
Public Works, 274 U. S. 325, 328; Hadachecc v. Los
Angeles, 239 U. S. 394, 408-412, 413-414; Euclid v.
Ambler Realty Co., 274 U. S. 365, 388; Jacobsen v. Massa,chusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 30; Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San
Francisco,216 U. S. 358, 365; Cusack Co. v. City of Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 530; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446,
451. To determine that the present ordinance was a permissible exercise of legislative discretion, as thus defined,
we need not go beyond those findings of the master to
which petitioners offer no serious challenge.
The master found that gasoline and kerosene stored in
large quantities are dangerously inflammable substances,
as we judicially know, Pierce Oil Corporationv. City of
Hope, 248 U. S. 498, 500, which, when ignited, are a menace to life and property in the vicinity; that even with
the use of the most modern safety devices, fires or explosions of such storage tanks occur and that within the four
years preceding the trial five disastrous fires of gasoline

STANDARD OIL CO. v. MARYSVILLE.
582

585

Opinion of the Court.

storage stations had occurred in Kansas, in two of which
gasoline tanks had exploded, in one case striking and
burning a building 475 feet away, killing nine people,
wounding twenty-six more and burning several other
houses. His findings show that within an even smaller
radius from petitioners' tanks, or within the same or adjacent blocks, there are many buildings, including residences, a hotel, warehouses and garages, some of wooden
structure, and gasoline and kerosene storage tanks of
75,000 gallons capacity, and that the principal business
street of the town is within two blocks of the Standard
tanks. From local conditions and recent public improvements the master found it reasonable to conclude that
there would be increased residential building in the
vicinity.
The objection which petitioners make to the storage of
gasoline and kerosene in tanks buried under ground is that
through the effect of electrolysis and corrosion caused by
acid in the soil, and the possible "floating out" of the
tanks, leaks are likely to occur, difficult to discover, by
which the gasoline might penetrate through the earth into
sewers, wells and basements, contaminating the water and
causing explosions. But the master found that conditions
which produce electrolysis are not present in the City of
Marysville; that only a slight percentage of acid was found
in the soil there, and although there was more chance of
corrosion of metal under ground at the Standard Oil property than at the Sinclair tanks, it might take a term of
years for it to take place. The findings also show that
tanks already placed underground in the vicinity in compliance with the ordinance and which it appeared had been
in successful operation for more than two years, had not
"floated out" during periods of heavy rainfall and the
danger of floating could be overcome by proper drainage
and by anchoring down the tanks; that the tanks buried

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

in compliance with the ordinance would rest on a level
below the sewers; that there were no wells in the vicinity
and that the soil there had been shown by experiment to
be impervious to gasoline. It was also found that the
danger from fire or explosion due to lightning, which
causes many fires in gasoline storage, and from static electricity, is less with under ground than above ground tanks
and that the base rate of insurance on storage tanks of
gasoline and kerosene under ground is 50% of that for
tanks above.
The facts that the tanks of petitioners within the city
limits have been operated successfully above ground; that
appliances used by them are of the best type; that fires in
connection with their many tanks located elsewhere have
been relatively infrequent, and numerous others found by
the master, were properly for the consideration of the city
council in determining whether the ordinance should be
enacted, but they fall far short of withdrawing the subject
from legislative determination or establishing that the
decision made was arbitrary or unreasonable. The passage of the ordinance was within the delegated powers of
the city council, City Service Oil Co. v. Marysville, 117
Kan. 514, and it acted within its constitutional province
in dealing with the matter as one affecting public safety.
Pierce Oil Corporationv. City of Hope, supra. From the
facts as found it might, in the exercise of a reasonable
judgment, have at least concluded that the danger of ignition to the tanks placed under ground, under the conditions
prevailing at Marysville, was no greater than when placed
above ground and that in the event of ignition the danger
to life and property was very much less.
We may not test in the balances of judicial review the
weight and sufficiency of the facts to sustain the conclusion of the legislative body, nor may we set aside the ordinance because compliance with it is burdensome. Chicago
& Aiton R. R. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67, 77; Hadacheck
v. Los Angeles, supra; Rast v. Demen & Lewis, 240 U. S.

C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
Counsel for Parties.

342. It does not preclude petitioners from locating their
storage tanks without the city limits. Hence, the burden
imposed upon them cannot be greater or otherwise more
objectionable than that imposed by the enforced removal
from cities by legislative action of dangerous or offensive
trades or businesses. See PierceOil Corporationv. City of
Hope, supra; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, supra; Reinman
,V.Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co.,
supra; Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361; Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco,supra.
We have considered but do not discuss other objections
to the ordinance which are without merit.
Affirmed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STAPLETON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 133. Submitted January 2, 1929. Restored to docket and argued
April 9, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.
1. A right of action cannot arise under the Federal Employers' Liability Act upon any other basis than negligence. P. 589.
2. The carrier cannot be held for negligence under this Act upon the
ground that the employee was under sixteen years of age, employed
in violation of a statute of the State where the accident occurred
forbidding and penalizing the employment of infants of his years
for work upon any railroad. P. 593.
3. The question whether the carrier is so liable is a federal question
and is not determined by rulings of the state court holding violations of the state statute to be negligence per se. P. 593.
233 Ky. 154, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 585, to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky affirming a recovery of damages in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.

Mr. Le Wright Browning for petitioner.
Mr. George B. Martin for respondent.

