GRAVITT v. SOUTHWESTERN BELL TEL. CO.
Per Curiam

GRAVITT, EXECUTRIX ET AL. V. SOUTHWESTERN
BELL TELEPHONE CO. ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED

STATES

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 76-1036.

Decided April 25, 1977

The District Court's order remanding a removed diversity tort action
to the state courts for apparent lack of complete diversity among the
parties was clearly within 28 U. S. C. § 1447 (c), which provides for
remanding a removed action when the district court determines that
"the case was removed improvidently and without jurisdiction," and
hence, under § 1447 (d), was not reviewable by the Court of Appeals.
Thermtron Products, Inc. v. Hermansdorfer,423 U. S. 336, distinguished.
F. 2d -,

Certiorari granted; -

reversed and remanded.

PER CURIAM.

This tort action was removed from the Texas state courts
to the United States District Court on the grounds of diversity
of citizenship but was remanded as having been "improperly
removed" when it seemed that there was not complete diversity among the parties. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit, by mandamus, ordered the District Court to vacate its
remand order because the latter had employed erroneous principles in concluding that it was without jurisdiction.
The Court of Appeals erred. Title 28 U. S. C. § 1447 (c)
provides for remanding a removed action when the district
court determines that "the case was removed improvidently
and without jurisdiction"; and when a remand has been ordered on these grounds, 28 U. S. C. § 1447 (d) unmistakably
commands that the order "remanding a case to the State court
from which it was removed is not reviewable on appeal or
otherwise .

.

.

."

The District Court's remand order was

plainly within the bounds of § 1447 (c) and hence was unreviewable by the Court of Appeals, by mandamus or otherwise.
Thermtron Products, Inc. v. Hermansdorfer, 423 U. S. 336

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Per Curiam

430 U. S.

(1976), is not to the contrary, for there the District Court
remanded "on grounds wholly different from those upon which
§ 1447 (c) permits remand." Id., at 344. Thermtron did not
question but re-emphasized the rule that § 1447 (c) remands
are not reviewable.
The petition for certiorari is granted, the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

