CASES IN THE' SUPRE=i

OURT

1822.
"Watts
.

[LOCAL LAw. CAxncrny.J

Lindseys
Heirs.
WATTS

.v.

LINDSeY's

Heirs and Others.

It is a rule at law, and in equity, that a party must recover on the
strength of his own title, and not on the weakness of his adversatuys
title.
Tp sppport an entry, the party claiihing under it mutst show that tho objects called for are so described, or are so notorious, that others, by
using reasonable diligence, can readily find them..
The followi~ng entry was pronounced under the circumstances, to be
void for uncertainty: " 7th of August, 1787. Capt. Ferdinand
O'Neal enters 1000 acres, &c. on the waters of the Ohio, beginning
at j ienorhwat corner of Stephen .JMason's entry, .No.654, thence
with his line east 400 poles, north 40(- poles, west 400 poles, south
400 poles." The entry of Stephen T. J ason referred to, being as follows: "l7th of August, 1787. Stephen T. Mason, Assignee, &c. entora
1000 acres of land on part of a military warrant, No. 2012, on the waters of the Ohio, beginning 640 poles north from the mouth ofthe third
creek running into the Ohio, above the mouth of the Little Miami
River; thence running %vestlflpoles;north 400 poles; cast 400
poles; thence to the beginning."
The Oo andLittle iiariRirers are identified and notorious objects.
But the third creek above the mouth of the Little Miami, is to be taken
according to the numerical order of the creeks, -unless some other
stream has by general reputation or notoriety been so considered.
Cross Creek, the stream which the party claiming under O'NeaPs entry,
assumed for the beginning to run the 640 poles north from the mouth
ofthe third creek, as called for in Mason's entry, not being infact nu.
merically the third creek above the mouth of the Little .Miami,and
their being no satisfactory proof that it had acquired that designation
by reputation-the claim was pronounced invalid.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
Feb. loth.

This cause was argued by Mr. Doddridge for the
appellant, and by Mr. Brush for the respondents.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This controversy arises from entries for lands in
the Virginia military reservation, lying between the

1d22.

V.

Linaseyf-

Heirs.

Scioto and Little Miami Rivers, in the district of .rarch Id.

Ohio.
The plaintiff in the court below, (Watts,) exhibited his bill in Chancery for tmie purpose of compelling the respondents to surrender the legal title, acquired under an elder grant founded on a surveyor's
entry, than the one under which he derives his title.
The entry, set forth in the bill, and claimed by the
plaintiff, is in the following words: "7th August,
1787. Captain Ferdinand O'Neal enters 1000 acres,
&c. on the waters of the Ohio, beginning at the northwest corner of Stephen T. Mason's entry, No. 654,
thence with his line, east 400 poles, north 400 poles,
west 400 poles, south 400 poles."
The entry of Stephen T. Mason, referred to in the
above entry, is in the following words:
"17th August, 1787. Stephen T. Mason, assignee,
&c. enters 1000 acres of land on part of a military
warrant, No. 2012, on the waters of the Ohio, beginning 640 poles north from the mouth of the third
creek running into the Ohio above the mouth of the
Little Miami River; thence running west160 poles;
north 400 poles; east 400 poles ; south 400 poles:
thence to the beginning."
The respondents, in their answers, deny the validity of O'Neal's entry; allege that it is vague and
uncertain, and that the survey made on it includes no
part of the land described in the entry. and if prQ-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

IS22.
v.

Lind4ey's

Jliiri.

-

perly surveyed would not interfere with any part of
the land to which they claim title; that the creek
selected by the complainant as the third creek, in
the entry of Mason, on which that of O'Neal depends, is not in truth and in fact, the third creek running into the Ohio above the mouth of the Little
Miami River; but that another is.
The depositions of several witnesses were taken,
and other exhibits filed in the cause. Upon a final
hearing in the Circuit Court, a decree was pronounced dismissing the plaintiff's bill.
The cause is now brought into this Court by appeal, and the principal question to be decided is,
whether from the allegations and proofs in the cause,
the entry claimed by the plaintiff can be sustained
upon sound construction, and legal principles arising
out of the land laws applicable thereto.
Before we go into an examination of'that question,
we will dispose of some .preliminary objections made
by the counsel for the respondents. They were that
attested copies of the eitries and patent referred to,
and made exhibits in the bill are not in the record:
that there does not appear in the record any assignment, or proof of an assignment from O'Neal to the
plaintiff. Nor does it appear from the platt where
the entry of O'Neal was actually surveyed, nor does
it designate the creeks running into the Ohio above
the mouth of the Little Miami River, so as to ascertain the third creek.
Some of these objections seem to be well founded, and might induce the Court to dismiss the bill, but
such dismission should be without prejudice to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mencing of any other suit the party might choose to
bring; the effect of which would be only turning
the parties out of Court, without deciding the merits
of the cause. We have therefore attentively examined the record, and are of opinion it contains enough
to get at and decide the merits.
It has been long and well established as a rule of
law and equity, that a party must recover on the
strength of his own title, and not on the weakness of
his adversary's title.
In order to uphold and support an entry, it is incumbent on the party claiming under it, to show that
the objects called for in it are so sufficiently described, or so notorious, that others, by using reasonable
diligence, could readily find them.'
As O'Neal's entry is dependent on Mason's, if the
objects called for in the latter can be ascertained, the
position of the former can be precisely and certainly
fixed.
The Ohio and Little Miami Rivers, from general
history, the one having been used before, at, and
since the time when these entries were made, as the
great highway in going from the eastern to the western country, and each of -them having been referred
to in general laws, and designated as boundaries of
certain districts of country, we consider must be deemed and taken as being identified and notorious, without further proof.
The third creek, running into the Ohio above the
mouth of the Little Miami River, is then the only
and principal object to be ascertained, to fix the entry
of Mason, with specialty and precision. The planVoL. VI.

21

1822.
Watts

n.
Heir.

162

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

1822.

4
watts
v.

Lindsey's
Heirs.

tiff has assumed what is now called Cross Creek for
the beginning, to run the o40 poles north from the
mouth of the third creek,.as called for in Mason's entry. The respondents contend, that what is now
called Muddy Creek, and sometimes Nine Mile, is
"the third creek."
It seems to be admitted, in argument, that Cross
Creek is not, in truth and in fact, numerically the
third creek above the mouth of the Little Miami.
Bur the counsel for the plaintiff contends that the
early explorers of the country, when the entries were
made, designated Muddy Creek as the second. That
streams then called" creeks, have since been degraded
into runs, and other streams, then callell runs, are
now termed creeks.
If this argument was supported by the proofs in
the cause, it would be entitled to great consideration ;
but upon a careful and minute examination, there is
a great preponderance of testimony against it : there
is the deposition of one witness that affords some
foundation for it ; there are also the depositions of
many witnesses who contradict it. But waiving this
testimony, and examining this entry, upon its iice, it
is obvious that subsequent locators and explorers
commencing their researches at the mouth of the
Little Miami River, would exanife the creeks emptying into the Ohio above, according to their numerical order. The words "the third creek," emphatically applies to that order; nor would they depart
from it, unless another stream, by general reputation
or notorietq, had been so considered. It has however. uever beea held. that reputation or notoriety

OP THE UNITED STATES.

could be established by a single wituess ; and it may

1822.

be further observed, that the other witness, whose

watts

V.
deposition has been taken on the part of the plaintiff,
states, that he had meandered the Ohio, and in his I
connectioni had laid down Muddy, or Nine Mile
Creek, as-the third, and that he so considered it, until the year 1806, or 1807, when -from the information of the other witness, and an examination, of the
entries and surveys on the books of the principal
surveyor, he was induced to change his opinion. It
is also in proof.that the plaintiff and the last mentioned witness, in searching for O'Neal's entry, claimed
4 difibrent creek as being the third, and directed the
survey to be commenced from it. If, then, a locator
and deputy surveyor, who had meandered the Ohio,
and designated'Muddy Creek as the "tird,and had
so considered it for nearly ten years, it is surely a
strong circumstance to show negatively, that Cross
Creek was not in fact. numerically, nor by general reputation or notoriety, considered as "the third
creek." If an examination of the records in the principal surveyor's office would shew that the streams
were designated and numbered differently, it was incumbent on the party to exhibit at least so much
thereof as would conduce to prove the fact. It is incompetent to prove it by parol.
Upon mature consideration of the whole case, it is
the unanimous opinion of the Court, that the decree
of the Circuit Court be
Affirmed with costs,

