CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

212
182..
Hoofnagle
V.

Anderson.
(LOCAL

HOOFNAGLE

LAW.

CnArcsnY.j

and Others v. ANDERSON.

A patent is a title from its date, and conclusive against all those whose
rights did not commence previous to its emanation.
Courts of equity consider an entry as the commencement of title, and
will sustain a valid entry against a patent founded on a prior dofcctive entry, if issued after such valid entry was made.
But they never sustain an entry made after the date of the patent.
This case attempted to be taken out of the general rule, upon the
ground that the equity of the party claiming under the entry commenced before the legal title of the other party was consummated.
But the circumstances of the case, and the equity arising out of it, were
not deemed by the Court sufficient to take it out of the general rule.

APPEAL from
Feb. 2 .

MTarch 2d.

the Circuit Court of Ohio.

This cause was argued by Mr. Scott and Mr.
Doddridge for the appell nts, and by Mr. Talbot
and 114r. Brush for the respondent.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought by the appellants, who were
plaintiffs in the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio,
to obtain a decree for the conveyance of a tract of

land of which the respondent ha ,the legal title.
The land lies within the tract of country reserv'ed by the Commonwealth of Virginia, out of her
tession to the United States for the officers and sol-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

213

1822.
diers of the Virginia Continental line. The respondH"'
ent's patent is dated on the 9th day 'of October, Hoofa&g
%.
sermilit~ry
for
a
warrant
on
1804, and is founded
Seyto
Virginia,
of
office
land
vices, issued from the
mour Powell, heir of Thomas Powell, on the 19th
day of May, 1783, which was entered in the office
of the principal surveyor on the 16th of June, 1790,
and was surveyed on the 30th of October, 1796.
The survey was assigned for a valuable consideration to the appellee, in whose name the patent was
issued..
The entry under which the plaintiffs claim was
not made till the 28th day of May, in the year 1806;
and was consequently eighteen months posterior tothe
emanation of the defendants grant. They insist, however, that this grant ought not to stand in their way,
because it was ebtained contrary to law, being founded on a warrant, which was issued by fraud or mistake.
It is admitted, that the service of Thomas Powell
was performed in the State, and not in the Continental line of Virginia; consequently, the recital of his
military service is erroneous. The warrant ought to
have been for services in the State, instead of the
Continental line. How far the patent ought to be
affected by this error is the question on which the
cause depends.
It is obviously the error of the Register.of the land
bffice, because the certificate on which the warrant
issued states the service correctly. There can be
no ground for suspecting, that any fraud is mingled
with this mistake. At the time the warrant was

CASES 1Y THE SUPREME COURT

-214
1822.

made out, its value was p'ecisely the same if for ser-

v

vices in the State, as if for services in the Continen.

Hoofaale
Anderson.

tal line. The quantity of acres allowed, to the officer was the same; and precisely the same laud
was subject to be appropriated by each warrant.
Virginia consideredthe services of the Continental and
state officers as equally meritorious, and had equally rewarded them. There c6uld exist then no possible motive for the erroneous statement on the face
of the warrant, that it was issued for services in the
Continental instead of the State line. it was of no
advantage to Seymour Powell, whose father had
performed service which the law deemed a full consideration for a warrant of equal value with that
which was given him by mistake.
This warrant was assignable, and carried with it
no evidence of the mistake which had been committed in the office. It has been assigned for a valuable
consideration, and the purchaser has obtained a patent
for a part of it, without actual notice that there was
any defect in the origin of his title. Should he lose
this land his warrant is lost. There is no longer
any tract of country in which it can be located.

The title of the respondent to the particular tract
included in his patent, was complete before that of
the appellants commenced. It is not doubted that a
patent appropriates land Any defects in the pteliinary steps, which are required by law, are cured'
by the patent. It is a title from its date, and has
always been held conclusive against all those whose
rights did not commence previous to its emanation.
Courts of equity have considered an entryas the corn-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

inencement of title, and have sustained a valid entry
1822.
against a patent founded on a prior defective entry, Hoofnagle
v
if issued after such valid entry was made. But they
sustained
never
have
have gone no farther. They
an entry made after the date of the patent. They
have always rejected such caims. The reason is
obvious. A patent appropriates the land it covers;
and that land, being no longer vacant, is no longer
subject to location. If the patent has been issued
iregularly, the government may provide means for
repealing it; but no individual has a right to annul

it, to consider the land as still vacant, and to appropriate it to himself.
The counsel for the appellants attempt to take this
case our of the general rule, because their equity, they
say, commenced before the legal title of the respondent was consummated, and their pre-existing rights
were impaired by his intrusion into the military
lands reserved for the Virginia Continental troops.
The officer under whom they claim had a right to
elect among all the vacant lands in the reserved territory, and this right of election was narrowed by
the respondent's patent.
This is a general indefinite equity, not applicable
to one tract of land more than to another, and which
has, perhaps, never been allowed under circumstaices
resembling those which exist in the present case. It
is a sciatillajuriswhich we should find much difficulty in supporting against a complete legal title
founded on an original claim of equal merit of the
same character. When it is recollected that, in their
origin, these claims stood equal, and were equally

CASES IN THE SUPI4EME COURT

216
1822.
vHoofnagle

V.

Anderson,.

capable of appropriating the same land, it might well
be urged that the rights of the State officers were
not sufficiently respected, when the legislature omitted to insert them, as well as their brethren of the
Continental line, in the reservation for military
warrants; and that the mistake in the land office
has only retained for Mr. Powell rights which he
ought never to have lost. The act which authorizes surveys on the northwest side of the Ohio, on
warrants granted to the officers and soldiers of' the
Virginia Coittinental line, likewise authorized the
surveying of those which had been granted to the,
officers and soldiers of the State line. The laws
granting these bounties, setting apart this tract of
country, and authorizing these surveys, were public
laws. They were known, or might have been
known, to the government of the Union, when the
cession was made and received. This right of election which the appellants would now set up against
a. complete legal title, originated in them, and was
common to both parties. The equity of the one
cannot be so inferior tothat of the other as to justify
the Court in considering the patent of the one as an
absolute nullity, in favour of the other who has attempted to appropriate tie same land after such patent had blen issued.
But this right of election, for which so much efficacy is claimed in this case, has some existence in
the common case of treasury warrants. The holder
of such warrant has a right to locate it on any land,
and no land can be regularly patented unless it be
first located and surveyed, If a survey be made on

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a place different from the entry, it is as if made with-

1822.

of any other warrant
out an entry, and the holder
-

'-'
Hoofnagle

has a right to take the land. A patent for this land,
not founded on a previous entry, narrows his right
of election ; yet it has always been held, that such
patent, though it must yield to a prior entry, would
hold the land against a subsequent entry. The entry, and not the warrant, has always been considered
as the commencement of title.
The principle is well settled, in other cases, that a
patent is 'unassailable by any title commenced after
its emanation; and we perceive no sufficient reason
against applying -the principle to this case.
It is contended, also, by the appellants, that as the
warrant refers to the certificate of the Executive, as
the authority on which it issued, it conveys notice
of the contents of this certificate to every purchaser.
But this reference to the certificate of the executive
appears on the face of every warrant, and contains
no other information than is given by law. The law
requires this certificate as the authority of the Register. Itis considered as a formal part of the warrant.
These warrants are, by law, transferrable. They
are proved by the signature of the officer, and the
seal of office. This signature and this seal are considered as full proof of the rights expressed in the
paper. No inquiry is ever made into the evidence
received by the public officer. If the purchaser of
such a paper takes it subject to the risk of its having
issued erroneously, there ought to be some termination to this risk. We think it ought to terminate
*hen the warrant is completely merged in a patent,
-

VoL.

VII.

28

V.
Anderon.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

and the title consummated without having encoun-

B
Brown

tered any adversary claim.

v.

Iaokson.

The title under this warrant was considered in
the case of Miller v. Kerr and Ohers.a In that
case, the claimant under Powell had the junior patent, and the Court thought that the equity growing
out of a prior entry might be rebutted by the person
holding the legal title, by showing any defect in that
equity; but nothing was said in that case which indicates an opinion that a complete legal title might
be overthrown by an entry made after the consummation of that title.
Decree affirmed with costs.

BROWN and Others v. JACKSON.
The decisions of the board of Commissioners under the acts of Congress
providing for the indemnification of claimants to public lands in the
Mississippi Territory, (commonly called the Yazoo lands,) are con.
clusive between the parties in all cases within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioners.
This determination reconciled with that of the Court in Brown v. Gil.
man, ante, Tol. IV.p. 255.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of New-York.
This suit was brought in consequence of the deci..
sion of this Court in the case of Brown v. Gilman,
a Awrte. p. I-

8 Ante, vol. IV. p. 255.

