CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
The
Monte
Allegre.

(Pamzn.)

The MONTE ALLEGRE and the RAINHA DE LOS
AI~sos. The Portuguese Consul General, Libellant.
A question of fact upon the bona fides of an alleged sale of Portugueso
ships, and their cargoes, which had been captured in violation of our
neutrality. Restitution to the original owners decrecc.

from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
These causes were argued by Mr. Winder, for the
APPEAL

appellant and claimant, and by Mr. D. Hoffman, for
the respondent and libellant; but as the same points
were insisted on as in the preceding cases of the
Gran Paraand the Arrogante Barcelones, ante pp.
471. 496., it is not thought necessary to report the
argument of counsel in the present case. The facts
are stated in the opinion of the Court.
March 18 h.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the Court.
The Monte Allegre was captured by the private
armed vessel called La Fortuna, cruising at the time
under a commission from the chief of 'the Oriental
Republic. She was completely fitted out, equipped,
and manned, in Baltimore, from which port she sailed
.on her first cruize, in December, 1816; owned and
commanded by citizens of the United States; but
commissionea by the government of Buenos Ayres.
She sailed again on her second cruize, in August,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1817, from the port of Baltimore. This cruize terminated at Buenos Ayres, where she was in part dismantled, some of her rigging and arms being deposited in a store ship which lay near her. The crew
also were discharged. After lying in port four or
five weeks, she sailed on her third cruize, having the
same armament with which she sailed from Baltimore, and about twenty or thirty of the same crew.
Her commandei was changed, but was still a citizen
of the United States; and she sailed under a commission from the Oriental Republic. On this cruize,
the Monte Allegre was. taken, and sent into the port
of Baltimore, where she was libelled by the Consul
General of Portugal. She was claimed by William
Foster, the prize master, in behalf of the Oriental Republic, who alleged, that while she lay in the port of
Buenos Ayres, she was purchased by the government of the Banda Oriental.
The reality of this sale constitutes the only question which can arise in this case.
The testimony in support of it is found in the depositions of James Brown, James Williams, William
Towson, and Alexander Towson. They mention
the partial dismantling of the vessel, and speak of a
report that she was sold, but they give no positive
information on the subject, nor did they even hear
to whom the sale was made. This testimony would
weigh very little, were it even uncontradicted. But
the regular transmission of her prizes to Baltimore,
her returning to that port, at the termination of her
cruize, the depositions taken to show that the original proprietors had not parted with their interest.
VoL. VIL

66

1822.

"

The

monte
Allegmr.

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

522g
1822.
Crocket

Crocect

V.

Lee.

are proofs of a continuing Ame-ican ownership whie
are entirely conclusive., There can, then, be no doubt
but that the captures made by the Fortuna are in
violation of the laws of the United States, enatetl
for the preservation of our .neutraliti, and that they
ought to be restored when brought within our territory.

The Rainha de los Anjos was a Portuguese vessel,
captured by the La Fortuna, in the same cruize in
which she captured the Monte Atlegre. The cases
are, in all material respects, the same.
:Sentences affirmed with costs.

(LocAL LAw.

CnAwnY.)

CROCKET v. LEE.
SAME: V. SAME.
A question -on th' validity of a certificate for a settlement right in
Kentucky, and of the entry thereof in the surveyor's offlce.
It is a settled rule, that the decree must conform to the allegations in
the pleadings, as well as to the proofs in the cause.
Therefore, when the question is on the validity of a location, an#
neither its vagueness nor its certainty are distinctly put in issue
'by the pleadings, the testimony to that point will be disregarded by
this Court; but if the merits appear to justify it, the cause will be
remanded to the Court below, with directions to permit the pleadings
to be amended.

APPEA L

from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

