OF THE UNITED STATES.

vey made of an entry'which had been previously surveyed. The judge was correct in saying that such

283
182.

"
SThe

subsequent survey must be considered as if made on santilma
Trinidad.

a removed warrant.
Judgment affirmed with costs.

The SAINTISSMA TRINIDAD, and the ST. AN DE
The commission of a public ship of a foreign state, signed by the proper
authorities, is conclusive evidence of her national character.
During the existence of the civil war between Spain and her Colonies,
-and previous to the acknowledgment of the independence of the latter by the United States, the colonies were deemed by us belligw
rent nations -and entitled, so far as .concerns us, to all the so.
vereign rights of war, against their enemy..
How far, aid under what circumstances, the evidence of witnesses, who
concuZ in proof of a material fact, butwhose testimony is in other
respects contradictory, ought to be credited in respect to that fact.
The sending of armed, vessels, or of miinitions of war, from a neutral
country to a belligerent port, for sale as articles of commerce, is unlawful only as it subjects the property to confiscation Qn capture by
tie other belligerent.
No neutral state is bound to prohibit the expoitation of contraband
articles, and the United States have not prohibited it.
In the case of an illegal augmentation of the force of a belligerent
cruizer in our ports by enlisting men, the onus probandiis thrown on
him to show, that the persons enlisted were subjects of the belligerent state, or belonging to its service, and then transiently within
the U. S.

The 6th article of the Spanish treaty of 1795, applies exclusively to
the protection and defence of Spanish ships within our territorial ju-

284
1822.
%

The
Santissiia
Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
risdiction, and provides only for their restitution, when captured
within the same.
The 4th article of the same treaty, which proibits the citizens or subjects
of the respective contracting parties from taking-commissions, &o. to
cruize against the other under the penalty of being considered as pirates, is confined to private armed vessels, and does not extend to
public ships.
Quere, Whether a citizen of the United States, independently of any legislative acton the subject, can throw off bis allegiance to his nativo
country ?
However this may be, it can neverbe done without a bona fide change
of dornicil, nor for fraudulent purposes, nor to justify the commission
of a crime against the country, or any violation of its laws.
An augmentation of force, or illegal outfit, does not affect ny capture
made after the original cruize, for whiclt such augmentation or odtfit was made, is terminated.
But as to captures made during the same cruize, the uiiform doctrino of
this Court has been, that they are infected with "thecharacter of torts,
and that the original owner is entitled to restitution, when the property is brought into our jurisdiction.
This doctrine extends'to captures by public, as well as private armed

ships.
Case of the Cassius, 3 Dall. Rep. 121. commented on, and confirmed.
Case of the Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116. distinguished from the present
case.
The exemption of foreign public ships, coming into our waters, under
an express or implied license, from the local jurisdiction, does not
extenid to their prize ships or goods, captured in violation of our
neutrality:

APPEAL

front the Circuit Court of Virginia.

This was a libel filed by the consul of Spain, in
the District Court of.Virginia, in April, 1817, against
eighty nine bales of cochineal, two bales of jalapi
and one box of vanilla, originally constituting part
of the cargoes of the Spanish ships Santissima Trinidad and St. Ander, and alleged, to be unlawfully and
piratically taken out of those vessels on the high seas
by a squadron consisting of two armed vessels called

OF THE UNITED STATES.

285

the- Independencia del Sud and the Altravida, and
1822.
manned and commanded by persons assuming themselves to be citizens of the United Provinces of the San6ti=
.Rio de la Plata. The libel was filed, in behalf of the
original Spanish owners, byDon Pablo Chacon, consul of his Catholic Majesty for the port of Norfolk;
and as amended, it insisted upon restitution principally for three reasons : (1.) That the cominaiiders
of the capturing.vessels, the l'ndependencia and the
Altravida, were native citizens of the United States,
and were prohibited by our treaty with Spain of
1795, from taking commissions to cruize against
that power. .(2.) That the said. capturing vessels
were owned in the United States, and were originally
equipped, fitted iut, armed and manned in .the United States, contrary to law. (S.) That their force
and armament had been illegally augmented within the United -States.
A claim and answer was given in by James Chaytor, styling himself Don Diego Chaytor, in which
-he asserted that he was commander of the Independericia, that she was a public armed vessel belonging to the goveinment-of the United Provinces of
Rib de la Plata, and that he ,wasduly commissioned.
as her commander ; that open war existed between
those Provinces and Spain; that the property in
question was captured by him, as prize of war, on
the high seas, and taken out of the Spanish ships
the Santissima Trinidad and the St. Ander, and put
on board- of the Independencia ; and that he, afterwards, in March, 1817, came into the port of Norfolk with his capturing ship, where she was received

286

CASES IN THE' SUPREMIE COURT

and acknowledged as a public ship of war, and the
captured property, with the approbation and consent
The
Santissima of the government of the United States, was there
Trinidad. landed for safe keeping in the custom house store.
The claimant admitted that he was a native citizen
of the United States, and that his wife and family
have constantly resided at Baltimore; but alleged,
that in May, 1816, at the city of Buenos Ayres, lie
aecipted a commission under the government of the
United Provinces, and then and there expatriated
himself by the only means -in his power, viz. a formal notification of the fact to the United States
consul at that place; He denied that th6 capturing
vessel, the Independencia, was owned in the United
Stales, or that she was fitted out, equipped, or armed,
or her force augmented, in the ports of the United
States, contrary to law. He denied, also, that the
Altravida was owned in the United States, or that
she was armed, equipped, or fitted out in the United
States, contrary to law; or that she aided in the
capture of the property in question. He further asserted, that the captured property had been libelled
and duly condemned as prize in the tribunal of prizes
of the United Provinces, at Buenos Ayres, on the
6th of February, 1818. He denied the illegal enlistment of his crew in the United States ; but admitted that several persons there entered themselves
on board as soamen in December, 1816, representing themselves to be, and being, as 'he supposed, citizens of the United Provinces, or in their service,
and then transiently in the United States ; and that
he refused to receive citizens of this country,,and
1S22.
'

OP THE UNITED STATES.

287

actually sent on shore some who had clandestinely
1822.
Tbe
introduced themselves on board.
The
It appeared by the evidence in the cause, that the Santissima
capturing vessel, the Independencia, was originally Trinida.
built and equipped in the port of Baltimore as a privateer, during the late war between the United
States and Great Britain, and was. then rigged Ps a
schooner, and called the Mammoth, and was fitted
out to cruize against the enemy. After the peace
she was converted into a brig, and sold by her original owners. In January, 1816, she was loaded
with a cargo of munitions of war, by her new owners, who were also inhabitants of Baltimore, and
being armed with twelve guns, constituting part of
her original armament, she was sent from that port
under the command of the claimant, Chaytor, ostensibilY on a voyage to the northwest coast of America, but in reality to Buenos Ayres. By the written
instructions given to the supercargo on this'voyage,
he- was authorized, by the owners, to sell the vessel
to the government of Buenos Ayres if he could obL
tain a suitable price. She arrived at Buenos Ayres;
having committed no act of hostility, but sailing.
under the protection of the United States flag during
the outward voyage. At Buenos Ayres the vessel
was sold to the claimant, and two other persons ;
and, soon afterwards, in May, 1816, assumed the
flag and character of a public ship, and was understood 'by the crew to have been sold to the government of Buenos Ayres, and the claimant made
known these fa~ts tothe crew, asserting that he had
beeomiie a citizen of Buenos Ayres, and had Teceived

:288
1822.

NThr

Santissima.
Trinidad.

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

a commission to command the vessel as a national
ship; And invited the crew to enlist in the same ser.
vice; and the greater part of them, accordingly,
enlisted. From this period, the public'agents of the
government of the United States, and other foreign
governments at that port considered the vessel as a
public-ship of wau, and this was her avowed character and reputation, No .bill of sale to the government of Buenos Ayres was produced, but the claimant's commission from that government was given
in evidence.
Upon the point of the illegal equipment and augmentation of force of the capturing vessels in the
ports of the United States, different witnesses were
examined on the part of the libellant, whose testimony was extremely contradictory; but it appeared
from the evidence, and was admitted by the claim-

ant, that after the sale at Buenos Ayres, in May,
1816, the Independencia departed from that port
under his commgnd, on a cruize against Spain ; arid

after visiting the coast of Spain, put into Baltimore
early in the month of October of the same year,
having then on board the greater phrt ot her original
crew, among which were many citizens of the United States. On her arrival at Baltimore she was received as a public ship, and underwent considerable
repairs in that port. Her bottom was new coppered,
some parts of her hull were recaulked, part of her
water ways replaced, a new head was put on, some
new sails and rigging to a small amount, and a new
mainyard were obtained; some bolts were driven
into the hull, and the mainmast (which had been

OF THE UNITED STATES.

shivered by lightning) was taken out, reduced in
length, and replaced in its former station. For the
purpose of making these repairs, her guns, ammunition, and cargo, were discharged under the inspection

of an officer of the customs ; and when the repairs
were made, the armament was replaced, and a report made by the proper officer to the collector, that
there was no addition to her armament. The Independencia again left Baltimore in the latter part of
December, 1816, having at thattime on board a crew
of 112 men ; and on or about the 8th of February
following, sailed from the Capes of the Chesapeake
on the cruize in which the property in question was
captured. During the stay of the Independencia at
Baltimore, several persons were enlisted on board
her, and the -claimant's own witnesses proved that
the number vas about thirty.
On her departure from Baltimore, the Independencia was accompanied by the Altravida, as a tender or despatch vessel. This last was formerly a
privateer called the Romp, and had been condemned
by the District Court of Virginia for illegal conduct,
and was sold under the decree of Court, together
with the armament and munitions of war then on
board. She .was purchased ostensibly for one Thomas Taylor, but immediately transferred to the claimant, Chaytor. She soon afterwards went to Baltimore, and was attached to the Independencia as a
tender, having no separate commission, but acting
under the authority of the claimant. Some of her
guns were mounted, and a crew of about twentyfive men put on board at Baltimore. She dropped
VOL.

'M

37

1822.
Santissima

Trinid-.

290
1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

Feb. 28 h/.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

down to the Patuxent a few days before the sailing
of the Independencia, and was there joined by the
latter,
and accompanied her on her cruize.
T ie District
Court, upon the hearing of the
cause, decreed restitution to the original Spanish
owners. That sentence was affirmed in the Circuit
Court, and from the decree of the latter the cause
was brought by appeal to this Court.
Mr. Winder,for theappellant,(1.) argued upon the
facts to show that there had been no such illegal outfit or augmentation of the force of the capturing vessel in our ports, as would entitle the original Spanish
owners to restitution of the captured property, on the
ground of a violation of our neutrality by the captors.
2. He argued that even supposing the claimant,
Chaytor, to be a native citizen of the United States,
the capture was not invalidated by the circumstance
of his commanding the capturing vessel. Beingapublie ship of a foreign state, this Court could not, upon its own principles, inquire into her conduct further than to see that she had la regular commission,
signed by the proper authorities of that state.a It is
perfectly consistent with the law and universal practice of nations for neutral subjects to take commissions in foreign wars.' This Court has determined
that an alien may command a private armed vessel
a The Excbnge, 7 Cranch, 116.
b Pattel, Droit des Gens, 1. 3. c. 2. s. 13. 14. 16. 1. 3. c. 7. s.
%28.230. Byl.k. Q. J. Pub. 1. 1. c. 22. Du Poncean'sTransl
n, 175.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the United States, and cruize against their enemy,
though it happens to be his own native country.a So
also the prize ordinance of Btienos Ayres declares,
that all officers of commissioned vessels or privateers
belonging to that state, although they may be foreigners, shall enjoy all the privileges of citizens,
whilst thus employed.'
But it may be said that the Spanish treaty of 1795,
renders such an act criminal, and all its consequences void, and therefore this Court cannot listen to
the claim of a citizen who has thus violated the supreme law of the land.,
The answer to this is, that the treaty shows
the
idea of the contracting parties, that independently of
its stipulations, their respective citizens and subjects
might take commissions to cruize against each other
without violating the pre-existing law of nations.
The sole effect of the treaty is, to subject themn to be
treated as pirates by the opposite party, if it thinks
fit. It excludes them from the protection of their
own government, leaves them at the mercy cf the
opposite party, and excuses the government of the
offenders from all responsibility to the other for their
misconduct. They are not made pirates by the treaty, but only made liable to be considered as such by
the party against whom they act. Would not the
government in whose service they held commissions,
have a right to retaliate,. if they were treated as pirates, either by their own government, or by that
a The Miary and Susan, I Wheat. Rep. 57.
b 4 Wheat. Rep. Appx. Note 11. 30.

1s22.

"
Tho
a
.
tis'rna
Trinidad.

292

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

agaihst which they acted ; since by the law of 'nathe belligerent might grant to them as foreigntions
The
Satissima ers, and they might accept the commissions ?
The treaty operates" only betwebn the contracting
Trinidad.
.*parties, and cannot interfere with the lawful powers
r8?2.

and rights of other natioqs, under the law of nations ; and between the parties, it only operates to
give the belligerent, so far as the neutral contracting
party is concerned, a right to treat the citizen as a
pirate, without complaint from his government. It
dispenses the offended party, so far as the other is concerned, from the obligation to observe the rules of
civilized warfare, quoad its citizen thus implicated;
but it can have no effect upon the ights of the other
belligerent quoad the officer of that belligerent. The
party, whose citizens or subjects they are, is not
bound to treat the supposed offenders as pirates, and
our Courts cannot so treat them in the absence of an
act of Congress. The United States are not bound
so to treat or consider them. They ar simply bound
to leave them to the discretion of Spain, and there
the effect of the treaty stops. The prohibition of
the treaty has its prescribed peril and effect i and
cannot, at least judicially, be extended further. To
make the treaty bind the United States to restore a
prize made by one of -its citizens under a commission from a foreign government would be to make a
treaty stipulation between Spain abd the United
States operate to interfere with the undoubted rights
of a third foreign power who is no party to the
treaty. It would anridge and annul, the eflect of
a commission, which, by the unquestioned law of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nations, he had a right, within his own territory, to
grant

293
1822.
The

The acts of Congress to protect the neutrality of santinima
United States have nothing to do with it, be- Tridad

the
cause none of them extend to, or pretend to extend
to, the acceptance of a commission in -a foreign
country by a citizen of this. And the silence of
Congress on the subject is. a strong legislative exposition of the treaty; for in making provision to preserve the neutrality of the United States generally,
and especially in relation to the contest between
Spain and.her'colonies, they have not rendered criminal such acceptance of a commission, and as
they have manifested a spirit of some severity on
this subject, and are silent on such a case, it is strong
evidence that Congress did -not feel bound to add
any thing to the treaty; since, if they were bound,
they would have done so in obedience to this treaty
obligation of neutrality as they have done in other
cases. Where the law stops, the Courts of justice must stop ; expres um facit tacitumr cessare.
The plain object of the law was, even in cases
within it, to affect the offending citizen; not to
affect the foreign government who employs him; or,
in other words, not to authorize a judicial interference.with its belligerent acts. The statute committed to the judiciary all that the legislature intended to be within their competency. The rest it
reserved for national adjustment by forbearing to
submit it to the judiciary. The law must be taken
as it is, not expanded by inference.- To put a judicial
rider upon it, is to legislate. The inference which

294
1822.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.Would vacate a capture under the commission would

be a supplement to the law, would be to legislate
on a distinct subject, i. e. the effect of a belligerefit
Trinidad.
act by a foreign state. The law is a
restraining
law, in terrorem,aimed at the citizens only. The
inference deals with a third party, a sovereign state,
who is not subject to our jurisdiction ; and acts in a
way which the law does not prescribe; for the
law authorizes nothing but the punishment of the
If more had been intended, more
individual.
would, and ought to have been done; for the
whole subject was well understood from 1794,
to 1819, when the last act was passed. . There is no
positive municipal rule giving judicial jurisdiction
as to such a commission, or -any commission, even
within the law, with reference to the effect'of restoring a prize made under it. Every belligerent sthte
has a right to decide upon the nieans of-annoyance,
which it organizes against its enemy within its own
territory. If its commission to make war can be
subject to ordinary-judicial question in a neutral tribunal, where it cannot be heard and cannot condescend to appear, it is not a sovereign act. But the
granting such a commission is the very higheat. act
of sovereignty, andis peculiarly above ordinary judicial control in foreign countries. ' The legality, the
force and effect of the commission itself, must defy
ordinary judicial inquiry, or the belligerent can only
authorize war so far forth as neutral tribunals shall'
think fit to suffer it.
A judicial recognition of the legality of the capture in question by a Court-ofprizeat Buenos Ayres
would undoubtedly have put the capture out of,

The
Santissima

OF THE UNITED STATES.

296

reach of our Court. But the sentence of such a
82-o.
Court is no more a sovereign act, than the granting
hT
e
the commission. It does but ascertain the granting Santissima
new force or
of the commission, and gives to it no
validity. The belligerent state is just as much an'swerable for the wrong done to the neutral state, if
any there be, in granting the commission, after the
sentence as before. A judicial sentence, in a case
of prize, binds for no other reason, than that it is the
act of the state to which the Court belongs. That
it is a judicial sentence is of no importance. It is
the sovereignty of the state, and its right of decision
which gives to the sentence its conclusive character,
in the view of foreign tribunals : and all this applies
equally to the act of granting a commission, within
the territory of the belligerent.
All the cases of this class, which have been decided in this Court, turn exclusively upon the fact of
an illegal equipment of the capturing vessel within
our ports, except that of the Bello Corrunes,in which
the judgment does indeed refer to the national character of the claimant, Barnes, as repelling his right
to caim.a But as the facts of that case will show
that it might have- been determined on the ground
of the illegal equipment of the capturing vessel, without giving a- construction to the treaty, or
ascertaining the national character of the claimant,
all that is said by the learned judge who pronounced the opinion of the Court in that case, on these
subjects, may be considered as obiter dictum.
a 6 Wheat. Rep. 125. 1$9.

296
1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

S. But the claimant, in the case now before the

Court, had ceased to be a citizen, before he accepted
the commission, and made the capture in question.
He had expatriated himself, and become a citizen
of Buenos Ayres, by the only means in his power,
an actual residence in that country, with a declaration of his intention to that effect. This act is countenanced by the general usage of nations, and was
not forbidden by any law of his own country. By
the British law, not only are privateers and merchant
vessels allowed to enlist foreign seamen, but the mero
fact of two years service during war makes them
British subjects.0 A resident neutral in a belligerent country is subjected to the disabilities of the
country in Wiich he resides, so far as respects the
opposite belligerent, and his trade is considered liable to capture and condemnation as enemy's property. Shall he not then be entitled to the correspondent advantages of his situation ? The hostile character is fixed upon him by residence even if he goes
to the. belligerent country, with the desire of preserving his neutral character. Shall he not then be
entitled to all the advantages of that character, when
it is his avowed purpose and object to acquire it ?
Length of time generally decides the character of the
*residence of a neutral to be belligerent or not: but
it is taken merely as evidence of his intention, and
if that intention is unequivocally manifested in any.
other mode, his character is instantly fixed,b
a 5 Wheat. Rep. Olppx. note Il. 130
b Wheat. Dig. Cas. tit. Prize, IV.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

297

This capture being made by a public ship,
1822.
which has come
~Theinto our ports, together with her
prize goods, under- the express permission of our go- Santsima
Trida
vernment, the Court cannot interfere to restore the
captured property to the original owners upon the
ground that the capturing vessel has committed a violation of our nieutrality. The ship itself must certainly be exempt from the local jurisdiction. And
if the ship be exempt, it is difficult to perceive how
any other property of the same sovereign, which he
has acquired and holds jure corontce, can be subjected to the local jurisdiction by being brought into the
territory inder the same permission. Still less can
the prizes made by a ship which is herself exempt
from the jurisdiction of the local tribunals be subjected to that jurisdiction. These prizes are as much
the property of the sovereign, jure coronce, as the
ships by which they are taken and brought in.
The illegal augmentation of her force by the capturing vessel in our ports, cannot forfeit the immuni-"
ty to which she is entitled by the law and usage of
nations.- Enlistments of mep for this purpose, are
not presumed to be made with the assent of the belligerent sovereign, and are not* to be imputed to
him.b It is, therefore, an offence which is not to be
visited on the sovereign or his property. Reprisals
cannot lawfully be made, until application to him for
redress has bean -made. Courts of justice cannot
interfere insuch a case, because the sovereig cannot condescend to appear in them, and they have no
.

a The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116.
b I-attel, Droitdes Gens, 1. 3. s. 15.
VOL. VIll
3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

regular means of knowing how far he approves of
what has been done by his officers. But, upon remonstrance and diplomatic discussion, the whole
affair may be .heard. and remedies applied fit for the
occasion. Judicial decision, if it can interfere at all,
is inflexible ; and when the fact is established, must
make entire restitution of the captured property,
however insignificant may be the augmentation of
force by neutral means. Besides, it is bringing into
judgment the highest concerns of nations to be determined by the testimony of the basest of mankind.
The enlistment of a single seaman on board a single ship of a large squadron, may draw after it the
restitution of a whole enemy's fleet. The only safe
course then is, to leave matters of this sort to negotiation, or at least not to take cognizance of them
in Courts of justice, unless upon the application of
the offended state, as in the analogous case of a
capture within neutral territory.
5. But, at all events, the condemnation of the
prize goods, which took place at Buenos Ayres, in a
Court of the captor, is conclusive to preclude this
Court from taking jurisdiction of a question which
has already been determined in a competent tribunal.
Mr. Tazewell, contra, stated, that three principal
errors were alleged by the appellant in the decrees
of the Courts below: 1. T hat the facts assumed by
those Courts did not warrant the decrees. 2. That
a The Anne, 3 Wneat. Rep. 435.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
182'.
the condemnation in the tribunal of prizes at Buenos
Ayres precluded the Courts of'this country from inThe
quiring into the legality of the capture. 3. That Santimim
'
our Courts have no authority to make that inquiry
because the facts of the case involve, the sovereign
rights of an independent state.
As to the first objection, it is not necessary to discuss it until the last is disposed of. Jurisdiction
must be shown to exist, before its rightful exercise
can be proved. He vould, therefore, invert the order of the argument, and examine the last mentioned
proposition before the others. It would be shown
to be the only question of real difficulty in the
cause.
The argument on this proposition concedes to the
neutial sovereign, or state, the very right which it
denies to the neutral judiciary. Now, to the belligerent sovereign, the effect is precisely the same,
whether the interference with his rights be by the
executive and legislative departments, or by. thejudiciary alone. In either case his rights are examined
into, and he may be deprived of them. To the
neutral state, also, the effect is the sanie in both
cases, so far as foreign states are concerned; since,
in both, the nation is equally responsible for the act
done. It is no answer to the reclamation of a foreign sovereign to say, that he has been injured by
the judiciary only. To him all the departments of
the government make but one sovereignty. This is
represented by the executive,-of which the judiciary
is regarded but as an emanation. It may be, and
undoubtedly is, a matter of great moment to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

neutral state itself,that its powers be legitimately ex-t,- The
ercised by those only to whom they have been conBut this is a
Si,'tissima fided by the municipal constitution.
Tznidad. mere domestic inquiry, in which no foreign state has
any concern, nor ought to be permitted to enter.
Is it not strange, then, that it should now be presented to us in a litigation between two foreign subjects ?
The question being raised, however, it must be
discussed ; not for the sake of the parties, but of the
Court itself. Let. us then concede what the argument asserts, and it has no application to the cause.
For justice is, blind, and knows not of the existence
of the sovereign, or of his rights, until made manifest by its own record. Nor will it notice even
what its own record may disclose, unless the matter
be therein duly and orderly set forth, i. e..by proper
parties-in proper time-and in proper form. 1How,
then, is this fact of sovereign right to be duly and
orderly disclosed, so as to be made manifest to the
Courts of justice, and to shut the judicial eyes to
every other fact in the cause ? This, although apparently a mere-technical question, is one of great importance, especially on account of the practice which
has been hitherto pursued 'by the Courts of the United States in cases of this sort. And t the very
threshold of the inquiry it is plain, that the sovereign
who denies the. authority of the Court to decide,
must not answer. If he does, he voluntarily submits
to, nay, invites the exercise of the very authority
which he denies can be exerted. His averments,
too, may be trayvrsd, and issue being joined on the
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1822.
traverse, must be decided in some way; and so his
sovereignty denied by judicature. Neither can he
plead in abatement, or any dilatory exception; for Santiim
he may be decreed to answer over. Neither may Trinis.
he protest; for the question cannot be raised by a
naked protest; and if he couples his protest with an
answer, if he does not so overrule his protest, his
answer leaves him as before. If he adopts the practice pursued in the case of the Cassius,aand suggests his exemption upon the record, he will be met,
as in that case, by a replication to his suggestion,
and it becomes a mere plea in abatement; for whatsoever one party may affirm, the other may deny.
These are the only known modes of defenee, and
none of them can the foreign sovereign.adopt, without abandoning the exemption claimed for him by
the argument. What then must he do? He must
not defend himself in judicature at all. He must
apply to the sovereign of that tribunal where his
rights are drawn in question, and refer to his accountability. This sovereign, if he sees fit, will
suggest for him; if he does not, he will refuse to do
so, and meet the consequences. To a suggestion
coming from this quarter there caq be no replication ; for he who makes it is no party in interest.
Nor is proof necessary to establish it; for it comes
duly authenticated. Such was the course pursued
in the memorable case of the ExclLange,b" where
a suggestion of the sovereign rights of the Em8

United States v. Peters, 3 Dail: 123.

b 7 Cranch, 116..

302
1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

peror Napoleon was made by the executive government; although proof of the commission of the
commander of the vessei was unnecessarily superadded. This is the only proper mode in which the
matter of sovereign right can, duly and orderly, be
set before the Court. It avoids all the technical
difficulties of pleading and practice, and places the
matter where, according to the argument, it ought to
rest, with the sovereign.
This course has not, however, been adopted here;
and therefore the Court will not take judicial cognizance of the fact of sovereign right, involved in the
determination of the cause: and the argument insist.ed on, even if abstractly true, has no application to
the cause, as presented upon the record. The matter
is reduced to a mere question of practice, settled by
the form of the pleadings, which it is now too late
to amend.
Suppose, however, it were res integra. The Court
must contrive some proper form in which subjects of
this sort may be brought before it. In adjjpsting this
form, it is a sound and a safe rule to be followed, to
attain the object by known, rather than by untried
means; to adhere to ancient forms, as far as may be
done ; and, if possible, to alter nothing. If this be
so, -whatever may be the rule adopted by the Court,
the case will still be found exposed to the objection
before stated: for the record will not show any information derived from our sovereign, but the very
reverse. It is only important then to examine the
question, whether the information of the sovereign
or executive government be the proper and only

OF THE UNITED STATES.

standard to which the Court must refer, in matters

503
182.

-1 The wherein not our own people, but
• foreign states are
concerned. Whatever the theory may be on this sul - satissima

ject, all know that, in point of fact, Courts of justice
do and must decide upon the rights of sovereigns, and
that even in governments the most absolute. For
these Courts must necessarily decide upon the rights
of private individuals imd corporations, and these are
oft-times so-interwoven with the rights of their sovereigns, that to decide upon the one, is to decide upon
the other, not only inform, but effect also. Treaties
and war create and destroy rights; and nations as
well as individuals, derive their rights from these
public transactions, which therefore the tribunals of
justice must pass upon. Such, among many others,
was the case of the Amiable Isabella,where the sovereign rights of Spain and the United States were involved, and were determined by this Court.a The
rights of .sovereigns must then be settled by Courts,
and may be settled in different modes. This supposition constitutes a part of our complex system of
government. Sovereign rights may be settled, not
only in-the Federal Courts, but in the State Courts:
and to guard against the effects of a conflict of opinion in such cases between the different local tribunals, appeals are brought from the State Courts to
this Court. It would be in vain, however, to translate a cause here from the State Courts, if this Court
might decide itrdifferently from the other departments

of he government. This must not be, however.. The
a6 Wheat. Rep. 1. 50

Triniad.

304
1822.
The

Santissima
Tiaidad..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

people, although sovereign, can have but oie will
and that will must be spoken by all their agents, or
our government is a many-headed monster.

The

question, then, at last results in this: In what department of the government does this will, in relation to
foreign states, reside ? For wherever it does reside,
that will must be uttered here, or We shall have two
conflicting wills on the same matter. Now, I care not
where it resides, if it resides any where: and the argument And necessity both prove that it must resido
somewhere. If then it resides here, in this Court, tile
argument is radically defective: for then it follows
that judicature may decide on sovereign rights.
And if it resides not here, but elsewhere, it most be
communicated from thence ,hither, and constitute the
law of the Court; or our government is a monstrous
anarchy. Some mode of communication between
the executive government and the judiciary must be
contrived. The only doubt is how this communication is to be made. And whatever course may be a
proper oie, none has been adopted in the present
case, and the Court:'cannot therefore take notice that
any sovereign rights of Buenos Ayres are involved in
the cause. You cannot know the fact, and must pro"
ceed as if it did not exist. This does not impugn judicial independence. The judiciary are not independent of the law. They utter the legislative will
of the people, when declared by the legislature : they
pursue its executive will when communicated by the
executive department. All nations have felt the necessity of some such course ; the only question is as
to the form, which must depend upon the municipal.

OF THE UNITED STAT9S.

:305

i 82e.
constitution and the practice of each particular counprize are originaltry. Thus. in England all rights of e)
The
ly vested in the crown. Hence, the Courts of Prize smiitna
take their law from the King's instructions. The Trinia~aa.
captors cannot -proceed to adjudication against the
will of the crown. Hence, in the. case of the Swedish convoy, the condemnation of the captured property for resistance to the exercise of the right of
search was limited to the merchant vessels, althougL
the same penalty would have been applicable to'the
convoying frigates, had not the crown interposed
its prerogative, and from reasons of state, caused thp
latter to be restored to the foreign sovereign.4
Heretofore the subject ha. been examined as a
technical question of pleading and practice merely.
Let us now examine -it as one of evidence. Of
whom then is this exemption from judicial'investigation affirmed?- A sovereign state. But is Buenos
Ayres a sovereign state ?
This Court has repeatedly decided that it will not
undertake to determine who are sovereign states:
but will leave that question to be settled by the othqr
departments of -the government, who are charged
with the external affairs of the country, and the relations of peace and war.' It may, however, be said
that both the judiciary and the executive have concurred in affirming the sovereignty of the Spanish
Colonies, now in revolt against the mother country.
a The Maria, 1 Rob. 340.
b Robe v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241. 292. Gelston v. Hoyt, 3
Wheat. Rep. 246. 224. United States v. Palmer, 3 Wbq7ea7. Rep.
610. 634.
VOL. VIE

39

3-6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But the obvious answer to this objection is,.that the
Court, following the executive department; have
Thhe
sanissisia merely declared the -notorious fact that a civil war
exists between Spain ".nd her American Provinces ;
and this so far from afiming, is a denial of the sovereignty of the latter. It would be a public, and not
a civil war if they were sovereign states. The very object-.of the contest is, to decide whether they
shall be sovereign tnd independent, or not. All that
thecotlrt lia affirned .is, that the existence of this
civil war ;gave to f.th,parties all the rights qf war
against each other. But belligerent rights are not
regalian rights, ,Now, in the case last cited, the
.GourtjOei6detha#-the seal of this supposed sovereign
state, might be proved like any .other matter in pais.
If it were really a sovereign state, the seal would
prove itself. The more the subject is examined, the
more. apparent will it be, what confusion and mischiefs must flow from the judicial department assuming the right ,to acknowledge the existence of her
sovereigaties, :especially in the present mutable stato
of the..world. Cases.of depositions and restorations
are continually occurring, of revolutions and counterrevolutions, which present the most complicated questions of strict right azid political expediency, the
determination of£ which must be left to the other departments of the government.
But if it were true. in fact, and well pleaded, that.
the res now in controversy is a sovereign's right;
still, it would not be correct to say, that all d'ove1822.

a The United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. Rep.,635,

OF THE UNITED- STATES.

5077

18.
reign rights are exempt from juicia examination.
The
There must be some exceptions to .the uhiversality
of the rule. The exemption only,applies to the re- santissha
are negalian rights of thesovereign; those which.
cessary to-maintain his faith, dignity, and security,
and to- none -else. Such are his august person, his
ministe-rs, his armies an(Ifleets. rhese are protected from the interference -bf foreign jidicatures, because they are essentially necessary for these purposes;-they make up' sovereignty itself. And nothing else which is not within the reason, is-within
the .rule,-of exemption.' Suppose a royal-4tag%or
horse escapes into a foreign state, and is there sold
in market overt as an estray ; or suppose the ship of
;aforeign sovereign is wrecked on our coasts, and a
claim for salvage.of the materials interposed. Would
you, stay youxr hand from a dread of. the sacredness
of the isubject -matter.? The. privilege of sover-eignty
cannot protect these cases. No -authority can be
show.to proveit;, on the contrary, the authorities
are clearly the other way. Thus, all prizes- made
in war are the-propertyof the sovereign, jure corona,
and thisf whether the prize be taken by 14 public or
a private ship. But it is not-to be argued (in this
Court at least) that such prizes may not be taken
out of the hands of thecaptors (whose possession
is that of their sovereign) and restored by the neutral tribunal, within -whose jurisdiction they may
happen to come,- if-made by privateersin violation of
neutral territory or of neutral rights. And if so,
why may not prizes mare by public ships be restored under like circumstances ? - They both come

308

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

within the same reason, and, therefore, should fall
within the same exception to the general rule. The
rule, then, if true at all, must be limited as I have
stated; and if so, it will not apply to the present
case. It may, indeed, protect the public ship herself, but not her prize goods. These are not the regalian rights of the sovereign ; they are a mere accidental, military possession, wlich are not indispensably necessary to maintain his faith, dignity, or security,
Again; the argument which asserts exemption for
sovereign rights does'not confine itself to the~rights
of d belligeient,-but equally applies to all sovereigns,
whether in peace ot.war. But if.a, wrong doing sovereign may claim this exeinption, what becomes of
the rights of. the injured sovereign ? Must he submit, or hold his handi and ask redress of the offender ? Every objection which applies to the one, exists in equal effe'ct as to the other; and if-the tortfeasor may not- pursue.this course, he must not, by
his own act, constrain -the injured party to adopt it.
To guard against this conflict of dignities, the public
law has wisely settled the rule, that each sovereign
is supreme at home; all are equal on the high seas,
except in war, and then. the comity of nations, and
the necessity of the case, refers it to the arbitium of
the captors. But this rule of comity protects not
violators of the neutral. territory,, within which its
sovereign is supreme ; for, the implied pledge given
to a foreign state, of exemption from the local jurisd.iction, is violated.the moment it infringes our laws,
treaties, and sovereign rights. The fiction of extra-

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

territoiality only applies -to the peaceful observers
1822.
of this implied pledge. The implication is repelled,
The
Tho
and the pledge f6rfeited by abusing the rights of Santisina
hospitality and asylum. -This exception to the rule Trinidad.
is :recogomized distinctly by the Oourt in the case of
theKzehange.a and-it was upon this ground that the
Court ha inteifeiYd in the whole class of captures
madeby irie~ns of illegal armaments in our ports.'
The question in every one ot these cases was not as
to the character of the wrong doer, but as to the
nmtlre of the act done6 aind the lozus- in-quo, it was
committed. No inquiry was-ever made-whether the
.bapturing vessel 'Was public or private; but only
-wlether-our ndutrality'had beenviolated. And the
ininliple t6 be extracted from the' -all, isthat the
neutral tribunal -.iiaj."properly f6et6rz any prize
-Ioight withih its terFitory, which has been made in
vialatiofi of neutral law§; or rights, or obligations.
Withiti this' principle the'present case i.5 found. and,
thefdford, it is not itniversally.true, that the rights of
sovereigns are exempt -fromjudicial examidlation.
-The argument wd are discussing concedes, that
the' injured sovereign himself may restore, although
it denies the power' of making restitution to his
Courts. Bdt the etrect'to both parties is precisely
t1e same,'whethef the rgstitution be made by sovereign-or Cdurt, as-has- been already'sh6w.n; Still,
-granting that it maybe done by the soVereign only;
a 7 Cranch, 116.
b The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. Rep. 52. and cases collectedi n note a. lb. p. 65.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

310

who is sovereign here, quaadhoc? It must be'the j u1822.
diciary : since wherever. individual rights are irivolvk.AV%.d
The
Santissirna ed, whether arising underzwar, or treaty, or municiTrinidad. pal regulationsi the judiciaryin this country must
decide.a Where indeed no case is made-upon which,
the judiciary can, act, then the executive may interfere, as it did in the commencemeat of the Europeai
war in 1793, in the cas..'of the Grange. But even
here the genius of our. institutions requires, that tbo
preliminary inquiry, should ,be made through the
judiciary, which is they proper tribunal to make
such examinations, in which private rights ar
for the most, part involved." Such was-the courso
pursued in the case of Thomas Nash alias Robbins. The parties, ,one of whom was the king
of Great Britiani could not appear in Court;
the executive acted therefoie by judicial means, and
the facts being judicially. ascertainediitproceeded to
carry into effect -the'treaty.' If thbn' the sovereign must
submit to his .co-equal-sovereign, as the argument
concedes, and the jutisiary is invested with this portion of sovereignty,-the ctse' is clear, and the argument has no application to it. Nor does this reasoning exclude the executiVe action, but yields to it in
every instance where n6 caseis made adapted forjudicial determination ; and 'eve, where such a case
is -made, the executive may interpose by sqggestion,
by which the Cotirt will be boundas they would by
an act of the. legislatuire in-a case,fit for the exertion
of legislative power.
a See 3Daull. 13.
b Speech of Mr,. now Chief Justice)

Rep,. Appx.

MARSHALL,

6 Wheat.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

311

But suppose the judiciary not to be sovereign as
182e.
to this matter. Yet, whoever be
The
• the sovereign, as to
it, he need not act directly; but may delegate his santssima
power of decision and action to another : still it is Trinid&
the sovereign who acts. If the executive be. sovereign, this delegation is effectcd by suggestion, or
the want of it, as the case may be. If he means that
the judiciary should decide for him in a particular
way, he suggests it. But if he is content to take
the lead from the judiciary, and to adopt its construction, he declines to suggest. In the latter case,
the judiciary acts according to the sovereign will, because he adopts theirs. In the former, the same thing
is effected, for the judiciary adopt his. By this
means that harmony is produced which can be effected by no other.
But if it be thought that the legislature is the true
sovereign, quoad hoc, then the legislative will has
been distinetly expressed in the Neutrality Act of
1794, c. 226. It is in vain to contend that this
statute does not apply to public or national ships.
For not only are its terms sufficiently copious to embrace any ship, but their contextplainly shows that
they were designed to apply especially to such ships.
Here the learned counsel analyzed the act, in.
order
to-show that it extended to public, as wellas-private
armed-ships ;and insisted that this construction was
confirmed by the consideration that both the cases
were equally within the mischief intended to.be provided against, -which was ihe violation of our own
territory, and of neutral relations and obligations.
Nor was there any weight in the argument which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

312
1822.
The

Santissima
Trinidad.

would confine the authority of the Court under the
jurisdicact to ,.'aptures made within our territorial
•
tion. For although the 6th section expressly gives
cognizance-over that class of cases, the history of the
law on the subject plainly proves that this was merely an affirmative position, and was not meant as an
exclusion of judicial authority in other cases. -The
provision was meant to define the t.erritorial jurisdiction ofthe Union, and to settle a supposed doubt with
the Courts, which did notexist in fact. It was therefore merely declaratory of the law in'that case, and
could not be intended as a restriction upon the general authority of the Courts. If this were not so,
what would be'ome of the cases, occurring before
this statute wa' passed ? o&of the numerous cases
since decided, of captuies without our l imits, by
means acquired-within them ? This series of adjudications manifestly shoWs that the 'Courts exercise
their power indepenuently of the statute, the sole effect of which is (of the 6th section at lpast) to recognize an existing authority in a particular case, and
not to limit it to that case only.
But even if this be not so, wh~a is a capture within
our waters? Is it not to all legal purposes made within our territory, when the captor is within and the
prize without, the potential force being exerted within ? or where the actual forcejs exerted without, by
boats sent from within ? And if-so, it proceeds solely
on the ground that the locus inquo is to be fixed, not
by the place of seizure, which in both the supposed
cases is without, but by the source from whence the
exerted force proceeds. Consequently, -a capture

OFTHE UNITED STATES.

1822.
made actually on the high seas, by means acquired
here, is a capture'-within our territory..
ale
It is clear then, upon principle, that the property sa'tmsima
even of a sovereign acquired in war, within a neutral territory, or by means therein illegally obtained,
may be subjected to judicature, and restored: and
this whether the prize is made by a public or a private cruizer. Nor is the dignity of sovereigns injuriously affected by such a proceeding, which being
,rn rem, the sovereign is not constrained to defenid
himself before the Courts of justice, but may properly apply to the other sovereign for redress, by whose
suggestion, duly jmade, the judiciary must be bound.
That which is thus cl6ar upon principle is equally
established by authority. In the history of transactions of this nature, it will be found, that wherever
the neutral state interferes to7 vindicate its own neutrality, no distinction is made whether that neutrality
be infringed by a public or a private ship.* Both
a Lee on Capt. 116: 121. 123. edit. of 1803.

"In the year

1654, a captain of a DutcA man-of-war met with an English ship
at sea, running into the port of Leghorn, and selzea her even
when she was coming to anchor; the Duke of Tuscany com-

plained orthis to the States General, but without redress. He,
however, showed his resentment of it by condemning the ship
which had taken the Englishman." p. 121.
* This book, (Lee on Captures,) which is called in the preface,

"an enlarge] translation of the principal part of Bynkeishoek's qumstiones Juris Publici," is iii fact little more than a

very poor translation of that treatise. In the original text of
Bynkershoek, it by no means appears that it was a public ship
which had taken the Englishman in a neutral port. His words
are : " Ex factis, quae postea inciderunt, etiam haec videntur
VOL. VII.

40

314
1822.
* The '
Santissima

Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

France and England restore the property of their
subjects found on board of prize ships sent into their
ports by the vessels of other powers, and that whethe" the capturing vessels are public or private.,
During the beginning of the war of the revolution,
the prizes sent into France by the Alliance frigate
were restored by the tribunals of that country, if the
property of her friends. In the case of the Swedish
convoy, in the English High Court of Admiralty,
the crown declined proceeding against the Swedish
frigates, as has been before mentioned; otherwise,
Sir W. Scott declared, that he would have conprobasse Ordines Generales ; quum enim anno 1654, Navarcha

Hollandus navem Anglicam, in mari deprehensum et ad porturn Liburnensem fugientem, occupasset, etiam tune, cum navis
Anglica jam funem in terrain projecerat, Dux quidem Tuscim
ea de re questus est ad Ordines Generales, sed nequicqunm
questum esse legimus. Vide tamen, an non ipse dux id postea
vindicaverit ; publicata nempe nave, quae opportunitatem proebuerat occupandae istius Anglicae. (Q. J. Pub. 1. 1. c. viii. p.
64. Edit. Lugd. Batav. 1752.) which Mr DUPONCEAV, in his
elegant and accurate translation, thus renders : " From facts
which afterwards took place, the States General appear to have
approved thus much; for when in the year 1654, a Dutch
commander met an English vessel on the high seas, and pursued her flying into the port of Leghorn, where he took her
at the moment she was coming to anchor, the Grand Duke of
Tuscany complained of it to the States General, but we read
that he complained in vain. He, however, afterwards, took sa.
-tisfaction by condemning the Dutch vessel that had mado the
pursuit and occasioned the capture of the English one." Dupenceau's Bynk. p. 63.
a Ord. de la Mfar. Art. 9. Des Prises, 15. 2 Sir L. Jen.
kins' Lfe,780.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

demned even those public ships." But how could
he, unless they were subject to judicature? It may
be said, that they were regarded as qua belligerent,
having forfeited their neutral character by attempting a resistance to the right of search. Be it so.
"thenwe may, vice. versa, condemn a public ship, or
her-prizes, for unneutral conduct,, by which they
lose their extra-territorial character conferred on
them by a fiction which ought no longer to be regarded than. it subserves the purposes of justice.
There are numerous examples to show that there is
nothing so sacred in'the rights of sovereigns as to
prevent judicature from dealing with them, both directly and incidentally.' In the case of Duckwvorft
v. Tucker, the sovereign rights of Portugal were determined by the English Court of C. B., in a private controversy between two British Admirals
about prize money.b In the Canton of Berne v. The
Bank of England, that state appeared as an actor
in the High Court of Chancery, which had the control of the fund, which the government of Berne laid
claim to, as a part of its public treasure.c As to the
case of the Exchange, in this Court, it must be repeated that it does not go on any extravagant notion
of the exemption of-sovereign rights from judicial
scrutiny ; but on the ground of preserving the national faith, and that the ship entered under the
pledge of an implied license which she had not forfeited by any misconduct. Had she done so, she
a I Rob. 377-

b 2 Tatua. 33.

c 9 Mes. 347.

S16

1822.
Sintssi

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

would have been condemned as unhesitatingly as the
most insignificant privateer. It is only necessary to
ThQ
Santissima recur to the case of the Cassius, a public armed ship
Tinidad.
of the French republic, and to the words used by
the Court respecting -that case in the Invincible, to
show that it never has recognized any distinction in
this respect between public and private armed ships.
The learned counsel then proceeded to examine
the testimony in the cause, to show that it clearly
established the fact of an illegal outfit and augmentation of force, by the capturing vessels in our
ports ;. and, lastly, answered the argument attempted
to be drawn from the alleged'condemnation at Buenos Ayres, by stating, that the decree was not established in proof, and that if it were so, it could not
avail as a bar to the present proceedings, as the property was at the time in the custody of our Court,
and had been actually sold by consent of the claimant who now sets up the decree in the foreign tribunal.
1822.

Mr. Webster, on the same side, (1.) argued, that
there was no force in the general objection set up
by the captors, that the ship which made the capture
being a public ship; we could not examine into her
acts, because it would be to interfere with the sovereign rights of the state to which she belongs. Ho
denied that there was any such general principle, and
no book, or case, or even dictum could be found to
a I Wheat. Rep. 253.

OF THE UNITED STA'ES.

317

1822.
support it. Judicature deals with sovereign rights
perpetually, in our Courts, in England, and in every
country, and in every case where the government is Santissim
riilat
judicature cana party to the suit. Is it meant that
not deal with sovereign rights, neither domestic nor
foreign ? All history shows the contrary. If it were
so, no sovereign could come into Court. The great
political powers of government, as those of peace
and war cannot indeed be submitted to judicial decision ; but proprietary interests, in which the public
are concerned, are settled every where by the tribunals of justice, as in the familiar instances of inquests of office; and writs of intrusion. So an ejectment may be brought for the crown lands, the most
favourite fief. And nothing can be more sovereign
than the right of prize, jure belli; it is a great
branch of the prerogative; yet every body may contest it, and the king must claim, and if he cannot
make out a title he must lose it. Any jewel in any
king's diadem may become the subject of judicial
discussion. The extent and rights of the prerogative are discussed in every Court in England; and
all the powers of this government are discussed in
this Court, and in all the State tribunals. The government of the United States, and of the States, are
sovereign, and cannot be sued ; but in a contest between individuals or corporati6ns, the sovereign
rights of the Union and the several States may be
decided.
Judicature may then deal collaterally with sovereign rights, and wherever" the sovereign himself is
actor; wherever he brings the suit. The true pro-

CASES IN T.F E SUPREME COURT

?The

position$ therefore, must be, that the'Prince cannot
personally be sued in his own Courts, or in foreign

Soatisiira

tribunals. As. to the domestic forum, two reasons

182.
Trid~d.

are given why the king cannot be summoned or arrested in any civil or criminal -suit. Tire first is, his
supereminency ; and the -second, that justice is administered by him, and in his name.
These reasons-do not apply to a foreign country.
He has no supremacy there, nor is justice administered in his name. Sovereignty is local; and when
the sovereign transcends the limits of his land, he
transcends the limits of his prerogative. , The reason why he is not amenable to the foreign tribunal
grows out of international law; and does not spring
from the municipal code. It is not for want of jurisdiction ample enough to reach him ; but that
having come into the territory of another sovereign,
under his permission, either express or implied, it
would be a violation of the public faith to subject
his person to any kind of restraint. The same immunity is extended to his ambassador, for the same
reason; and to support this immunity, the fiction of
extra-territoriality has been invented, and applied to
the cases of the army, or navy, or single ship of a
sovereign coming into the territory of another. Being
there under the license of the local sovereign, they
are at liberty to remain and depart unmolested. Not
that the foreign sovereignty exerts itself within the
territory of another state, but 'that the local sovereignty is suspended from motives of comity, and a
regard to the plighted faith of the nation. The exemption probably extends even to private merchant

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vessels; which proves clearly that it does not rest
on any right of sovereignty. But the permission

319
1822.
The

may be withdrawn both as to these, and as to pub- Santissims

lic vessels, if the indulgence be abused to the injury
of the power by which it is granted. No neutral
nation is bound to admit the belligerent ships of war
within its waters, unless under treaty stipulations;
and it may concede the privilege on such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit. The presumption or fiction under which the license was granted ceases, the
moment the license is revoked; and the license is revoked as soon as the terms and conditions on which
it was granted are violated. Still less can a mere
general permission to the ships of a foreign state to
come into our waters, be construed into a license to
violate our laws, and treaties, and neutral obligations.
Nor is it necessary here even to contend that the ship
herself is subject to the local jurisdiction. We
proceed against her prize goods, found within.our
territory. It is alleged, that they are held by the
right of a foreign sovereign, or under a sovereign,
and it is impossible to avoid inquiring into the foundation of this right. It is the inherent vice of the
opposite argument, that it concedes this position ; and
in making that concession it yields the inevitable
corollary that this sovereign right is not exempt from
judicature.
2. If we proceed then to examine into the foundation of fhe right, we shall find that the Spanish
consul here claims, in behalf of his fellow subjects,
their property, which has been taken from them by
acruizer sailing under the flag of the enemy of Spain,

CASES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

but equipped in our ports, and manned with our citizens,
contrary to our municipal laws and the 6th and
The
Santima
Trinidad. 14th articles of our treaty with Spain, The true interpretation of the 6th article raises our national duty, wherever a capture, is made by our citizens of
Spanish property, which is afterwards, brought within our jurisdiction, We are to 'endeavour to protect
the vessels and effects of Spanish subjects which
shall be within the extent of our jwrisdiction by sea
or by. land,,' as ,an act distinct'from that of using
our "efforts, to recover and caus.e to be.. restored to
the right owners their vessels and effects which may
have bee' takenfrom them within the .extent of .said
jurisdiction." It is a reciprocal. .duty of both states,
and without invoking the aid of -this' article, we
-should find it difficult to maintairi our claim upon
Spain for 'the property of our citizens carried into
her'ports by French cruizers,' and condemned by
French tribunals within her territory. As to the
.14th article, it is pretended that it attaches a mere
personal penalty to the offending party, and operates
merely to abandon our citizens, who may violate it,
to be punished a§ pirates at the will of Spain. But
the mutual prohibition to the citizens or. subjects of
each power from taking commissions to cruize against
the other makes such conduct unlawful to every intent and purpose. The penalty of being punished
as pirates is merely superadded as a consequence
which would not necesssarily have followed from
the prohibition without -a special provision to that
effect. But the invalidity of the captures made under a commission thus unlawfully taken is a neces1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
sary and inevitable consequence of the prohibition it7%e
self. This article cannot therefore be considered as
Sana
exfre promissory; they
~Trinidad
merely monitory: the words
press the undertaking of the two .governments and
their reciprocal duty. Nor is it confined to captures
made by private armed vessels. It is true that the first
clause of the artiucle spepaks of "any commission or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act as
pyrivdateers." But in the Spanish counterpart of the
second tlause, these last words que obren conio corsarios are dropped, although they are retained in the
English. The Spanish counterpart speaks generally
of "patente paradMar LGUN BUQUE 8 BUQUES COn el
fin de persequir los siubditosde S. Al. catolica," which
obviously extends to public as well as private cruizers. As to our municipal laws, they are not confined to acts done within the limits of the United States.
They are full of provisions making it unlawful for
oAr citizens (without those limits) to fit out and arm,
or command and enter on board of, a foreign cruizer
intended to be employed againstpowers in amity with
US.a Whether, -therefore, the offence in this case
wa committed within orwithout the United States,
the illegal equipment or augmentatiu is within the
statutes, and consequently the property acquired under it must be restored to the true owners.
3. What gives additional strength to this national
obligation, is the fact that the claimant in the present
cause, and those for whom he claims as captors,
a Act of 1797, c. 1.
c. 83. s. 4. s 10.
VOL. VII.

Act of 1817, c. 8 s. 2.
41

Act of 1818,

822
1822.
6antissima

Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

are citizens of the United States, who claim a title
to property acquired in violation of the laws and
treaties of their own country, in a Court of that
country.
But it is said that the claimant, Chaytor, has ceased to be a citizen of this country by what is called
an act of expatriation,(but which ought rather to be
called emigration,) and has become a citizen of Bueno(s Ayres. Now it cannot, and certainly ought
not to be denied; that men may remove from their
own country in order to better their condition, or to
avoid civil and religious persecution. But it does
not follow that under all circumstances, and for all
possible reasons, a person may shake off his allegiance to the land which gave him birth. The slavish
principle of perpetual allegiance growing out of the
feudal system, and this fanciful novelty of a man being authorized to change his country and his nile
giance at his own will and pleasure, are both equally
removed from the truth on this subject. Whatever
doubtful cases may be supposed, this much may be
affirmed with certainty, that there must be an actual
change of the party's doniil, and that this must be
done, not merely with the intention of remaining in
his adopted country, but it must not be coupled with a design- fraud-tly to evade the laws
of his native country. No act whatever of a foreign
government can dispense with the allegiance of a citizen, and authorize him to violate our penal cote or
our treaties with other nations. This is a prior, paramount obligation, which must be first fulfilled, before he assumes any new and inconsistent duties.
Even, if there had- been, in -this case, an actual bona

OF THE UNITED STATES.

f/ide change of domicil, animo manen.di, so as to enti-

182.

tie the claimant to all the privileges of commercial

inhabitancy under the law of prize or the revenue Santisim
laws, it does not follow that he can with impunity Trw"
levy war against the United States or fheir friends.
And even if it be admitted that he might defend his
adopted country, it does not follow that he may attack
his native country, or those whom she is bound to
protect. Can it be sufficient to legalize such an act
that he has made his election, and that the foreign
government has ratified it ? Is it not manifest that it
was done, cun- dolo et culpa, for no other purpose
than to evade and violate our laws ? In this respect,
it is impossible to distinguish between the neutrality
acts, and other laws, such as the statutes of treason,
or any other the most ifitimately connected with the
national safety and existence. But it is unnecessary
to dwell upon this point, as it is the settled dobtrine
of this Court, that a citizen of the United States cannot claim in their Courts, the property of foreign nations in amity with them, captured by him in war,
even if the capturing vessel be in other respects lawfully equipped and commissioned ;1 and'that an act
of expatriation cannot be set up to justify such a capture, where the removal from his own country was
with the.fraudulent intent of violating its laws.b
Even admitting that foreign armed vessels may,
in the absence of any express prohibition, enter our
ports for the purpose of refreshment, or of making
repairs, and will not thereby be subject to the local
a The Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheat. Rep. 152. 169,
b Talbof T. Janson, 3 Dall. 133. 153. 164,

3%4

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

law and judicature, it does not, therefore, follow that
may make extraordinary repairs so as to be
The
santisima transformed in the species. The implied license may
Trinidad. extend to a mere replacement of the original
force;
but it cannot extend to such an augmentation of the
force as would be inconsistent with the neutral character of the power granting the license. It cannot
extend to acts done subsequent to the vessel outering the neutral port; in other words, to a violation
of the license itself. The vessel may remain in the
same condition as she came, but she may not increase her capacity for war by the addition of neutral means, either in munitions or men. Nor does it
follow, in any supposable case, that because the capturing ship herself cannot be made answerable to the
jurisdiction of the local tribunals for violating the
laws and treaties of the neutral state, that her prizes
are entitled to. a similar exemption. They do not
stand on the same principie or reason. The ship of
war ought not to be'detained from the public serVice 6f the sovereign to whom she belongs. Neither his dignify nor 'safety will permit it. But neither the-prize vessels or goods captured by her are
necessarily connected with his military power.
5. As to the facts .of the illegal equipment and
augmentation of the force of the capturing- vessels
in our ports, they are sufficiently established by the
testimony. Although there may be some discrepancies in their evidence as to certain immaterial circumstances ; yet, as they all coucur in proof of the
material fhicts, and their testimony is uncontradicted
even by the claimant's witnesses as to some of the
1822

'they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.

325

most important, they are entitled in this respect,.to
1822.
credit. Their testimony, taken in connection with
The
the res gesta, which are admitted on all hands, sa- sanutsim
tisfies the rule which the Court has laid down in this Trinida&
class of causes, that the fact of illegal equipment in
violation of our neutral duties, must be proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
6. Lastly: As to the pretended condemnation at
Buenos Ayres. Independent of the objection which
has already been stated to it, the question which has
been here raised as to the capture having been made
by military means obtained within our neutral territory, could not possibly have occurred, in the course
of the prize proceedings in the Court of the belligerent state:
&' The goods being confessedly the property of its enemy, and liable to capture and condemnation as prize of war, the plea that the capture
was made in violation of our neutrality could not be
set up by the Spanish owner. Being an enemy, he
had no persona standi in judicio for that purpose.
The government of the United States must have interposed a claim upon this ground, or have authorized the Spanish claimant to interpose it. Unless
this were done, the goods were clearly liable to condemnation as prize of war, as they would be in the
analogous case of a capture actually made within
the neutral territory itself; where, unless the objection is made by authority of the neutral government,
it cannot be made by the enemy owner, who, in his
character of enemy, is not injured by it. We need
not, therefore, directly impeach the validity of the
condemnation at Buenos Ayres, so far as the rights

S26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUftT

of the two-belligerents merely are concerned. We
only repudiate the claim of one of our own citizens,
The
S&ntissima who comes into our Court, and sets up the foreign
Trinidad.
sentence, which was obtained by him in fraud of our
laws, as an excuse for the violation of those laws.
To the Prize Court of Buenos Ayres it was sufficient
that, as captor, he had a right to stand upon his
commission issued by that state, and to insist upon
the condemnation" of his prize taken jure belli. But
in this Court that very commission disables him from
claiming any title acquired under it, for reasons
which could not be urged in the Prize'Court of Buenos Ayres, where the Spanish owner could not appear at all unless'by authority of the government of.
the United State i. It is not, therefore, a res adjudicata. Nor is the claimant a bonafide purchaser
of the prize goods, ignorant of the fraudulent and
illegal conduct of the party by whom they were captured and sold to him. The claimant, Chaytor, is
himself that party, and he can nq more set up the
sentence of condemnation for his protection, than lie
can the pretended act of naturalization to cover his
crime in confederating with one of the belligerents
to violate the laws, and treaties, and most solemn
obligations of his own country.
1822.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellant, in reply, stated that he should, for the purposes of the argument,
take it for granted that the capturing vessel, the Independencia, was in point of fact a public ship belonging to the government of Buenes Ayres. . The flag
and commission are conclusive -evidence of that fact..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

527

182.
It is contended, on the other side, that the Court is
bound to interfere and restore
The
" the captured property,
to the original Spanish owners, because it is said s.ntisim
that, though the rights ofa sovreign are involved,
yet as he cannot appear in a Court of justice to claim,
these rights must be determined without hearing one
of the parties,. who is most materially interested
in asserting them.. And it is said, that the foreign
sovereign must state his claim to the executive government, and that it must be brought to the notice
of the Court by a suggestion from the latter. So that
according to this doctrine, the Courts of this country, could never listen to the complaints of foreign
states, who had no minister to represent them here;
and their property may be condemned, and their
most sacred rights violated, without their being
present, or heard. But we never meant to contend, that sovereign rights could not be discussed and
determined in a Court of justice, and that this suit
could not be maintained, because the sovereign rights
of Buenos Ayres might be incidentally drawn in
question: but because this was a public armed ship
of that state, coming into our waters, with her prize
goods, under the express or implied permission of our
government; and while here she was exempt from
the jurisdiction of the local tribunals.
But we are told that Buenos Ayres has not yet
been acknowledged by the government of this
country as an independent state ; that she is a
mere revolted colony of Spain, and her cruizing
vessels cannot be entitled to the privileges and
immunities of the public ships of an old established
sovereignty. The answer to this position is, that

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

though the independence of the South American provinces has not yet been acknowledged by our, goThe
sntissima vernment, the existence of a civil war between these
TrinidWd. revolted colonies and the mother country has been
acknowledged, and this Court has followed the executive government in considering them entitled to alg the
rights of war against their enemy. Such is the consequence which the writers on the law of nations attribute to a civil war between two portions of an empire. It is assimilated to'a-public war. They are
belligerents in respect to each other; and all other
powers, who take no part in the contest, are bound
Wheto.all the duties of neutrality towards both.
ther, therefore, Buenos Ayres be a sovereign state,
in the strict sense of the term, is quite immaterial
for the present purpose. It is sufficient that she is
a belligerent entitled to use against her enemy every species of military Mieans. Among these, are the
armed and commissioned ships of war, sailing under
the public authority of that country, and admitted
into the ports of this, with the same privileges as are
enjoyed by the national ships of Spain. Being at
war, the colonies are belligerents, and as belligerents
they are entitled to .all the rights of war, and we are
bound to all the correspondent duties of the neutrality we profess to maintain. In the case of the
U. S. v. Palmer this Court lays down the principle
that "whe n a civil war rages in a foreign nation,
one part of which separates itself from the established government, the Courts of the Union must view
1822.

e

3 Wheat. Rep. 638.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

829

fB .
such newly constituted government, as it is viewed
by the legislative and executive- departments of the 'Tho
government of the United States. If the government Santiim'
recognizes the exof the Union remains neutral, but
istence of a civil war, the Courts of the Union cannot
consider as criminal those acts of hostility which
war authorizes, and which the new government may
direct against its enemy." Why can they not consider these acts of hostility as criminal ? Because
war authorizes them, and they are directed by the
ilew government against its enemy ? In other words,
because they are lawful: And if they are lawful for
one purpose, it is difficult to understand- how they
can be unlawful for any other. If these acts are au.
thorized by the laws of war, they must produce all
the consequences of legal acts. They must vest a
good title, jure belz, in the prizes taken by authority of the new government from its enemy. And that
this is the necessary consequence of th6 principle is
apparent from the words used by the Court in the
Divina Pastora,)which was itself a case of prize, and
where the proprietary interest acquired in war came
directly in judgment. The Court there says, that
" the government of the United States having recognized the existence of a civil war between Spain and
her colonies, but remaining neutral, the Courts of the
Union are bound to consider as lawful those acts,
which war authorizes, and which the new governments in. South America may direct against their
enemy -" Here the question was not, whether the
a*4
Vor."VI.

heat. Rep. 52.
42

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1851.
The

santisima

existence of the civil war would excuse from the penalties of piracy those who might act under the authority of the new government, but whether a cap,ture made under that authority
was valid by the

law of nations. So, also, in the case of the Eslrella,
the validity of the commission was explicitly recognized by the Court, and of course the authority of
the government by whom it was issued wasadmitted.
In the case now in judgment, it is insisted, on the
part of the respondent, that the Court is bound to re
store the property to the original Spanish -owner, by
the true construction of the treaty of 1795. As to
the 6th article, it is 'certainly a very forced interpretation, which makes it imply our duty to restore all
Spanish ships and goods which may happen to be
found within our territory, although the title may
have been changed by a previous capture,-jure belli,
on the high seas. The article is evidently confined
to wrongful acts done within our territorial limits.
We are "to endeavour to protect the vessels and effects of Spanish subjects which shall be within the
extent of our jurisdiction," but we are not to restore
vessels and effi'cts which have ceased to be Spanish
by a lawful capture in war, without the extent of our
jurisdiction. Nor have the United Slates insisted
upon such an interpretation of the article as against
Spain. We claim iidemnity from Spain for condenination of our vessels and effects by the French consuls in her ports, because-to exercise the authority of
a prize tribunal, is the highest act of sovereignty, and
Spain having permitted it to be done by foreigners
within her territory, it is the same thing as if her
a 5 Wheat.Rcp. 298.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

own national tribunals had inflicted the wrong. The

1822.

provision in this article is merely declaratory bf the

'7%e

pre-existing law of nations, which always considers S.timsim
of
every sovereign as bound to protect the property
his friends within his territorial jurisdiction, and as
responsible for whatever injuries he permitted to be
there inflicted upon them. As to the 14th article, it
is manifestly confined to privateers, and was not intended to extend to the case of a person entering the
public military, or naval service of one of the contracting parties to commit hostilities against the other,
and still less to authorize the seizure of a public ship
of war or her prizes. This article was evidently intended to abridge a pre-existing right; and that it
was a pre-existing right appears from the uniform
practice of the whole civilized world. But it is confined in its terms to privateers and letters of marque,
and by no fair rule of construction can it be extended
to public ships.
Nor is the Court bound to restore, because the
claimant, Chaytor, is a citizen of this country, and
has violated its laws. Here the learned counsel entered into a minute analysis of the Neutrality Acts,
to show that they were merely penal against the party, or the capturing vessel. But here the penalty
would begin and end with the person of- the captor,
for the capturing vessel being a public ship belonging
to a foreign state, she could not be forfeited without
its being considered an act of reprisals in the nature of
war against that state. Once. being admitted with
her prizes into our ports, she may remain as long as
the executive governmeht thinks proper to allow it.

0

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
"
The
$antisima
Trinidad.

In this respect there is no distinction between the
public ship herself and her prizes. Here the
prize goods taken by her from the enemies of
the state, under Iwhose commission she was cruizing, were landed and deposited in the custom
house stores, by the express permission of the
government. It is novel doctrine that prize ships
and prize goods are no part of the regalian possessions of a sovereign. They may be, and frequently are, absolutely necessary to his safety.
They may be the principal means by which he is enabled to carry on the war, and a chief source of his
revenue. How is it, then, that they are not equally
exempt from the jurisdiction of the local tribunals,
with the guns, and spars, and rigging of the ship
herself, which may be landed in the same manner
for the purpose of making repairs ? Are they not
brought within the territory under the same permission, express or implied ? If an army had a right of
passage through a neutral territory, can it be doubted
that it would extend to its military chest, and its
booty previously acquired ? If the fiction of extraterritoriality will protect the ship, which is the principal, why will it not protect the prize goods which
are the incidents ? The permission to enter may,
indeed, be qualified by any condition the neutral
state thinks fit to impose; such, for example, as that
contained in the law of France, that prize goods
which may have been taken from the subjects of the
state or its allies should be restored.
But this Court
has expressly repudiated that principle in the case of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M3

1822.
the Invincible,a and it is for the executive and legislative departments to impose such restrictions as they
Th,
"sm.
think fit upon the admission into our ports of armed sat
Trinidad.
vessels, public or private, with their prizes. In the
case of the Exchange, which has been so often referred to, the Court in summing up its opinion says :
" It seems, then, to be a principle of public law,
that national ships of war, entering the ports of a
friendly power open to their reception, are to be considered as exempted by the consent of that power
from its jurisdiction." The ship herself being exempted from the local jurisdiction, she remains a
part of the territory of her own country, and if she
brings in with her prize ships, or prize goods, they
are to be considered as in the possession of that
country. That they are so, is apparent from the established doctrine of this Court, that prize ships or
goods, though lying in a neutral territory, may be
condemned in a competent Court of the belligerent
state, by whose cruizers they were captured. Indeed, the writers on the law of nations expressly
state the priviilege of bringing in their prizes to be a
part of the permission.' But how can this be if the
immunity does not extend to every thing on board ?
Here the goods were takenjure belli. Whether they
are good prize depends upon the adjudication of the
captor's Court, which is the only competent tribunal
to determine that question. They are in his possession for the purpose of proceeding to adjudication,
a 1 Wheat. Rep. 238.
6 Vattel, Droitdes Gens. 1. 3. c. 7.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

even while they are locally within the neutral territory. Either the condemnation at Buenos Ayres is
- The
santissima a sufficient adjudication, or not, If it be so, then.
Trinidad.
the appellant is entitled to the goods unfder it. If it
be not, still he is entitled to the possession of the
goods, in order that he may proceed against them in
the most regular manner, which he has been hitherto
prevented from doing by this very suit.
1822.

Mdr

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
the Court.
Upon the argument at the bar several questions
have arisen, which have been deliberately considered by the Court; and itsjudgment will now be pronounced. The first in the order, in which we think
it most convenient to consider the cause, is, whether
the Independencia is in point of fact- a public ship,
belonging to the government of Buenos Ayres. The
history of this vessel, so far as is necessary for the
disposal of this point, is briefly this : She was originally built and equipped at Baltimore as a privateer
during the late war with Great Britain, and was then

12a.

rigged as a schooner, and called the Mammoth, and

cruized against the enemy. After the peace she was
rigged as a brig, and sold by her original owners. In
January, 1816, she was loaded with a cargo of munitions of war, by her new owners, (who are inhabitants of Baltimore, and being armed With twelve
guns, constituting a part of her original armament,
she was despatched from that port, under the command of the claimant, on a voyage, ostensibly to the
Northwest Coast, but ia reality to Buenos Ayres.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
By the written instructions given to the supercargo
on this voyage, he was authorized to sell the vessel to
The
sGntsiz=
the government of Buenos Ayres, if he could obtain
Triaial
a suitable price. She duly arrived at Buenos Ayres,
having exercised no act of hostility, but sailed under
the protection of the American flag, during the voyage. At Buenos Ayres the vessel was sold to Captain Chaytor and two other persons ; and soon afterwards she assumed the flag and characterof a public
ship, and was understood by the crew to have been
sold to the government of Buenos Ayres; and Captain Chaytor made known these facts to the crew,
and asserted that he had become a citizen of Buenos
Ayres; and had received a commission to command
the vessel as a national ship ; and invited the crew
to enlist in the service ; and the greater part of them
accordingly enlisted. From this period, which was
in May, 18 16, the public functionaries of our own and
other foreign governments.at that port, considered the
vessel as a public ship of war, and such was her avowed character and reputation. No bill of sale of the vessel to the government of Buenos Ayres is produced,
and a question has been made principally from this
defect in the evidence, whether her character as a
public ship is established. It is not understood that
any doubt is expressed as to the genuineness of Captain Chaytor's commission, nor as to the competency of the other proofs in the cause introduced, to
corroborate it. The only point is, whether supposThe commising them true, they afford satisfactory evidence of her -oonclusi
p~roofof thenmo

public character. We are of opinion that they do.
signed
In general the commission of a public ship)

t

er.

op

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
The

Santsa

by the proper authorities of the nation to which shb
is complete proof of her national character.
A bill of sale is not necessary to be produced. Nor

Sbelongs,

will the Courts of a foreign country inqtlire into the
tieaufs by'which the title to the'property has been
acquired. It would be to exert the right of examitiing into the validity of the acts of the foreign soverbign, and to sit in judgment upon them in cased
where he has not conceded the jurisdiction, and
where it would be inconsistent with his own supremacy. The commission, therefore, of a public ship,
when duly authenticated, so far at least as foreign
courts are concerned, imports absolute verity, and the
title is not examinable. The property must be ta.
ken to be duly acquired, and cannot be controverted. This has been the settled practice between nations ; and it is a rule founded in public convenience
and policy, and cannot be broken in upon, witliout
endangering the peace and repose, as well of neutral
as of belligerent sovereigns. The commission in the
present case is not expressed in the most unequivocal terms; but its fair purport and interpretation
must be deemed to apply to a public ship of the government. If we add to this the.corroborative testimony of our own and the British Consul at Buenos
Ayres, as well as that of private citizens, to the notoriety of her claim of a public character; and her
admission into our own ports as a public ship, with
the immunities and privileges belonging to such a
ship, with the express approbation of our own government, it does-not seem too much to assert, whatever
may he the private suspicibn of a lurking American

OF THE UNITED STATES.

337

interest, that-she mmwtbe judicially held to be a pub1822.
lic ship of the country whose commission she bears.
The
There is apother objection urged, against the ad- Santissima
imission of this vessel to the privileges and immuni- Trinida
ties of a public ship, which may as well be disposed
of in connexion with the question already considered. itis, that Buenos Ayres has not yet been aqknowledged as a sovereign, indepenident government
by the executive or legislature Df the United States,
and, therefore, is not entitled to have her ships of
war recognized by our Courts as national ships. We notin
istenc tbh-e
of tho
have, in former cases, had occasion to express our twveen
' Spai
r be.
opinion on this point.

The government of the Uni-

t

ted States has recognized the existence of a civil l

d
re.
vogto "

of the lIdepen.

war between Spain and her colonies, and has avow- denceofthe lat.
ter by the Uni.
the
tzd State Were
ed a determination to remain neutral between the Colonies
parties,, and to allow to,each the same rights of asy- deed by u
lure and hospitality and intercourse. Each party is, dtdto a 'the
therefore, deemed by us a belligerent nation,
hay- of wr- _'4ty.
rights of war, th
ing, sa far as-concerns us, the sovereign
and entitled to be respected in the exercise of those
rights. We cannot interfere to the prejudice of
either belligerent without making oursdv.es a. party
to the contest, and departing from the posture of
neutrality. All captures made by each must be considered as having the same validity, and all the immunities which may be claimed by public ships in
our ports under the law of nations must be considered- as equally the right -of each; and as such must
be recognized by our Couirts of justice, until Congress shall prescribe a.different rule. This is the
VOL. VI

43

88

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT '

1822.
doctrine heietofore asserted by this Court, and we
. The
see no reason to depart from it.
Santissima
The next question growing out of this record, is
Trinidad.
vwhether the property in controversy was captured

in violation of our neutrality, so that restitution ought,
by the law of nations, to be decreed to the libellants.
Two grounds are relied upon to justify restitution :
First,that the Independencia and Altravida were originally equipped, armed, and manned as vessels of
war in our ports ; Secondly, that there was an illegal
augmentation of the force of the Independencia within our ports. Are these grounds, or either of them,
sustained by the evidence ?
If the cause stood solely upon the testimony of
the witnesses who have been examined on behalf of
the libellants, we should have great hesitation in admitting the conclusions which have been drawn from
it. The witnesses, indeed, speak directly and uniformly either to the point of illegal equipment, or
illegal augmentation of force within our ports. But
their testimony is much shaken by the manifest contradictions which it involves, and by declarations of
facts, the falsity of which was entirely within their
knowledge, and has been completely established in
proof. It has been said, that if witnesses concur in
The doctrine proof of a material fact, they ought to be believed in
that
if witnesses
concur
ro
respect to that fact, whatever may be the other conof a in.
m;,t,7
fc they eeed tradictions in their testimony. - That position may
in respect

to

circumstances; but it is a doctrine
received only under many qualifications, and with great caution. If the circumstances

that fact, what-be true under
ever may be the
other contra- whien can be
di.'tions in their

testimony,ought

to be received
under
many
qualifications,

ad with great

caution.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

339

respecting -which the testimony is discordant be im1822.
material, and of such a nature, that mistakes may
The
easily exist, and be accounted" for in a manner con- Sntissima
Trimdal
$istent with the ufmost good. faith and probability,
there is much reason for indulging the belief that the
discrepancies arise from the infirmity of the human
mind, rather than. from deliberate error. But where AppLUOZ of
the party speaks to a fact in respect to which he can- " 6m. fa-not be presumed liable to mistake, as in relation to
the country of his birth, or his being in a vessel on
a particular voyage, or living in -a particular place,
if thfe fact turn out otherwise, it is extremely diff7cult to exempt him from the charge of deliberate
falsehood; and Courts. of justice, under such circumstances, are bound, upon principles of law, and
morality and justice, to apply the maxim falsus in
Uno, falsus in omnibus. What ground' of judicial
belief can there be left, when the party has shown
such gross insensibility to the difference between
right and wrong, between truth and falsehood ? The
contradictions in the testimony of the witnesses of
the libellants have been exposed at the bar with
great force and accuracy; ind they are so numerous
that, in ordinary cases, no Court of justice could
venture'to rely on it without danger of being betrayed into the grossest errors. But in a case of the
description of that before the Court, where the sovereignty and rights of a foreign belligerent nation
are in question, and where the exercise of jurisdiction over captures made under its flag, can be justified only by clear proof of the violation of our neutrality, there are still stronger reasons for abstaining
-

340

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

from interference, if the testimony is clouded' with
* The idoubt and suspicion. We adhere to the rule which
Santissima has been already adopted by this Court, that restituTrinidaad. tion ought not to be decreed upon the ground of
182e.

capture in violation of our neutrality, unless the fact
be established beyond all reasonable doubt.
But the present case does not stand upon this testimony alone. It derives its principal proofs altogether from independent sources, to the consideration
of which the attention of the Court will now be directed.
The question as to the original illegal armament
Our municipal
wibit
the trade and outfit of the Independencia may be dismissed
in
in contraband
that
though
equipped
it
is
a
few
words.
It
is
apparent,
articles.
merely subject,
bythe
law of as a vessel of war, she was sent to Buenos Ayres
natious, to the

pealty

f con-

iton, incase
of capture.

on a commercial adventure, contraband, indeed, but
in no shape violating our laws on our national neutrality. If captured by a Spanish ship of war during the voyage she would have been justly condemned as good prize, and for being engaged in a
traffick prohibited by the law of nations. But there
is nothing in our laws, or in the law of nations, that
forbids our citizens from sending armed vessels, as
well as munitions of war, to foreign ports for sale.
It is a commercial adventure which no nation is
bound to prohibit; and which only exposes the persons engaged in it to the penalty of confiscation.
Supposing, therefore, the voyage to have been for
commercial purposes, and the sale at Buenos Ayres
to have been a bonafide sale, (and there is nothing
in the evidence before us to contradict it,) there is
no pretence to say, that the original outfit on the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

341

1822.
voyage was illegal, or that a capture made after the
sale was, for that cause alone, invalid.
The
The more material consideration is as to the aug- S=Iiti
Trinidad.
mentation of her force in the United States, at a sub- AuJmUIati
sequent period. It appears from the evidence, and, f eth"Indaep, .c f
deacia In Our
indeed, is admitted by Captain Chaytor, that after por.
the sale in May, 1816, the Independencia sailed for
Buenos Ayres under his command, on a cruise
against, Spain; and after visiting the coast of Spain,
she put into Baltimore early in the month of October of the same year, having then on board the
greater part of her original crew, among whom were
many Americans. On her arrival at Baltimore, she
was received as a public ship, and there underwent
considerable repairs. Her bottom was new coppered,
some parts of her hull were recaulked, part of the
water-ways were replaced, a new head was put on,
-some new sails and rigging to a small amount, and
a new mainyard was obtained, some bolts were
driven into the hull, and the mainmast, which had
been shivered by lightning, was taken out, reduced
in length, and replaced in its former station. In
order to make these repairs, her guns, ammunition
and cargo were discharged under the inspection of
an officer of the customs, and when the repairs were
made, the armament was replaced, and a report
made by the proper officer to the collector, that there
was no addition to her armament. The Indepenfdencia left Baltimore in the latter part of December,
1816, having, then on board a crew of 112 men; and
about the 8th of January- following, she sailed from
the Capes of the Chesapeake on the cruise on which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
T'e

Santissima
Trinidad.

the property in question was captured, being accomipanied by the Altravida, as a tender, or despatch vessel. It will be necessary, hereafter, to make more
particular mention of the Altravida ; but, for the pre-

sent, the.observations of the Court *ill be confined
to the Independencia. It is admitted by the claimant, that during her sta , at Baltimore, several persons were enlisted on board the Independencia, and
his own witnesses prove that the number was about
thirty.
The first observation that occurs on this part of
the case is, that here is a clear augmentation of force
within our jurisdiction. The excuse offered is, that
the persons so enlisted, represented themselves, or
were supposed to ne, persons in the service of Buenos
Ayres. Of this, however, there is not the slightest
Onusr~obdi proof. The enlistment of men being proved, it is
incumbent on the claimant to show that they were
-a the sao
ant, to show
pjoersons who might lawfully
that
the
wu~yeanbe enlisted ; and as the
nientation
ofpmih
force by enlist-

ment wa law.
ful.

burden of proof rests on him, the presumption neces-

sarily arising from the absence of such proof is that
they were not of that character. It is not a little
remarkable that not a single officer of the Independencia has been examined on this occasion. They
are the persons who, from their situation, must have
been acquainted with the facts; and the total omission to bring their testimony into the cause can
scarcely be accounted for but upon a supposition extremely unfavourable to the innocence of the transaction.
Another observation which is drawn from the predicament of this case is, that if, as the claimant as-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

serts, the original voyage to Buenos Ayres, was a
mere commercial adventure, the crew must have been

1822.
The

composed principally of Americans or residents in Santiim-,

our country. They enlisted at Buenos Ayres on
board the Independencia, as officers and seamen for
the purposes of warfare, and there is no evidence in
the case as to the length of time of their engagemeuts, or of -the place where the crime was to terminate. Why are the documents on this subject,
for documents must exist, in the possession of the
claimant ; why are they not produced ? If the cruise
was to terminate at Buenos Ayres, or at a specific
period of time, the fact would have a material bearing on the merits of the cause. Yet though the
pressure of this point must, at all times, nave been
forcibly felt, there has not, up to the present moment,
been the slightest effort to relieve it from the darkness which thus surrounds it. -Under such circumstances, the natural conclusion would seem to be that
the crew were to be discharged, and the cruize to
terminate at Baltimore. This was their.native or
adopted home, the place where they first embarked
on board the Mammoth, and that to which most of
them must be supposed solicitous to return. The
conduct of the vessel indicated the same intent. She
underwent general repairs, some of which could
hardly be deemed of great necessity, and must have
been induced by the consideration that Baltimore
was a port peculiarly well fitted for naval equipments. During the repairs (a period of two months)
the crew were necessarily on shore and it is scarcely to be supposed that they were held together by

Trinidad.

344
1822.
The
Santissima
Triidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

any common bond of attachment, or that they had
so far lost the common character of seamen as not
to be easily led into some other employment or enterprise, which should yield immediate profit. What

proof, indeed, is there that the same crew which
came to Baltimore sailed again in the Independencia
on, her new cruise ? It is stated only as hearsay by
one or two of the claimant's witnesses, who had nln
means, and do not pretend to any means of accurate
knowledge of the fact. If true, it might have been
proved by the officers of the ship, by the muster roll
of the crew, and by the shipping articles; and these
are wholly withdrawn from the cause, without even
an apology for their absence. It would certainly be
an unreasonable credulity for the Court, under such
circumstances, to believe that the actual augmentation of force was not far greater than what is admitted by the party, and that there was either an innocence of intention or act in the enlistments. The
Court is, therefore, driven to the conclusion, that
there was an illegal augmentation of the force of the
Independencia in our ports, by a substantial increase
of her crew; and this renders it wholly unnecessary
to enter into an investigation of the question, whether
there was not also an illegal increase of her arma,ment.
Illegal outfit
If any doubt could be be entertained as to the InT[a AI -dependencia, none can be as to the predicament of
the Altravida. This vessel was formerly a privateer,
called the Romp, and was condemned for illegal conduct by, the District Court of Virginia; and under the
decree of the Court, was sold, together with the ar-

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

•

845

1822.
mament and munitions of war. then on board. She
Ile
was purchased ostensibly for a Mr. Thomas Taylor,
santimsim
but was immediately transferred to Captain Chaytor.
Trwda&
She soon afterwards went toBaltimore, and wasattach
ed as a tender to the Independencia, having no separate
commission, but acting under the authority of Captain
Chaytor. Part of her armament- was mounted, and
a crew of about twenty-five men were put on board
at Baltimore. She dropped down to the Patuxent
a few days before the sailing of the Independencia,
and was there joined by the latter, and accompanied
her on a cruise in the manner already mentioned.
Here, then, is complete evidence from the testimony
introduced by the claimant himself of an illegal outfit of the Altravida, and an enlistment of her crew
within our waters for the purposes of war. There
is no pretence that the crew was transferred to her
from the lndependencia, for the claimants own witnesses admit that a few only were of this description. The Altravida must be considered as attached
to, and constituting a part of the force of the Independencia, and so far as the warlike means of the
latter were increased *by the purchase, hbr military
force must be deemed to be augmented. Not the
slightest evidence is offered of the place ot circumstances under which the enlistment of the-crew took
place. It consisted, according to the strong language of the testimony, of persons of all nations; and'
it deserves consideration, that throughout this voluminous record, not a scintilla of evidence exists to
show that any person on board of either vessel was a
"-

VOL. VF-.

44

-

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

native of Buenos Ayres. We think, then, that ths
fact of illegal augmentation of force, by the equip-

1822,
The

ment of the Altravida, is also completely established

SanDt:,ima

Tinidad.

in proof.
What, then, are the consequences which the law
attaches to such conduct, so far as they respect the
property now under adjudication ? It is argued on the
part of the libellant, that it presents a casus ftederis

Thtz'sith arti-

cle of the Spa
nish
teatypro.o
IM0, only
for the

vides

restitution
Spanish

of

ships

under our treaty with Spaiu.

The sixth and four-

teenth articles are relied upon for this purpose.

The

is in our judgment exclusively applicable to
former
h

capturedith,' the protection and defence of Spanish ships within
our

ton.

jurisdic-

our territorial jurisdiction, and provides for the restitution of them when they have been captured within that jurisdiction. The latter aiticle provides, that
no subject of Spain " shall apply for, or take any
commission or letter of marque for arming any ship
or ships to act as privateers," against the United
States, or their citizens, or their property, from any
prince or state with which the United States shall
be at war; and that no citizen of the United States
" shall applyAfor, or take any commission or letters
of marque, for arming any ship er ships to act cs
privateers" against the King of Spain, or his subjects, or their property, from any prince or state
with which the said king shall be at war. " And
if any person of either nation shall take such commission or 'letter of marque, he shall be punished as
a pir-te." In the Spanish counterpart of the treaty,
the word " privateers" in the first clause has the
corresponding word ,1 corsarios ;" but in the second
clause, no such word is to be found. But it is ob-

OF THE UNITED ST!ATES

vious that both clauses were intended to receive, and
1822.
oughr to receive, the same construction; and the " The'
very terms of the article confine the prohibition to Santi-ima
is not for this
commissions, &c. to privateers. It
Court to make the construction of the treaty broader

than the apparent intent and purport of the language.
There may have existed, and probably did exist,
reasons of public policy which forbade an extension
of the prohibition to public ships of war. It might
well be deemed a breach of good faith in a nation
to enlist in its own service an acknowledged foreigner,
and at the same time subject him by that very act,
and its own stipulations, to the penalties of piracy.
But it is sufficient for the Court, that the language
of the treaty does not include the case of a public
ship, and we do not perceive that the apparent intention or spirit of any of its provisions, justifies such
an interpolation. The question, then, under the Spanish treaty, may be dismissed without further commentary.
to
This view of the question renders it unnecessary aU,4'c
thet doctrine of
to consider another which has been discussed at the cxpatriati !
bar respecting what is denominated the rlight of expatriation. It is admitted by Captain Chaytor, in
the most explicit manner, that during this whole period his wife and family have continued to *resideat
Baltimore; and so far as this fact goes, it contradicts
the supposition of any real change of his own domicil. Assuming, for the purposes of argument,
that an American citizen may, independently of any
legislative act to this effect, throw off his own allegiance to his native country, as to which we give no

348

CASES IN THE SUPREME

OURT

opinion, it is perfectly clear, that this cannot be done
1822.
%The fwithout a bonafide change of domicil under circum-'
Santissima stances of good faith. It can never be asserted as a
Trinidad.
cover for fraud, oras ajustification for the commission
of a crime against the country, or for a violation of
its law§, when this appears to be the intention of the
act. It is unnecessary to go into a farther examination of this doctrine; ,nd it will be sufficient to ascertain its precise nature and limits, when it shall
become the leading. point of a judgment of the
Court.
And here we are met by an argument oni behalf
of the claimant, that the augmentation of the
force of the Independencia within our ports, is not
an infraction of the law of nations, or a violation of
our neutrality ; and that'so far as it stands prohibited
by our municipal laws the penalties are personal, and
do not reach the case of restitution of captures made
in the cruize, during which such augmentation has
It has never been held by this Court,
An ofaumentation
forcts or taken place.
illegal outfit on- that an augmentation of force or illegal outfit affectly affects capd ed any captures made after the original cruize 'was
r
By analogy to other cases of violations
aumeticon terminated.
or outfit was
of public law the offi'nce may well be deemed to be
-nade.
deposited at the termination of the voyage, and not
to affect future transactions. But as to captures
made during the same cruize, the doctrine of this
Court has long established that such illegal augmentation is a violation of the law of nations, as well as
of our own municipal laws, and as a violation of
our neutrality, by analogy to other cases, it infects
the captures subsequently made with the character

OF TiE UNITED STATES.

W4

of torts, and justifies and requires a restitution to the

1822.

parties who have been injured by such misconduct.

The
SaXtissima

It does not-lie in the mouth of wrongdoers, to set up
a-title derived from a violation of our neutrality.
The cases in which this doctrine has been recognized and applied, have been cited at the bar, and are
so numerous -nd so uniform, that it would be a waste
of time to discuss them, 'or to examine the reasoning
by wbich they are supported: More especially as no
inclination -exists on the part of the Court to question the soundness of these decisions. If, indeed, the
question, were entirely new, it would deserve very
grave consideration, whether a claim founded on a
violation of our neutral jurisdiction could be asserted
by private persons; or in any other manner than a
direct intervention of the government itself. In the
case of a capture made within a neutral territorial j urisdic ion, it is-Well settled, that as between the captors and the captured, the question can never be litigated. It can arise only upon a claim of the neutral sovereign asserted in his own Courts or the
Courts of the power having cognizance of the capture itself for the purposes of prize. And by analogy to this course of proceeding, the interposition
of our own -government might seem fit to have
been required, before cognizance of the wrong
could be taken by our Courts. But the practice
from the beginning in this class of causes, a period
of nearly 30 years, has been uniformly the other
way; and .it is now too late to disturb it. If any inconvenience should -grow oht of it, from reasons of
state policy or executive discretion, it is competent

Triniaa.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

360

for Congress to apply at its pleasure the proper re-

1822.

The Smedy.
Santissima
It is further contended by the claimdnt, that the
Trinidad.
doctrine heretofore established has been confined to
Captures

by

public ships'as
vateers, ifr ade

cases of captures made by privateers ; and that it has

or never been applied to captures by public ships, aud in
subject to reason aDd policy ought not to be so applied. The case

in violation

our neutrality,
restitution.

of the Cassus, in 3 Dall. Rep. 121., has been sup-

posed at the bar to authorize such an interpretation
of the doctrine. That was the case of a motion for
a prohibition to the District Court to prohibit it from
exercising jurisdiction on a libel filed against the
Cassius, a public armed ship of France, to obtain
compensation in damages in rem, for an asserted illegal capture of another-vessel belonging to the libellants on the high seas, and sending her into a
French port for adjudication, as prize. The libel
alleged that the Cassius was originally equipped
and fitted for war in a port of the United States contrary to our laws, and the law of nations. But there
was no allegation that she had been originally fitted
out by her present commander, or after she became
the property of the French government. The principal question was, whether our Courts could sustain
a libel for compensation in rem against the capturing
vessel for an asserted illegal capture as prize on the
high seas, when the prize was not brought into our
ports, but was carried into a port infra prcesidia of
the captors. The Court granted the prohibition;
but as no reasons were assigned for the judgment,
the only ground that can be gathered, is that which
is apparenm on the face of the writ of prohibition,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

651

where it is distinctly asserted, that the jurisdiction
1822.
in cases of this nature exclusively belongs to the
The
Courts of the capturing power, and that neither the Sntissima
public ships of a nation, nor the officers of such Trinld2d.
sh.ps are liable to be arrested to answer for such
captures in any neutral Court. The doctrine of that
case was fully recognized by this Court in the case
of the Itvincible, (I Wheat R. 238.;) and it furnishe- a rule tor the exemption of a public ship from proceedings in rem, in our Courts fbr illegal captures on
tile high seas, in violation of our neutrality ; but in
no degree exempts her prizes in our ports from the
ample exercise of our jurisdiction.
Nor is there in reason or in policy any ground for
a distinction between captures in violation of our
neutrality by public ships, and by privateers. In
each case the injury done to our friend is the same;
in eacti the illegality of the capture is the sama; in
each the duty of the neutral is equally strong to assert its own rights, and to preserve its own good faith,
and to take from the wrongdoer the property he has
unjustly acquired, and reinstate the other party in his
title and possession which have been tortiously devested. This very point was directly asserted by
this Court in its judgment in the causes of the Invincible. Mr. Justice JoHNsON there said, "as to the
restitution of prizes made in violation of neutrality,
there could be no reason suggested for creating a distinction between the national and the private armed
vessels of a belligerent. Whilst a neutral yields to
other nations the unobstructed exercise of their sovereign or belligerent rights, her own dignity and secu

352

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rity require of her the vindipation of her own neutrality, and of her sovereign right to remain the
The
Santissima peaceable -ind impartial spectator of the war. As to
Trinidad.
her it is immaterial in whom the property of the offending vessel is vested. The commission under
which the captors act is the same, and that alone
communicates the right of capture, even to a vessel
which is national property." We are satisfied of the
correctness of this doctrine, and have no disposition
to shake it. In cases of violation of neutral territorialjurisdiction no distinction has ever beefl made between the capture of public and private armed ships;
and thesame reason which goverms that, applies with
equal force to this case.
An objection of a -more important and comprehensive nature has been urged at the bar, and that is,
that public ships of war are exempted from the local
jurisdiction by the universal assent of nations ; and
that as all property captured by such ships is captured for the sovereign, it is, by parity of reasoning, entitied to the like exemption; for nzo sovereign is answerable for his acts to the tribunals of any foreign
sovereign.
cae ng the
In the case of the Exchange, (7 Cranch, 1 6.) the
Exchange, 7
182.

Cranch, i 16.

disting.shed
from this ae

grounds of the exemption of public ships were .fully
discussed and expounded. It was there shown that
it was not founded upon any notion that a foreign
sovereign had an absolute right, in virtue of his sovereign'ty, to an exemption of his property from the local jurisdiction of another sovereign, when it came
within his territory ; for that would be to give him
sovereign power beyond the limits of his own empire.

oF THE UNITED STATES.

3.53

But it stands upon principles of -public comity and
18
convenience, and-arises from the presumed consent
TIC
or license of nations, that fQreign public ships con- &anti.wmo
ing. into their ports,-and demeaning themselves ac- Trint'ad.
cording to law, and in a friendly manner; shall be exempt from the local jurisdiction. But as such consent and license is implied only from the general
usage of .nations, it may be withdrawn upon notice
at any time, .without just offence, and if afterwards
such public ships come into our ports, they are amenable to our laws in the same manner as other vessels. To be sure, a foreign sovereign cannot be compelled to appear in our Courts, or be made liable to
their judgment, so long as he remains in his own dominions, for the sovereigrity of each is bounded by
territorial limits. If, however, hd comes personally
within our limits, although he.generally enjoy a personal immunity, he may become liable to judicial
process in the same way, and under the same circumstances, as the public ships of the nation. But
there is nothing in the law of nations which forbids a
•foreign sovereign, either on account of the dignity of
his station, or the nature of his prerogative, from voluntarily becoming a party to a suit in the tribunals of
another country, or from asserting there any personal, or proprietary, or sovereign rights, which may be
properly recognized and enforced by such tribunals.
It is a mere matter of his owh good will and pleasure;
and if he happens to hold a private domain within
another territory, it may be that he cannot obtain full
redress for any injury to it, except through the instrumentality of its Courts of justice. It may thereVOL. VII.

45

$954
1822.

1allThe
Santissima
Trinidad.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

fore be justly laid doii n as a generil proposition. that
persons and property within the territorial *urisdiction of a sovereian, are amenable to the jurisdiction of himself or his Courts: and that the exceptions
to this rule are such only as by common usage, and
public policy, have been allowed, in order to preserve the peace and harmony of nations, and to regulate their intercourse in a nianner best suited to their
dignity and rights. It would indeed he strange, if a
license implied by law from the general practice of
nations, for the purposes of peace, should he construed as a license to do wrong to the nation itself, and
justify the breach of all those obligations which good
faith and friendship, by the same implication, impose
upon those wrho seek an asylum in our ports. We
are of opinion that the objection capmot be sustained;
and that whatever may be the exemption of the public ship herself, and of her armament and munitions
of war, the prize property which she brings into our
ports is liable to the jurisdiction of our Courts, for the
purpose of examination and inquiry, and if a proper
case be made our, for restitution to those whose possession has been devested by a violation of our neutrality ; and if the goods are landed from the public
ship in our ports, by the express permission of our
own government, that does not vary the case, since
it involves no pledge that if illegally captured they
shall be exempted from the ordindry operation of

our la'ws.
The last question which has been made at the bar,
on which itis necessary to pronounce an opinion, is
as to the effect of the asserted condemnation of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

property in controversy, at Buenos Ayres, during
the pendency of this suit. Assuming, for the purpose of argument, tIthat the condemnation was regularly made, and is duly authenticated, we are of qpinion
that it cannot oust the jurisdiction of this, Court,
after it had once regularly attached itself to the
cause. By the seizure and possession of the property, under the process of the District Court, the possession of the captors was devested, and the property
was emphatically placed in the custody .of the law.
It has been since sold, by consent of the parties, under
an interlocutory decree of the Court, and the proceeds are deposited in its registry, io abide the final
adjudica'tion. Admitting, then,-that property may lie
condemned in the Courts of the captor, while lying
in a neutral country, (a doctrine which has been affirmed by this Court,) still it can be so adjadicated
only while the possession of the captbr remains; for
if-it be devested, in fact, or by operation of law, that
possession is gone which can alone-sustain the jurisdiction. A fortiori, where the property is alrea.ly
in the custody of a neutral tribunal, and the title is
in litigiation there, no other foreign Court can, by its
adjudication, rightfully take away its jurisdiction, or
forestall and defeat its judgment. It would be an
attempt to exercise a: sovereign authority over the
Court having possession of the thing, and take from
the nation the right of vindicating its own justice and
neutrality.
Upon tie whole, it is the opinion of the Court
that the decree of the Circuit Court he affirmed, with
costs,

35"*
1s8.
The

Satissim
TrinidAn.
at
to

Ruma
" "'

procedings.

