CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Bayley
V.

(CUANCnYr.]

Greenleaf

BAYLEY

v.

GREENLEAF

and Others.

The vendor of real property, who has not taken a separate security for
the purchase money, has a lien for it, on the land, as against the
vendee and his heirs.
This lien is defeated by an alienation to a bona jfide purchaser without
notice.
Nor can it be asserted against creditors holding under a bona fide conveyance from the vendee.
Quere, Whether the lien can be. asserted against the assignees of a
bankrupt, or other creditors coming in under the purchaser by act of
law ?
The didwu of Sugden in his Law of Vndors, 364, examined, and
qdestioned,

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This suit was brought by the appellant in the Circuit Court, for the county of Washington, for the
purpose of subjecting a tract of land, lying within that
county, which was sold by the plaintiff, Bayley, to the
defendant, Greenleaf, to the payment of so~much of
the purchase money as still remains due. It appeared
by the proceedings in the cause that in the year 1792
William Bayley, purchased from William B. Woring the plaintiff on a warrant for a contempt adjudged by the
House See also the case of J. V. N. Yates, 4 Johns Rep. 317.
Yates v. Lansing, 9 Johns. Rep. 395. Yates v. The People,
6 Johns. Rep. 337. Burdett v. Abbott, 14 East's Rep. 1. S. C.
5 Dow. Parl. Rep. 165,

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

man, the land which is the subject of this suit, which
1822.
he afterwards sold to James Greenleaf, to whom the Bayley
'
V.
title was made by Worman. A bond was given by
Greenleaf
Greenleaf to Bayley for the purchase money, which,
in March, 1796, was surrendered to Greenleaf on his
accepting hills drawn in .favour of Clement Biddle,
for its amount. Some of these bills were alleged to
be unpaid, and vere produced by the plainatffs.
Onthegoth day of September, 1796,James Greenleaf, being then greatly indebted, conveyed sundry
estates, and among others, the land in controversy,
to George Simson. in trust for the security of Edward Fox, who had entered into engagements for
the said Greenleaf, to a very large -amount. The
deed was also made to secure the said Fox for any further advances he might make to, or engagements he
miaht enter into, on account of the said Greenleaf.
On the 23d ofMarch, 1797, George Simpson conveyed this land to the defendants, Pratt, Francis ancl
others, as trustees f6r the usei and purposes mentioh
ed in the deed from Greenleaf to Simpson. On the'
26th of June 1797, a general deed was made to the
same persons by Robert Morris, John Nich-olson, and
the sdid James Greenleaf, conveying to them the
property mentioned in the deeds of the 30th of September, 1796, and of the 23d of March, 1797, with
an immense mass of other property, for the payment
of debts to a very great amount due from the said
M. N. and G. which were enumerated in the said
deed.
Some doubts having been entertained respecting
the recording of these deeds, an attachment was sued

CASES IN THE SUPREMTE COURT
1822.
s/

Bayley
Bae

Greealeaf.

Feb.

I1h.

out by the trustees against the said Greenleaf, in the
county in which the said lands then lay, on which judgment was obtained ont he 8th of February, 1798 ; and
on the 28th day of the same month the land was sold
under thejudgment, purchased in for the trustees, and
afterwards conveyed to them to the same uses and
trusts as had been expressed in the original conveyajice by deed dated in 1803.
In March, 1798, James Greenleaf took the benefit
of the insolvent law of the State of Pennsylvania; and
in November of the same year, he was also discharged tinder the insolvent law of the State of Maryland.
In November 1803, he was declared a baikrupt under
the laws of the United States. The plaintiff, William
Bayley, also became a bankrupt under the laws of the
United States in July, 1802.
The trustees alleged they had contracted to sell the
land in controversy to James Greenleaf; but that he
had not paid the purchase money, in consequence of
which they retained the legal title.
This suit was brought in the year 1812, by William Bayley, and by James S. Morrell, as trusee for
the creditors of the said Bayley, and executor of the
original assignee of the bankrupt, who is dead.
Mr. Law and Mr. Key, for the appellants, insisted that they had an equitable, subsisting, unwaived
lien upon the land sold to the defendant, Greenleaf
for the amount of the purchase money. The law on
the subject has been settled by a long and uniform
current of decisions. The lien exists between vendor and vendee, and against subsequent purchasers

OF THE UNITED STATES.

from the vendee with notice that the money remains
unpaid, unless the parties, by some unequivocal act,
waive the lien.a it may also be asserted against purof a
chasers, coming in by act of law, as assignees
bankrupt, and against creditors claiming undler a
conveyance for their-benefit : they are considered as
volunteers.b Nor has the lien, in this case, been
waived. Taking a covenant, bond, or note, is no
waiver of the lien, if taken as a mode of payment,
and not as a distinct security.c
Mr. Jontes, contra, contended, that under the circumstances of the present case, the lien could not be
asserted against creditors taking a bonafide conveyveyance from the vendee. This is not a case where
the party comes in by operation of law. A creditor,
who takes a conveyance for the security of his debt,
stands in equal equity with one who pays his money,
and is equally a purchaser. The dictum of Sugden
on this subject is not supported by the adjudged cases
in England. or in this country. Besides, the alleged
debt due from Greenleaf to Bailey never attached
any equitable lien to the land ; Worman, and not
Bailey, standing in the relation of vendor, and the true
vendor being satisfied with the purchase money.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
a Brown v. Gilman, 4 M.eat. Rep. 255. and cases collected
in note a. lb. 292. 297.
b Sugd. Mend. 364. and the cases there cited.
2 .M1add. Ch.
105. Chapman v. Tanner, I Vern. %67.
c Sugd. Pend. 353. 1 Sch. and Lefr. 105.
VOL. VII.

7

1822.

Be
V'.

Feb

teth

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18M.
'

Bayley

V.
Greenleaf

In opposition to the claim of the plaintiffs, it is alleged by the defendants, that the debt of Bayley has

been discharged. As they have not succeeded in supporting this allegation, it will be necessary to inquire
whether, in such a case as this, the plaintiffs can assert a lien on the land sold by Bayley to Greenleaf,
for so much of the purchase money as remains due.
It is contended for the defendants, that as the legal
title to the estate was never in Bayley, he never had
a lien upon jt for the purchase money.
Upon this point, some difference of opinion exists
in the Court ; and we pass it over without positively
deciding it, for the purpose of inquiring, whether
Bayley, supposing him entitled to the same rights as
a vendor of the legal title, has now a lien on the
estate for the purchase meney.
That a vendor, who has taken no other security
for the purchase money, retains a lien for it on the
land as against the vendee, or his heirs, seems to be
well settled by the English decisions. It is equally
well settled, that. this lien isdefeated by an alienation
to a purchaser without notice. How far ,it may be
asserted against creditors, seems not so well settled,

and constitutes the subject of inquiry in this case.
The lien asserted by the vendor is not disclosed
by,.any information given by a record. In Chapman
v. Tanner, (1 Vern. 267.) the Lord Keeper said,
" In this case there is a natural equity that the land
should stand charged with so much of the purchase
money, as was not paid, and that without any speIn the case cited
cial agreement for that purpose."
rom l 3ro. Ch. Ca. 420. the Chancellor says, "A bar-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

gain and. sale must be for money paid, otherwise it
is- in trust for the .bargainor. If an estate is sold, and
no part of the money paid, the vendee is a trustee ;
them if part be paid, is it not the same as to that
which is unpaidi"
But whether the lien of the vendor be established
as- a- natural equity"' or from analogy to theprincipie that in a bargain and sale, the bargainor stands
seised in trust for the bargainee unless the money be
paid, still it is a secret invisible trust, known only to
the vendor and vendee, and to those towhom it may
b0 cimmunicated in fact. To the world the vendec.
appears toF hold the estate, devested of any trusL
whatever; and credit is given to him, in the confidence
that the property is his own in equity, as well as law.
A vendor relying upon this lien, ought to reduce it to
a mortgage, so as to give notice of it to the world. If
he does not, -he is, in some degree, accessary to the
fraud committed on the public, by an act which exhibits the vendee as the complete owner of an estate
on, which he claims a secret lien. It would seem inconsistent With the principles of equity, and with the
generat spirit of our laws, that such a lien should be
set up in a Court of Chancery, to the exclusion of
bona fide creditors. The Court would require cases
in which this principle is expressly decided, before
its correctness can be admitted.
The counsel for the plaintiffs say, there are such
cases; and cite the dictum of Sugden. in his Law of
Vendors, and the cases he quotes in support of the position.
, Mr. Sugden does indeed say, that persons coming

182.
Baypey

V.

Greenleaf.

52.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,in under the purchaser by act of law, are bound by
equitable lien, although they had no notice of its
Ian
Bayley
V. existence ; and he adds, that "creditors claiming unGreenleaf. eer a conveyance from the purchaser, are bound in
1822.

'like manner as assignees, because they stand in the
same situation as creditors under a commission."
Mr. Iiladdock, who also recites the cases on this
subject, says, that the vendor has a lien on the
estate sold "as against the vendeejand his heir, and all
persons claiming as volunteers, or purchasers for a
valuble consideration, with notice." He adds, "nor
does the bankruptcy of the vendee affect the lien
of the vendor." But he does'not say, with Sugden,
that " creditors claiming under a conveyence from the
purchaser, are bound in like manner as assignees."1
This lien has not, we believe, been extensively recognized in the Courts of this country. In the case of
Garson v. Green and others, (I Johns. Ch.Rep. 308.,)
Mr. Chancellor KENT said, " the vendor has a lien on
the estate for the purchase money while the estate is
in the hands of the vendee ; and when there is no
contract that the lien, by implication, was not intended to be reserved."
If the lien has, in any of the States, or in any
Court of the United States, been sustained against
creditors, the decision is unknown to us.
This is the first case in which the question, so far
as respects creditors, has been made in this Court,
and may form a precedent on a subject of great interest to the public. We have looked into the English authorities for the purpose of inquiring how fir
the principle has been filrmly established in that country.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

In Chapmanv. Tanner, (1 Vern. 267.,) the lien of
1822.
the vendor was maintained against the assignees of *
Bayley
V
a bankrupt, But in Fawell v. Heelis, (AmbI. 724.) the
.
Gree
"1It apsays,
case,
that
of
speaking
Lord Chancellor,
pears by the Register's book, that the seller was
The
to keep the title papers till he was paid.
arose
from
his
havCourt said, that a natural equity
ing the deeds in his custody."
This explanation of the case of Chapman v. -Tan'ner lessens the weight of that case in support of the
lien, not only as against the assignees of a bankrupt,
but as against the vendor himself, since the retaining
of the title deeds by the vendor is considered as equivalent to an agreement for the preservation of the
lien.
Fawell v. Heelis and others, reported in Ambler,
was a suit to establish the lien of the vendor against
the trustees of an insolvent debtor. The Chancellor defermined against the lien, because a receipt
for the purchase money was endorsed on the deed,
If" said
and a bond taken for it from the vendee. ,"
the Court, "the vendor parts with the estate, and
-takes a security for the consideration money, there
is no reason for a Court of equity to assist him against
the creditors of the purchaser."
A doctrine ascribed to Lord APSLEY, that ,"creditors claiming under such a deed (a deed of an insolvent debtor to trustees for his creditors,) stand in the
same situation as creditors under a commission," has
been supposed to apply to the case now before the
Court, and is cited by Mr. Sugden to support his
general proposition, that "creditors claimi:g under

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Baqly

-

V.

Greenleaf.

a conveyance from the purchaser are bound in like
manner as assignees, because they stand in the same
situation as creditors.under a commission."

It is uncertain whether this was said'by,the Chan-

cellor, as from himself, or with reference to the argu.
ments of counsel; but if it be his dictum, it will not,
we think, aid the plaintiffs in the cause under consideration ; nor does it justify the broad and general
terms.used. by Sugden-; terms which have been probably understood in a more, extensive sense than he
intended. A dedlaration that creditors under a.conveyance, and under a commission, are in the same
situation as regards the lien of the vendor, made in
a case in which the decree was against -that lien, is.
not entt] .d to the respect which the same declaration
would claitm had the decree been made, in favour of
the ,lien. The Chancellor was against the lien,
whether set. up, against assignees or trustees, and
might not therefore examine very accurately the
sameness or the discrepancy of the 'principles on
which the two cases stood. Had he considered
Chapman v. Tnner, as decided on the general principle, and not on its particular circumstances, it would
have been necessary t, inquire whether the same
principle applied -to the case of Fawell v. Heelis and
others ; but not being of that opinion, and being opposed to the lien, the inquiry became less necessary.
Another consideration, entitled to great attention, is,,
that this dictum of ,the Chancellor, if it be one, is
confined in terms to "ssuch a deed" as was then under his consideration. That,was a deed made by an
insolvent, after his insolvency, to trustees for his cro,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ditors. This was, we suppose, a deed madein pur1822.
suance of the statute ; and between a deed assigning
V.
the estate of an insolvent under the insolvent law,
and a deed assigning the estate of a bankrupt under Greeneaf.
the bankrupt law, there is not perhaps much difference. But it does not follow that the same rule
would be applied to a conveyance made by the mere
act of the party, for the security of one or more creditors, or of creditors generally.
The case of Blackburn v. Gregson, (1 Bro. Ch.
Rep. 420.) was also an attempt to set up the lien of
the vendor against the assignees of a bankrupt.
In-that case, the general question of the'existence
of such a lien -was argued at bar as one not yet finally settled ; and, although the inclination of the Chancellor's mind seemed in favour of the lien, he made
no decision on that point. An issue was directed to
try whether the conveyance was made to defeat creditors under the 13th of Eliz. ch. 5., and the jury
having found that it was so made, the conveyance
was set aside.
The question of lien appears to have remained still
open; and in the case of Nairn v. Prowse,(6 Ves.jur.
752.) it was still doubted whether a vendor who had
taken the bond or note of the vendee for the purchase
money, retained his lien on the land. That case was
be-ween a creditor who claimed under an equitable
mortgage created by the deposit of a deed, and the
vendor who had taken a deposit of stock to secure
the payment of the purchase money. The Court
determined, that by taking the deposit of stock he had

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1892.
Bayley

v.

Greenleaf

waied his lien ; and, consequently, the question bethe creditor and vendor was not decided.
It does not appear ever to have been decided. We

Stween

find no case in which the naked question has been
determined against the creditor. Could the case of
Chapman v. Tanner even be stripped of the circumstance that the vendor retained the title papers in his
hands, still the assignees of a bankrupt are not understood, in England, to stand in the same situation
with a creditor who is secured by a rortgage. In
the case of Mitford v. Mitford, (9 Fes. jur.) the Master of the Rolls says, " between a particular assignment for valuable consideration, and an assignment
by operation of law, such a distinction has always
been made, that the effect of the one is not, necessarily to be inferred from that produced by the other."
In the same case he says, " I have always understood
the assignment from the commissioners, like any
other assignment by operation of law, passed his rights
precisely in the same plight and condition as he possessed them. Even where a complete legal title vests
in them, and there is no notice of any equity affecting it, they take subject to whatever equity the bankrupt was liable to. This shows they are not considered purchasers for a valuable consideration, in the
proper sense of the words. Indeed, a distinction has
been constantly takeu between them and a particular
assignee, for a specific consideration ; and the former
are placed in the same class as voluntary assignees
and personal representatives."
Were it theii completely settled that the vendor retains his lien against the assignees of a bankrupt, it

OF THE UNITED STATES.

would not follow that he would retain it against creditors holding under a bonafide conveyance from the
vendee. To establish this principle on the autlority
of adjudged cases, the Court would require cases in
which the very point is decided. We have seen no
such cases. We have seen no case in which this lien
has -been supported against a judgment creditor,
against a mortgagee, or even against a creditor
charging an heir on the bond of his ancestor in which
he was bound.
The weight of authority is; we think, the other
way. The lien of the vendor, if in the nature of a
trust is a secret trust ; and, although to be preferred
to any other subsequent equal equity, unconnected
with a legal advantage, or equitable advantage which
gives a superior claim to the legal estate, will be postponed to a subsequent equal equity connected with
such advantage. This principle is laid down in Hiargrave and Butler's notes to Co. Lytt. 290. b. ; and
the case of Stanhope v. Earl Verney, decided in
Chancery in 1761, is quoted in support of it. That
was the case of an equitable mortgage, founded on
the deposit of a-deed for a term of years to attend the
inheritance, with a declaration of the trust. This is
a much stronger case. It is an actual conveyance of
the legal estate.
In the United States the claims of creditors stanct
on high ground. There is not perhaps a State in the
Union, the laws of which do not make all conveyances not recorded, and all secret trusts, void as to
creditors as well as subsequent purchasers without
notice. To support the secret lien of the vendor
ar.. Aq..

8

1822.
.
Gr#cnleaf.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182T. . against a creditor who is a mortgagee, would be to
counteract the spirit of these laws.
Browder
V.
Decree affirmed with costs.
Brwe

M'Arthur.

(PRACTICE.]

BROWDER V. MARTHUR.
This Court will not grant a rehearing in an equity cause, after it 1as
been remitted to the Court below to carry into effect the decree of
this Court, according to its mandate.

Feb. 2181.

Mr. Doddridge,for the appellant, Browder, moved
for a rehearing in this cause, which is the same case
that was determined at the last term, and remitted
to the Court below to carry into effect the decree of
this Court.- It was now again brought before this
Court, upon an appeal from the decree of the Court
below, eritered according to the mandate from this
Court. The appellant's counsel now moved for a
rehearing upon the merits.
The COURT denied the motion, being of opinion
that it was too late to grant a rehearing in a cause
after it had been remitted to the Court below, to carry
into effect the decree of this Court, according to its
mandate; and that a subsequent appeal from the
Circuit Court, for supposed error in.carrying into
a S. C. 6 Wheat. Rep.
h He cited 2 Aladd. Chian. 390.

3 P. Wins. 8.

2 .111k. 439.

