OF THE UNITED STATES.

last line Will not cross the south fork, .and that the
land will not be ."on both sides of the two main
forks of Duck iver."
But this objection will not )e removed or dimi-

nished by the instruction required by the plaintiff in
error. Nor can the land be so surveyed as that the
last line shall cross the south fork. From the ter-rnination of the third line, it is necessary to proceed
to the beginning, and the platt shows us that jhe
south fork does not run between the two points. It
cannot be brought between them, if at all, without
extending the third line an immense distance, and
changing the whole figure of the platt, or entirely
disregarding the act of Assembly, which directs
lands to be taken up by lines running with the cardinal points, except in particular cases, of which
this is not one.
Judgment affirmed with costs.

(ComMorc LAw.)
TAYLOE

v. T. & S.

SANDIFORD.

In general, a sum of money in gross, to be paid for the non-performance
of an agreement, is considered as a penaly, and not as liquidated da.
mcges.
A fortiori,when it is expressly reserved as a penalty.

Thus, where in a building contract, the following covenant was contained: "1The said houses to be compietely finished on or before the

182e.
Tayloe

T.

sansfra.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
.--

Tayloe
-VSa~diford.

Feb. 5th.

24th of December next, under a penalty of 1000 dollars, in caso of
failure;" it Was held, that this was not intended as liquidated damages
for the brcach of that single covenant only, but applied to all the covenants made by the same party in that agreement; that it was in the
nature of a penalty, and could not be set off in an action brought by
the party to recover the price of the work;
An agreement to perform certain work within a limited time, under a
certain penalty, is-r1t .0 be construed as liquidating the damages
which the party is to pay.for the breach of Is covenant.
The case of Fletcher v.,Dycke, 2 Term Rep. 32. commented on, and
distinguished from the present.
A pesoh owing money undei distinct'contracts, has a right to apply his
payments to whichever debt he may choose, and this power may be
exercised without any express direction given at the time.
A direction may be evidenced by circumstances. as well as by words i
and a positive refusal to pay one debt, and an acknowledgment of
.another, with a delivery of the sum due upon it, wbuld be such a clr,eunlstanbe.

Tims; cause. Was argued by Mr. Jones, and. Mr.
Hay," for the plaintiffT in error, and by Mr. Key' for

the defendants in error.
Feb. 1W.

Mr. Chief. Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is, a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit'Court of the county of Alexandria, rendered in
an action of assumpsit, brought by T. & S. Sandiford against John Tayloe.' It appeared on tho
trial of the cause, that on the 13th of May, 1816,
the patties entered into a written, contract ,, by
a They cited 2 Comyn on'Contracts,528-6539, and tho case
there collected. Fletcher v. Dycke, 2 T. R. 32.
b He cited 4 Cr'anch,'317. 6 Cranch, 9. Dennis v. Cum.
minR, 3 "Johns.Cas. 297. Smith v. Dickdnson, 3 Bos. 8, Pul.
63O. Iank of Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Ctanch, 299.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which the defendants in error undertook to build
for the- plaintiff three'houses on the Pennsylvania
avenue in the city of Washington. On the 18th
a
day of the same month, the parties entered into
contract, under seal, for the building of three additional houses, at a stipulated price. This contract contains the following covenant: "The said
houses to be completely finished on or before the
24th day of December next, under a penalty of one
thousand dollars, in case of failurei)
The parties entered into a third verbal contract
for some. additional work, to be measured, and paid
for according to measurement.
. These three houses were not completed
by the
day, and the plaintiff in error claimed the sum of
1,000 dollars, as stipulated damages, and retained
it out of the money due to the defendants in error.
This suit was, thereupon, brought; and, on the trial
of the cause, the defendant in the Circuit Court
claimed to set off in this action 1,000 dollars, as in
the nature of stipulated damages; but the Court
overruled this claim, and decided that the said sum
of 1,000 dollars had been received in the nature of
a penalty, and could not be set off in this action.
The defendant then moved the Court to instruct
the jury, that "upon the evidence offered, if believed,
the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover in this action the said sum of 1,000 dollars, inasmuch as
the same, if due at all, was due under a contract
under seal, and that the declarations of the defendant,
and the understanding between the parties as to the
reservation of the said 1,000 dollars, given in evi-

18eg.
Tl
Tayloo

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dence as aforesaid, was competent and suffioient eviT.yloo dence of the defendants' intention to apply his payaiforn. menttothe extinguishment, inthe'firstinstance,ofsuch
parts of the said moneys as were due by simplecontract, and to reserve the 1,OOl dollars out of the money
-due under the said original contract.", This instruction the Court refused to give; and did instruct the
jury "that it was competent to the plaintiffs to recover the said 1,000 .dollars in this action, unless they
should be satisfied bythd evidence that the defendant, at the time of paying the money, had expressly
directed the same, or a sufficient part thereof, to the
payment of the 1,500 dollars due on the simple-contract."
To both these opinions the defendant excepted;
and the jury having given- a verdict for the plaintiff
in the Circuit Court, this writ of error Was brought
to the judgment rendered thereon.
It is contended, by the plaintiff in error, that the
Circuit Court erred.
1st. In overruling thee claim to off-set the 1,000
dollars mentioned in the agreement.
2d. In declaring that the plaintiff in that Court
might so apply the payments made, as to discharge
the contract under seal, 'and leave the sum retained
.by the defendant, in that Court, to bo demanded
under the simple contract.
I. Is the sum of 1,000 dollars mentioned in the
agreement of the 13th of May, to be considered as a
penalty, or as stipulated damages ?
The words of the reservation are, " The said house
to be completely finished on or before the 24th day
1822.

*OF THE UNITED STATES.

of December next;, under the-penalty of 1,000 dollars, in case of failure.".
i general, a sum of money in gross, to be paid
for the non-performance of an agreement, is considered as a penalty, the legal operation of which is, to
cover the damages which the party, in whose favour
the stipulation is made, may have sustained from the
breach of contract by the opposite party. It will
not of course be considered as liquidated damages;
and it will be incumbent on the party who claims
them as such, to show that they were so considered
by tjia contracting parties. Much stronger is the .inference in favour of it's being a penalty, when it is
expressly reserved as one. The parties themselves
denominate it a penalty; and it would require very
strong evidence to authorize the Court to say that
their own words do -not express their own intention.
These writings appear to have been drawn on great
deliberation; and no slight conjecture would justify
the Court in saying that the parties were mistaken
in the import of the terms they have employed.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error supposes, that
the contract furnishes clear evidence that theparties
intended this sum as liquidated damages. The cir
cumstance, that it is annexed to the single covenani,
stipulating the time when the work shall be completed, is considered as showing that it was intended
to fix the damages, for the breach of 'that covenant.
Without deciding on the weight to which this
argyment would be entitled, if supported by the fact,
the court cannot admit that it is so supported. The
engagement, ttiat the said houses shall be complete3
VOL. VII.

1822.

V.
Sfd~ord.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
'next,

Tayloe
Sayod.

ly finished on or before the 24th day of December
is as much an engagement for the manner, as
for the time of finishing the work,
and covers, we
think, all the covenants made by the
defendants in
error in that agreement. The case, therefore, presents the single question, whether an agreement to
perform certain work by a limited time, under a certain penalty, is to be construed as liquidating the damages which the party is to pay for a breach of his
covenant. This question seems to have been decided
in the case of Smith v. Dickenson, reported in 3 Bos.
& Pull.630.
The plaintiff in error relies on the case of Fletcher
v.,Dycke, reported in 2 T. R.52., in which an agreement was entered into tocdo certain work within a
certain time, and if the work should not be done
within the time specified, "to forfeit and pay the sunr
of 101. for every week," until it should be completed.
.But the words "to forfeit and pay," are not so
strongly indicative of a stipulation in the nature of a
penalty, as the word "penalty" itself; and the agreement to pay a specified sum weekly during the failure of the party to perform the work, partakes much
more of the character of liquidated damages than the
reservation of a sum in gross.
The Court is well satisfied that this stipulation is in
the nature of a penalty, and, consequently, that there
was no error in rejecting it as a set -off in this case.,
a This subject is discussed, with his usual ability and acute-

ness, by Mr. EvANs, in the Appendix to his Translation of Pothier on Obligations, (Vol. 2. p. 93 -98.)

He thinks that the

-OF THE'UNITED STATES.
-The secon'd objection'goes entirely to the form of
the action.' The declaration is in assumpsit; and
the-plaintiff contends that the money claimed was
due on a -sealed instrument It is admitted that all
the-money for the Whole work performed by the defendants ia error 'was paid, except the sum of 1,000
dollars, which wfs retained by the plaintiff in error,
expressly on account of that sum which'te supposed
himself entitled. to under the Contract of the 18th of
May, on account of the -failure to complete the buildings by the 24th'of December. IfH this money was
due on the simple contract,'then: this action was
clearly sustainable ; if'it was due under the sealed
instrument, theii it could be recovered only by an
action on that instrument. It's being due du the one
or the other depends on the applicaiion of the payments mnade by the plaintifW to the defendants in
error. The Court instructed the jury, that it was
competent to the plaintiff to recbv~r the said 1;000
penalty ought, in 'eneral, to be regarded as stated damages;
ind his observations are -alculpted to excite doubts as to the

correctness of sonie of the decisions on this subject. la addition to the cases collected by him, and those cited in the argument of the above case, in the text, (Tayloe v. andford,) the
follo ing cases may be referred to.

Ponsonby v. Adams, 6

Bra. Par[.Cas. "418. Harrison v. Wright, 13 East, 343. Rolfe
.v.Peterson, 6 Bro. Parl. Cfas. 470. Sloman v. Walter, I Bro.

Cik. Rep. 418. Hardy v. Martin, lb. 419. Love v. Peers, 4
Burr. 2229.

Cotterel v. Hook, Doug. 101.

Wilbeam v. Ash.

ton, 1 Caipb..N. P. Rep. 78. Barton v. Glover, 1 Holt's 4Y.
1'. Rep. 43. The learned reader iwill also And the supposed
result of all the English cases summed up by Me. Holt, in a

note to the last mentioned case.

I Holt's N. P. Rep. 45.

1822.
Ty--

V.

.CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
'~~o

V.

Bandiferd.

dollars'in this action, "1unless they should be,satisfied
by the evidence that the defendant, at the time of
paying, the money had expressly directed the
same,

or a-sufficient part thereof; should be applied to the
extinguishment of the 1,600 dollars due on the simple contract."
This instruction of the Court is given in terms, the
correctness of which cannot be entirely admitted. It
would exclude an application of the money made by
the creditor himself, with the assent of the debtor to
the simple cbntract debt; for, in such case, it would
not appear that the debtor had " expressly directed"
the application.
Thus, among the accounts exhibited at the trial, is
a receipt for the whole sum due for extra wprk performed under a verbal contract. It was not proved
that the application of this money to the discharge of
the verbal contract was "expressly directed." Yet
no person will say that the creditor was at liberty to
controvert this application, or to change it.
A person owing money under distinct contracts
has undoubtedly a right to apply his payments to
whichever debt he may choose; and, although prudence might suggest an express direction of the. application o his payments atthe time of their boing
made ; yet there may be cases in which this power
would be completely exercised without any exprtss
direction given at the time. A direction may be evidenced by circumstances as well as by words. A
payment may be attended by circumstances which
demonstrate its application as completely as words
could demonstrate it. A positive refusal to pay one

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
debt, and an acknowledgment of another, with a delivery of the sum due upon it would, we think, be
Tayloc
T.
this
in
then,
such a circumstance. The inquiry,
Sairor.
the
by
made
payments
case, will be, whether the
plaintiff, to the defendants in error, were accompanie.d with'circumstances which amount to an exercise -of his power to apply them.
A circumstance of no light import was given in
evidence by the creditor himself. It was that, at
the time of discharging the account for the extra
work, the debtor confessed 11 that he had retained in
his hands 1,000 dollars, as the forfeiture under the
original contract for not finishing the houses in the
time stipulated by contract, and that he would hold
it, unless compelled by law to pay it." This 1,000
dollars was the twnalty stipulated in the agreement
inder seal; and when all the residue of the money
was paid, the inference is very strong, that this sum
was reserved out of the money stipulated by the
same agreement, and that the payments were made
in discharge of' the sums acknowledged to be due
for other work.
' The final payment was made by Tayloe,
through the hands of a third person. His original
purpose seems to have been, to insist on a receipt in
full- before he would pay the sum, which remained
due, independent of the sum in contest. But on a
representation of the peculiar pressure under which
the Sandifords laboured, they having a note in bank,
which had become due, he agreed to pay the whole
money due, under all the contracts, except the sum
of 1000 dollars, which he claimed a right to retain,

CASES IN THE SUPREDIM
1822.
'

Tayloe

COURT

under the stipulation of the sealed instrument. There
no objectibn, to the pdyment of the money
due, under the simple contract. The'
whole objection was to the payment of that under the sealed in-

'existed

Ty.

Sandiford.

strument, out of which he claimed a right to deduct
1000 dollars, on account of a failure in the performance of that contract. Under these circumstances,
we think that the money retained must be considered as reserved out of the sum clue on that contract,'
and that the simple contract Was discharged.
The court erred then in this direction to tie jury,
and the judtgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial.
CERTIICAE.-This cause came on to be heard,

on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
for the District of Columbia, in the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that the said
Circuit Court erred in instructing the jury, " that itwas competent to the plaintiff to recover the said
1000 dollars, in this action, unless they should be satisfied by the evidence, that the defendant, at the
time of paying the money, had expressly directed the
same, or a sufficient part thereof, to be applied to the
extinguishment of the 1,500 dollars, due on simple
contract."

It is therefore ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this case be,
and the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and
it is further ORDERED, that the said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to issue
a venirefacias de nero.

