OF THE UNITED STATES.
132g.
Page's Administrators

T

(Coomox LAw.]

.

The Bank of

Alexandria.

PAGE'S

Administrators v. THE, BANK

OF ALEXAN-

DRIA.
A bill, or note, isprima facie evidence, under a count for money had
and received, against the drawer or endorser.
Butthe presumntfon, that the contents of the bill or note have been received by the party gued, and for the use of the plaintiff, may be re-

butted by circumstances; and a recovery cannot be had, in such a
case, where it is proved that the money was actually received by another party.

to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, for the county of Alexandria. This was an
action of assumpsit; brought by the defendants in error, the Bank of Alexandria, against the plaintiffs in
error, the administrators of William Byrd Page, de,ceased. The declaration contained two counts. The
first was on a promissory note, which Was set forth,
as made byWilliam Hodgson, and payable on denzand
to the intestate, Page, who endorsed it to the Bank of
Alexandria, where it was discounted, and the money
paid to Hodgson. In support of this count, a note
was given in evidence, drawn by Hodgson, in favour
of, and endorsed by Page, payable fifty-four days
after date.
The other counts were for money lent and advanced
by the plaintiffs below to the intestate, Page, and for
money had and received by him for their use. Evidence was also given to show, that the Bank had
ERROR

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Page's Administrators
V.
The Bank of
Alexandria.

used due diligence in demanding payment of the
maker, and in giving notice of non-payment to the
endorser ; and that Page, in his life time, frequently
promised the Bank payment of the note, after it became due. Judgment was given for the plaintiffs
below, on a demurrer to the evidence, and the cause
was brought to this Court by writ of error.

Feb. sth.

This cause was argued by Mr. Swann, and Mr.
Lee," for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Taylor,'
for the defendants in error.

F6b. 4

1h M'. Justice LiviNGGsTON delivered the opinion of

the Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as
follows :
Whether due diligence were used by the holder of
the note, is immaterial now to inquire, as this Court
is of the opinion, that a note payable any number of
days after date, could not be applied to a count describing it as one payable on demand.

The only remaining question is, whether this note
were sufficient proof of the count for money lent
and advanced, and fof money had and received.
There are certainly cases in which a promissory note
or an endorsement of such note, may be offered in
a They cited Sheehy v. Drandeville,7 Cranch, 209. 1 t. B1,
602. French's Adm. v. the Bank of Alex., 4 Cranch, 1,11.
2 H. Bl. 609. Macky v. Davis, 2 Wash. Rep. 219. Goodhll
v. Stewart, 2 Hen. & MIunf. 105.
b He cited Tatlock v. Harris, 3 T. R. 174. 3 Burr. 1516.
2 Wash. Rep. 233. 265. 6 Xafnf. 392. 5 Cranch, 144. 5
Cranch, 49.

1 Cranch, 290.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

182,2.
evidence, against the maker or endorser, under a count
AamiPage's
"
circumother
with
unconnected
of this nature, and if
nistrators
stances, may be sufficient proof, in itself, to charge
the defendant. This proceeds on the ground, that The Bank of
Alcxanl.
such note warrants a fair presumption or inference,
that the maker or endorser has received the contents
of such note. But the Court is not satisfied that, ih
this case, the mere production of this note was sufficient proof of Page's having borrowed money of the
Bank, or of his having received moneys for their use.
Although a note or an endorsement be prima facie
evidence of a receipt of money from the holders, by
the maker, or endorser, yet, when all the other testimony in the cause produced by the plaintiffs themselves, shows unequivocally, that the money for
which the note was made, was paid, not to the endorser, but to the maker himself, and for his sole use:
the presumption arising from the mere act of indorsement is destroyed, and the party, in such case, ought
not to be permitted to abandon his count on the written contract of the party, and apply it to the general

money counts. It is admitted or proved, that this
was anote made and endorsed for the accommodation
of Hodgson, and that this fact was known to the Directors of the Bank, who received and discounted it
as such, and for his sole use, and that he, and not
Page, received the avails thereof. What pretence,
then, is there. that this money was lent to Page, or

that he received it for the use of the Bank ?
There was also proof in .the cause that "Page, in
his lifetime, frequently prom'sed the Bank payment
of the said note, after it became due. This promise

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Ex parte
Ewhich
Kearey.

must be regarded as applying exclusively to the note
was offered in evidence, and was payable in
fifty'four days after date : and if that note had been
declared on, its influence on the cause would deserve
serious consideration ; but it cannot be used in support of the other count, for the testimony, in terms,
confines this promise to payment of the n .-, and says
not a word of his undertaking to repay the money
which the Bank had loaned to him, or which he had
received for their use.
The opinion of the Court then is, that the Bank
can only recover from the administrators of Page, if
at all, on his endorsement ; but that, having set forth
the note incorrectly, and there not being sufficient
evidence to support the second count, the present action cannot be sustained. The judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore reversed ; andjudgment is
to be entered for the defendants below.

[CoNsTITUTIONAL LAW.]

Ex pare KEARNEY.
This Court has authority to issue a hWdea corpus, where a person is

imprisoned under the" warrant or order of any other Court of (ho
United States.
But this Court has no appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases, confided
to it by the laws of the United States, and cannot revi~c the judgments of the Circuit Courts, by writ of error, in any ,case where a
party has been convicted of a public offence.

