59

OF THE UNITED STATES.

effect such mandate, brought up only the proceedings
subsequent to the mandate, and did not authorize an
inquiry into the merits of the original decree.
A~tion denied.

[Co

ox LAw.

LocAL LAW.]

RICARD V. WILLIAMS

and Others.

Possession of Iandby a party, claimingit as his own in fee, isprimafacie evidence of his ownership and seisin of the inheritance.
But possession alone, unexplained by collateral circumstances, which
show thequality and extent of the interest claimed, evidences no more
than the meje fact of present occupation by right.
Bat if the irtybein under tide, and by mistake of law supposes himself possessed of a less estate than really belongs to him, the law will
remit him to his full right and title.
It is a general rule that a disseissor caunot qualify his own wrong, but
must be considered as a disscissor in fee.
But this rule is introduced only for the benefit of the disseissee, for the
sake of electing his remedy.
And it must also appear that the party found in possession entered with.
out right; for if his entry were congeable, or his possession lawful,
his entry and possession will be considered as limited by his right.
Presumptions of a grant, arising from the lapse of time, are applied to
corporeal, as well as incorporeal bereditaments.
They may be encountered and rebutted by contrary presumptions, and
can never arise where all the circumstances are perfectly consistent
with the non-existence of a grant.
JA fortiori, they cannot arise where the claim is of such a nature as is at
variancewith the supposition of a grant.
In general, the presumption of a grant is limited to periods analogous to
those of the statute of limitations, in cases where the statute does
not apply.
Where the statute applies, the presumption is not generally resorted to:

182.
lucard

V.
Williams.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
but if the circumstahces of the case are very cogent, and requiro it,

1822.
S

Picard
Williams.

a grant may be presumed within a period short of the statute.
Under the laws of Massachusetts and Connecticut, the power of an a tministrator to sell the real estate of his intestate, under an order of the
Court of Probates, must be exercised within a reasonable
time after
the death of the intestate.
The case of such a power to sell is not within the purview of the statute
of limitations of Connecticut, which limits all rights of entry and action to 6fteen years after the title accrues; but the reasonallo time,
within which the power must be exercised, is to be fixed by analogy
to tht statute.
One heir, notwithstanding his entry as heir, may afterwards, by disseisin
of his co-heirs, acquire an exclusive possession, upon which the statute will run both against his co-heirs and against creditors.
An heir may claim an estate by title distinct or paramount to that of his
ancestor; and if his possession is exclusive under such claim, against
all other persons, until the statute period has run, he is entitled to the
protection of the bar.

to the Circuit Court of Connecticut.
Tl.his was a suit instituted by the defendants in error against the plaintiff in error, in the Court below.
ERROR

The original action is commonly known in Connecticut by the name of an action of disseisin, and is a
real action, final upon the rights of the parties, and
in the nature of a real action at the common law.
The cause was tried upon, the general issue, nul tort,
nul disseisin, and a verdict being found for the domandants, a bill of exceptions was taken to the opinion of the Court upon matters of law at the trial.
The history of the case, as it stands upon the record, is in substance as follows. The demandants
claimed the estate in controversy, by purchase from
the administrator of William Dudley, at a sale made
by him for the payment of the debts of his intestate,
pursuant to the laws of Connecticut, which authorize

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
a sale of the real estate of any person deceased, for
the payment of his debts, when the personal assets Ricard
V.
are insufficient for that purpose. In order to establish
dethe
premises,
the
in
the title of William Dudley
mandants proved that Thomas Dudley, the father of
William, was, in his lifetime, possessed of the premises, as parcel of what were called the Dudley lands,
and died possessed of the same in 1769, leaving seven children, of whom William was eldest, being of
about the age of fourteen years, and Joseph Gerriel,
the youngest, being about four years of age. Upon
the death of his father, Joseph Mayhew, the guardian
of William, entered into possession of the Dudley
lands, and of the demanded premises as parcel,
taking the rents and profits in his behalf during his
minority ; and upon his arrival of age, William entered and occupied the same, taking the rents and profits to his own use, until his death, which happened
in the year 1786 ; all his brothers and sisters being
then living. During the life of William, no other person claimed any right to enter or occupy the premises, except that his mother used to receive one-third
of the rents and profits, until she died in the year
1783. During his life, and while in possession ot
the premises, William always declared that lie hehl
the .same only for life, and therefore would not allow
.any improvements on them at his expense; no leases
were made Py him except for short periods ; and no
attempt was. made by him to sell or convey the premises; and he-declared that he had no right to sell
them,. and that-upon his death they would descend to
his son Joseph Dudley, under whom the tgnant de-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ism.

rived his title, in the manner hereafter. stated. No
~
administration was ever taken in Connecticut upon
licard
V.
the estate of William Dudley, until 1814, and his esWilliams.
tate was then declared insolvent; and, in 1817, the
lands in controversy were sold by the administrator,
by order of the Court of Probates, for the paymerit of
the debtg, found due under the commission of insolvency.
To rebut the title of the demandants, and to establish his own, the tenant proved that William Dudley
died intestate, leaving seven children, the eldest of
whom was Joseph Dudley. Upon the death of his
father, the guardian of Joseph (the latter being within age,) entered into possession ofthe Dudley lands,
and the demanded premises as parcel, and used and
occupied the same, receiving the rents and profits in
behalf of Joseph, until his arrival of age, when Joseph himself entered into possession, claiming them
as his own, and taking the rents and profits to his
own use, and holding all other persons out of possession, until the year 1811 and 1812, when he sold the
demanded premises, and the tenant, either by direct
or mesne-conveyances under Joseph, came into possession, and has ever since held the premises in his
own right. In the year 1811, Samuel Dudley, the
brother of Joseph, claimed title to some of the Dudley lands possessed by Joseph,. and brought an action
of ejectment for the recovery of them, but the suit
was compromised by Joseph's paying him about 2,000
dollars; and about the same time Joseph settled with
another of his brothers, but did not pay- him any
thing. But Joseph never admitted that his brothers

OF THE UNITED STATES.

or sister had any interest in the lands; and said he
could hold them, and did hold them in the same manner as he held the lands in Massachusetts.
The will of Governor Dudley, which was admit-

ted to probate in Massachuse-tts in 1720, was also in
evidence, but neither party csttblished any privity or
derivation of title under it.
Upon these facts, the tenant prayed the Court to
instruct the jury, that the demandants had not made
out a title in themselves, nor in William Dudley.

Not in themselves, because the sale by the administrator to the demandant was void, by force of the statute regarding the sale of disputed titles, the tenant
being in possession of the property at the time of the
sale, claiming it as his own, and that William Dudley
had acquired no title to the property in question by
possession, as he claimed to hold the same only during
his life, and could therefore acquire no title, except
for life by any length of possession, and that if he
could acquire title by possession, if this estate descended from Thomas Dudley, said William could
not, in seventeen years, acquire a title against his
brothers and sisters, or at least against those of them
who had not been of full age for five years before the
death of said William; and if the demandants could
recover at all, it could only be for that proportion of
the estate which descended from William as one of
the heirs of Thomas Dudley.
The tenant further prayed the Court to instruct the
jury, that if they found that Joseph Dudley had, for
more than fifteen years before he sold the land in controversy, been in possession of the same, exclusively

1822.
Pdcard

v.
wMi1m.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ns z.
a
Rieard

V.

Wiffiams.

claiming them as his own, and holding out all others,
he had gained a complete title to the property.
The tenant further claimed that the Court ought
to have instructed the jury, that under the circumstances attending the possesQn of said lands by William
Dudley, the father, and by Joseph Dudleyj and the
length of time which had elapsed since the death of
said William, without any claim on the part of the
creditors of said William, the jury might presume a
grant from some owner of the land to William for
life, with remainder to his eldest son. But the Court
did charge and instruct the jury that the sale by the
administrator ufder an order of Court was not within the statute regarding disputed titles, and was not
therefore void. That William Dudley, by mistaken
constructions of the will of Governor Dudley, might
have claimed an estate for life in the premises. and
that such mistake would not operate to defeat his title by possession. That the length of time in which
this estate had been occupied by William and Joseph
Dudley, would bar any claims by the other children
of Thomas Dudley deceased, and that the jury were
authorized to presume a grant by said children to
their brother William Dudley deceased, wud, therefore, if the demandants recovered, they must recover
the whole of the premises.
The Court also charged the jury that? as against
the creditors of William Dudley, neitherJoseph Dudley nor the tenant had gained title to the lands in
controversy by possession, and that the Jury. wero
not authorized to presume a grant to Joseph.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To which several opinions of the Court, the tenant
by his counsel excepted.
• "

1822.
Ricardl
V.

in error, argued,
Mr. DA B. Ogden, for
" the plaintiff
1. That this being a writ of entry, in which the demandants or plaintiffs counted on their own seisin,
and .could count-in no other way; and as they were
unconnected with any other seisin than their own,
it Was necessary for them to have shown upon
the trial an actual entry. Without such actual entry
there-never could have been any seisin or possession
in them; and without such seisin or possession in
them •there never could have been any disseisin or
forcing them out- of possession. In an action of
ejectment, -wgh is a mere legal fiction, the execution of the leage, the entry under it, and the ouster
are all stated in the declaration, and they must be
proved upon the trial. Unless the defendant will
afford the means of that proof by his confession, the
plaintiffs cannot obtain a verdict. So here the entry
and ouster must be proved, or the plaintiffs never can
recover; because the entry and ouster are the very
foundation of the whole action. Actual seisin is as
necessary in a writ of entry as a writ of right.d The
actual seisin and ouster are expressly stated in the
declaration. They are material and necessary allegations. It is a universal rule, that whatever is a
material and necessary allegation in the declaration,
is a material and necessary part of the proof upon
the trial, unless that necessity be dispensed with by
a Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229. 244.
VOL. VII.

9

wFiw.a.

Feb. 131h.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Riar
Rieard

,i.

Williams.

the pleadings. Now, in this case, there is no preience that any actual entry was ever made in the
premises in question ,by the plaimtiff. None was
proved upon the trial ; the demandants were, thereupon, not entitled to a verdict.
By the local law of Massachusetts and Connecticut an administrator has no seisin of the lands of his
intestate. They descend to his heir at law, subject
to a naked power in the administrator, incaso of an
insufficiency of the personal property to pay the debts
of his intestate, to sell the lands for the payment of
those debts. The administrator or executor may
lawfully sell them, whether they be in the possession
of a devisee, or an heir, or their heirs or assigns, or
of a disseisor of a devisee or heir: for, say the cases,
the naked authority of an administrator to sell on
license cannot be defeated by the seisin of a devisee,
or heir, or by their alienation or disseisin-a By the
law of Connecticut, which, in this respect, is precisely similar to that-of Massachusetts, the administgator may sell the lands of his intestate for the payment. of debts, and -his conveyance vests in the
grantee, not the possession or seisin of the land, because that was never in the administrator; but a
right to the property, and a right of entry into it ; a
right to the possession of'it, but not the possession
itself. Upon this right of possession, the gr'antdo
might at once-bring an ejectment, in which he need
prove no actual entry and ouster, but they musi be
a Drinkwater v. Drinkwater, 4 Mass. Rep. 354.

Willard

v. Nelson, 5 Mass. Rep. 240. ' Hays v. Jackson, 6 Mass. Rep.
143. •

OF THE UNITED STATES.

confessed by-the defendant, or he might make an
actual entry, and found upon it this remedy of a writ
ofentry. Hehas'not thought proper to bring an eject; and he must,
ment, but has brought a~writ of entry
therefore, prove an actual entry and ouster.
2. Independent-of this objection, the demandants
are not entitled, upon-the evidence set forth'in the bill
of exceptions, to the judgment- which they have obtained. 'They claimed under a. deed' from the administrator of William Dudley, deceased. It became,
therefore, necessary for them,in order to entitle themselves to recover, to prove, that William Dudley, in
his lifetime, and at-the time of his, death, was seized
of af estate in the premises, which descended to his
heirs; because, unless William Dudley was seized of
such an estate in the premises, it is manifest that his
-administrzitor could grant no title to the prbperty.
--Vid the:demandants prove such a seisin in William
Dudley ? They proved thatThomas Dudley the father
of William,'was in possession of the premises at the
time 0f his death, in: 1766; that upon the death of
"Thomas, the guardianof'William, then an infant of
14yearsof age; inr'ght 6f his ward, entered into pos-.
session of the premises, receiving the rents -and profits
thereof, and continued" in. possession until William
came of age, in -776; that William then took possession and. continued in. the -exclusive possession
.thereof,until he died; in 1786. This was all the
evidence -cf title -in William offered by the. plaintiff upon the trial : was this evidence of title sufa Drinkwater v. Prinkwater, 4 Mass. Rep. 354

J822.
Ricar

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
a
Ricard

v.

Wiiams.

ficient? Thomas, the father, died in possession, in
1769.

What estAte he had in the premises does not

appear ; but the subsequent acts of William afford
strong evidence, that his father had not an estate in
fee in the premises, but that his estate, whatever it
was, terminated with his life. If Thomas, the father
of William, had had an estate in fee in the premises,
it would, upon his death, have either descended to his
heirs at law, or vested in his devisees if he had devised it by will. It is not pretended that he made
any devise of it, and of course it would have descended to his heirs at law. The record states, that he
left seven children, all of whom, by the law of Connecticut and Massachusetts, were at that time his
heirs at law. The exclusive possession of the premises by William, taken after the death of his father,
is therefore conclusive evidence, that William did not
consider his father as having been possessed of the fee
of this land; and the rest of the children of Thomas never having claimed any right to enter and occupy the
premises, or any part thereof, after they came of age, dffords strong evidence, that they also knew and believed, that Thomas, their father, had no estate in the promises, which could descend to his heirs at law. At
the time Thomas died, William, his son, was 14 years
of age, and his guardian, immediately upon his death,
takes possession of the land, as the property exclusively of his ward William :-Thus affording his testimony, also, by his acts, that he knew that Thomas
had no estate in the premises whicfi could descend to
his heirs at law. What was the estate which Thomas had in the premises does not appear, but it is

OF THE UNITED STATES.

manifest, from the acts of all the parties at the time,
that it is not an estate in fee simple.

1822.

William, then, I Ricard

V.
did not enter as heir at law of Thomas, his father.
Wiiam.
possession
the
from
nothing
He can therefore claim
of his father, as showing any title to the fee of this
property : because, if his father was seised of the
fee by right, it would have descended to his heirs at
law, and if seised of it by wrong as disseisor, the
descent would still have been cast upon his heirs at
law.
Under what claim of title, then, did William enter?
As he did not enter as heir at law, his entry must
have been either adverse to his father's title, and of
course to his heirs at law, in which case his possession has no connection with his father's ; or, he must
have entered considering his father as a mere tenant
forlife or for years with remainderto him and his heirs,
or that the father was tenant in tail, and the estate
limited- to William, his eldest son, and so on to the
eldest male heir. If the father was tenant for life, or
for years, with remainder to William, then 'William's
right of possession commenced, when his father's ended, in 1769: and under that right William possessed
the premises from 1769, down to his death, in 1786;
which'would, under the laws of Connecticut, taking
away the right of entry after 15 years, give him, or
those claiming under him, a right to recover the premises in question, if out of possession, or to hold them
against all the world, if in possession, provided he
- claimed to hold the possession as the owner in fee.
And why ? Because William, in that case, would have

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT

been in possession 17years, and not because his father
,R-a--, had been in possession before him.
Rieard
V-.
But that William did not enter,.claiming that his
Wiflianis
father had been tenant for life, or for years, with rb1822.

mainder to him in fee, is manifest:
First. Because William, when in possession, declared that he held the premises only for life: and
that upon his death, they belonged to'his eldest son;
and
Secondly. Because, after his entry be suffered ,his
mother, the widow of the father, to receive one tlird
of the rents and ptofits of these lands as her dowi.*
She could be entitled to no dower, if her itusbAnt
had been either a tenant, for life. or foi years of 4he
premises.
As, then, Thomas, the rather bf William, was not
the owner in fee of this property, nor the tenant of
it for life or for years, under what right did he
claim it ?
The answer to this question is, that it is most probable he claimed it as tenant in tail, limited to the
eldest son.
First. Because, if Thomas was tenafit in tail of
these lands, his wife would have been entitled to her
dower in them, which ithas already been stated she
took ; and.
Secondly., Because William frequently declared,
that they were his for life only, and that after his
death they belonged to his eldest son.
Now, if Thomas claimed these lands as tenant in
tail, and if William also claimed them as tenant in

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

tail, and was really entitled to them as such, then upon his death, the estate in tail would vest in his eldest son, Joseph ; and the credit6rs of William could
have no lien upon the property for his debts, nor the
administrator no right to convey the property forthe
payment ofany such debts; and, of course, the demandants, the grantees of the administrator, have no right
to recover in this case.
But it may be said-that William bad an estate in
fee simple in these lands under the will of Governor
Dudley, set forth in the record, which gave to his
devisees an estate in fee simple, and not infee tail.
But it is a point of no importance -whether that will
gave the devisees a fee simple or a fee tail.
How, if at all, William Dudley, or his father, were
connected-with the testator, no where appears on the
record. There appears no connection of blood, and
no privity of estate between them. His will therefore must be put entirely out of the question.
Again; it may be said, that by the laws of Connecticut, there can be no grant of an estate in tail to
continue longer than the life of the first donee; and
that all such estates given in tail, remain an absolute
estate in fee simple to the issue of the first donee in
tail.
What operation has this law upon the rights of
these parties? The argument is, that Thomas, the
father of William, was not a tenant in.tail, but in fee,
of the premises in question, because, he being the issue of the first donee, became, by the local law, vested with an absolute estate in fee simple. Let it for
a moment be admitted : what then ? William, his

1822.
"Mc'

,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

eldest son, upon his death, entered into possession of
lands. I have already shown that he did not enRicard
V.
ter into possession as devisee of Thomas, his father,
wiis. because the latter died intestate; nor as heir at law
1822.

'the

of his father, foi he was not so; but he entered, claiming that the estate, subject to his mother's right of
dower, -was his for life; and upon his death, would
descend to his eldest son. This is the claim under
which William's entry was made, and under which
the property has been possessed from 1769 down to
the present hour; a possession of 63 years; a possession, in favour of which any presumption would
be justiial l'e; a possession, in favour of which, to
use the strong language of Lord Kenyon, the Court
ought topresume not only one, but onehundredgrants.
If, then, Thomas, the father of William, was
seised in fee of the premises in question, as he made
nodevise of them to William, and as William did not
enter as heir at law, we are certainly to presume that
he entered with right, and that his claim to enter was
a good one. We are then to presume a grant, consistent with his entry and possession, and with the
acts of all parties at the time. We have a right to
presume, that his father, being the tenant in fee, made
a grant of the premises to his son William, in tail,
limiting the estate to his, William's eldest son. Such
a grant is ,not inconsistent with the laws of Connecticut ; and is perfectly consistent with his clnim, as
always declared by him, that he was only entitled to
the estate during his life, and that after his death it
would go to his eldest son. It is also consistent with
his mother's claim of dower, to which she would

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
have been entitled, the grant of his father n6twithstanding: and consistent with the possession taken Ricard
v,
at William's death, by his son Joseph,. under whom
we claim. This presumption would support and con- w ,
-firma title, under a 'possession of fifty-three years.
Any other would shake and unsettle titles which
have,- for half a century, been considered as good
and valid.
If this grant be presumed from Thomas to William, then, according to the law of Connecticut referred to, Joseph, being the issue of William, the first
donee, was the tenant-in fee of the premises; and
the plaintiff in error,. be ng his grantee, is also the
tenant in fee of them.
It was stated by the learned judge, in his charge
to the jury, that as William had been so long in possession, the jury might presume a grint to him from
his co-heir, in order to support that possession. But
the nature of William's possession, the claim under
.which he must be presumed to have taken that possession, must be judged of according to the state of
things at the time when he took the possession. He
must be presumed to have continued in possession by
the same right, under which he originally claimed to
enter into it, until it be shown that he acquired another right. Now, when William entered, upon the
death-of his father, in 1769, I have already shown,
that he entered under some claim of right, distinct and
different from that of heir at law. He cannot be
presumed to have entered as grantee, of his co-heirs
at law because. such, grant could not be made; he
was not only an infant himself, but his brothers and
VOL..VR-.

10

CASE8 IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
.
Ricard

V,.

iS.

sisters were all infants still younger than he was.
As then when he entered, claiming the whole of this
property as his own, William could have had no
grant from his co-heirs ; and as his possession must
be presumed to have continued under the same claim
of title under which he originally entered, it seems
to be a presumption against all law, that he evbr had
a grant from his co-heirs.
It is a well established rule that the declarations of
aperson in possession of land asto his title are evidence
against him and all persons claiming underhim. In this
case, we have the declarations of William Dudley,
under whom the demandants claim, made while in
possession of the land, that he held it for life only,
and that after his death it would descend to his eldest
son. If, then, declarations are evidence against all
claiming under William, they, of course, are evidence
against the demandants, and show that William
never had any thing but an estate for life in the premises in question, which expired with him; and there
was no interest left which the administrator could
sell after his death. In this view of the case, it is
immaterial how long William's possession continued.
It was a possession under a claim of an estate for
life, and the possession was commensurate with the
claim. As I have already shown that the plaintiff's
title rests wholly on William's possession, and as
William never pretended to any possession but for
life, there can be now no title in the demandant.
Presumptions are often. made to support old claims
of title accompanied by a long possession; but it is

OF THE UNITED-STATES.

new doctrine that a possession under a claim of an
1822
estate-for life gives a fee.
luceard
it appears by the record, that immediately after
V.
the death of William Dudley, in 1786, Joseph, his wil"'*
eldest son, entered into possession of the premises
by his guardian, and, afterwards, by himself, taking
the whole rents and profits, and claiming the lands
as his own, and continued in the exclusive possession thereof, holding all others out, until he sold the
land in 1811 and 1812, when his granteEs entered
as owners, and continued to hold until this action in
1819. If, then, a possession of seventeen years in
William gave him a title which is a sufficient ground
of recovery for the demandant, why is it that a possession of thirty-three years in Joseph, and those
claiming under him, does not give a good title
to the defendants? The reason assigned by
the demandants why this possession should not
avail the defendants is,. that William died in
possession, and the possession of Joseph was
but the continuance of William's possession, a
part of the same title, and that title is subject
to be sold for the payment of William's debts. But
if the possession taken by Joseph was a possession
taken under a claim adverse to the claim of a fee in
William, then it would seem to follow as an inevitable consequence, that the possession of Joseph, and
those claiming under him, would give them a good
title. William died intestate, and left seven chdldren. Joseph, the eldest, then being an infant, all
these children, by the law of.Connecticut, were his

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

76

heirs at law. Joseph, however, entered into the expossession of the whole of the premises,
R~icard
V
"keeping all others out." He did not, then, enter
Wiiams. as heir at law, but he entered denying the rights of
the heirs at law: he entered, therefore, under a
claim of title adverse to them, and, of course, adverse to the claim of a fee now set up in William,
his father. There can, in this case, be no presumption of a grant from his co-heirs when he entered,
because they were infants of very tender years when
he entered.
But not only can no grant be presumed from
them to Joseph, but the record contains upon its
face evidence that no such grant was ever made by
them. The plaintiffs proved, that in 1811, two of
the brothers claimed to be entitled to a portion of
the property, which, at all events, shows that they
had never granted it to Joseph. Iiasmuch, then, as
Joseph entered and continued in possession, claiming
title, which title was adverse to any claim in the heirs
at law of William, to any claim of the fee in William; and as this possession continued for thirty
years, uninterrupted and undisturbed, it gave to Joseph,. and to those claiming under him, a full and
complete right to retain the possession against all
the world.
We have, in this possession of Joseph, exclusively
taken and held by him,and so long acquiesced in by
others, not only evidence of the opinion of his guardian, founded doubtless upon a knowledge of the
title at the time, and of his own opinion of the title,
but we have, by their acquiescence, and by the ad1822.

Sclusive

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mission of his co-heirs that they had no right, and.
the admission of the creditors, for the
.2 payment of
whose debts these lands have now been sold to the
demandants, evidence that T 'illiam, their debtor, had
no estate of inheritance in the premises which could
descend to his heirs, or be liable for his debts. How
else are we to account for their conduct in relation
to these lands? That William possessed them was
notorious. The demandants, upon the trial, proved
that they had always been known by the name of
the Dudley lands, which consisted of a large tract,
situate in Connecticut and Massachusetts. If, then,
the creditors of William Dudley had believed that
he had been seised in fee of the lands, and that they
were, therefore, liable for his debts, how is their
conduct to be acepunted for in suffering their lands
to go into possession of Joseph, as his own, and continue there tventy-eight years before they took a
single step to enforce the lien which they had upon
the lands ? When William died these creditors knew
their rights, and no doubt knew his title papers
might at that time have been produced to show what
were the respective estates of William and Joseph
in the premises. If, then, the creditors had not been
conscious that William did not own the fee of the
lands, they never would have remained so long
quiet, seeing another enjoy the lands, and taking the
rents and profits.
3. By the statute of Connecticut no person has a
right of entry into lands, but within fifteen years
next after his right or title shall first descend or accrue, with the usual savings. It is contended., that

822.
Iticara

V.
Williams.

78

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1o22.
-

Ricard

V..

Wilams.

the right of entry of the demandants is not taken away
in this case, because their right did not accrae until
theconveyance to themr; by the administrator, in 1817.
But the demandnts claim a fee in these prniises,
under William Dudley. The fee held by Williara
was the entire estate it. tw&e premises. If that estate
has become extinct ; if the fee which was in him hq
been extinguished, either by those who had a right
to extin'giish it, or bythe operation of law, operating
through an adverse possession, then no person can
any longer claim under it. If William had been living, and there had been an adverse possession against
him, his right of entry would have been gone. His
-heirs, by the adverse possession, have lost their right
of entry; and every other person claiming under the
same title is in the same situation. If the right of
William and his heirs be gone, and taken away, can
the act of an administrator resuscitate it ? Land is
one thing, an estate in it is another. The lien of tho
creditor is upon William's estate in the land, and not
upon the land.' The lien is no.inherent part of the
soil always adcompanying it. It is here a claim upon William's estate in it, which was a fee. Now, a
fee is but one estate. Whether in the hands of William, or his heirs, or his grantees, or the grantees of
his administrator, it is still but the same one estate.
So long as that estate in the lands continue, the lien
may possibly continue ; but when the estate is gone,
the lien is gone.
It may possibly be denied, that the heirs at law of
William could maintain an action, for the recovery
of these lands, as they were tenants in common with

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Joseph; and it may be said, that the possession of one
tenant in common is the possession of all. This, as
a general principle, is admitted. But if one tenant
in comon enters into actual and exclusive possession
of the land, taking the rents and profits to his own
use, and openly assert his own exclusive property in
the lands, and deny the title of any other, it will be
considered as an adverse possession by himyand those
claiming under him, and an ouster of the other claimants." In thiscase therecord states that Joseph'did enter into the exclusive and actual possession of the premises taking the rents and profits, denying the title of
his brothers and sisters, and keeping all others out
of possession for 30 years. The heir' at law therefore
of William could not have entered; William if alive,
couldnot enter; andby what principleis it, that the
grantee of an administrator, who can have no greater right than William,. or his heirs at law, is to be
held to have a right, which they Would not have ?
* In answer to this obvious question, it is
said that
William's estate was liable for his debts, and to be
sold by his administrator for payment of them ; there
is no limitation to the time in which letters of administration may be granted; that the sale of the
administrator was in pursuance of the provisions of
the law of Connecticut, and therefore his grantee is
entitled to the property. But let this argument be
examined.
By the common law, where a man bound himself
and his heirs, the obligee might sue the heir, and have
Cummings v. Weyman, 10 Mass..Rep. 464.

1822.
Ricard

v.

W''fams.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

execution of the land descended to the heir; but if tho
heir aliened the land before action brought the alineo
held the land free from gny lien for the'debt of the
Williams. ancestor.0 But by thelaw of Connecticut and the construction which.has been repeatedly 'givei to it, the
creditor may follow the lands into the hands of the
grantee of the heir at law, or devisee. But he cah
follow them: only when the right of entry is not tolled.
There are, besides, particular circumstances in this
case, which show that the demandants cannot claim
tobe bonafide purchasers without notice of the facts
of the case, but that they had full notice, and were
actors in,'the transaction.
Lastly'. The deed is void in itself, under the statute
of Connecticutt,, of 1747, against the sale of disputed
tides.
1822.

=ard
Bk,
v.

Mr. Pinkney$ebmtra, (I.) answered the objection
made by the plaintiff in error, that in the present action,:beinga writ of entry, the demandants must show
a.',seisin in deed; by which'(he supposed) was meant
either an actual -or constrtctive seisin. The writ
in.this case sets forth a plea, that the tenant renider
to the demandants "1the quiet and peaceable seisin
and possession of two certain tracts of land &c. The
count is, that "on or about the.2Oth.day of December, 1817, they were well seised and possessed in
their own right, as joint tenaus in fee simple ;" and
"1that the tenant thereunto entered, and ejected,
and. deforced the demandants, and ever since has
continued-to deforce and hold the demandants out of
a Co. LVt. 102.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the possession," &c. And it is now contended, that
they are bound to prove their seisin and possession
as they have laid it; and not having done so, cannot
recover.
The first answer to this objection is, that the bill
of exceptions does not cover it. The first prayer is,
that the Court should instruct the jury, that the demandants had not made out a title in themselves, nor
idWilliam Dudley. The second prayer is, for an instruction, that if the jury found that Joseph Dudley
had been in possession of the lands for fifteen years, &c.
that he had gained a complete title to the property.
The third instruction asked for, is, that under the circumstances, &c. the jury might presume a grant from
some owner of the land to William, &c. But the
Court charged the jury, Ist. That the sale by the
administrator, under an order of Court was not within the statute regarding disputed titles, and was not
therefore void. 2dly. That William Dudley, by
mistaken constructions of the title of Governor Dudley, might have claimed an estate for life in the premises , and that such mistake would not operate to
defeat his title by possession. 3dly. That the length
of time, in which the estate had been occupied by
William and Joseph Dudley, would bar any claims
by the other children- of Thomas Dudley, deceased;
and that the jury were authorized to presume a grant,
by them to their brother William; and, therefore, if
the demandants recovered, they must recover the
whole of the premises. And, lastly, that as against
the creditors ofWilliam Dudley, neither Joseph Dudley, nor the plaintiff in error, had gained title by posVe. VIT.

ii

1822.
Ricard

w

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.

session, and that the jury were not authorized,to

Ricard

presume a grant to Joseph.

.
Williams.

It is obvious, then, that

neither the prayers nor instructions cover this objection, which was not made in the Court below, and
therefore no opinion was given upon it.

The bill of

exceptions does not profess to do more than deal
with the title. It did not mean to state more thail
was sufficient to raise the questions which were raised in respect to that title.
The second answer to this objection is, that in
Connecticut, the writ of entry is constantly used as
an action of ejectment. The forms of actions, concerning real property, depend, in all the States, upon
local usage, and no positive enactments of the legislature have been thought necessary to authorize a
deviation, in this respect, from the rules of the common law. The writ of entry, in the preseht case, is
not like an English writ of eatry. If tried by the
rules of English law, it could not stand a moment's
examination. It does not regard and set forth thQ
different degrees, as is required at common law: nor
is it a writ of entry in the post, under the statute of
Marlbridge, 62 Hen. III. c. S0., alleging that the defendant had not entry, until after the disseisin or deforcement of the original wrong doer, passing by all
the intermediate degrees. In Connecticut, on the
contrary, the defendant is always alleged to be the
deforciant, which, if the fact were not so, would in
England be fatal. Neither is the time of the deforcement or disseisin ever stated, either in the writ or
count, at common law; and in England, it would
never be said that the seisin or disseisin was about,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

such a time. This, at least, may safely be asserted
to be peculiar to the practice of Connecticut. So
that it becomes manifest, that the peculiar properties
,of writs of entry cannot be applied to this action, as
it exists by the local law and practice. It is used ind-icriminately with the action of ejectment, and intended to try the right of possession, which, in that
State, is the ight of property.
2. The title of the demandants is under an administrator's sale, by order of Court. By the local law,
there is no limitation to the granting letters of administration, by the mere lapse of time, But even if
there were, every question respecting it, and respecting the debts for which the lands were sold, has been
decided by the competent Court, of peculiar and exclusivejurisdiction. This decision has been confirmed, in the last resort, by- the Superior Court of the
State, which is the only Court that has an appellate
jurisdiction from the decrees of ihe Court of Probates.
There can therefore be no objection now to the validity of these letters of administration, and the sale
which was made under them, on the ground of tle
debts being antiquated. The appointed forum has
settled these questions forever. If, then, the lands in
question were, at the death of William Dudley, his
lands in fee, the demandants have a good title, unless
that title has been intercepted by an adverse possession or title, as is contended on the other side.
3. The next question then is upon William's title.

His father died in possession, and William had exclusive possession by himself or guardian, receiving
the rents and profits, "from 1769 to 1785, claiming
a Wales v. Willard, 2 Mass. Rep. 120.

1822.
PMcard

r.
w'dlams.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Rr
R~icard

V.

for himself only, to the exclusion of all the world.
That this possession barred all .strangerswho, at the
time, might have a right of entry, there cannot be a
doubt: and the only possible question is, whether it
bar.,ed his brethren and sisters. His father had an
e~tate, or he had not. We may adopt the argument
used on the other side for Joseph's protection. If his
father had no estate, then none descended to his
children ; and William's entry was, of course, for his
own benefit, and gained him, with the possession
which followed, an estate by possession. It is not
directly found that his father had any estate which
could descend. It might be a naked possession;
and if it was, the entry of William, for his own exclusive benefit, he not being heir at law, was not a
continuation of that possession for any person's benefit but his own. He did not come to a regular
succession as heir, nor were there any duties cast on
him as heir by a iegular descent.. He took in his
own right, so as to keep out every body else. It is
true, indeed, that his mother is stated to have received a third of the rents and profits, but whether as
dower or how, non constat: and any inference from
such a fact cannot now be made in the absence of
proof. His brethren and sisters did not need to be
barred, if no estate descended to them ; and William's posspssion was not their possession unless
they had right.
But suppose an -estate descended from Thomas,
then William's exclusive possession, for himself, was
sufficient to bar his brethren and sisters under the
statute of Connecticut, and to gain him a title in fee.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To this it is objected that he claimed only a life
estate, and, therefore, can gain no more. The answer is, he could not, by an adverse possession, gain
an estate for life, or any estate less than a fee. A
limited estate can be given only by contract of the
parties, or act of law. Wrongful possession must
give a fee or nothing. And it must be so in the nature of things, since there is nothing to limit it. The
effect of possession is to bar actions against the .possessor by those who are entitled to bring the actions.
It does not operate like a grant, or any other mode
of alienation, which may be circumscribed and limited. His claim of a life estate only did not create a
remainder in favour of any other, so as to give to
that other, for the first time, a right of action on his
death. It did not contribute to exclude actions
during his life. The person entitled might as well
have sued, within the time of limitations, whether
William claimed a life estate or not. The restricted
claim changed nothing. It did not prevent his possession from being adversary, or make it less wrongful. It is the proprietor being out of possession, and
another being in possession against his title, that produces the bar: and it cannot be material whether
the adversary possession excludes the rightful possession upon one pretext or another. Contract only
can prevent the effect, and then the possession is not
adversary.
*It is inconceivable that a wrongful possession can
be restricted in its effects as a bar of limitation to a
life estate, when the whole fee is actionable against

1822.
Ricard

v.
William.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

Cases may, indeed, be conceived in which it
produce a limited effect; as, for example, if
the heir should hold against, tenant in dower, or by
the curtesy. But there is nothing-there to bar but
the tenancy in dower or curtesy. If there was, the
bar would extend to it. In our case, the whole fee
is against the possession by wrong, and his possession is against the whole fee. His declarations, that
he claimed only a life estate, did not give him a life
estate. They gave him nothing; and if they gave
nothing, and sectired nothing, how could they restrain to the prejudice of the legal effect of his possession ? Contract would have operated both ways.
But the declarations of the party could not work the
effect of contract one way, and there is no reason
why it should the other. Whose rights did his declaration save ? It could save none, unless it took
them out of the statute by postponing their right of
action. Whoever had a right of action was told by
the statute : sue! or you will be barred by the adversary possession after fifteen years. And unless
the declarations of the possessor suspended the right
of action, so as that the proprietor could not sue by
reason of it, the statute reaches the case ; since, it
bars all rights of action subsisting during the adversary possession, and not exerted within the time limited. A possession by a man claiming an estate
tail, but having in fact no title, would bar all the
proprietors having a right to sue. No matter what
he claims; if he claims adversely to every body during his possession of fifteen years, he excludes
every body claiming title during the time, and every
it.

'- Ricard'would

v.
Williams.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

body forbears to disturb him : and the statute says,
he shall not afterwards be disturbed.
It is not here necessary to inquire, why William
another
claimed only a life estate. That belongs to
branch of the subject. For the present purpose it is
immaterial why he did so.
The doctrine of remitter will illustrate this head.
Littleton says, (sec. 695.) "If a man be disseised,
and the disseisor let the land to the disseisee by deed
poll, or without deed, for term of years, by which
the disseisee, entereth, this entry is a remitter to the
disseisee. For in such case where the entry of a
man is congeable, and a lease is made to him, albeit
that he claimeth by words in paiis, that he hath estate, by force of such lease, or saith openly chat he
climeth nothing in the land but by force of such lease,
yet this is a remitter to him, for that such disclaimer
in yaiis is nothing to the purpose." So also it is laid
down that a disseisor has a fee simple, and cannot
have less.a And no claim can possibly alter or qualify it.b
The question then recurs, are the brothers and sisters barred by William's exclusive possession ?
It may be said they are not; because, being coparceners with.him, his possession is theirs. But a
co-parcener or tenant in common may be barred by
the statute of limitations, if the possession of his coma Co. Lift. 297. a.
b Co. Litt. s. 296. Co. Litt. 266. b.

Mr. Butler, in his ante

to the last cited passage, says, "It is to be observed, that a disseisor by his disseisin acquires a tortious fee simple, not ithstandingat the time he inakes the disseisin he claims a le-s estate."

1822.
Ricard

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

panions be adverse, or, in other words, amount to an
Ricard Sactual ouster. So long as there is iothing adversaw .
ry, the possession of one is the possession of all: but
if one parcener usurp the whole, and hold
out his
companion, he is a deforciant, against whom a writ
of entry will lie as well as a writ of partition. Here
the co-parceners of William never had possession at
all. His first entry was for himself, and pertectly
exclusive. There nevek was any possession but his.
The leading case on this subject was determined in
Lord Mansfield's timea and his doctrine was aft6rwards confirmed by Lord Kenyon.' An entry, and
sole occupation of the whole, keeping the co-tenant
out, in sufficient.c So, also, in a subsequent case, although it was strenuously contended at the bar that
there ought to be a receipt of the rents, and an
actual hindering of the co-tenant from entering,which
did. appear in the case, yet the Cdurt held that ' one
tenant in common in possession, claiming the whole,
and denying possession to the other, is evidence of
an ouster."" So, also, Lord Hardwicke says, "In the
the case of a fine and non-claim by tenant in comMon, it will bar his companion if he does not call the
person to an account for the profits: for this has always been admitted to be evidence ol" an ouster."
And, again, it is said that, "although the entry of
one co-tenant is the entry of both, yet if one enter
1822.

a
b
c
d
z

Fisher and others v. Prosser, Cowp. 219.
Peaceable v. Read, 1 East, 275.
6 Burr. 26. 3. 1 Atk. 493. 2 Atk. 32. I L. fayn.
Doe v. Bird, 11 East, 61.
2 A k. 632.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

claiming the whole, this will be an entry adverse to
-

his

companion. "1c

RIicarcd

As to the minority of William's brothers and sis-

ters, and its effect to prevent the operation of the statute, it may be observed thai they all arrived at
age during his life. The statute had been running
against them during minority. as to ten years, and
when, William died it was running against them for
the other five. He had then the fee in progress
again.st them, and nearly completed. It descended to
his heirs, and if his brethren and sisters did not sue
before the small remnant of the time expired, they
are barred by the statute. It seems to be admitted,
that they -could not sue after that time. Their title
was extinguished, beyond all doubt; and it was in
progress to be extinguished at William's death.
4. As to the title of Joseph D. it is sought to be
founded on the presumption of a grant, from somebody (not said 'whom) to William for life, with remainder to Joseph in fee or in tail. But presumptions may be rebutted by contrary presumptions.
They depend on circumstances; and these must warrant the particular presumption, or atleastnotbe inconsistent with it.b One of .the grounds of presumption
is the existence of a state of things which may most
reasonably be accounted for by supposing the fact
presumed. Here it must be founded on Joseph's possession, and on William's declaration, that he claim-

-

4a 14 Vin. Abr. 512. Pl. 5.
And in the margin. ", The possession of one heir in gavelkind, claiming the whole, is adverse."
b Phillips,Evid. 119. 121.,
2Saund. 175.
1 Taunt. 288.
3 East, 290. 16 East. 583. -2 Barnw. 4"Ald. 791.

Vnr-. VII.

1822.

12

Y.

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
1822.
r
Ricard

V.
Williams.

ed only a life estate, and that it would descend to
Joseph. The state of the case, as it appears on the
bill of exceptions, is defective; but it is easy to see,
that all the parties must have claimed under the will
of Governor Dudley, and upon the supposition of a
continuing estate tail created by that will.

This

explains William's declarations.
It may indeed be said, that records, and acts of parliament, and grants of the crown, have all been presumed. But this has been after the lapse of ages,
with imperfect records, and the presumption supported by parol evidence.a But it will be found in allthese
cases, that circumstances have been alivays shown
to support the presumption, and that after a great
length of time, all things which the case shows ought
to have been done, will be presumed to have been
done correctly. But in this country, where all the
land titles are recorded, the presumption of a grant
cannot be so easily indulged, and especially, where
the lands lie in two different States, and the property depends on the same title. If the record were lost
in one, it would be found in the other. Such a presumption would repeal all the registry acts of both
States, and would promote the interests only of the
negligent, or the fraudulent.' It must be presumed,
first, that the deed was made; and, secondly, that it
had been lost. If the grant be supposed from Thomas, who had some estate of inheritance, it must have
a I Inst. 115. a. 12Rep. 5. 1 Ventr. 257. Cro. Jac. 254. Cowp.
102. 2 Strange, 1129. 2 ttk. 19. 27.R. 154. 1 Ves. jun. 265.
b See Jackson v. Cary, 16 Johns. Rep. 302.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

been made hefore Joseph was born, and when William wa5 under fourteen years of age : not for a valuable consideration certainly; and if a family donation or settlement, some traces of it would appear.
Who preserved it for the infant William, or the unborn Joseph ? How could it have been' preserved
except on record ? If the presumption goes on the
ground of acquiescence, that acquiescence is of recent commencement. Joseph's supposed remainder
first took effect in 1786. The deed must have been
in existence at that time to justify the acquiescence.
How happens it that no vestige of it now remains ?
A presumption, which is to make a title, cannot stand
under such circumstances. If it were merely to supply some defect arising from circumstances, congenial with the presumption, it would be different.
William's claim of a life estate, connected with his
declaration, that it would descenrd to his son Joseph,
does not indicate a remainder in the latter; and can
only be satisfactorily explained by going up to Governor Dudley's will, which reconciles the conduct
and language of all parties.
The creditors cannot be charged with acquiescence.
They were strangers to the title. The family believed it to be an estate tail, and none of them administered. The statute of limitations is not a bar,
for it allows an entry fifteen years after the title accrued. Possession is adverse only to those who have
a right o entry. The creditors had no right of entry,
and the demandants had none till the sale to them
by the administrators. The -estate of the creditors
was merely potential. Immediately on the sale, the

1822.

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

"""
Ricard
V.
WinifaDs.

purchaser was in as by the intestate. It is well settled by the local decisions that "no seisin of tie
heir, of his alienee, or his disseisor, can defeat the
naked power of the administrator to sell onlicense." ,
And at common law, where "A. devises lands to be
sold by his executors ; A. dies seised; the heirs
of A. of a disseisor enters, and the heir or disseisor
makes a feoffment to B., and B. dies seised, and his
heir is in by descent. Yet the executors may enter
and sell : for a descent takes away rights of entry;
but not titles or powers, as entry for condition broken, for mortmain, &c. Neither does it take away in
case of devisee or patentee of land, where an abator
enters, for they have no other remedy. And executors have only a power; and when they sell, the vendee is in by the will paramount to the descent cast. 1
The entry of Joseph was consistent with the title
of the creditors ; and that shall not be taken to be
unlawful, which by possibility may be considered as
lawful. He had a right to enter, and his possession
could not be adverse to the creditors. They might
elect to consider him as a trustee for them.d He was
heir; he took possession as heir, and his claim is reconcilable with that of the creditors. He took it
charged with the lien. It was a statuteable lien
which he could not defeat by his wrong. He was a
trustee, and could not bar the trust. The statute of
a 4 .Mass.Rep. 359.
b Jenk. Cent. 184. Ca. 75. Bro. .4br. Devise. P1, 36. Litt.
1. 381. 392. 169. Sir W. Jones, 352.
c 10 East, 588. Adams, Eject. 60.
d I Burr. 60. 12.

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

limitations only runs from the commencement of a
clearly adverse possession.a If the statute acted
against those having no present right, the argument
we are considering would be conclusive. But, though
the tenant for life be barred, the remainder man cannot, because he has no right of action.
But it is said that Joseph's possession barred his
co-parceners, represented by William; and as William's estate is barred, the lien which attached to it is
gone of course. The answer is, that the bar may
exist for one purpose, and against some parties, and
not for every purpose, and against all parties. Joseph still retains his character of heir, and by barring
the.other heirs, the claim of the creditors is not barred. Being heir, he has kept out his companions by
deforcing them; but being heir, he cannot destroy
the statuteable lien by -his own wrong, for his own
benefit., He has ceased to be liable to his co-heirs,
but not to the creditors. He has acquired the whole
fee as against his co-parceners, because they had a
right of action. He has not defeated the estate of
the creditors, because they had no such right. In
Stanford's case' it was held, that if the lessee of a future term dies, and the prior term expires, then the
lessor enters, and levies a fine, and five years pass,
and then B. takes administration to the lessee; he
shall have five years afterwards : for 7no one had title
till administration.
a 3 Wheat. Rep. 224.

b Cited in Cro. Tac. 61. See also L.eon. 119.

i8m.
iticard

V.
w'am:

CASES IN THE 6 "PREME COURT

Allusion has been made to the doctrine, of the
law, by which .the heir is liable for the spe-common
Ricard
v.
cialty debts of his ancestor, so long as the lands reWilliams. main in his hands, but no longer.
It should he re1822.

membered, however, that the statute has remedied
that evil; that the lands are now subject to the payment of the bond debts of the ancestors, into whose
ever hands they may come. The maxim of legislative policy is, caveat emptor. So, too, in equity,
the rule is, the'vendee under a power shall see to the
application of the money. And under the local law
of Massachusetts and Connecticut, the cases before
cifed show that the alienation of the land will not
discharge the lien. It is true, that the lapse of 20
years will, under certain circumstances, discharge
that lien of a judgment. But how does it discharge
it ? By presuming payment and satisfaction of the
judgment - but that is not the case here. The debts
cannot be presumed to be satisfied, since the report
of the commissioners to the Court of Probates shows
them to be still in existence.
Lastly. The objection as to the sale of the demandants being void as against the statute to prevent
the selling of disputed titles, has been sufficiently
answered by what has been said respecting the authority of administrators and executors, to sell lands
in the possession of 1eirs, their alienees or disseisors,
or the alienees of the latter. This is a sale by authority of law; nor is it within the words of the statute, which speaks only of "sales by a person disseised or ousted of the possession of lands by the entry, possession, and enjoyment of any other per-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

son." Here was no disseisin or ouster of the creditors of the administrator.

182.
Bicard
V.

Mr. Webster, for the plaintiff in error, in reply,
stated, that there were two questions for consideration. 1. Whether William D. was shown to have
been seised of such estate in the lands, that they became chargeable with his debts at his decease;
2. Supposing him to have died seised of an estate
thus chargeable, are the demandants entitled to recover against the adversary claim of Joseph D. and
his grantees ?
1. It is not proved that William D. had a fee in
the lands. He entered into possession on the death
of his father, Thomas, in 1769. But non constat
what estate the latter held. The will of governor
Dudley may be wholly laid out of the case, inasmuch
as neither party attempted at the trial to deduce title
under that will. William, being a minor, and having brothers and sisters younger than himself, then
living, entered into possession of the lands by his
guardian: and there being no devise in fee to him
from his-father in proof, the legal presumption is, that
he entered, either as having an estate of his own, in
the lands, commencing oh his father's death, or as
one of the co-heirs of his father. But it is apparent:
that he did not enter as a co-heir, because he entered, claiming an exclusive right, took an exclusive possession, and held his brothers and sisters out. Ieclaimed, however, an estate for life only, and the same proof,
which shows the possession, shows also under what title
that possession was held. This is not inconsistent with

Wilas

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I p22.
l~icard

V.
wilms.

the general doctrine,that a disseisor cannot qualify his
own wrong. For it is first to be proved, thathe was
a disseisor. The presumption ought to be, that
he entered rightfully, having such title as lie pretended to have. It is clear, that the declarations of a
person-in possession of land as to his title, are admissible against him. If he were tenant for life,
then he had a peculiar limited estate acquired by purchase, and perfectly consistent with Joseph's title in
the fee. That he held such a limited estate is shown
by his own conduct and declarations, and by the
conduct of his brothers and sisters, who never disturbed his possession. On the death of William, in
1786, Joseph, being then a minor, and having also
brothers and sisters, entered upon the lands, taking
the whole rents and profits, holding his brothers and
sisters out. of possession, and claiming the lands exclusively as his own, and finally conveyed them as
his property to those under whom the tenant in
the present action claimed. He did not therefore enter as a co-heir of his father, for he exdlued his brothers and sisters. Nor did he enter as tenant for life,
for he claimed the whole fee, and disposed of it. So
that from 1769, to the commencement of the present
suit, a period of 60 years, these lands have been possessed and enjoyed in a manner strictly conformable
to the supposition, that William had an estate for life
in the premises, with remainder to his son Joseph in
fee. Now, as nqither partyproduced any doctimentary evidence of title, but both parties rested on the
presumption of grants arising from possession, such

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a grant, and such a grant only, ought to have been
presumed, as should conform to the whole length of
possession. -t ought to have been left to the jury, to
presume a grant to William for life, with remainder
to Joseph in fee, because the possession proved such
a grant, if it proved any whatsoever. Why shoud
the presumption arise from any one part of the possession, rather than from the whole ? And especially,
how can a grantlto William in -fe be presumed from
his possession, when he pretended to have an estate
for life only? His declarations were not contrary to
his possession, but conformable to it: and both his
possession and his declarations, and all his conduct,
are strictly conformable to the supposition of a remainder infee in Joseph. The jury ought to have
been directed to take all these circumstances into

consideration, and to presume such a grant as

-would

support the possession throughout its whole duration.
There is an insurmountable difficulty in any other
'view of the case. The learned judge below, going
upon the supposition, that Thomas D. died possessor
of an estate in fee, and that William entered as coheir to that estate, instrudted the jury that they might
presume a grant to him, by his brothers and sisters, of
their portions of the inheritance. But this presumption could not be made, because,. when he entered,
claiming to hold them out, and down to the time of
his death" in 1786, some of them were within the saving of the statute of limitations : anl it is very clear
that, where the statute would apply, any length of
time, short of the statute period, can never warrant
a presumption ;for that would be to presume against
Vo.. VII.

11

1822.

V.
Wibams.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the statute. If there were in fact any grant from the
Flieard Sbrothers and sisters of William, it is more reasonable
V'. to suppose such grant made to Joseph. If we admit, then, that the same length of possession
by a
parcener, would bar one of his co parceners as
Would bar others, still William, having entered in
1769, would not bar any of his co-heirs, by possession, until 178-4 ; but in the latter year the greater
number of his brothers and sisters were still either
minors, or within the five years' saving of the statute
in favour of minors, and to be allowed after they
came of full age. So that there is no ground whatever, on which it is possible to presume a grant to
William from his brothers and sisters.
There is then a double difficulty in supporting the
instruction, which was given to the jury. 1st Because they were told, that they might presume a grant
to William in fee, when the whole possession, taken
together, was shown to be incompatible with the
existence of such a grant. And, 2dly. Because they
were instructed they might presume a grant to William, from his brothers and sisters, in a case in which
the statute of limitations would apply, if they had.,not
been within its exception asnuinors. Thejury were
farther instructed, that William might have claimed
an estate for life in the premises by mistake, and
that such mistake ought not to defeat his title by
possession. I agree, that if it appeared, that he had
an estate in fee, his mistake ought not to prejudice
him; but that not appearing, there is no evidence of
1822.

a Cowp. 114.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

any mistake whatever. All the evidence, which
1822.
at
all,
shows
such
title
to
shows that he had
any
title
•
Rieard
V.
be only to an estate for life, and there is no ground
WORMS.
mistake.
any
to presume
2. The remaining general question is, whether,
supposing William D. to have died possessed of an
estate in fee, the demanclants are entitled to recover
in the present action ?
Here has existed a possession of 83 years in Josephb, and those claiming under him. The judge instructed the jury, that, as against the creditors of
William, supposing him to have died possessed of the
land in fee, neither Joseph, nor those claiming under
him, had gained title by possession. There can be
no doubt this ought to be considered an adverse possession. Every possession is adverse where there
are circumstances to destroy a presumption, that the
defendant is in under the plaintiff's title.o There is
no ground to presume that Joseph entered into possession, intending to hold subject to the incumbrance
of William's debts: especially, as there were strong
reasons to suppose he entered claiming a title in himself, not derived from his father. It seems clear,
that this length of possession would have barred
William Dudley himself, if he had lived. If he had
conveyed onthe day of his death, it would have barred his grantee. If he had devised the lands, it would
have barred the devisee. If he had mortgaged, it
would have barred the mortgagee. If he had mortgaged for the payment of this very debt, the creditor
a Jackson v. Todd, 2,Cainea' Rep. 183.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I82B.

*-v
Ricard
V.
Williams.

and mortgagee would have been long since barred
by the adverse possession of Joseph, and those claiming under him. The doctrine contended for on the
other side goes to give more permanency to a general unknown lien, thin to a well known and specific lien. A m.)rtgage deed is registered, and may be
known: but where are debts registered ? How is a
stranger to know any thing of thew ? Itt the present
case, a creditor, twenty-eight years after the death of
his debtorcauses letters ofadministration of his estate
to be taken out, proves his debt, or gets it con lessed,
and attempts to enforce his general lien as creditor on
the debtor's land, after this lapse of time, against bona
fide purchasers buying without notice of the claim.
To permit this would be opposed to justive and equity,
and to the vshole policy of the law. If twenty-eight
years will not bar such a claim, what lapse of time
will bar it ? or is it to be perpetual ? The general
mischiefs of such a doctrine are obvious. It would
disturb titles to a very great extent. No man could
buy with any security. The defendant in this case
has, of course, no means of contesting the existence or
amount of the debt. That question is settled between other parties; and although from lapse of
time, all debts would be presumed to be paid, yet, if
the administrator, who in such cases is generally the
agent of the creditor, desires to admit the debt, the
tenant of the land cannot dispute it. This xenders
it absolutely indispensable, for the security and safety of purchasers, that liens of this nature should be
enforced promptly, or in reasonable time after the
debtor's decease. No system could answer the corn-

OF THR UNITED STATES.

mon purposes of justice, which should allow a creditor to come on the land for his debt, ar any time,
and in whosoever hands he might find it. The courts
that a
of Massachusetts have expressed the opinion,
creditor, by unreasonable neglect and delay, in pur-

suing -his remedy, should be deemed to waive his
lien on the land; and have very clearly intimated
that in ascertaining what neglect ought to be considered as unreasonable, they should he governed by the
analogy of the statute of limitations.a They have
also decided that the estate should not be sold, if the
creditor's demand-be barred by the act limiting actions
against administrators and executors; and that if the
administrator pay the debt himself, and then lie by
till it would have been barred, he shall not indemnify
himself by charging it on the land.'
In this case there is great reason for following the
analogy of the statute of limitations. The words of
the Connecticut statute are the same as those of the
English, except as to the number of years. "1No
person shall make entry into lands, &c., but within
fifteen years next after his right or title shall descend
or accrue." This is descriptive of the title under
which he enters, and does not regard the time of his
own accession to that title. In the case of Beach v.
Catlin,c it would seem to be intimated by one of the
a Gore v. Brazer, 3 Mass. Rep. 542. Wyman v. Brigden,

4 J1ass.Rep. 150.
b Scott v. Hancock, 13 Mass. Rep. 162. Allen v. Strong,
15 .Mass Rep. 58.
c 4 Day's Rep. 284.

8on.
lRicard

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.

learned judges, that ajudgment breditor, coming into
land by extending his judgment on it, is in under
Rlicard
V.
a new title, and that, as to him, the statute runs only
Wiliams. from the time of the execution of the writ. That case
is understood to have been relied upon as applicable
to this, in the Court below. It would be difficult, I
think, to support it; for supposing that a judgment
can be extended on lands, of which the judgment
debtor is not in possession, but which are in possession of another holding adversely to him, it would
seem that he could derive no higher right, or better
title than his debtor had, and must hold under him.
This would not be the accruing of a new title in
the judgment creditor, but merely a transfer or devolution of an existing title. It is no more a new
title than if he had acquired it by deed of conveyance.
Perhaps it would not be going too far, in the case
now before the Court, to hold the demandants within
the words of the statute, on a liberal construction,
as having a right to enter, being creditors, on the
death of their debtor, insolvent; for although the
right was not perfect, they could make it perfect
whenever they pleased. They could as well have
caused letters of administration to be taken out
in 1784, asin 1814. But because this may be, I contend the present case is within the principle of the
cases which have been decided by the analogy of the
statute of limitations, and on grounds of public policy. It is well known that many cases which are
not within the letter of the statute, are construed to
be within it by analogy. The statute, for instance,
does not apply, in terms, to proceedings in equity;
'"-'the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

but they are affected by analogy.a Where a party
1822.
has an equitable lien, if he be guilty of such negli- " Ricard
v.
gence as would bar him at law, he shall be barred
Williamns.
incorpoof
class
whole
the
to
relation
in equity. In
real hereditaments, whether the cases arise in equity, or at law,. the bar is furnished, not by the terms
of the statute of limitations, but by its analogy.'
So is the law, also, with regard to an equity of redemption. There is no right to enter. It is but a
mere equitable interest in the land; it is not, therefore, within the terms of the statute ; but yet it is
barred by the lapse of time prescribed by the statute
for other cases.. Rent, also, a highly favoured lien,
will be presumed to be discharged by the lapse of
the statute period.'
In short, it will be difficult to find a case in which
a lien upon land, which may be asserted and enforced at any.time, has been established, after the
expiration of the time allowed to make title to the
land itself. In most of these cases, the ends 6f justice, and the policy of the law, are attained by presuming a grant. This presumption is made from
principles of public policy, and the necessity of the
case. It is for the furtherance of justice, and for the
sake of peace: it is founded in this, that whatever
has long existed, and has been acquiesced in by
a 1Scho. 4- Lefr. 413.
b 2 Saund. 175. note a. I Bo. + Pull. 401.
4 Day's Rep. 244.
c I Powell Mort. 408.
d Bailey v. Jackson, 16 Johns. Rep. 210.

3 East, 294.

104
1822.
'bly
Bieard

CASES IN THIE. SUPREDIE COURT

those who had aq interest to disturb, it, had, proba-

a lawful beginning, It is not to be'supposed
that a man would suffer another to obstruct the eaV.
Williams. joyment of his right without complaint, and an effort
to obtain redress. The presumption is not to be
made out, by weighing minutely the evideace of
particular facts and probabilities. This would b6
proof, not presumption.
Legal presumption is resorted to. where there is
no particular proof, and because there cal be u
particular. proof; the question, in such cases, is not
to be decided by personal belief or disbelief, The
grant presumed is taken to exist as a fact, in contemplation of law."
Whatever is possible may be presumed, in order
Royal
to establish long continued possessions,
state,
the
trom
grawts
charters, acts of parliament,
common recoveries, and private couveyances of all
descriptions.' Some of the questionsa now presented
here were fully discussed in the Supr6me Court of
Connecticut, in a case in which the same parties
were plaintiffs, as -in this, and which rtspected tile
same title : and I refer particularly to the judgment
pronounced in that case by the chiefjustice, The
ground is, that by a neglect to assert the claim, and
enforce the lien for a length of tinie equal to that
prescribed by the statute to bar a title to the land
itself, the creditor shall be presumed to have waived
a 2 Bos. 4- Pull. 206. 12 es. !?61.
b 12 Ves. 374. e len. t Alunf. 370.

c Sumner v. Child, 2 Conn. Rep. 607.

2 T R. 169.

IOF THE UNITED STATES.

or surrendered the lien; that this presumption stands
on principles of public policy, and furnishes a cornplete. bar to the demandants' recovery.

1822.
RkaIl

T.
Willams.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Feb. 281h.
Court.
The principal questions which have arisen, and
have been argued here, upon the instructions given
by the Circuit Court, and to which alone the" Court
deem, it necessary to direct their attention, are, First,
whether upon the facts stated, a legal presumption
exists, that William Dudley died- seised of an estate of inheritance in. the demanded premises ; and,
if so, Secondly, whetheran exclusive possession of
the demanded premiSes,. by Joseph Dudley and his
grantees, after the death of, William, under an adversary claim, for thirty years, is a bar to the entry
and title of the demandants under the pdministration
sale.
It is to be considered, that no-paper. title, of any b,,,2Foss,lo
sort, is shown in William Dudley, or his son Joseph. 0(ofrnersip.
Their title, whatever it may be, rests upon possession ; and the nature and extent of that possession
must be judged of by the acts and circumstances
which accompany it, and qualify, exllain, -or control it Undoubtedly, if a person be found in possession of land, claiming it as his own, in fee, it is
primafacie evidence of his ownership, and seisin of
the inheritance. But, it is not the possession alone,
but the possession accompanied with the claim.of
the fee, thatgives this effect, by construction of law,
to the acts of the party. Possession, per se, evidenVOL. -VII.

14

'CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Ilica-d
Picard

v.
wikals,

ces no more than the mere fact of present occupation, by right ; for the law will not presume a wrong;
and that possession isjust as consistent with a prosent interest, under a lease for years or for life, as in
fee. From the very nature of the case, therefore, it
must depend upon the collateral circumstances, what
is the quality and extent of the interest claimed by
the party; and to that extent, and that only, will the
presumption of law go in his favour. And the declarations of the party, while in possession, equally
with his acts, must be good evidence for this purpose. If he claims only an estate for life, and that
is consistent with his possession, the law will not,
upon the mere fact of possession, adjudge him to be
in under a higher right,'or a larger estate. If, indeed, the party be in under title, and by mistake of
law, he supposes himself possessed of a less estate
in the land than really belongs to him, the law will
adjudge him in possession of, and remit him to, his
full right and title. For a mistake of law shall not,
in such case, prejudice the right of the party, and
his possession, therefore, must be held co-extensive
with his right. This is the doctrine in Littleion, (s. 695.) cited at the bar ; and better authority
could not be given, if, indeed, so obvious a principle
ofjustice required any authority to support it. But
there the party establishes a title in point of law
greater than his claim ; whereas, in the case now
supposed, the party establishes nothing independent
of his possession, and that qualified by his own acts
and declarations. This is the distinction between

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the cases, and accounts at once for the different
1822.
Ricard
principles of law applicable to them.
.
It has also been argued at the bar, that a person
who commits a disseisin cannot qualify his own
wrong, but must be considered as a disseigor in fee. thoagmitrue
r
that a
This is generally true ; but it is a rule introduced for c=ot q3u'Ify
1,Mg.
own,
his
the- benefit of the disseisee, for the sake of electing
his remeay. For if a man enter into possession, under a supposition of a lawful limited right, as under a lease, which turns out to be void, or as a special occupantwhere he is not entitled so to claim,
if he be a disseisor at all, it is only at the election of
the disseisee.a' There is nothing in the law which
prevents the disseisee from considering such a person as a mere trespasser, at his election; or which
makes such an entry, under mistake for a limited
estate, a disseisin in fee absolutely, and, at all events,
'so that a descent cast would toll the entry of-the disseisee. But, were it otherwise, in order to apply
the doctrine at all, it must appear, that the party
found in possession entered without right, and was,
in fact, a disseisor ; for if his entry were congeable,
or his possession lawful, his entry and possession
will be considered as limited by his right. For the
law will never construe a possession tortious unless
from necessity. On the other hand, it will consider
every possession lawful, the commencement and
continuance of which, is not proved to be wrongful.
And this upon the plain principle, that every man
shall be presumed to act in obedience to his duty,
a Com. Dig. Seisin. F. 2. & F. 3.
Id. 661. 1. 45.

1 Roll. Abrid. 662. 1. 45.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Ricard

V..
Wluams.

until the contrary appears. When, therefore, a naked possession is in proof, unaccompanied by evidence, as to its origin, it will be deemed lawful' and
co-extbnsive with the right set up by the party.
If the party, claim only a limited estate, and not a
feb, the law will not, contrary to his intentions, enlarge it to a fee. And it is only when the party is
proved to be in by disseisin, that the law will construe it a disseisin of the fee, and abridge the party
of his right, to qualify his wrong.
Now, in the case at bar, it is not proved of what
estate Thomas Dudley died seised in the premises.
His possession does not appear to have been accompanied'with any claim of right to the inheritance.
It might have been an estate for life only, and as
such, have had a lawful commencement. If it were
intended to be.argued, that he had a fee in the premises, it should have been established by competent
proof, that he was in possession, claiming a fee by
right, or by wrong. No such fact appears. The
only fact, leading- even to a slight presumption of
that nature, is, that his widow took one third of' the
rents and profits duing her life. But whether this
was under a claim of dower, or any other right, is
not proved. The circumstance is equivocal in its
character, and is unexplained ; and the inference to
be deduced from it, of a descendible estate in her
husband, is rebutted by the fact, that immediately on
his death, his son William entered into the premises,
claiming a life estate, and held them during his life,
as his own, without any claim on the part of the
co-heirs of his father, to share in the estate. There
is then nothing in the case, from which it can beju-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18U.
dicially inferredy that Thomas was ever seised of an
R
estate: of inheritance in the prem*,ses,- and, of course,
V.
none of-a descent from him to-his-heirs.
.
w1
the
in
William
son
his
of
estate
the
Then, as to
premises. It-is argued, that William had an estate
in fee, by right or by wrong. That if his entry, either in person, or by his guardian, was without
right, it was a disseisin, and invested him with a
wrongful estate in fee. If with right, then. it must
have been as a co-heir of his father, and a grant
ought to be presumed from the other co-heirs to him,
releasing their title, and confirming his.
of
The doctrine, as to presumptions of grants, has Prsumpti
givints.g
unds
been gone into largely, on the argument, and ttle on whic it
general correctness of the reasoning is not denied. bh't nPPUcL
There is no difference in the doctrine, whether the
grant relate to corporeal or incorporeal hereditaments. A grant of land may as well be presumed,
as a grant of a fishery, or of common, or of a way.
Presumptions of this nature are adopted from the
general infirmity of human nature, the difficulty of
preserving muniments of title, and the public policy
of supporting - long and uninterrupted possessions. They are founded upon the consideration,
that the facts are such as could not, according. to
the ordinary course of human affairs, occur, unless
there was a transmutation of title to, or an admission of an existing adverse title in, the party in possession. They may, therefore, be encountered and
rebutted by contrary prehumptions ; and can never
fairly arise where all the circumstances are perfectly consistent with the non-existence of a grant:

110

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Afortioi, they cannot arise where the claim isofsuch
1822.
..-Pdcard ', a nature as is at variance with the supposition of a
grant. In general, it is the policy of courts of law,
V.
Williams. to limit the presumption of grants to periods analoPresumption of
frants, how far gous to those of the statute of' limitations, in cases
imited to peri.
But where the
aoos where .the statute does not apply.
odb
to those o -the
statute of limi.

tations.

statute applies, it constitutes, ordinarily, a sufficient
title or defence, independently of any presumption of
a grant, and, therefore, it is not generally resorted to.
But if the circumstances of the case justify it, a presumption of a grant may as well be made in the one
case as in the other ; and where the other circumstances are very cogent and full, there is no absolute
bar against the presumption of a grant, within a period shortof the statute of limitations.a
If we apply the doctrines here asserted to the case
at bar, we may ask, in the first place, what ground
there is to presume any grant of the premises to William Dudley, and if any, what was the quantity or
quality of his estate ? It has been already stated that
there is no sufficient proof that his father died seised of a descendible estate in the premises ; and if so,
the entry of William by his guardian, or in person, cannot be deemed to have been under colour of title as
heir ; and in point of fact he never asserted any such
title. For the same reason, no estate can be presumed to have descended to his co-heirs; and if so, the
very' foundation fails upon which the presumption of
a grant from them to William can be built ; for if they
had no title, and asserted no title, there is no reason
a See Phillips on Evidence, ch. 7. s. 2. p. 126. Folcyv.
Wilson, I I East, 56.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1822.
to presume that he or they sought to make or receive
no
pretence
is
There
conveyance.
inoperative
an
Rlicard
V.
of any presumption of a grant in fee from any other
wimu".
of
evidence
no
is
there
as
and
;
person to William
any connexion with the will of Governor Dudley, or
of any claim of title under it by William, there does
not seem any room to presume that he was in under
that will, upon mistaken constructions of his title derived from it. There is this further difficulty in presuming a grant from the co-heirs to William, that
at
his
guarof
as
that
as
well
the time of his own entry,
dian, all of them were under age, and incapable of
making a valid conveyance. During this period,
therefore, no such conveyance can be presumed : and
yet William, during all this period, claimed an exclusive right, and had an exclusive possession of the
whole to- his own use ; and his subsequent possession
was but a continuation of the same claim without
any interference on the part of the co-heirs. In point
of fact the youngest brother arrived at age about the
time of William's death; and as to two others of the
co-heirs, the statute of limitations of Connecticut, as
to rights of entry, would not then run against them.
The presumption of a grant from them is therefore in
this view, also, affected with an intrinsic infirmity.
In addition to all this, William never claimed any
estate in fee in the premises. His declaration uniformly was, that he had a life estate only, and that
upon his death they would descend to hig son Joseph.
Of the competency of this evidence to explain the
nature of his possession and title, no doubt can reasonably be entertained. His title being evidenced

112
1822.
a
Ficard

V.
Wiiams.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

only by possession, it must be limited in its extent to
the claim which he asserted. If, indeed, it had appeared that he was in under a written title which
gave him a larger estate, his mistake of the
law
could not prejudice him; but his seisin would be coextensive with, and a remitter to that title. But there
is no evidence of any written title, or of any mistake
of law in the construction of it. For aught that appears, William's estate was exactly what lie claimed,
a life estate only, and the inheritance belonged to
his son Joseph. It is material also to observe, that
the acts of the parties, and the possession of the estates during the period of nearly fifty years, are in
conformity with this supposition, and at war with
any other. Why should William's brothers and sisters have acquiesced in his exclusive possession during his whole life, if the inheritance descended from
their father.? Why should Joseph's brothers and sisters have acquiesced in his exclusive possession during
a period of twenty-five years without claim, if their
father William was seised of the inheritance ? Why
should the guardians of William and Joseph have
successively entered into the premises, claiming the
whole in right of their respective wards, if their title
was not deemed clearly and indisputably an exclusive
title, or if they were in by descent under the title of
their fathers ? If, indeed, a presumption of a grant is
to be made, it should be of a grant conforming to the
declarations and acts of possession of the parties during the whole period : and if any grant is to be presumed from the facts of this case, it is a grant of a
particular estate to William, with a remainder of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Us8

inheritance to Joseph, or in-the maost favourable view
1822.
of an estateotail to William, upon whose death the
v
estate would-descend to Joseph, as his eldest son, per
formam doni. -If Thomas, the grand father, were Willia.
proved to have been the owner of the fee, there is nothing in the- other circumstances which forbids the
presumption of sucf a-grant from him ; but as the
cause now stands, it -may as well have been derived
from some other ancestor, or from a .stranger. It is
therefore the opinion of this Court,.that the Circuit
Court erred.-in, directing, the jury that William, by
mistaken constructions of the will of Governor Dudley, might have claimed an estate for life inthe premises, and that such mistake would not operate to defeat his title by possession, for there was no evidence
that William-ever claimed under that will; and also
erred in instructing the jury that they were authorized to presume a grant by the children of Thomas,to
William, The compromise entered into by Joseph
with two of his brothers is not thought to change
the posture of the case, because that compromise was
made with an explicit denial of their right; and is
therefore to be considered as an agreement for a family peace.
The other question in the cause is of great importance, and if decided one way will probably put an
end to further controversy. It has been very fully
and ably argued at the bar, and does not, from any
thing before us, appear to have received a final adjudication in the State courts of Connecticut. It
must therefore be examined and decided upon principle. By the laws of Connecticut, (as has been alVOL. VIT.

15

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822
r
:Rieard
V.
Wilams.

ready stated,) the real estate of an intestate is liable
to he sold for the payment of debts, where there is
a deficiency of personal estate.' The administrator
in virtue of his general authority, has no right to meddle with the real estate; but derives this special authority from the order of the Court of Probates, which
possesses jurisdiction to direct a sale, upon a proper
application, and proof of the deficiency of the personal
assets. This power or trust, call it which you please,
when granted or ordered, is not understood to convey
any estate to the administrator in the lands of the intestate. He derives simply an authority to sell from
the Court, and upon the sale makes a conveyance to
the purchaser; and the estate passes to the purchaser upon his entry into the land by operation of law,
so that he is in under the estate of the intestate. As
long as an administration legally subsists, or may be
legally granted, this power over the land may be exercised, if the land remains in possession of the heirs;
and it is not defeated simply by an alienation or disseisin of the heirs.a By analogy, also, to other cases
of a like nature, at the common law, as, for instance,
a power given by a will to executors to sell an estate
for payment of debts, it may be true that a descent
cast will not toll an entry, for there is a distinction
between a right of entry, and a mere power.b The
former is in general barred by a descent cast ; but the
a Drinkwater v. Drinkwater, 4 Mass. Rep. 354. 359.' Jenk.
Cent. 184. pl. 85.
b Littteton, s. 169. Jenk. Cent. 184. pl. 85. Brooke's Abridg.
-Devise,pl. 36. Lift. s. 391. Co. Litt. 240.

SOF THE UNITED STATES.

latter is not. On this, however, it is not necessary to
express any opinion.
It does not apppar that at the tine of granting the
administration on this estafe, any statuteable limitation of the period within which an original administration might be granted, existed in Connecti*cut, though a limitation generally to seven years
after the death of the party has been since introduced.a And the present administration, though granted
after the lapse of 28 years from the death of William
Dudley, must be considered as valid, it having been
allowed by a Court of competent and exclusive juiisdiction, whose decision we are not at liberty to
review.

115
1822.
liard

Williams.

Still, however, the question recurs, whether a The pone
power of sale, thus derived under the law, and not toesaefor
to selli sreat
the

as a
from the act of the party, is to be considered
perpetual lien •on the land of which the intestate
died seised, and capable of being called -into life at
any distance of time,.and under any circumstances,
whatever may be the mesne conveyances, disseisins,
or descents, which may have taken place. If it be
of such a nature, great public mischiefs must inevi.tably occur, and many innocent purchasers, fortified
as their possession may be, by. length of time, against
all interests in the land, may yet be the victims of a
secret lien, or power, which could not be forseen or
guarded .against, and which may spring upon their
titles when the original parties to the transactions are
a Statutes of Connecticut. Revision of 1821. tit. 32. Estates

33.

estatef

or

Must be

'eaable
~~in
iiesoal
ti.

116
1822.

,.-r,
tRicard
V,.

Williams.

CASES IN THE SUPREAIR COURT

buried in the grave. The principhs of justice would
seem to require, that the law should administer its
benefits to those who are vigilant in exercising their
rights, and not to those who sleep over them. It is
always in the power of creditors to compel an administration to be taken upon an estate by application to
a Court of Probates; and if the next of kin decline
the office, it is competent for the Court to appoint
any other suitableperson. So that, if creditors do
not choose to act, the loss or injury ought rather
to fall on them, than on those who are meritorious purchasers without the means of knowledge to
guard them against mistake. A power to sell the
estate for payment of debts being created by the
law, ought not to be so construed as to work mischiefs against the intent of the law. It ought to be
exercised within.a reasonable time after the death of
the intestate: and gross neglect or delay on the part
of the creditors for an unreasonable time, ought to
be held to be a waiver or extinguishment of it. This
appears to be the doctrine in Massachusetts;a whose

laws on this subject are like those of Connecticut,
and is so just in itself, that unless prevented by authoriiy, we should not hesitate to adopt it. There
is no decisign in Connecticut, which, to our knowledge, controverts this doctrine; and it stands supported by the very learned opinion of her late Chief
Justice in the case of Sumner v. Mlds.5 There
a Gore v. Brazer, 3 Mass. Rep. 523. 542 .
den, 4 lass. Rep. 150. 155.
b 2 Conn. Rep. 607.

Wyman v. Brig.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
182.
are many cases where indisputable liens on land may
of the lRicard
be lost by lapse of time. and transmutation
•
property. And even the rights of mortgagors to re.
deem, and of mortgagees to enforce payment out of
the land, may be lost by presumptions, or laches
arising from time.
-oisYt
What then-is to be deemed a reasonable time for bleThistimed
-xed by
be
arbeen
has
It
?
gell
the exercise of this power-t
gued that the case of such a power is -within the tatoas.
purview of the -statute of limitations of Connecticut; and if not that the reasonable time for its exercise is to be fixed by analogy to that statute. The
statute provides that no person shall, at any- time
thereafter, make entry -into any lands or tenements,
but within fifteen years next' after his right- or title
shall first descend or accrue to the same, with a saving
in favour of infants,femes covert, &c. of five years
after the removal of the disability.a 'Ihe language
of the statute would seem to apply merely to rights
of-entry; but it has-been the uniform construction
of the Courts of the State, that it also takes away
all rights of action, and, therefore, bars all real actions after that period.b Now, the argument at the
bar is, that the words right or title first-accrued, refer solely to the commencement of the original title
under- which the party claims, and not to his own
accession to the title. But it appears to us, that this
Sa See the statute i- Revised Laws of Conn. tit. 59. sec. 1.
P. 309. 1 Swifj's System, 335.
b I Swift's System, 335, 336; Sumner v. Child, 2 Conn.
Rep. 607. 615.

118

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

**-d

construction of the statute cannot be maintained.
The title against which the statute runs; is a present

Willim.

right of entry; and it-is, admitted,-.that when once

1822.

it so begins to run, no devolution of the same title,
and no supervening disability, will stop its operation.
When, therefore, it speaks of a right or title first accrued, it means a new right or title first accruing to
the party, and not the transfer of an old title. Against
titles, in esse, at the time of the adverse possession)
the statute was intended to run ; but titles which
should afterwards come a esse, were not within
the provision of the statute, because they could not
be enforced within the period,,and it-would be unjust
to bar future rights in respect-to wbich there could i
by no possibility, be an imputation of liohes. And
such has been the tiniform constrdction of all the
statutes which contain'a'clause of this nature. StIMnford's case, cited at the bar, and referred' to in dro.
Jac. 61., is directly in' point; and it would be easy
to multiply instances under the statute of limitations,
and the statute of fines, to the same effect.a If, indeed, the construction were otherwise) it would not
help the present case, for the Tight'of entry of the
purchaser did -not accrue until after the conveyance
to him, and if he should then be deemed in under
the estate of the intestate, and in privity of title, it
would be a new right growing out of the exercise
of a power conferred by law, and no more barred
than a right of entry upon an extont after a fine lea Bac. Jbr. Limitations, B. Bac. Abr. Fines and Recove ries, F. Comyn's Dig. Fine, K. 2.

119

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vied, and five years past, where the judgment was
obtained before the fine.

But we do think it is a case clearly within the
same equity as those which are governed by the statute of limitations; and that by analogy to the cases
where a limitation has been applied to other rights
and equities not within the statute, the reasonable
time within which the power should be exercised,
ought to be limited to the same period which regulates rights of entry. It would be strange, indeed,
that when the estate of the heirs in the land, which
is but a continuation of the estate of the intestate, is
extinguished by the statute, the estate should still be
cousidered as a subsisting estate of the intestate
himself. That the administrator should possess a
power over the property which the intestate could
not possess if living; and that a lien created by operation of law should have a more permanent dura
tion of efficacy, than if created by the express act of
the party. The convenience of mankind, the publie policy of protecting innocent purchasers, and the
repose of titles honestly acquired, require some limitation upon powersof this nature, and we know of none
more just and equitable than this, that when the right
of entry to the land is gone, or the estate is gone by
an adverse possession from those who held as heirs or
devisees, the whole interest in the land, the power of
the administrator to make sale of the land for payment of debts, is gone also. In this opinion we do
but follow the. doctrine which has been distinctly ina Bac. .Abr. Fines, &c. F. cites 1 Mod. 217.

1822.
c

V.

W'

CASES IN -THE"SUPREIVIE COURT
1'822.

timated both in the Massachusetts and Cohnecticut

- C o u rts .a
i "-"r
-]Rcard

V.

The remaining consideration under this head is,
whether, the possession of Joseph Dudley
can be
considered as-an adverse possession so as to toll the
right of entry of the heirs, and, consequently, extinguish, by the lapse of time, their right of action
for the land, as well as extinguish by analogy of
principle the power of the administrator to sell the
land. It is said, that the entry of Joseph into the
premises is consistent with the potential right of the
creditors ; that he had a right to enter as a co-heir
of his father, and if he entered as co-heir, his possession was n( t adverse, but was a possession for the
other heirs ar I creditors, and he could not afterwards hold adversely, or change the nature of his
possession, for the creditors might always elect to
consider him their trustee. There is no doubt, that
in general, the entry of one heir will enure to the
benefit of all, and that if the entry is made as heir,
and without claim of an exclusive title, it will be
deemed an entry not adverse to, but in consonance
One heir may, with, the rights of the other heirs. But it is as
a disseise
isis his
i co-heirs, and
n
h bKdisseisin
aheisac-of clear, that one heir may
Williams.

quire an enclu-

hold an adverse possession against them, as well as
satutewilr,
both
ag ant his a stranger. And, notwithstanding an entry as heir,
heis,
ad a- the party may, afterwards, by disseisin of his cogainst credit.
ors.. heirs, acquire an exclusive possession upon which the
s,,o
posesi
on,
upon
which the

f

b Gore v. Brazer, 3 Mass. Rep. 623. 642. Wyman v.
Brigden, 4 Mass. Rep. 150. 155. Sumner v. Childs, 2 C,wi
Rep. 607.

OF rHE UNITF9D STATES.

statute will run. An ouster, or disseisin, is not, indeed, to be presumed from the mere fact of sole possession; but it may be proved by such possession,
accompanied with a notorious claim of an exclusive
right. And if such exclusive possession will run
against the heirs, it will, by parity of reason, run
agaipst the creditors. For the. heirs, qua heirs,, are
in no accurate sense in the estate as trustees of the
creditors. They hold in their own right by descent
from their ancestor, and take the profits to their own
use during their possession; and the most that can
be said is, that they hold consistently with the .right
of the creditors. The creditors, in short, have but
alien on the land which may be enforced through the
instrumentality of the administrator acting under the
order of the Court of Probates.
But in order to apply the argument. itself, it is
necessary to prove that the ancestor had an estate of
inheritance, and that the party entered as heir. Now,
in the case at bar, all the circumstances point the
other way. There is not, as has been already intimated, any proof, that William Dudley died seised
of an inheritance in the land ; -and therle is direct
proof that he asserted the inheritance to be in his
son Joseph ; and the entry of the guardian of Joseph
as well as his own entry, after his arrival of age, was
under an exclusive claim to the whole, not by descent,
but by title distinct or paramount. There is certainly no incapacity in an heir to claim an estate by title distinct or paramount to that of his ancestor ; and
if his possession is exclusive under such claim, and he
holds all other persons out until the statute period
VO.. VII.

16

1822.
IRicardl

V.
Wiams.

CASES IN THE, SUPREME COURT

1822.
Bouldin

V.
Massies
Hei.

has run, he is entitled to the full benefit and protec-,
tion of the bar. It appears to us, therefore, that the
jury ought to have been instructed, that if they were
satisfied, that Joseph's possession was adverse to that
of the other heirs, and under a dlaim of title distinct
from, or paramount to that of' his father, during his
26 years of exclusive possession, the entry of the
purchaser, under the administrator's sale, was not
congeable, and that the power of the creditor over
the estate was extinguished. There was therefore
error in the opinion of the Court to the jury, that as
against the creditors of William Dudley, neither Joseph nor the tenant had gained any title to the land
in controversy by possession.
For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit
Court must be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with directions to the Court to order a venire facias
de novo.

[LOCAL LAW.]

BOULDiN

and Wife v. MAssI's Heirs and Others.

The patent issued on a military warrant under the law of Virginia, is
primafade evidence that every prerequisite of the law was compli.
ed with.
The loss of a paper must be established before its contents can be pro.
ved: but where the patent issues upon an assignment of the warrant,
'and the legal title is thus consmnmated, the assignment itself baing no

