OF THE UNITED STATES.

453
1822.

(COMMON LAW,,)

Evans
Hettich.

EvAs V. HETTICH.
It is no objection to the competency of a witness in a patent cause
that he is sued in another action for an infringement of the same
patent.

The 6th section of the patent act of 1793, c. 156 which requires a notice of the special matter to be given in evidence by thedefendant
under the general issue, does not include all the matters of defence
which the defendant may be legally entitled to make. And where

the witness was asked, whether the machine used by the defendant
was like the model ezhibited in Court of the plaintiff's patented machine, hed, that no notice was necessary to authorize tne inquiry.
Where a deposition has once been read in evidence without opposi.
tion, it cannot be afterwards objected to ;s being irregularly taken.
It is no objection to the competency or credibility of a witness, that he

is subject to fits of derangement, if he is sane at the time of giving
his testimony.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania.

This was an ection for the infringement of the
same patent as in the preceding case of Evans v.
Eaton, and was argued by the same counsel. The
points involved will be found to be fully discussed
in the argument of that case, to which the learned
reader is referred. The following is the charge delivered to the jury in the Court below, which it is
thought necessary here to insert.
After stating the evidence on both sides, Mr. Justice WASHINGTON proceeded as follows:
The facts intended to be proved by the evidence
given in this cause, may be arranged under the following heads

454

CASES iN .THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Evans

V.

(.) Such as respect the value of the plaintiff's Hopperboy. (2.) The time of -its discovery. (3.) The
kind of machine used by the defendant. (4.) Tho
time of its discovery and
use.
Ist. As to the first, the Court has no observations
to make, except that if you should find a verdict for
the plaintift, you will giVe the actual damages which
the plaintiff has sustained, by reason of the defendant's use of his invention, which, the Court will treble.
2d. The evidence applicable to this head, if believed by thejury, proves, that in 1783, Oliver Evans
commenced his investigation of the subject of an improvement in the manufactory of flour; and in the
summer of the same- year, he declared that he had
accomplished it. In 1784, he made a model of his
Hopperboy, which had no cordsl weight, or pulley ;
and consequently the lower arm was, for the sake of
the experiment, turned by the, hand. In 1785 it was,
in operation in a mill, in as perfect a state as it now
is.
3d. If the witness Who was called to prove the,
kind of machine used by the defendant is believed by
the jury, it consists of an upright square shaft, with
a cog that turns it, and which is moved by the water
power of the mill. This shaft is inserted into a
square mortice, in an arm or board somewhat resembling an S, with strips of wood fixed on its under side, and so arranged as to turn the meal below
it, cool, dry, and conduct it to the bolting chest.
This arm slips, with ease, up and down the shaft,
and must be raised by hand, and kept suspended un-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

til the meal is.put under it. It has no upper arm,
pulley, weight, or leading lines; and the strips below
the arm are like the rake, as it is called, in the
acquired
plaintiffs Hopperboy. This machine has
the ,name of the S. or the Stouffer Hopperboy.
4th. The witnesses pxamined to prove the originality, and-use of the defendant's Hopperboy, if believed by the jury, date it as early as about the year
1765; and its erection and actual use in mills, in
1775 and 1778 ;, and progressively to later periods.
Objectionshave been made, on both sides, to the
credit of some of the witnesses who have been examined, not on the ground of want of veracity, or
of character, hut of interest, short of that which can
affect their competency. These objections have been
pressed so far beyond their just limits, as to require
from the Court an explanation of their real value.
Where the evidence of witnesses opposed by other
witnesses is relied upon, by- either side, to prove a
particular fact, thejury must necessarily weigh their
credit, in order to satisfy their own minds en which
side the, truth" is most likely to be ; and in making
this inquiry, every circumstance which can affect the
veracity of the witnesses, whether it concern their
moral character, or whether it arise from some interest which they may have in the question, or from
feelings favourable to one or the other of the parties,
should be taken into the calculation. But if the fact
in controversy may exist, without a violation of probability, and the ptoof is by witnesses exclusively on that
side, there is nothing to put into the opposite scale,
against which to weigh the credit of thosui witnesses;

182..

"Evans
V.

456

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and if the objection to their credit be worth any
Evans
thing, it must be to the full extent of rejecting their
V.
Hettich. testimony altogether, or else it is worth nothing.
The jury cannot compromise the matter, or halt between two opinions ;-they must decide that the fact
is so, or is not so ; and if the latter be cause of objection to the credit of the witnesses, it would
amount to the confounding of the questions of competency, and credibility ; for the effect would be the
same, whether the Court refused to permit the witnesses to testify on the ground of incompetency, or
the jury should reject their testimony, when given,
on that of want of credibility. I have thought it
proper to submit these general observations to the
consideration of the jury.
We come now to the question of law, which
arises out of these facts, which is,
What are the things in which the plaintiff alleges,
and has proved, he has an exclusive property, which
he asserts the defendant has used, and which the defendant denies ?
The first claim is for an improved Hopperboyt
which the plaintiff insists is granted by his patent,
which has received the sanction of the Supreme
Court; and which the defendant acknowledges.
This being, then, conceded ground, the Court will
proceed to examine it; and the inquiry will be,
whether the phintiff is entitled to a verdict for an
infringement of his patent for his improved Hopper.
boy. The objection relied upon by the defendant is,
that the plaintiff has not set forth in his specification
w,%hat are the improvements of which he claims to be
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

457

1822.
the inventor, so that' a person skilled in the art might
comprehend distinctly in: wjhat they consist. This
objection in point-of fact is fully supported. NeitheV .
the specification, nor any other document connected
with -the patent, states,-or even alludes to any specific
improvemenit in the Hopperboy. Taking this as
true, how stands the laW ? The 3d section'of thd
patent law declares, that " before7an inventor can receive a patent, he shall deliver a written description
ot hts inventian, in such fall, clear, and 'exact terms,
as to -distinguish the same from all other thi ngs before known, and, to eniable, a person skilled in- the
art, &c. of which it is a brarith, &c. to make and 'use
the same."

What, then- is -the plaintiff's invention, as asserted
by his counsel, conceded by the -defendint, and sanctioned by the Supreme Court iiithe case of Evanzs v.
Eaton? The answer is, an improvement.of the Hopperboy, or an improved Hopperboy, Whic that
Court has declared to be substantially the same. If
this be so, then the above section of the law has declared, that he must specify this improvement in full,
clear, and exact terms. If he has not donh so, he has
no valid patent on which he.can recover.
The English decisions correspond with the injunctions of our law.-Boulter v. Bull, Boville v. JM1odr,
kFarlane v. Price, Ha'men v. Playne.°0 The
American decisions, so far as we have any reports of
them, maintain the same doctrine. Mr. Justice
STORY, in the case of Lovel v. Lewis, lays it down,
aSee 3 Wheat. Rep. .Appx. 21.
VoL..VIt.

58

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.

'-'
iev.
Webi.

"1that if the patent be for an improvement in an existing machine, the patentee must, in his specification,
distinguish the new from the old, and confine hiu
patent to such parts only as are new, for if both arc
mixed together, and a patent taken for the whole, it
is void." What is the reason for all this ?
In the first placei it is to enable the public to enjoy the full benefit of the discovery, when the patentee's monopoly is expired ; by having it so described
on record, that any person skilled in the art, of which
the invention is a branch, may be able to construct
it. The next reason is, to put every citizen upon his
guard, that he may not, through ignorance, violate
the law, by infringing the rights of the patentee, and
subjecting himself to the consequences of litigation.
The inventor of the origilial machine, if he has obtained a patent for it, and all persons claiming under
him, may lawfully enjoy all the benefits of that discovery, notwithstanding the improvement made upon
it by a subsequent discoverer. If he has not chosen
to ask for a monopoly, but abandoned it to the public, then it becomes public property, and any person
has a right to use it. The inventor of an improvement may also obtain a patent for his discovery,
which cannot legally be invaded by the inventor of
the original machine, or by any other person. These
rights of each are secured by law, and there is no
incompatibility between them. 'But if a man wishing to use the original discovery, and honestly
disposed to avoid an infraction of the improver's
right, is unable to discover, from any certain and
known standard, when the original invention ends, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

469

the improvement commences, how is it possible for
182.
him to exercise his own acknowleged right, freed from '
the danger ofinvading that of another ? And to what
acts.of oppression might not this lead ? Might not Hcttich.
the patentee of this mysterious improvement obtain
from the ignorant, the timid, and even the prudent
members of society, who wish to use only the original discovery, the price he chooses to ask for a license
to use his improvement, and in this way compel
them to purchase it, rather than incur expenses
and inconveniences far greater than the sum demanded ? If this may happen, then the improver enjoys in
a degree, the benefit of a discoverer, both of the original machine, and also of the improvement. In.
short, the patentee of the improvement may, to a certain extent, keep men at arm's length as to the use of
the original invention, or make them pay him for it,
in derogation of the rights of the inventor of the original machine. If the law. as applicable to cases in
general, be rightly laid down, the next inquiry is, is
the present an excepted case ? The plaintiff's counsel have not directly asserted it to be so ; but they
have referred, with some emphasis, to what is said by
the Supreme Court, in the case of Evans v. Eaton.a
The expressions are, " In all cases where the plaintiff's claim is for an improvement on a machine, it
will be incumbent on him to show the extent of his
improvement, so that a person understanding the subject, may comprehend distinctly in what it consists."
This decision does not state, in what way the exa 3 Wheat. Rep. 518

,460
1822.
Evans
e.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tent of the plaintiffs improvement is to be proved;
nor did the case require that the Supreme Court
should be more explicit.

The obvious conclusion

is,
that the Court left that matter undecided,
and meant
that the extent of the plaintiff's improvement should
be shown according to rules of law. A contrary construction would be most unfair and unwarranted.
Is it possible to believe, that if the Supreme Court
intended to decide contrary to the provisions of the
3d section of the Patent Law, and of the English and
American decisions, that this was a case without the
influence of that law, and those decisions, that such
intention would have been expressed in such general
terms ? This. cannot -be admitted : neither can the
private act for the relief of Oliver Evans warrant the
argument, that this case is freed from the restrictious
contained in the 3d section of the patent law; because)
except as to the extent of the -grant, it refers to,
and the Supreme Court in the before mentioned case,
considers it as within, the provisions of that law.
Is it likely that the Supreme Court could have
meant, that the plaintiff might cure the defects of his
specification, by provig to thejuV in what his improvement consisted ? If so, then, as to the present
defendant, such an explanation would be unavailing
to save him from the con'sequences of an error
against which the - sagacity of man, could not have
guarded him, He has sinned already, if he has invaded the plaintiff's right, and it is too late to conivince him of his- error, if he must be a victim, of it,
for the want of that light, which is now- shed upon
the act lonig after his supposed transgression. But of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

what avail *ould that explanation be, after the expiration ofthe plaintiff's monopoly? The parol evideuce given in a Court of justice being seldom recollected with accuracy, it affords the mosi unsafe notide of facts, particularly when they respect matters
of art, that can well be supposed. What man, who
wishes iot to invade the plaintiffs'patent, would
venture to erect a Hopperboy, merely upon the information which he could gather from this trial ?
He could obtain none upon which he could safely rely ; nor could any artist, after the expiration of the
plaintiff's right, be enabled from such a source, to
know how to construct the improved Hopperboy.
But even if the extentof the improvement could be
proved in this way, the plaintiff has not attempted to
prove it, and what is more, his counsel, though repeatedly called upon to point it out, have not been
able to do it.
Can the jury, without evidence, and without the
aid of the plaintiff, or -his counsel, say in what those
improvements consist ? If they had never seen ano.
ther Hopperboy, supposed to be the original, this
would be impossible. If, having-seen the Stouffer
Hopperboy, they can do'so by comparing with it
the plaintiff's improved Hopperboy, then the consequence seems almost to be inevitable, that the Stouffer Hopperboy is the original one ; thepoint which
under the next head is denied by the plaintiff. But
if the specification had stated in -what the plaintiff's
improvement consisted, still he is not entitled to a
verdict for a violation of his patent, unless he has
proved, to your satisfaction, that the defendant has
infringed it.

.0|

182 Hettich.

462

2 CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Upon the whole, then, this patent, so far as it is for
improvement, cannot be supported ; and as to
Evans
V-.. any claim founded on this right, the plaintiff is not
Hettich.
entitled to your verdict.
1822.

2. The plaintiff contendb that he is the original inventor, not only of the improved Hopperboy: but of
the whole machine; that. his patent grants him the
exclusive right for both ; and that this claim has received the sanction of the Supreme Court. Whether,
in point of fact, he is the original inventor of the
Hopperboy, will be attended to hereafter. Neither
shall I stop to inquire, whether the plaintiffs patent grants him the right, because if the Supreme
Court has sanctioned the claim, that is law to this
Court. The part of the decision of that Court, relied
upon by the plaintiff's counsel, is found in 3 Wheat.
Rep. 517. where the Chief Justice says,." The opinion of the Court, then, is, that Oliver Evan may
claim under his patent the exclusive use of his inventions and improvements in the art of manufacturing flour and meal, and in the several machines
which he has invented, and in his improvements on
machines previously discovered."
It would seem almost impossible to misuiderstand
this positive declaration of the Court. It appears to
be the result of the previous reasoning. It states that
the plaintiff may claim, (1.) The exclusive use of his
improvements, and inventions, in the art of manufacturing flour. (2.) In the several machines Which lie
has invented. (3.) In his improvements on machines
previously discovered. As to the 1st, there is no dis.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

463

pute in thecause. The 3d has been already dispo- 1822.
sed of, and the 2d will now be examined. It is conV.
tehded by the defendant's counsel, that this is not the
Hettich.
the
of
sentence
above
the
of
correct construction
Court, because it is inconsistent with the pretensions
of the plaintiff's counsel, and with the argument of
the Chief Justice, throughout the opinion, which led
to the above conclusion.

This supposed inconsis-

tency may, in the opinion of this Court, be explained
by the following observations:
The exceptions taken to the charge of this Court,
in the case of Evans. v. Eaton, were, 1st. that Oliver
Evans' patent was only for the combined effect of
all the machines mentioned in his patent, and, 2d. in
directing the jury to find for the defendant, if they
should be of opinion that the Hopperboy was in use
prior to the improvement alleged to be made by Oliver Evans. These ,were the only questions presented to the view of the Supreme Court, upon which it
was deemed proper by that Court to give an opinion.
The reasoning of the Chief Justice, therefore, is intended to prove, and correct these errors in the charge,
by showing that Oliver Evans was entitled, by his
patent, and the accompanying documents, not only to
the general combination of the different machines,
but t o an improvement on the Hopperboy, one of the
machines used in.combination. If he had a right to
an improvement on the Hopperboy, then this Court
was clearly wrong in directing the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, if they should be of opinion
that the Hopperboy was in use prior to the plaintifl's
improvement ; because it was unimportant who was

464,
1822.
Evans

V.

Hettich.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the original discoverer of the Hopperboy, provided
the plaintiff had a patent for an improved Hopperboy, and the defendant used that improvement, and the
charge precluded that inquiry. But whilst the Chief
Justice aims to prove that Oliver Evans was entitled
to this double claim, he does not exclude any other
claiffi. There is an expression relied. upon by the
defendant's counsel, as having this appearance; but
it is more likely that the-word relied on, is a typographical error, than that the Court should both deny
and aflrm the plaintiff-s. right, as an original inventor of the Hopperboy. When the Court came to
state, definitively, what were the plaintiff's claims
under this patent, the, wholo are distinctly stated.
The act for the relief of Oliver, Evans authorizes a
grant to him of his improyement, in the art of manu-"
facturing flour,' and in the several machines which he
has invented, and in his .improvements, &c. The
Court says, that "the application is for a patent
2
coextensive with. the act, ) &c,a
If, then, in this enumeration of the plaintiff's rights
under the patent, those to. the machines had been
omitted, it might have been supposed that it Was not
recognized by that Court, and it is consequently introduced, in order to prevent a conclusion against its
validity, although it had not been brought into view in
the previous argument; because a matter not in dispute. This course of reasoning is, we think, strongly fortified, by what the Court says, p. 618. "In all
cases where his claim is for an improvement," &c.
Now, if his claim was confined to an improvement,
a 3 Wfieat. Rep. 508.

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

465

1822.
produqed by the combined operation of all the machines, and if'anr improvement in the separate maPwan
cbjnes, why should theoCouit have stated, hypotheti- Hch.
cally, that which was to be proved in case the plaintiff
claims for an improvement? The sentence following immediately that which has been relied on by
the defendant's counsel seems to explain it,- and. to,
fortify, the construction, .*Wich we have given to it.
Upon the Whole, we. are of -opinion, that the question, who is the original inventor of the 'Hopperluy ?
is left open by the Supreme Court,- and is now to be
decided by thejuri.
If, then, thejury'should be of
opinion upon the evidence, that the Hopperboy which
the defendant uses; was invented, and was in use,
prior to the discovery of Oliver Evans, then your
verdict ought to-he for the defendant. But to -this
construction there are objections made, which it is
proper to notice.
1. It is'contended, that the judgment of the Supreme Court in Evans v. Eaton;awhere it is said that
there is error in the proceedings below, in this, that in
the' charge the opinion is expressed, '1 that Oliver
Evans was not entitled to recover if the Hopperboy
in his declarationmentioned had been in use previous
to.his alleged discovery," entitles the plaintiff to a
verdict, although the jury should be of opinion that
he is not the original inventor of the Hopperboy.
That the Court did not mean this is most obvious,
from what is said in page 517, that Oliver Evans
may claim the exclusive use in the several machines
which he has invented. Could the Supreme Court
VoL. VII.

a 3 Wheat. Rep. 519.
59

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

466
1822.

V.
Rettich.

intend to say, immediately after, that he is entitled
to a verdict for a machine which he has not invented ? Can it be supposed that the Court meant
to ride over the 3d section of the patent law, and
set up a different rule, to govern this case, .without
having stated the reasons for-so extraordinary a distinction ? This is altogether inadmissible. It is
also worthy of remark, that the words "in his declaration mentioned"-in the judgment of the Supreme
Court, are not in the charge of the Circuit Court,
as stated by the Chief Justice ; and itis the insertion
of those words in the judgment which produces all
the difficulty. Leave them out, and then the judgment is consistent with the whole, reasoning of the
Chief Justice, which dondexined the charge of the
Circuit Court, because it precluded Oliver Evans
from obtaining a verdict for his improvement, if he
was not the 'original inventor of the elementary
parts of this machine. Retain them, and it follows,
that if Oliver Evans was proved not to be the ijivenhis declaration mentioned,
tor of the- Hopperboy irl
still the defendant was not entitled to a verdict.
This would be in such direct opposition to the 6th
secion of the patent law, that we cannot suppose
this :was the meaning of the Supreme Court.
2. The next objection to the construction is,
that the act of the' Legislature of Pennsylvania,
of 1787, conveyed to Oliver Evans the original Hopperboy, and -consequently the existence
and use of the Stouffer Hopperboy, at a period
prior to the plaintiff's discovery, cannot now be
urged to invalidate his patent. It is by no means to
be admitted that the act operates to make such a

467

OF THE UNITED STATES.

transfer. But if it did, still the plaintiff cannot recover, if he appears not to be the first or original discoverer of the Hopperboy. His claim is not derivaHis
tive either from the State or from an individual.
suit is founded on his patent, and unless he was
himself the original inventor of the Hopperboy, he
cannot recover.
3. Another objection stated by the plaintiff's
counsel is, that the Stouffer Hopperboy, ° although
thejury should believe it was in use in many mills
before the plaintiff's discovery had fallen into disuse, and therefore cannot be-urged to invalidate the
plaintiff's right of recovery. The answer to this is,
that Whether it fell into disuse or not, if it was used
befoie the plaintiff's discovery, the plaintiff could
not obtain a patent for it, so as toe'xclude the defendant from using it, if he chose to do so.
4. The last objection is, that. the. use of the
Stouffer machine cannot affect the plaintiff's patent,
unless it was public. Whether that Hopperboy
was in public use or not, the jury will judge from
the evidence. It was erected and used in four
or five mills, if the defendant's witnesses ard believed. But this argument 'has:no foundation in
the act of Congress, which does' not 5peak of public use. It is immaterial whether the .patentee had
notice of the prior invention or not. If it was in
actual use in any part of the world, however unlikelY or impossible that the fact could come to the
knowledge of the patentee, his patent for the same
machine cannot be supported.

1822.

"
V.

468

CASES IN THE SUPREME .OURT

1822A verdict was rendered for the defendant, and exSceptions
being taken to the above charge, the cause
Evans
V. was brought by writ of error before this Court.
Hettich.
March 20th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is an action for an infringement of the
same patent as in Evans v. Eaton;" and many of the
remarks in that case are applicable to this ;and
therefore the opinion now delivered will refer to such
points only, as are not-completely disposed of by the
opinion already delivered. The evidence in this
case does not establish, that the defendant used the
plaintiff's improved Hopperboy ; but the Hopperboy
used by the defendant, is asserted to be Stouffer's Hopperboy. At the new trial, a Mr. Aby was. offered
as a witness by the defendant, to prove the nature
and character of the Hopperboy used by the defendant; the plaintiff objected to his testimony, as incompetent, because he was sued by the plaintiff for
an infringement of his patent right, under circumstances similar to those alleged in proof against the
defendant. The Court overruled the objection ; and
the witness was then sworn on the vair dire, as to his
interest in the suit; but upon a full examination, it
did not appear that he was really interested ; and the
Court therefore permitted him to be sworn in chief.
The plaintiff took an exception to this decision of the
Court. The objection to the competency of Aby,
so far as he has an interest from being sued, cannot
a Ante, p. 356.

OF THE UNITED STATES

be distinguished, in principle, from that already overruled in the case of Evam v. Eaton. There is this
idditional circumstance in this case, that Aby was
a
not called as a general witness, but to establish
single fact, viz. the nature and character of the Hopperboy used by the defendant. The other objection
upon his aiswers on the voir dire, is disposed of by
the single remark that he purged himself of any real
interest in the event of the suit. A question was
asked of this witness, on his examination in chief,
whether the Hopperboy in the defendant's mill was
like the model exhibited in Court of the plaintiff's
patented Hopperboy; the plaintiff objected to the
question, because such testimony could not be given
in this case, for want of notice thereof. But the objection was overruled by the Court; and, in our
judgment, with perfect correctness. No notice was
necessary to authorize the inquiry ; and if the plaintiff meant to rely- on the -notice required by the sixth
section of the patent act, in certain eases, it is only
necessary to say,',that- this was not within 'the provision of that class-of case's. The question was perfectly proper under the general issue. Similar 6bjections were taken to other witnesses ; but it is unnecessary to Temark on them:
An inquiry was, proposed by the plaintiff, to one
of the witnesses, whether one Peter Stouffer had
paid the plaintiff for a license for his mill; but the
Court refused to allow the question to be asked; and
we see no reason why it should have been allowed,
for it merely referred to ah act among strangers,
which ought not to prejudice the defendant. A

469
1822.
Evans

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT

470
1822.
'

Evans

'.

Hettich.

similar question was proposed to be asked of the same
witness,
whether the executors of Jacob Stouffer had.
paid the plaintiff for,a license for the mill of Jacob;
the Court overruled the que.3tion ; and for the same
reason, it was rightly -overruled.
The deposition of one John Shetter was read in
evidence by the defendant, without opposition. and
afterwards the plaintiff moved to have the same rejected, because not taken according to the rules of
the Court; but the Court refused to reject it j and
in our judgment rightly, because it having been once
introduced with the acquiescence and consent of the
plaintiff, he could not afterwards avail himself of the
objection.
The plaintiff then proposed to ask a question of a
witness, whether Daniel Stouffer was subject to fits
of derangement, and whether the witness had said
so ; but the Court overruled the question. It does
not appear distinctly in the record, that Daniel Stouffer was a witness in the cause; but if he was so, the
question was properly overruled, because a person
being subject to fits of derangement, is no objection
either to his competency or credibility, if he is sane
at the time of giving his testimony.
The next objection of the plaintiff's counsel, is
to the charge of the Court, in summing up the cause
to the jury; but the points on which that charge
materially depends, have been str fully discussed in
the opinion just delivered in Evans v. Eaton, that it
is unnecessary to examine them at large.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the majority
of the Court, that the judgment ought to be affirmed
with costs.

