CASES IN THE SUPRME COURT
1822.
Columbian
Ins. Co.
V.

Wheelright.

(PRAcTICE.)

Tfie COLUMBIAN INSURANCE COAXPAN'
RI(GHT et cd .

V. WHEEL-

A writ of error will lie from this Court upon tho judgments of the Cir-

cuit Courts, awarding a peremptory manaamus.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
rarcls 15th.
In this case,- which was argued by Mr. Jones, for
the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Swann, for the
defendants in error," the COURT determined that a
writ of error would lie under the act relating to the
District of Columbia, which is similar in its provisions to the judiciary act of 1789, c. 20. see. 22., to
reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, awarding

a peremptory mandamus, to admit the defendants in

error to the offices of directors in the Columbian Insurance Company, and directed Mr. Jones to produce
affidavits as to the value of the matter in controversy. But it not appearing that it amounted to one
thousand dollars, the sum required to give this Court;
appellate jurisdiction from tme final judgments or decrees of the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, the Court afterwards directed the writ of error
to be quashed. The Court was of opinion that there
was nothing in controversy but the value of the office,
and that its value must be ascertained by the salary.
a He cited Bac. lbr. ti. Mandamus. 8 3Mod. 27. 1 P. Wml.
348.

OF THEUNITED STATES.

5,5

Although, therefQre, a writ of error might issue to a
1822.
judgment awarding a peremptory mandamus to re- BIght LeSsee
store to office where the matter in controversy was
sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Court, it could Rochester.
not regularly issue in this case.
Writ of error quashed.

(Co.mmox LAw.)

BLIGHT'S,

Lessee et al v.

ROCHESTE.

British subjects, born before the revolution, are equally mcapable with
those born after, of inheriting,. or transmitting the inheritance of
lands in this country.
The treaties of -1783, and 1794, only provide for titles existing at the
time those'treaties were made, and not to titles subsequently acquired.
ActuaL possession is not necessary to give the party the benefit of the
treaty; but the existdnce of title at the time is necessary.
Whbere . D., an alien and British subject, came into the United States
subsequent to the treatyof 1783, and before the signature of the treaty
of 1794, died, seized of theIands-in question: Held, that the title of
his heirs was not protected by the treaties.
In what cases citizenship may be presumed so as to confirm a title to
lands.
The anctrine of estoppel, or the principle ofj legal policy, which forbids
a party from denTing the title under which he has received a conveyance, does not apply as between vendor and vendee, especiAlly where
the latter has not received -possession from the former.

ERROR to. the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

This was an ejectment in the Court below, brought
to recover the possession of lot No. 18, in the town of

