CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

522g
1822.
Crocket

Crocect

V.

Lee.

are proofs of a continuing Ame-ican ownership whie
are entirely conclusive., There can, then, be no doubt
but that the captures made by the Fortuna are in
violation of the laws of the United States, enatetl
for the preservation of our .neutraliti, and that they
ought to be restored when brought within our territory.

The Rainha de los Anjos was a Portuguese vessel,
captured by the La Fortuna, in the same cruize in
which she captured the Monte Atlegre. The cases
are, in all material respects, the same.
:Sentences affirmed with costs.

(LocAL LAw.

CnAwnY.)

CROCKET v. LEE.
SAME: V. SAME.
A question -on th' validity of a certificate for a settlement right in
Kentucky, and of the entry thereof in the surveyor's offlce.
It is a settled rule, that the decree must conform to the allegations in
the pleadings, as well as to the proofs in the cause.
Therefore, when the question is on the validity of a location, an#
neither its vagueness nor its certainty are distinctly put in issue
'by the pleadings, the testimony to that point will be disregarded by
this Court; but if the merits appear to justify it, the cause will be
remanded to the Court below, with directions to permit the pleadings
to be amended.

APPEA L

from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

523

OF THE UNITED STATES.2

These causes were argued by Mr Sheffey, 0 for the
appellant, and by Mr. Cayjb for the respondent.

1822.

Crocket
V.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion 6f the Court.'
These causes relate to the same title, and depend
on the same question. It'is the validity of a certificate for a settlement right granted to Angus Cameron, and' of the- entry thereof in the surveyor's
office.
The certificate is in these words:
"Angus Cameron this day claimed a settlement
and pre-emption in the District of Kentucky, on account of residirig'in the country twelve months before the year 1778, lying at the head right hand fork
of Welles' branch, extending south east to the head
of a small run that empties into the north fork of
Licking, including the spring on the head of both
branches, about one and a half miles above the war
path that- crosses the north fork. Satisfactory proof
being made to the Court, they-are of opinion that the
said Cameron has a right to a settlement of 400
acres of land, to include the above location, and
the pre-emption of 1000 acres adjoining, and that a
certificate issue accordingly."
a Who cited Bodley v. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 229. 6 Cranch.
148. 3 Cranchi 239. 2 Wheat. Rep. -144. 2 Bibb, 144. 1 Bibb,
72. 1 Wheat. Rep. 141. 1 Wheat. Rep. 1.30. 3'Bibb, 623.
5 Wheat. Rep. 116. 6 Mheat. Rep. 119. 1 Bibb, 228.
b Who cited 1 Bibb, 10. 46.34. 129. 136. 2 Bibb, 109. 1(4.
259. 476. 479. Hardie, 411." 1 f'.arth. Kent. Rep. 281. Print.
Dec. 9i. 3 Bibb, 148,r 149. Wheat. Dig. Dec. tit. Loctrl

Law. XI.

Lee.
Marai 7&.

524
I 822.
Crocket
V.
Lee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The entry in the surveyor's office conforms to the
location expressed in the certificate.
The right of Cameron,. both to his settlement and
pre-emption, was regularly conveyed to the appellant,
in whose name patents have been obtained.
The appellee claims under junior entries, for which
patents have been issued, younger than the appellant's patent on the pre-emption warrant, but elder
than his patent on the settlement right. The appellant, therefore, filed his bill to obtain a conveyance for
the land covered by his settlement right, the legal title to which was in the appellee ; and the appellee
filed his bill to obtain a conveyance for the land
coyered by the appellant's patent on the pre-emption right, to which he claimed the equitable title.
Pending the controversy, Lee purchased in the
right of a person claiming under a patent older than
either of those under which Crocket claimed; but as
this patent was founded on a junior entry, the validity of Cameron's certificate, was still the question
on which the whole case depended.
In the Circuit Court, Crocket's bill was dismissed
and, in tfie other suit, he was decreed to convey to
Lee the land contained in his patent for Cameron's
settlement right. The decrees were founded entirely on the opinion that Cameron's location was too
vague.to be supported. In the Circuit Court, tho
cause turned almost entirely on this point, and the
greater part of the testimony is taken with a view to
it. If the validity of Cameron's location be sustained, Crocket must succeed, because his right is prior
in time, and superior in dignity, to any title conflicting

OF THE UNITED STATES.

with it, If Cameron's entry be invalid, then the decrees are right, either becauseYoung's . -t y is good,
or because the legal title was in Lee, when they
were made.
The testimony which has been taken in these
causes, certainly is very strong in support of the decrees of the Circuit Court ; but the counsel for the
appellant contends that -so inuch of this testimony as
respects the vagueness of Cameron's location must
be disregarded, because -neither its vagueness nor its
certainty has been put in issue. Lee has not averred
in his bill, nor alleged in his answer, that this location is 'vague, nor has he any where, or in any manner, questioned its validity.
The principle advanced by the appellant's counsel cannot be controverted. No rule* is better settled than that the decree must conform to the all6gations, as well as to the proofs in the cause. The
location being set out in the pleadings, the Court
can undoubtedly notice any intrinsic apparent defeet. If it be void in itself, no testimony can sustain it, and it would be deemed void on a demurrer
to the bill. But if it be not void in itself, if its validity depends upon facts to be proved in the cause,
then its validity ought to be put in issue.
The counsel for the appellee does not directly controvert this principle, but endeavours to withdraw his
case from its operation, by contending that terms are
used in the pleadings which are equivalent to a direct
allegation that Cameron's location is too vague to be
sustained.
If in this he is correct, the consequence he draws

50_.5
1822.

'--r '
V.

Lee.

526
1822.
Crocket
Lee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

from it will he adinitted ; for it will certainly be sufficient, if tie"matter to be proved be substantially alleged in the proceedings. How, then, is the fact ?
In his answer to Crocket's bill, he says that he
ooes not "admit that the survey has been made
agreeable to location or to law."
This allegation certainly questions the survey. If
it vary frcm the entry; if it be chargeable with any
fatal irregularity, if itbein any respect contrary to
law, suchi defects may be shown, and the party may
avail himself of it to the extentjustified by his test,
mony, and by the law. But this allegation is confined to the survey. 'It does not mount up to the location, nor dbes it draw that into question. It gives
no notice to Crocket, that his entry was to be controverted.
The bill filed by Lee, is equally defective in this
respect. After setting out his own title, he states that
of his adversary; ana, after reciting the certificate
granted* ioCameron; 5ubjoins that Crocket claim.ed
the land "1in disputeby virtde of the said improve.
ment, and having caused ihe same to be surveyed
contrary to location, and to law, and was to interfere with" his (Lee's) claims; had obtained a prior patent, &c.
This' allegation,.like that in the answer, draws into question only tihe survey. It does not controvert
the location or entry,
'The couosel for the appellant says it Would be
monstrous, if after the parties have gone to trial on
the validity of the entry, and have directed all their

OF THE UNITED STATES.

527

18-.
testimony in the Circuit Court to that point, their
%Crocket
rights should be made to depend in the appellate
V.
Court on a mere defect in the pleadings, which had
where
Court
the
in
entirely escaped their observation
it might have been amended, and the non-existence
of which would not have varied the case.
The hardships of a particular case would not justify this tribunal in prostrating the fundamental rules
of a Court of Chancery ; rules which have been established for ages, on the soundest and clearest principles of general utility. If the pleadings in the
cause were to give no notice to the parties or to the
Court of the material-facts on which the right asserted was to depend, no notice of the points to which
the testimony was to be directed, and to which it
was to be limited; if a new case might be made out
in proof, differing from that stated in the pieadings,
all will perceive the confusion and uncertainty which
would attend legal proceedings, and the injustice
which must frequently take place. The rule that the
decree must conform to the allegations, as well as to
the proofs of the parties, is not only one which justice requires, but one which necessity imposes on
Courts. We cannot dispense with it in this case.
But although the entry is not put in issue, the survey is; and if that be made on ground not covered by
any part-of the entry, the decrees would, on that accdunt, be affirmed.
It must at once occur that in a case where the
entry is in reality attended with much uncertainty,
there will be some difficulty in showing how much a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
Crocket

V.

Lee.

survey varies from it, uless the survey be made on
land entirely different from the entry. That does not
appear to be the fact in the'present case. Cameron's
entry calls for the head right hand fork of Welles'
branch, for the head of a small run that empties
into the north fork, and to lie about one and a half
miles above the war path that crosses the north
fork. The survey is upofithe head waters of these,
streams, and lies a small ,distance above the war path
that crosses the north. fork. There is reason to believe, that, were the location to be sustained, the survey would be found to conform to it in part, though
not perhaps- entirely. This Court -has no means of
ascertaining how- far they agree, and how far they
disagree, and the decrees of the Circuit Court must
be reversed.
But is- this reversal is not on the merits of the
case, and the'C'urt is rather inclined to the opinion
that the decrees on the merits are right, no final decreev
will be :directed in either cause, but each will
be remanded to the Circit Court, with directions to
permit the parties to amend their pleadings.
*ANDREW CROCKET, Appellant,
HENRY LEE,

Respondent.

)

DEcRE.
This cause came on to be heard on the
1il,&c. and was argued by counsel; on consideration
wherebf, this Court is of opinion that the decree
dismissing the plaintiff Is bill was erroneous, in this,
that the plaintiff is shown to possess the prior and
better equitable title, unless his location, whichis the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
foundation to that title be void for want of certfinty,
a point not properly examinable under the pleadings in the cause, as they now stand, because it is not
put in issue. This Court doth therefore reverse the
iaid decree, and doth remand the cause to the Circuit Court, that the paites may be permitted.to amend
their pleadings, and -thai further proceedings may be
had ti erein; according to law.
SAME.
V.

SAME.
"DECREe. - This cause came on to be heard on the
bil;,.&c: and. was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, this Gourt is of opinion that the decree direcing the.defendant to convey to the plaintiff the
land therein-mentioned,is erroneous in-this, that the
defendalnt.is shown to possess the prior and better
- equitabl~fitle, unless his location, which is the foundation of that title, be void for want of certainty, a
point not prQperly examinable under the pleadings in
the cause, as they now stand, because it is not put
in issue. This Court doth therefore reverse the said
decree, and doth remand the cause to the Circuit
Court. that the parties may be permitted to amend
their pleadings, and that farther proceedings may be
had therein, according to law.
VoL. VIL

1822.
c
V.

