OF THEUNITED STATES.

5,5

Although, therefQre, a writ of error might issue to a
1822.
judgment awarding a peremptory mandamus to re- BIght LeSsee
store to office where the matter in controversy was
sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Court, it could Rochester.
not regularly issue in this case.
Writ of error quashed.

(Co.mmox LAw.)

BLIGHT'S,

Lessee et al v.

ROCHESTE.

British subjects, born before the revolution, are equally mcapable with
those born after, of inheriting,. or transmitting the inheritance of
lands in this country.
The treaties of -1783, and 1794, only provide for titles existing at the
time those'treaties were made, and not to titles subsequently acquired.
ActuaL possession is not necessary to give the party the benefit of the
treaty; but the existdnce of title at the time is necessary.
Whbere . D., an alien and British subject, came into the United States
subsequent to the treatyof 1783, and before the signature of the treaty
of 1794, died, seized of theIands-in question: Held, that the title of
his heirs was not protected by the treaties.
In what cases citizenship may be presumed so as to confirm a title to
lands.
The anctrine of estoppel, or the principle ofj legal policy, which forbids
a party from denTing the title under which he has received a conveyance, does not apply as between vendor and vendee, especiAlly where
the latter has not received -possession from the former.

ERROR to. the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

This was an ejectment in the Court below, brought
to recover the possession of lot No. 18, in the town of

536

CASES IN THE.SUPREME COURT

Danville, in. the State of Kentucky. It appeared,
the evidence in the cause, that the plaintiffs
"from
Blight's Lesare ,the heirs of John Dudlap, who was a citizen of
see
1822.

Rochester-

Pennsylvania, and claimed as the heir of his brother,
James Dunlap, who died seised of the premises in
question, in the autumn of 1794. James Dunlap
was an alien, and a subject of the king of Great Britain, who came to. the United States subsequent to
the treaty of peace of 1783, and died before the signature of the treaty of 1794. After his death, one
Hunter, professing to have purchased of John Dunlap, entered into possession, and conveyed to, several
persons, parcels of the lot; and to the defendant,
Rochester, one parcel, in 1796, who entered into
possession thereof, -and has occupied the same ever
since ; having acknowledged the title of said Dunlap, as that under which he held.
Upon this evidence, the counsel for the plaintiffs
moved the Court to instruct the jury,
1st. That if the jury find the defendant obtained
possession under James G. Hunter, who obtained possession as the attorney of John Dunlap, or who claimed under an executory agreement with John Dunlap, and that said defendant .has held, and occupied
under John Dunlap's title, claiming from said Hunter, as the attorney of said Dunlap, or under an executory agreement, or has, since he was in possession, acknowledged the title of said Dunlap, as that
under which he held ; that then the defendant is not
permitted to impeach or controvert the title of said
John Dunlap, by parol evidence that Jamcs Dunlap
was an alien.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

537

2d. That if the defendant, Rochester, acquired the 18n2.
possession, and has continued to hold as above, the Bl1ight% Lesepossession of the defendant was not such.an adverse
SW
possession, as would toll the right of entry of said Roches*te.
John. Dunlap, and the statute of limitations does not
apply.
3d. That if James Dunlap occupied the lot, from
the date of his deed till his death, and said James G.
Hunter and the defendant have continued to hold it
under the claim of John Dunlap, his brother, as heir
to James; that from these facts, connected with the
evidence in the cause, and in the absence of any proof
of an inquisition or office found as to the alienage of
James Dunlap, and in the absence of any grant or
other act of the commonwealth or its officers since
the death of said James, in derogation of the title of
said James or of said John, they should presume that
said James was a citizen of the United States.
4th. That if they believe the evidence, they should
find for the plaintiff.
6th. That the jury have a right to presume that
James Dunlap was a citizen of the State of Virginia,
or of gome one of the United States, and if so, John
Dunlap was his heir, and capable of inheriting.
6th. That if James Hunter entered under a parol
agreement with John Dunlap, the possession of said
Hunter was the possession of said Duulap
.7th. That the inheritance claimed by John Dunlap, as heir tb James, is protected by, and within the
provisions of the treaty between the.United States
and. Great'Britain, signed -19th November, 1794.
The Court refused the 1st, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and
VoL. VII.

6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18122

"

g

see
Rochester.

mar,&1sth.

7th instructions, moved by the plaintiff; and gave the
second, with this qualification, "I that if John Dunlap had either title or the actual possession of the
premises after the death of Jmes Dunlap, and before the entry of said Hunter, or of the defendant,
then the statute of limitations did not apply."
The defendant moved the instruction, that if James
Dunlap was an alien, aprd died before the 19th November, 1794, then the plaintiff has madboout no title
to the land in question which will authorize them to
find for him ; which was given by theCourt-,witli this
qualification, that if the jury find that John Dunlap
had actual possession of the premises after the death
of James Dunlap, and prior to the time"when Huntei
took possession, in that event this instruction would
not be given.
. Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff, (I.) stated that the first
instruction, m'bved oii the part of the plaintiffs, involved .the proposition that Hunter, who entered,
claiming ufider' John Dunlap, Wbuld be estooped
from denying John Dunlap's title by parol, and that
the' defendant, Rochester, who entered under Hunteri stands in the same predicament with hi grantor,
and.is besides precluded by his own acknowledgment,
from denying the title from which his own is derived.
a Jackson . Stewart, 6 Johns. Rep. 34. Jackson r. Reynolds'
1 .Canes' Rep. 444. Jackson v. Whitford, 2 Caines' Rep.' 216.
Brandtv.' Livermore, 10 Johns. Rep. 368.. Jackson v, HinuAan,
lb. 29L Jackson -' Bush/ 1b. 2.23. Jackson v. M'Lcod,
Johns. Rep. 182. Jackson- v. ,Griham, 3 Caines' ReV 488.
Pbillis v. Rothwell, 4 Bibb's,Rep. 3$.. Connelly' v .Ghtfos 2
Mars4w Kent;'Rep. 24

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2. The second instruction asked by the plaintiff
was given by the judge below, but with a qualification. That qualification involves the questions discussed on the first instruction, by permitting the defendant to impeach the title of John.Dunlap, or by
requiring an actual entry by John, after the death of
James, and before Hunter or the defendant entered,
It is insisted that thepedispossessio of John was not
necessary ; that the entry of Hunter, claiming under
him, enured to his henefit, and was sufficient to eqable Hunter, and all claiming or holding under him,
after such entry, to show title derived from John
Dunlap.c
3. The third and fifth instructions prayed for,,may
be considered together. In withholding both these
instructions, the Court has denied to the jury the
right to infer one fact from another. From the long
uninterrupted possession held under the title of the
Dunlaps, and as against the defendant, who had acknowledged John Dunlap's title, the jury ought to.
have been perrmitted to fill, by intendmenr or presumption, after the death of both the Dunlaps, the only chasm alleged by the defendant to exist In that title.' Before the establishment of a uniform rule of
naturalization under the new constitution, the laws
of the different States gave great encouragement to
emigration, by conferring the privileges of citi ensluip
on easy terms. The acknowledgmvnt of John Dunlap's title by the defendant, his possession under it,
and demand of a deed from John D., was sufficient
a Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. Rep. 214. Jackson v. Reynolds,
Jackson v. M'Leod, 12 Aont. Rep. 182.

I Caines' Rep. 444.

639
182e.

" I~A:9331ights
sce
RodvsteJ

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822.
'a

BMigh's. Lessee

Rochester.

evidence, of itself, to warrant thejury to find John D.
citizen, if that were necessary to perfect his title.
Omne majus continet in s.minus : the acknowledgment of his title involved the admission of the fact
that he was a citizen. 4. The fourth instruction may be considered as involving the previous instructions mbved ; for, if the
defendant was stopped to deny John D.'s title, and
the statute of limitations did apply to the case, then
certainly the plaintiffs were entitled to recover. As
to the statute of limitations, as the defendant claimed
under John D., and looked to him flir the perfection
of his title, the possession of the defendant is not such
an adverse possession as would toll the right of entry of the heirs of the said John D.b To bar the
plaintiff in ejectment, the possession of the defendant
must have been -adverse in its. commencement, and
so continued.c The defendant admitted John D.'s
title within twenty years before action brought, and
the-plaintiffs were residing out of the State of Kentiicky, and consequently within the saiings-of the
statute.
5. The sixth instruction asked is grounded upon
the local statute of frauds and perjuries, which is similar to the English statute of frauds, 29 Car. 11. c.
3, and avoids "any contract for. the sale of lands,
&c. unless the agreement, or some note, or memoa Co. Litt. 52. b. .Koy. .Max. 16-17.
b Litt. s. 396, 397. Co. Litt. 242. Bull. N. P. 102. 104.
c 1 Johns. Rep. 158. 3 Johns Rep. 223. 2 Johns. Rep. 22.
4 Johns. Rep. 230. .9 Johns, Rep. 167. 10 Johns. Rep, 435.
12 Johns. Rep. 368. 1 Marsh. Kent. Rep. 62. 2 Bibb, 600.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

randum thereof; shall be in writing, and signed by
the party," &e.- Hunter having-entered, clairing under' Johtl'D., and shuwing no agreement -between
them, the statute applies to avoid any :laro1 agreement ; Hunter was , upon hisentry, the tenant at will
of Dunlap, and the defendant, coming in inder Hunter, is in the same predicament.
7. The treaty of 1794, between the United States
and Great'Britaiji, is to be construed liberally, accordiug to its spirit, and the good faith. which ought
to be observed between sovereigns. The words,
"-now hold," as used in the 9th article, do not mean
an actual possession. These expressions exclude
titles acquired after the signature of the treaty, but
embrace all titles before the treaty, not confiscated
or annulled by legislative acts before the signature of
the treaty. The latter clause of this article declares,
that "neither they, nor their heirs and assigns, shall
be regarded as aliens." As to all the cases provided
for by that article, the inheritance is provided for without regard to the common law requisition of mutual or
common allegiance between ancestor and heir ; and
the capacity to make title,as heir is placed entirely
upon the fact of private relationship between American citizens or British subjects, independent of their
political relationship to the one or the other of the
two governments. The treaty of 1783 had provided
against future confiscations. Taking that and the
treaty of 1794 together, as made in pari materia, the
a Harden v. Fisher, 1 Wltcat. Rep. 300.

4 Wheat. Rep. 463.

Orr v. Hodgson,

1822.
Bligbt's Les-

see

hRte

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.,
B
Blight's Les-

words "now .hold" ought not to be confined to cases
of actual occupation 'by Britisl subjects or American

citizens, nor to the exclusion of such as would.be
1.pbester. heirs but for alienage, but would apply to all those
claims which were not actually seized upon, or confiscated by the respective governments of the Upited
States or Great Britain; and which would, but
for the treaty, be liable to be affected by the
common Jaw doctrines in relation to inheritance.
If such be the true construction, John D. might, inherit the property of James D. under the treaty of
1794, if James were an alien; becabse no act of the
g6vernment has confiscated, escheated, or re-granted
the premises.
As to the instructions asked on, the part of the
defendant, they are substantially involved in those
which have already been discussed.
see

Mr. B. Hardin, contra, argued, (1.) That the- defondant, Rochester, was npt estopped from disputing
the title of the plaintiffs. If the doctrine as applicable between lessor and lessee be insisted on, the answer is, that the defendant, if a tenant, is a tenant at
will, with a parol permission to enter. This cannot
estop, for no man is estopped by parol from alleging
the truth. There must then be a deed to estop. An
estoppel consists only :of an..instrument superior in
dignity to the evidenceoffered. Suppose the fact to
be, that John D. sold to Hunter, and that Huntor
conveyed to Robfhester, and it turns out that D. had
notitle,'can:he recover ? If a lease be made by deed
pvji,,and the lessor have nothing in the premises, the

858

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lessee is not estopped.a It. is on principles of legal
policy or moral honesty) and not of estoppel, that a
lessee is not permitted to deny the estate of his lessor.. The Court has some discretion in limiting the
rule, because, being adopted to promote the purposes
of justice, it is not inflexible. It applies only to a
person who enters as tenant, -and never to one who
enters and claims in his own right. It cannot apply
as between vendor and vendee, and certainly not
where the latter never received possession from the
former.
2. As to the treaties of 1783, and 1794, it is the
settled doctrine of this Court, that they were meant to
provide only- for titles legally existing at the time the
treaties were signed, and -not to titles subsequently
acquired. It is true that it is not necessary that the
parties should have an actual possession of seisin ;
but it is necessary that the title should be legally
vested in them at the time the treaty was made.'

1822.
see.
Rochesten

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL' delivered the opi- .fa).dLoA.
nion of the Court.
The exceptions taken to the opinion of the Circuit Court in- this case,. may be divided into two
parts :
1st. Those which respect the actual title of the
plaintiffs.
2d. Those which respect the ability of the defend.
ant to contest that title.
1st. The title of the plaintiffs.
a Co. Litt. 47. b. Roll. Abr. 871.
b Harden v. Fisher, I Wheat. Rep. 310.

64-

CAS S IN THE.SUPREME COURT

They are the heirs of John Dunilap, who was a
citizen of Peiinsylvania, and claimed as the heir of
Blight's Leesee
James Duulap, "who died seised of the premises in
..
Rochester. the declaration, mentioned, in ,the autumn of 1794.
Construction The defendants allege and prove that James Dunlap
of tic British
ofn
traties
as toh was an alien, and subject to the King of Great Briand J794,
tis tola. -ta,'who camie into the United States subsequent to
the treaty 'of peace, and who died before the signature of -the treaty of 1794, and whose title,-therefore,
is not prdiected by either of those treaties.
The Court having left the fact to the jury, their
verdict has fond that James Dunlap died previou's to
the signature of the treaty of 1794, and the question
is, whether the Court erred. in determining that this
case was not either within the treaty of peabe, or the
treaty of 179-.
It has beep decided that British suljects, though
born before the revolution, are equally incapable with
those, born subsequent to that event, of inheriting or
transmitting the inheritance of lands in this country.
Censequently, the sole inquiry in this' case respects the effect of the treaties between the United
States and Great Britain.
The treaty of peace has always been considered
as providing only for titles existing at the time ; and
as the title of James Dunlap was afterwards acquired. it can derive no aid from that treaty.
'James Dunlap, therefore, if he continued to be an
alien, continued liable to all the disabilities of alienage, one of which is an incapacity to transmit lands.to
heirs. Consequently, when he died, the next of kin
could take nothing by descent. The treaty of 1794,
1822.

e'iiii

OF THE UNITED STATES.

like that of 1733, provides only for existing rights.
It does not give title. Had James conveyed, or devised the property to John, the• title Would have vested in him,-subject to the right of the government to
seize the ]and ; and the treaty would have confirmed
that title, so if the lav would have'vested the estate
in him by'descent; I ui as the fact is. he had no title, nothing on which the treaty could operate. It
has been said that this Court has never supposed actpal possession to be necessary to entitle a party to
the benefit of the treaty. This is true. But the existence of title, at the time, has always been supposed necessary.
- The plainiiTi also insisted that under the cireuistaznces' of this case, the jury might presume
James Dunlap was a citizen.
The circumstances are the length oftime which has
ointervened since his arrival in this country, and since
his first acquisition of real estate, during which there
have been no proceedings instituted under the laws
of escheat and forfeiture.
The weight which might be allowed to this argument, had the property continued in the peaceable
occupation of the heirs of James Dunlap, and had
this presumption been required to sustain the title
clothed with that possession, is, we think, diminishecf
by the circumstance that the land was, soon after his
death, .claimed and occupied by a citizen of Kentucky.as a- purchaser. In such a state of things it is
not surprising that no inquiries should be made into
his citizenship, and that no person should feel disposed to intermeddle with the affair.
VOL. VII.

69

M
1822.
Blight's Les-

see
V.
Rochester.

546

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The alienage of James Dunlap being fully proved,
the laws of Virginia requiring, as indispensable
Sand
Blight's Leshis
citizenship, that he should take the oath of fir
io
see
Vt.
Rochester. delity to the common wealth, in a Court of record, of
which the Clerk is directed to grant a certificate, we
do not think that this fact, which, had it taken place,
must appear on record, ought to be presumed, unless
there were some other fact, such as holding an office
of which citizens alone were capable, or which re.
quired an oath of fidelity, from which it might- be
inferred.
In favour of long possession, in favour of strong
apparent equity, much may be presumed; but in a
case where the presumption would defeat possession, where the equity is doubtful, where the parties rely upon strict law, Courts will be cautious how
they lean in favour of presuming that which does
not appear, and which might be shown by a record.
The Circuit Court has declined giving the instruction which was required; but, on this point, has given
no counter instruction, and has assigned no reason for refusing that which was required. It may
have been, that the presumption in favour of.a deed
from John Dunlap so entirely balances the presumption in favour of the citizenship of James, as to prevent the allowance of either.
If James Dunlap could not be considered as a citizen at the time of his death, the plaintifls have no
title ; and the only remaining question arising on the
bill of exueptions, is. was the. defendant restrained
1822.

OFTHE tNITED STATES.

ion.
on tl~e p-jaciple of estoppel. or any other princiBlight's Le .
pie, from yiesisting theirclaim..
see
It.is-=oiwtended- that- he is so restrained, because
JbhnDuglapsold to Hunter, and Hunter. has con- Rochester.
veyed. to the present defendant.
Ux.;ns of
Jris very certain, that these sales do not create a =1h,,,
legat estoppgl. T-he defendant has executed no deed pni 1 toM
.
to prevent himfrom averring and proving the truth of
thecase.-If he is: hound in law to admit a title which.
has no existence, in reality, it is not.on the doctrine
of estoppel that he is bound. It is because, by receiing a conveyance of a title which -is deduced
from Dunlap, the moral policy of the law will not
permit him .to contest that title.
the relation between
XThi, principle originates in,
lessor and lessee; and so- far as respects them is
well'established, and ought to be maintained. The
iftle-of thelessee is, in fact, the title of the lessor. He
comes in. by virtue of it, holds- by virtue of it, and
rests up6n it to maintain and justify his possession.
He professes to have no independent right in himself,
and it is a part of the very essen.pe of the contract
under which lie claims that the paramount ownership of the lessor shall be acknowledged during the
continuance of the lease, and that possession shall be
surrendered at its expiration. He cannot be allowed
to controvert the title of the lessor, without disparaging his own, and he cannot set up the title of another, without violating -that contract by which he
obtained and holds possession; and breaking that
faith which he has pledged, and the ohligation of
which is still continuing, and in full operation.

548

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

In considering this subject, we ought to recollect,
Blight' Les" too, the policy ofihe timesin which this doctine or1Blight's
ginated. It may be traced back to the feudal tosee
V.
I1o0hestcr. nures,.when the connexion between landlord and
tenant, was much more intimate than it is at present :
When the latter was bound to the former by ties not
much less strict, nor not much less sacred, than those
of allegiance itself.
The propriety of applying the doctrines between
lessor and lbssee to a vendor and vendee, may. well
be doubted.
The vendee acquires the property for himself, and
his -faith is not pledged to maintain the title of tile
vendor. The rights of the vendor are intended to
be extinguished by the sale, and he has no continuing-interest in the maintenance of his title, unless lie
should be called upon in consequence of some covenant or warranty in his deed.. The property having
become, by the sale, the property ofthe vendee, lie has
a right tor fortify thait title by the purchase of any
other which may protect him in the quiet enjoyment
of the premises. No. principle of morality restrains
him from doing this ; nor is either the letter or spirit
of the contract violated by it. The only controversy -which ought to arise between him and the vendor, respects the payment of the purchase money.
Hw far he may be bound to this by law, or by
the'obligations of good faith, is a question depending
on all the circumstances of the case, and, in deciding
it, all those circumstances are examinable.
If the vendor has actually made a conveyance, his
title i§ extinguished in law as well as equity, and it
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

will not be-pretended that he can' maintain an,ejectment. If he has sold, but has not conveyed, the contract of sale binds him to convey, unless it be condi-

549
1822.
Blighs
ace

LIA-

tional. If after such a-contractihe brings an eject- lioccter.

ment for the land, he violates -his own contract, unless the condition. be broken.by the vendee; and- if
it-

te -yendor ought -to.show it.
the,

In this case a sale by John Dunlap to Hunter is
stated, and -a conveyance from Hunter to Rochester,
the defendant, -is .also stated, -but that conveyance
does not appear in the record.

Whether it contains

any., reference to the title of.Dunlap, or not, is not
shown.. The defendant then holds -in his owu right
boy -a eed of conveyance which purp6rts to pass thelegal -tide. The plaintiffs show no tide in themselves, hut-allege asd.- prove that.the title under which
the defendant-claims is derived-from their ancestor.
They -therefore insist that the defendant is bound in
good-faith to admit this title,-and surrender the premises 4o them.
But the sole principle onwhich this claim is founded is, that the defendant, must trace his- title up to
their ancestor,.and is bound therefore to admit it.
But if the-deed of the defendant does not refer to.
their ancestor, and the record does not convey this
information, the defendant holds in opposition to the
title of John Dunlap, or claims to have acquired that
tide. if-lheholds under an adversary title. his right
to-conestthat-of-Ddniap is admitted. - If he claims
under a sale.-frbm Dunlap,- and Dunlap himself is
compelled to -aver that he does, then the plaintiffs
themselves assert a title against this contract. Un-

650

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.blight',s Les-

e,.

less they show that it was conditional, and that the,
condition is broken, they cannot, in the very act of
disregarding it themselves, insist that it binds the de-

5ochester. fendant in good faith to acknowledge a title which
has no real existence.
Upon reason, then, we should think that the de
fendant in this case, under all its circumstances, is
at liberty to controvert the title of the plaintiffs.
But it is contended that this question is settled in
Kentucky by authority. There are also several
cases quoted from the decisions in New-York, which
we have not had an opportnity of examining fully.
Those we have considered are, we think, distinguishable from this in some of their circumstances, especially in this ma, arial one, that the vendor gave possession to the vendee. Bot the decisions of one
State, though highly to be respected, are not authority in another, especially with respect to land titles.
In Phillips v. Rothwell, in 4 Bibb, 33. the defendant claimed under a conveyance from the tenant of the plaintiff. That case, therefore, was decided on the doctrine applicable to lessor or lessee.
The case in 2 Marshall, 242. was the case of a
purchaser who had not received a conveyance, and
whQ was not allowed toset up an outstanding title in a
third person. The report gives us ofily the opinion of
the Court, not accompanied by a statement of the case,
or the points made at the bar. We therefore cannot
tell whether, in asserting his title, the vendor acted in
opposition to his contract. We cannot say that the
condiiion on which the sale might depend had not
been broken. There is, too, a difference between set-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1C22.
ting up an adverse title in a third person, to controvert an actual existing title, and resisting a claim "T7'
made by a person having no title whatever. In the Irresistible.
case last mentioned it would appear that the plaintiff
had a title which was in itself sufficient to maintain
his. action ; but there was another, and perhaps a superior title, in a third -person, with which the defendant was not connected. The rejection of all
evidence of this title does not, we think, prove that
the same Court would have compelled the defendant
to acknowledge a title of which no evidence was
.given, or-have rejected proof of any title in himself;
especially when the vendee received nothing-not
even possession from the vendor.

Judgment affirmed with costs.

(INsR.A-cE CoUT.)

..The IRRESISTIBLE.

Daniels, Caimant,

An offence against a temporary statute cannot be punished after the
expiration of the act, unless a particu]ar provision be made by law
for that purpose.
The prov 'o in the repealingclause of the Neutrality Act of the 20th of
April, 1818, did not authorize a'forfeiture under the act of the 3d of
March, 1817, (which was included in the repeal,) after the time when
that actwould have expired by its own limitation.

THIs -cause.was submitted without argument.
.Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the Court.

tarh 2o0a.

