490

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

!8 .
The
Santa Maria.

(Pnxzi.)

The SANTrA MARIA. The Spanish Consul, Liblilant.
A question df fact respecting the proprietary interest in prize goods,
captured by an armed vessel fitted out in violation of the statutes of
neutrality of the United States. Restitution td the original Spanish
owners decreed.

AP-PEALfrom

the -Circuit.Court of Maryland.

This ivs a libel filed in the District Court of Maryland, by the Consul of bis Catholic Majesty for the
port of Baltimore, in behalf of the'Spnish owners of
certain. goods alleged to have been captured on the
high seas, and taken out of' the'Spanish ship Santa
Maria, by the privateer Patriota, illegally armed and
eqtiipped in tle United"States. The evidence in the
cause established the fact that, the capturing vessel
was owned by citizens of this country, and that she
was armed, equipped, and fitted out, in violation f
the laws and treaties of the United States. But
there was some 6ontrariety in the testimony as to the
identity of the property, which the d.aimant, Burke,
insisted upon his title to hold as a bonafide purchaser
untter a condemnafion and sale in some prize
tribunal at Galveztown. There was also some evidence tending to show that Burke was a part-owner
of the capturing vessel. The District Court dismissdd
the libel, and ordered the property to he restored to
the claimant, but this decree was reversed by the
Circuit Court, and the cause, was brought by appeal
to this Court

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Wi- der, -for the appellant, argued upon the
facts, in order to show that there was a defect of evi-

1892.
The

dence of proprietary interest in the Spanislt subjects, santa Ma.a.-

for whom the claim was givenj and that there was no
proof that the goods in question were takenr out of Fb. 201.
the Santa Maria, or any other Spanish ship. He
therefore insisted that even if there was- no proof on
the part of 'the claimant and appellant of a lawful
condemnation of the-goods as prize, he had a -rightto
stand upon his title as an innocent purchaser, until
some better title was shown in others.
Mr. D. HBoffman, for the respondent, argued.
(1.)
that the evidencein -the cause suEmciently established
that the privateer Patriota, which plundered the Santa Maria, was owned and equipped in Baltimore.
All captures made under the taint of an".illegal -utfit,
or American ownership, have itwariably been declared 1y this Court to be illegal, and the property taken has been restored to the original owners.
2. Allthe cases citedz were captures jure belli, under the sanction of comhiissions granted by South
American provinces aekn6wledged by our government to be engaged in a civil war with Spain. In
these cases, the Court would have left the captors,
-and the 'Courts of their country, in full possession of
the res capla, had there been no American ownership, or equipment of the vessel effecting the seizure.b
But this will not be the case where there is no corna The Alerta, 9 Cranch,359. The Divina Pastora. 4 1111at Rop.
5%. Estrella, 4 Wheat. Rep. 298. Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheat. Rep.
152. La Conception, 6 Wheat Rep. 235.
6 Nuestra Senora, 4"'U'heat Rep. .495.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,missionto legalize the capture. In the absence of a
commission, every court administering the jits geniiThe
Santa Maria. urn, will regard thetaking as torltious at least, and,
according to circumstance, piratical. Every violent
dispossession on the high seas isprimafacietortious
and a taking as prize does not necessarily render it
a capture jure belli.a It lies upon the claimant in this
case to show the commission under which the taking
isjustified if this be not shown, the Court, in the
exercise of its general powers, will' restore the property, unless the claimant can establish his right on
some other ground. In this case, no commission is
produced ; butf
Burke claims to hold this property rightfully as a
bonafide purchaser, wholly ignorant of the circumstances stated in the libel. If there were any truth
in this defence, in point of fact, it.might be well to
inquire how far even a bona fide purchaser, in this
case, could protect himself by such a purchase. 'It
might le utged that the doctiine of market overt is unknown to the jtcs gentium ; that it is of peculiar and
local origin, known-only in England, and never recogqized in the Courts in this country ; that the doctrine apiratiset latronibus capta dominium non mutant, is the received opinion of the most enlightened
civilians and publicists ; that asno right to the spoil
vests in them, no right can be derived from them ;
that even if the doctrine of market overt were otherwise applicable, it could not obtain, inasmuch as a
condemnation is cssential, and this could not be of
I8E2.

a The Two Friends, I Rob. 283.
Rep. 90.

Hallet v. Novion, 14 Johns.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

493

bona piratorum;a that if the purchase was bonafide3 1822.
the claimant only succeeded to the right of the vendors;
The
a sale, ex vi termini, importing nothing more than Santa larin.
a succession of the vendee, in consideration of money, to the fights of the vendor; and, finally, that the
title of the claimant cannot be broader or more extensive than that of the pirates themselves, or those
to whom they may. have sold the property. But all
this inquiry is unnecessary, if the proofs in this cause
establish that the claimant was the active and principal owner of the Patriota, which seized and plundered the Santa Maria. On this point the circumstantial
evidence comes strongly in support of the positive testimony. But there is, in the answer itself, a singular
inconsistency, which throws a dark shade of suspicion over the character of this claim. The claimant
first denies all knowledge of the capture of the Santa Maria, and of every fact stated by the Libellant
in relation to the Patriota, but subsequently relies on
a purchase of this property, by his agent Novion, in
regular course of trade, after it had been duly condemned ! It was no doubt his intention, at the time
of filing his claim, to produce an authenticated record of condemnation, which was subsequently abandoned, no doubt from a knowledge that Aurys commission, (the only one he could venture to produce,)
was a nullity, and that the tribunals of prize at Galveztown, w ere wholly incompetent to adjudicate,b even
a 2 Bro. Civ. and Adin. Law, 55. 461, 462. 2 Woodes. 429.
3 Binn. Rep. 228.
1 Joas. Cas. 471. 1 Tyl. Rep. 338.

b The Nueva Anna, 6 Wheat. Rep. 193.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1822..

^-The
Santa Maria.

if a condemnation of a competent court could avail in
such case.
After. this conclusive testimony, establishing the
falsity of the claim and answer filed by Burke, need
it be asked whether he is a worthy claimant:? ]le is
a citizen of the United States, calling on this Court
to confirm to him the possession of goods, taken by a
vessel fitted out by him incontravention of our laws,
neutrality,, and 'solemn treaties: and this, too, not
even unider the .colour of a commission from any
power, acknowledged or unacknowledged.
Mr. HarperalsQ argued, upon the same side, on the
facts respecting the prppiletary interest, and upon
the question of law' arisihg from the supposd con,
demnation at Galveztowvn. The substance of his
argument upon,-the latter point will be found in the
case of. the Nereyda, where the same question arese
more distinctly, batt' which- was -ordered to farther
proof, and will be reported in the next volume.

.

,arch
141

Mr.-Justice LiviNdasTQNi'elivered the opinion of
the 'Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as
follows ;
in.a cas&'ofib palpablqa fitting out and arming in
a Ai ican port, and proceeding thence directly on
a cruize, (whether with or without a commission, is
in this case 'immaterial,) the counsel for thp claimant
and libel ant was right in not attempting to justify
the capture. He has therefore donfined -his endeavours
i6 show theinsufficiency of the evidence to establish

OF THE UNITED STATES.

any title in the libellant, or in those whom he represents, to the merchandize in question.
The allegation of the libel is, that the property

was part of the cargo pf the Spanish ship Santa Maria, which Was captured by dSe Patriota in the year
1817. The appellant says there is no adequate proof
of this fact. Without laying any stress on the register
of this'ship, which has been sent fromiihe.Havana, and
to which the appellant has objected, there are four
Witnesses, and they are the only witnesses in the
cause, whose relation is so uniform and particular as
to leave n room to enterfain doubt on any part of
this transaction.
Three of them were.on board of the Patriota, at the
time of her sailing 6n her illegal cruise. They establish, not only the unla%Vful armament of this vessel in the port of Baltimore,. but the capture of the
Santa Maria, and that the sugjlrs libelled are the
identical sugars which were taken out of her, and
put on board of the Schooner Harriet, in, which they
were brought to Baltimore. 'The other witness,
Causter, although not present at the capture, testifies, in the most positive terms, and of his own
knowledge, that the sugars libelled were part of the
cargo f the Santa Maria. He speaks so much in
detail on -the subject, and his means of information
were so ample, that it is impossible he should be
mistaken. Under these circumstances, and when
not a single witness has been examined to throw any
doubt on the subject, the Court perceives no reason
for disturbing the sentence of the Circuit Court,
which is affirmed with costs.

495
.
The

