OF THE-UNITED STATES.

The case is a hard one on the part of the plaintiffs; and they may have strong claims on the libe-

rality and justice of the United States, or of Virtitle can be
ginia; but we do not think the legal
made to yield to an equity founded in the mistake
of a ministerial officer.
Decree affirmed, each party paying his own costs.

1822.
N ewsom

r.

Pryor.

[LocAL L.w.]

NEwsom v. PRYOR's Lessee.
Where platts are returned and grants made, without an actual survey, the rule of construction which has been adopted, in order to
settle the conflicting claims of different parties, is, that the most material, and most certain calls shall control those which are less material and less certain.
A call for a natural object, as a river, a known stream, a spring, or
even a marked line, shall control both course and distance.
There is no distinction between a call to stop at a river, and a call to
cross a[ river.
Where a grant was made for 5,000 acres of land, "lying on both sides
of the two main forks of Duck river, beginning, &c. and running
thence west 894 poles, to a white oak, thence south 894 poles, to a
stake crossing the ?irer, thence east 894 poles, to a stake, thence
north 894 poles to the beginning, crossing the south fork;" it was
held, that it must be surveyed so as to extend the second line of the
grant such a distance on the course called for as would cross Duck
river to the opposite bank.

THis cause was argued by Mr. Law,a for the
a Hecite1 CookesTee.Rep. 146. 1 Heyw. Rep. 253. 2 Heyw.
Rep. 75. 139. 179. 4 theat. Rep. 448.

Fe. GU.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

plaintiff in error, and by Mr. White,6 for the defendant
" -o in error.
Newsom
1822.
V.

Pryor.
Feb. 1th.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment given in the
Circuit Court for the District of West Tennessee, in
an ejectment brought by the defendants in error
against the present plaintiff. The plaintiffs in the
Court below claimed under the elder patent, to the
validity of which there was no objection. Of consequence, the only question in the cause was, whether the lines of their grant comprehended the land
in contest. The grant was made for 5,000 acres of
land, "lying or both sides of the two main forks of
Duck river, be ,inning, &c. and running thence west
894 poles, to a white oak tree; south, 894 poles, to
a stake crossing the river; thence east, 894, poles, to
a stake; thence north, 894 poles, to tho beginning,
crossing the south fork."
It is apparent that a sui vey was not made in fact,
but that, after marking a beginning corner, the surveyor made out and returned a platt, which he supposed would comprehend the land intended to bo
acquired. It is now too late to question the validity
of grants made on such platts and certificates of survey. From the extraordinary circumstances of the
country, they were frequent, and, in consequence of
those circumstances, have received the sanction of
b Who cited 5 Cranch,234. 2 Binney, 520. 1 Cooke'a Tenn. Rep.
462. 2 Tenn. 1ep. 154. 200. 302. 2 Heyw. Rep. 237, 238. 208. 53.
496. 1 Hen. 4 .Alunf. 125. 3 Call. 252.

OF THE UN[TED STATES.

-

courts. An immense number of titles, believed to
the maintenance
be perfectly secure, depend upon
•
of such grants. The extent of the. mischief which
would result from unsettling the principle, cannot
be perceived; and is certainly too great now to 'be
encountered; The patent, therefore, must,be considered as ifthe'survey had been actually made.
In consequence of returning platts where no actual surveys had been made, and where the country
had beer, very imperfectly explored, the description
contained in the patent often varies materially from
the'actual appearances of the land intended to be
acquired. Natural objects are called for ii places
where -they are not to be fotind; and the same objects are found where the surveyor did not suppose
them to be: In a country of a tolerably regular
sufface, no considerable inconvenience will result
from this circumstance. The course and distance
of the patent 'will satisfy the person claiming under
it, and seldom interfere with the rights of others.
But in a country where we find considerable water
courses and mountains there must be more difficulty.
The surveyor calls for some known object, but totally miscalculates its courses, distances, or both, from
some given point which he has made the beginning
of his survey ; and'there is a variance in the different calls of his survey, and of the patent founded on
it. As in this case, the second line is to run south
894 poles, to a stake, crossing the river. This distance will not reach the river; and must be con-

tinued to I,222 poles, to cross the river. The distance must be disregarded, and this line so extended
VOL. VII.

2

1822.
Newsom

V.

Pryor.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
L822.

' Newsom
'-

-.
Pryor.

as to cross the river, or the distance must control the
call for crossing the river.

These difficulties have occurred frequently, and
must be expected to occur frequently where grants
are made without an actual survey. Some general
rule of construction must be adopted ; and that rule
must be observed, or the conflicting claims of individuals must rema in for ever uncertain.
The courts of Tennessee, and all other courts by
whom causes of this description have been decided,
have adopted the same principle, and have adhered
to it. It is, that the most material and most certain
calls shall control those which are less material, and
less certain. A call for a natural object, as a. river,
a known stream, a spring, or even a marked tree,
shall control both course and. distance. These decisions are founded on two considerations. Generally
speaking, it is the particular intention of the purchaser to acquire the land lying on the stream called
for, as being more valuable than other land; and, in
every case where a natural object is mentioned, it
designates the land surveyed had there been an
actual survey, much more certainly than course and
distance can designate it. In this case, for example,
the surveyor says that he has run south 894 poles, to
a stake crossing the river. Now, it is much more
probable that he should err in the distance, than in
the fact of crossing the river. The conclusion, therefore, had an actual survey been made, would be, that
the line did cross the river.
The general effect of this principle undoubtedly is,
that the purchaser acquires more land than is ex-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pressed in his grant; and more than he has paid for;
Where this has been thought an object worthy of
legislative attention, provision has been made for it.
settled,
Courts cannot now shake a principle so long
and so generally acknowledged.
In this case, the counsel for the defendant in the
Court below seems to have admitted the rule, but
to deny its application to this case. He founds
his application to the Court on a supposed distinction between a call to stop at a river, and a call to
cross a river. After stating the testimony, "he required the judges to instruct the jury, that if they
believed there was no testimony to prove the making
of any other corner than the beginning corner, the
correct mode of running the said grant would be to
go the course and distance from the beginning corner,
which would form the termination of the first line,
and run from thence the course and distance called
for in the second line; and if the course and distance
will not reach across the river, that the call in the
grant for crossing the river ought to be considered
as a mistake in the surveyor, and be rejected; and
the second line should terminate at the end of the
distance, and from thence run the third line according to the course and distance, and from thence to
the beginning. And the said counsel requested the
judges to instruct the jury that such call as is in this
grant, for a line to pass a river or other object, will
be different in principle from what it would be if
said call had been for said river, at the termination
of the line or boundary; and although, in the latter
case the law is, that such natural object shall be the

ine.
V.

Pryor.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182g.

boundary, disregarding distance, yet, in the present

Ne.s-m
Newsom

case, the distance shall b the criterion of boundary,

V.

Pryor.

disregarding the call for crossing the river."
The judges refused to give this instruction, and
charged the jury "that the second line of the said,
grant must be extended such a distance on the
course called for as will cross Duck river to the op-posite bank."
To this opinion an exception was taken; and the
jury having found a verdict for the plaintiff, in ejectment, the defendant, in the Circuit Court, has
brought the cause into this Court by writ of error.
We can perceive no sound reason for the distin,
tion between a call for a river at the end of a line,
and for a river in the course of a line. There is as
much reason in the one case for supposing the sucveyor intended the line should cross the river, or, in
case of actual survey, for supposing he did cross the
river, as in the other, for supposing an intention to
stop at the river, or an actual termination. of the line
at the river.
Whether the motives for the call were that the acquisition of the land on the river was an object with
the purchaser, or that the call for the river conduced
more certainly to the designation of the land intended to be acquired, the motives for considering it as
the controlling call in the patent, to which distance
must be subordinate, seem to be precisely the same
whether the call b to cross the river, or to terminate
at it.
It has been urged as an objection to the mode of
surveying the land directed by the Court) that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

last line Will not cross the south fork, .and that the
land will not be ."on both sides of the two main
forks of Duck iver."
But this objection will not )e removed or dimi-

nished by the instruction required by the plaintiff in
error. Nor can the land be so surveyed as that the
last line shall cross the south fork. From the ter-rnination of the third line, it is necessary to proceed
to the beginning, and the platt shows us that jhe
south fork does not run between the two points. It
cannot be brought between them, if at all, without
extending the third line an immense distance, and
changing the whole figure of the platt, or entirely
disregarding the act of Assembly, which directs
lands to be taken up by lines running with the cardinal points, except in particular cases, of which
this is not one.
Judgment affirmed with costs.

(ComMorc LAw.)
TAYLOE

v. T. & S.

SANDIFORD.

In general, a sum of money in gross, to be paid for the non-performance
of an agreement, is considered as a penaly, and not as liquidated da.
mcges.
A fortiori,when it is expressly reserved as a penalty.

Thus, where in a building contract, the following covenant was contained: "1The said houses to be compietely finished on or before the

182e.
Tayloe

T.

sansfra.

