OF THE UNITED STATES.

553
1822.

(Lc -A,L
HOLBROOK

.)

et al. v. THE UNION BANK OF ALEXANDRIA.

The turnpike road stock, paid in as apart of the capital of the Union
Bank of Alexandria, before its incorporation, became the common
property of the association, so as to be subject to be sold and distributed among the members, after the charter, which directed, that the
capital stock should consist of money only, was accepted ; and those
who subscribed the road stock, or their assignees, are not entitled to
have the same returned specifi~ally.to them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
This was a suit in Chdncery, instituted in the Court
below, by Holbrook and Alexander, against the Union
Bank, to recover from the Bank certain shares of road
stock, which had been originally subscribed to that
Bank by them, and to have an account of the profits
of that stock, and a payment of whatever should be
found to be due to them. The cause was set down
for hearing upon the bill, answer, and exibits, from
which it appeared, that a number of persons formed
themselves into an association, for the purpose of
carrying on the'banking business, for the term of
years, in the town of Alexandria- under the name
of" The Union Bank 6f Alexandria." That the
association adopted certain articles as the basis of
their union; 'by which artiles, it was, among other
things, agreed, that tle subscribers to the Bank
VoP. VII.

70

Holbrook
V.
Union Bank
of Alexaa-

ara.

5

CASES IN THE SUPRODIEM
1822.

'scription
Htolbrook

COURT

should be permitted to pay one tenth of their subin the stock of certain incorporated road

companies, and the other nine tenths in money, at
of Aexn- certain periods prescribed in the said articles. That,
"a. in pursuance of these articles, the subscriptions to,
V.

the Bank were filled up, and the stocks of various
road companies were subscribed, 'Which stocks were
different in their respective values. The articles of
association authorized the immediate commencement
of the banking business; But they provided for, and
contemplated an applicationto Congresg for a Charter.
The Bank commenced its business without a chartbr,
and carried on its business until the year 1817, when
an act of Congress was obtained, incorporating the
Bank. This act directed, that the capital stock of
the Bank should consist of $600,000, to be'paid
entirely in inoney. When this act was passed, a
question was raised among the stockholders, whether
the road stock was to be returned specifically to the
subscribers, or whether it was to be blended together
into one general mass, and divided among the subscribers, without regard to the value of the respective
stocks. The Little River Turnpike stock was the
most valuable at the time it was subscribed, and is
now much the most valuable stock; and the plaintiffs, Holbrook and Alexander, having subscribed' this
stock, insisted that the same should be specifically
returned to them. The Court below decided, that
they were not entitled to a specific return of this stock,
but that it was to be considered the common property
of the stockholders, subject to be divided among

- OF THE UNITED STATES.

them, without regard t6 the value of their respective
stocks; -and the cause was brought by appeal to this
Court.

t 5
1802.
U
.
UnionB!LnI
or .einndria.

The cause was argued :by Mr. Swann,.for the ap.arch
pellant, -and by Mr. Jones, for- the respondent.

20th.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL d.elivered the opi- Ararch 21,f.
nion of the Court..
The only question is, whether the road stock paid
in as part of the capital of the Bank, became the common property of the company, so entirely that it
should be sold and distributed among the members,
after the charter of incorporation, which directed that
the capital •should consist of money only, was accepted ; or should be returned specifically to those who
subscribed it, or to the assignees of their shares.
The articles of association show that this stock
constituted originally a part. of the capital; that it
was received from each .stockholder as so much.
money; that it .constituted he subject on which the
Bank traded. Each share represented an equal part
of the whole capital, comprehending each description
of road stock and of the money paid in; and there
was nothing on the face of the certificate which was
transferable, indicating that one share was more
valuable than another. If, instead of obtainingthe act
of incorporation, the company had expired or been
dissolved by consent, the shares would have been
equal, and would have entitled the holders to equal
portions of the whole capital. The dividends, during the continuance of the company, must have been

556
1822.
-been
Marbury
V.

Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

equal.

I-lad the road stock been sold, it must have

carried to the credit of the whole company.
Upon
every view we'can take of this subject, the
road stock can be considered only as a component

part of each share, all individual property in which
was lost on its being transferred to the company. It
became consolidated with the other part of the capital, and the charter of incorporation did not produce
any change in this respect.
Decree affirmed with costs.

(CommoN LAw.)

MARBURY V. BaOOKS.
A debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in payment, and
his private motives for giving the preference, cannot affect the oxercise of the right, if the preferred creditor has done nothing improper
to procure it.
But any unlawful consideration, moving from the preferred creditor, to
induce the preference, will avoid the deed which gives it.
It is not necessary, to the validity of such a deed, that the creditors, for
whose benefit it is made, shouid have notice of the execution of the
deed, provided they afterwards assent to the provisions made for their
benefit.
Wor is itany objection, to thevalidity of tbe deed, that it was made by
the grantor, in the hope and expectation, that it would prevent a
prosecution for a felony, connected with his transactions with hii
creditors; if the favoured creditors have done nothing to excite that
hope, and the deed was not made with their concurrence, and with
-aknowledge of the motives which influenced the grantor, or was not
afterwards assmnted to by them under some express or implied engageomeat to suppress the prosection.

