556
1822.
-been
Marbury
V.

Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

equal.

I-lad the road stock been sold, it must have

carried to the credit of the whole company.
Upon
every view we'can take of this subject, the
road stock can be considered only as a component

part of each share, all individual property in which
was lost on its being transferred to the company. It
became consolidated with the other part of the capital, and the charter of incorporation did not produce
any change in this respect.
Decree affirmed with costs.

(CommoN LAw.)

MARBURY V. BaOOKS.
A debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in payment, and
his private motives for giving the preference, cannot affect the oxercise of the right, if the preferred creditor has done nothing improper
to procure it.
But any unlawful consideration, moving from the preferred creditor, to
induce the preference, will avoid the deed which gives it.
It is not necessary, to the validity of such a deed, that the creditors, for
whose benefit it is made, shouid have notice of the execution of the
deed, provided they afterwards assent to the provisions made for their
benefit.
Wor is itany objection, to thevalidity of tbe deed, that it was made by
the grantor, in the hope and expectation, that it would prevent a
prosecution for a felony, connected with his transactions with hii
creditors; if the favoured creditors have done nothing to excite that
hope, and the deed was not made with their concurrence, and with
-aknowledge of the motives which influenced the grantor, or was not
afterwards assmnted to by them under some express or implied engageomeat to suppress the prosection.

OP THE UNITED STATES.
Nor will it be invalidated by the fact, that the trustee; to whom the conveya4ce is made, being the father-in-law of the debtor, received the
conveyance with a view of concealing the felony, and preventing a
prosecution of his son-in-law, provided it was not executed with the
concurrence of the cestui que trusts, and a knowledge on their part of
the motives which influenced the trustee, or was not afterwards assented to by them under some engagement to suppress the prosecution.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
-Columbia.
This was an attachment sued out by the defendant in error, Brooks, on the 10th February, 1820,
to attach the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, and
credits of Fitzhugh, an absconding debtor, pursuant
to the act of Assembly of Maryland of November,
1795, ch. 56. ; levied in the hands of the plaintiff in
error, Marbury, who was duly summoned as garnishee, on the 11th February, 1820. The garnishee appeared and pleaded that he had no effects,
&c. of the absconding debtor in his hands, upon
which an issue was joined and tried by a jury : verdict for plaintiff in the attachment, and judgment in
due form against the garnishee.
Upon the trial, evidence was produced on the part
of the plaintiff to prove that the said Fitzhugh had,
on the 31st December, 1819, a store of goods in
Georgetown, furniture, and other personal property,
which came to the hands of the said garnishee, and
w6re afterwards sold and disposed of by him; leaving
in his hands, from that time to the present, money
and effects of the said Fitzhugti, to a very considerable amount, over and above the debt claimed by the
plaintiff in the said attachment : that the said Fitzhugh was, at and before the time of the issuing and

557
1822.
Mrarbury
V.

,558
1i2 .
'''

Marbiiry
B.
Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREMiE COURT

gervilg of the said attaehient, and still is, indebted
to the plaintiff in the said sum of #1,421 30 cents.
Whereupon the garnishee, in order to prove that the
money and effects so being in his hands were not liabl,-to the atthchment, produced and read to the jury
a paper writing, purporting to be a bill, of sale from
fhe absconding debtor to the garnishee, recorded
:imong the land records-of the proper county, on the
3d day of June,. next ensuing its date, in the words
following :
"Thi- fndienture,'made this thirty-first day of December, "Iff the -yeasr eighteen hundred and nineteei,
betiveei/ Richard H. Fitztigh. of the one 'phiit,'and
WillianMarbury of the other 1Oart:" Whereas, the said
Rieibakd V. Fitzhugh'is indebted to the Farmers
and Mechanics' Baik of'Gborgetown, in the sum of
four thousand three hridred"dollars ; to the Bank'of
Columbia, in the sum of two ihousand eight hundred
and fifty dollars;-to tfe Unibn Bank f Gdorgetown,
in thie sum of fifteen hundred'and fifty dollats; and
fo'the Branch Bank of the United States, at Washington, in 1he'sum of seveh- thbusand dollars, all current money ; "fdr the payment of which, the said
Fitzhugh wishes to-'provide, and therefore executes
this deed'or ifistruntent of Writing. Now this Indenture wifnesseth, IthaV the said Richard H. Fitzhugb,
-for, and ihncolisideration of the prenises, and for the
fbrther cotfsid~ration of five dollars, -current money,
to him in hand.paid by the said 'William Marbury,
the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, hath
given, granted, bargained; and sold, and by these
,presents doth give, grgnt, bargain, and sell, unto the
said William Marbury, his executors and administra-

659

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tors, all the stock of goods and merchandize now in
the store, on Bridge-street, Georgetown, occupied by
said Fitzhugh ;- also, 1. all the household furniture,
goods,, and chattels, in .the house situate in Firststreet, in the same town, occupied by said Fitzhugh,
as a dwelling-house; also a negro woman, Maria, a
negro woman named Chloe, and her children, Westly,
Caroline, John, and 'Nancy, all of which said negroes -are now in the possession of said Fitzhugh.
And the said Richard H. Fitzhugh doth hereby make
over, transfer, and assign to the said William Marbury, his executors, administrators, and assigns, all
his books of accounts, notes, bonds, and other securities, to have, and to hold, all the said goods and
merchandizes. chattels, furniture, negroes, books of
accounts, notes, bonds, and securities, unto him the
said William Marbury, his executors, administrators,
and assigns, for ever: in trust, however, to sell the
same, according to the best of his judgment- and discretion ; and to pay the money thereby arising, as
follows: first, to pay the expenses of such sale, and
afier that, to divide the same between the Banks
aforesaid, in proportion to the respective amounts
due them ; and if any thing remain, it is to be paid
to the creditors of the said Fitzhugh, in proportion
to the debts ascertained to be due them."
In witness whereof, the said Richard H. Fitzhugh
hath. hereunto subscribed his name, and affixed his
seal, the day and year before written.
R. H. 'FITZHUGH.
bigned, sealed, nnd delivered in my presence, the )

woid "three," being first interlined in
the
sixth line of,the first page.

THOMTAS CORCORAN.

[SEAL.]

1822.
B.
Brooksg.

560

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,1822.
iMarbury

V.

Districtof Columbia, Washington County, viz.
On this thirty-first day of December, in the year
eighteen hundred and nineteen, personally appeared
before me, the subscriber, a Justice of the Peace,
in
and for the District and County aforesaid, Richard
H. Fitzhugh, party grantor vithin named, and acknowledged the aforegoing instrument of writing to
be his act and deed.
THOMAS CORCORAN.
And after the evidence on iboth sides had been
fully examined, the plaintiff, having offered evidence tending to prove the following facts, prayed the instruction of the Court to the jury, if the
jury find from the evidence that the said Fitzhugh, being a merchant and trader at Georgetown,
in the county aforesaid, had committed divers
forgeries of notes, and indorsements of' notes,
upon which he obtained money and credit to the
amount of from fourteen thousand to fifteen thousand.dollars; and-that hewas bonafide indebted to
the plaintiff and divers other creditors, (all of whom
are interested, as attaching and general creditors, in
the determination of this cause,) for goods, wares,
and merchandizes, and for moneys lent and advanced,
-to the- amount of $20,000, or upwards, over and
above the said forgeries; that William ilarbury,
the trustee, named in the said deed, and the garnishee summoned in this, cause, is the father-in-law
of said Fitzhugh"; and that the said Marbury, before
the executibn of the said deed, being desirous to
screen the said Fitzhugh from disgrace and prosecution for the said forgeries, and understanding that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said -forgeries amounted only to about five or six
1822.
thousand dollars, had consented to pay off the same, *
Marbuw
and take a deed of trust or mortgage from the dev.
fendant, by way of collateral security for tte moneys
so to be advanced by him ; and that in pursuance
of that arrangement, such a deed of trust or mortgage, by way of collateral security, was actually
drawn and executed ; in which was included the
same identical property mentioned and conveyed in
and by the deed above given in evidence; but the
said Marbury, discovering that the amount of forgeries was in fact so much greater than had been represented, and finding that he would have to pay
from- fourteen to fifteen thousand dollars, instead of
five or six thousand dollars, in order to accomplish
his .first design of screening said Fitzhugh from dis-

grace and prosecution, refused to advance any money
to take Pp the forged-.notes, and said, "1 1 will not
rouia my fanjily for you: now, I advise you to make
your escape as soon as you can." Whereupon, the
said deed, so executed as aforesaid, was cancelled
and, torn'up, and immediately afterwards, another
-deed (being -the-same now produced) was drawn by
John 'Marbury,, a witness present at its execution:
that the said deed was executed after the noon on
the.day on -which it bears. date; and that on the
night of the same- day, the said Fitzhugh absconded
from the District of Columbia, and was so absconding from that time, until, and at the time the attachment issued in this cause, and ever since : that the
creditors, whose debts .the said deed purports to seeure,-were wholly ignorant of .he executi6n, and of
VOL. VII.

71,

562
1822.

~-'--'
V.

AlarbM-yn
Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the intent to execute the same, until after the same
was executed as aforesaid ; and were not in any manner privy or consentling. thereto; except that tie
said William Marbury held stock as a trustee in one
of the said banks, and John Marbury, the attorney
who-drew the same, was a stockholder in another of
the said banks; that the whole of said property lay
within the county aforesaid, and would have been
subject to this attachment, but for the said conveyancei that the said deed includes and conveys the
whole of the property, choses in action; and estate of
every kind, in possession of said Fitzhugh, or to
which'he was in any manner entitled, at the time of
executing the same: that the whole of the debts,
which the said deed purports to secure, stood upon
no other foundation than that of notes forged by the
said Fitzhugh, and'passed by him as genuine t6 the
banks respectively mentioned in said deed, and discounted by said banks for him, and the money there.
upon advanced to him, (such notes, fhowever, being
all actually signed or endorsed by said Fitzbugh,
and he.being liable for the payment'thereof,) to the
respective amoufnts stated in said deed ; and that at
the time of the execution of the said deed, it was expected and understood, that it comprehended all the
cases in which the said Fitzhugh was involved by
means of his said forgeries, and Wias not intended to
comprehend any other, except as to the surplus, after
satisfying said forged paper ; and that.said Fitzhugh,
the evening before the execution of the said deed,
called on C. Smith, the cashier of the Farmers' and
Mechanics' Bank, in said deed mentired, aid a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stockholder in the saine, andhad conversation with
him relative-to the "gaid forgeries ; and that the said
Smith, after being informed that the said forgeries
amonted -to only about five or six thousand dollars,
and that he thought he-had property enough to pay
all his 'debts, if judiciously managed, said to the said
Fitzhugh, that he had no doubt th siid Marbury would
take.up and pay al" the said&forged notes, and that
iothlng more-would be said about it; and said Fitz'hughbegged Df said Smith to see said Marbury, and
recommend that course to him, which said.Smith promised.to do the next morning : that when said Smith
ealled'for that purpose the next morning, he found said
Marbury--with said Fitzhugh, and the'said John.Marbui-iy.,. Esquire,-together at the office of the latter, engaged in drawing a deed: that the. said William
Mfarbury -declared, -in consequence of finding tjhe
foeriis 'mounitto'so muc miorethan he expected,
-that h-would pay. nothing; anhlh said Smith left
thie office before the said deed was exeiuted : that
on the day of the execution of said deed above given in
evidence, a note to which the said W. Mariury's name
-had been forged by Fiizhugh, and by him passed for
*alue received to one 0. R. Gaither, became due
and payable at said Farmers' and Mechanics' -Bank,
where the same was deposited by the holder for collection said Bank having no interest in the same :
that the holder had called at the Bank, and expressly
ordered the said note to be sent out and presented
for payment, in order that the said Marbury might
distinctly avow or disavow his signature ; and to be
protested if not admitted and paid ; and that the said
Marbury, either in the evening of the same day the

1822.
Marbury

V.
3rooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

564
1822.
Marbury

V."Brooks.

deed was executed, and after the execution of the
same, or in the morning of the next day, called at
said Bank and took up said note, after it had been
sent out, to the Notary, and before the return of the
protest ; that said klarbury, at the same time, took
up another forged note and a check due to the said
Bank, (both being also forgeries of the said Fitzhugh,)
upon neither of which his (Marbury's) name had
been forged ; and the said two notes and checks were
the whole of the paper forged by said Fitzhugb, which
was then due and demandable ; and said Mlarbury took
up said notes and check in anticipation of funds expected to arise from the property conveyed as aforesaid; and took the re.-eipt of C. Smith, cashier of
said bank, for the amount so paid on said forged
notes and check, in the words following:
" Georgetown, January 1, 1820.
"Received of William Marbury, twelve hundred
and fifty dollars forty cents, part of the debt clue the
Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Georgetown, mentioned in the deed of R. H. Fitzhugh to the said
Marbury, dated 31st December, 1819.
C. SMITH."
91250 40.
That the said Marbury, in a conversation, the day
after the execution of said deed, relative to the said
deed, and to the circumstances attending the execution of the same, expressed regret at having had any
thing to do with it; represented that said Fitzhugh
had come to him in tears; and entreated him to save
him, or screen him from prosecution, and to have the
affair hushed up, (or words to that effect;) and the
said Marbury, in that conversation, expressed it as

OF THE UNITED STATES.

his wish, that it might'be hushed up : and the said
-iWarbury, in the course of conversation, further remarked, that said Fitzhugh seemed scarcely to know
thing
what he was about, and would have done any
to get away: and said Marbury further remarked in
said conversation, that said Fitzhugh had a rich uncle
disposed to assist him, and his flther was expected
in town in a few days, and that if his debts did not
amount to too much, they might all yet be provided
for; that he (Marbury) did not suppose the loss,
upon winding up said Fitzhugh's affairs, would exceed ten thousand dollars ; that if it did not exceed
that sum, his friends would arrange the Whole, and
ie(Marbury) himself would be willing to.go as far
as five thousand dollars, if Fitzhugh's other friends
would answer the balance; and the said Marbury
further remarked, that if twenty thousand dollars
would save him (Fitzhugh) from disgrace, he (Marbury) would pay it; that what he had already done,
was to save Fitzhugh frofn prosecution, he (Marbury having no interest in it;) and that said Marbury, in another conversation, speaking of having
taken up the said note due to said Gaither, said lie
was. anxious to get the forged notes out of the way:
and tlat after the execjuion of said deed, the defendant was unwilling to leave the District, and wished
to remain at least a week longer ; and that the attorney who drew the said deed, being nearly connected
with the parties as the son of the trustee, and brotherin-law of said Fitzhugh, persuaded and advised him
to quit the District, and among other reasons, urged,

565
i8 2.

V.
BrooL-.

66
1822.

,Mirbury
V.
Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that if all the parties were satisfied io' let him remain
uinmolested, still Mr. Richard Smith, the Cashier of
the Branch Bank of the United States, (which is one
of theBanks which the said deed purports to
secure,)
would feel himself compelled to prosecute ; and that
it would be more than his office was worth to overlook it, on account of the' great interest the Bank of
the United States felt in prosecuting and bringing to
justice persons guiltyof forgery: that said William
Marhury also urged said Fitzhugh to quit the District,
in order to get out of the-way of prosecution ; and
that said Fitzhugh, in the night of the same day said
deed was executed, actually fled from justice, and
absconded as a oresaid, with the privity and consent
of said Willia: - Marbury ; and that neither he, nor
any person on the part of any of the said banks interested in said deed, did ever move in the said prosecution, or attempt to have the said Fitzhugh arrested
and brought to justice ; and that it was known to the
acting officers and agents of the said banks, before
me departure of the said Fitzhugh, that he was guilty
of said forgeries.
Then the jury may conelvde from the said facts
and evidence, that the said deed was devised and executed by the said Fi;zhugh, and accepted by the
said William Marbury, with the motive and intent of
prevailing with the holders of the said forged notes
to forego a-prosecution for the said forgeries; and
also, that upon the facts so given in evidence on the
part of the plaintiff as aforesaid, if believed by the
jury to be true as stated, that the said deed is fraudulent and void as against the plaintiff. Which in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

567

struction the Court gave as praye~l.. To which the 1822.
defendant excepted.
Alarbury
And the said garnishee, having offered evidence to
v.
BOOkW
the.exeqtt,
after
prove the following, facts, viz: That
tion of the said deed, the said Fitzhugh was .urged
by the said John and William Marbury to fly from
the District; that the said Fitzhugh made great objections to going away, and wished to remain a week,
and upon being told that he would be in danger of
arrest and prosecution, if he did so, the said Fitzhugh
replied that he could not be arrested until the meeting-of the Court; but upon being satisfied that he
might be called before a magistrate, and immediately
arrested, and the observation before stated being
made about Mr. R. .Smith, and being told of the
.punishment to which he was xposed, he consented
to go. Aid he further offered to prove, by the evidence of the said John Marbury, a witness sworn in
the cause, that he was not certain who first pxoposed
the drawing of the new deed;, but to the best of his
recolleciion: the proposal came from said'Fitzhugh,
and that said W. - Marbury was requested by said
Fitzhugh to become the trustee ; to.which he consented.- That at the time of the execution of the
said deed, the said Fitzhugh executed the. same
voluntarily, and that no expectation .was held out to
him, either by himself, or.by Mr. W. Marbury, or any
other person to the witness's knowledge, either then
or at any time before, that by executing the same he
would be savdd from a prosecutibn ;. nor was there
any promise' or expectation given, that they, the said
Marburys, or either of them, woufd endeavour to pre=

6

CASES IN THE SUPiEME COURT
1822

Marbury

V.
Brooks.

vail-with the holders of the said forged notes, or any
other persons, to forbear arresting or prosecuting ihe
o

further, that neither the witness,
Fitzhugh:
said AV.
nor
Marbury,and
ever
made any such application to
any of the said holders, or to any other person : and
further, that at the time of the execution of said deed,
all expectation of preventing a prosecution, or concealing the said forgeries, was abandoned, and that
the only mode pointed out to said Fitzhugh, for
avoiding said prosecution, was by an immediate flight:
and all the said forged notes still remain in said banks,
except the two notes and the check mentioned in
the statement of plaintiff's evidence ; and upon the
evidence, offered as aforesaid, both on the part of
plaintiff, and the garnishee, and so stated as aforesaid, the garnishee, by his counsel, vrayed the Court
to instruct the jury.
If the jury believe, from the evidence, that R. H.
Fitzhugh, owing the debts mentioned in the deed offered in evidence, executed and delivered the same
voluntarily and withoit' any threat of prosecution,
and without any promise or agreement made tohimihat in case of executing it, he would not be prosecuted, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
But the Court refused to give the instructions as
prayed by the defendant, and in lieu thereof i gave
the following instructions, to wit
If the jury believe, from the evidence, that R. H-.
Fitzhugh, owing the debts mentioned in the deed offered in evidence, executed and delivered the same,
(voluntarily and bona f'ide,) and without any threat of
prosecution, and without any promise or'agreement

OF THE UNITED STATES.
-made to him, and without any expectation on the
part of said Fitzhugh, raised by the acts of said Marbury, or of some of the persons interested in the said
trust-that in case of his executing it he would not
be prosecuted, and that possession of the said goods
accompanied and followed the execution of the said
deed, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. To
which refusal the defendant excepted ; and the plaintiff excepted to the instructions granted by the Court.
And the defendant, by his counsel. then prayed
the Court to instruct the jury, that if they believed
from the evidence, that the said R. H. Fitzhugh,
owing the debts mentioned in the deed offered in
evidence, executed and delivered the same without
any persuasion or threats, and upon his own proposal, and without any understanding with any body,
that by executing the same he should be saved from
prosecution, and that nothing was said or done by
any person for the purpose of influencing him by
any such consideration to execute the same, and that
the previous understanding between him and said
Marbury, as to the latter paying and taking up the
said forged papers was before the execution of the
said deed abandoned, and that there was no understanding between the said Fitzhugh and the said
Marbury, that they, or either of them, should forbear
prosecuting him, or should attempt to prevail with
the holders of said forged paper to forbear prosecuting him on account of the same, nor any
understanding with said holders that they should so
forbear, and that no attempt whatever was ever made
so to prevail upon the said holders, nor iii any manVOL. VUI.

72

669
1822.
-Marbury
V.
Brooks

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

570
1822.
Mhrbury

V.

Brooks.

ner to prevent such prosecution ; and that said Fitzhugh, at the time of executing such deed, asserted
that he had property enough, i'fjudiciously managfd,
to pay the said forged paper and all his other debts
also ; and that said Marbury and the said holders of
said forged notes could have instantly prosecuted the
said Fitzhugh for said forgeries without violating any
promise or understanding that had subsisted between
them ; and that unless he had absconded as aforesaid, he would hive been by the said holders immediately prosecuted for said offences, and that such
prosecution was not in any manner avoided by the
execution ofsaid deed, but only by his absconding from
the District, then the jury may and ought to presume, that the said deed was executed bonafide and
for a valuable consideration ; and that the plintilf is
not entitled to recover ; which instruction the Court
gave. To which opinion and direction, the plaintiff excepted.
And thereupon the plaintiff prayed the Court to
instruct the jury, that if, under all the cir:umstances
before given in evidence, the jury shall find that the
obtaining of impunity or forbearance of prosecution,
for the said forgeries, formed no part of the consideration or inducement for the execution of the said
deed, with said Fitzhugh, or with any other person,
directly or indirectly concerned, still if the jury find
from the evidence, that the great nmajority of the
creditors of said Fitzhugh, in number and valu6,
were by means of said deed unjustly, and purposely hindered, delayed, and defeated in their proper suits
and remedies, for the recovery of their said debts,
upon the absconding of said Fitzhugh, and that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said deed was executed as aforesaid, with the purpose and design of preventing and defeating any legal recourse in behalf of such majority of creditors,
said Fitzhugh
against the property and effects which
intended to leave behind, and did leave behind him,
when he fled from justice as aforesaid ; and if it be
further found that no creditor whatever of the said
Fitzhugh was party or privy, or in any manner consenting to the execution of the said deed, then the
said deed is fraudulent and void in law, as against
the plaintiff. Which instruction the Court gave;
but also instructed the jury that the preference given
by the said deed to some of the creditors of said Fitzhugh, did not of itselfmake the said deed fraudulent
and void in law. T6 which also the defenddnt excepted.
And the defendant further prayed the Court to
instruct thejury as follows:
If the jury should believe, from the evidence, that
Richard H Fitzhugh, owing the debts mentioned in
the deed, executed the same under an expectation
that it might have prevented him from being prosecuted for the forgeries, and that neither the said William Marbury, nor any of the holders of the said forged notes, nor- persons interested iq the same, held
out to him any such expectations, then the said deed
is valid, and the plaintiff not entitled to recover.
Which opinion the Court refused to give,. but instructed them as follows:
If the jury should believe, from the evideice; that
Richard H..Fitzhugh, owing the.debts mentioned in
the .deed, executed the same under an. expectation
thaflt might prevent him from being proseettted for

1822.
Marbury

'

.572
1822.
Marbary

V.
Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the forgeries, and that neither the said William Mir,.
nor any of the holders of the said forged notes'
nor persons interested in the same, held out to him
any such expectation, then the said deed is valid,
(unless there should be some other objection to it,)
and the plaintiff not entitled to recover.
To which refusal the defendant by his counsel
excepted : and the plaintiff also excepted to the instruction given by the Court.
A verdict and judgment thereon having been rendered for the plaintiff, Brooks, in the Court below,
the cause was brought by writ of error to this Court.

Sbury,

Narch 19th.

This cause was argued by the Attorney- General, and Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Tonesb for the defendant in error.

,Atarcl; 1s.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the county
of Washington. In the Circuit Court the controversy turned entirely on the validity of the deed of the
31st of Dec. 1819. The jury found against its validity, and the cause depends in this Court on the
correctness of the instructions under which the verdict was found.
a They cited I Johns. Cas. 205. 2 Johns. Ch.
4 Wleat. Rep. 503. 13 Fin. Abkr. 517. pl. 10.
Ambl. 596. 4 East's. Rep. 13. 5 T. R. 424. 8 T.
b He cited 9 Johns. Rep. 337. 5 Cranch, 350. 6
339. Co-wp 434. Roberts )n Frauds, 585.

Rep. 29y.
541. pl. 3.
R. 528..
Vfals. Rep.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

After the testimony was concluded, the plaintiff
in the Circuit Court moved that Court to instruct the

jury, that if they find from the evidence the facts
which it was offered to prove, and which are stated
at large in the bill of exceptions, "that then thejury
may conclude from the said facts and evidence that
ihe said deed was devised and executed by the said
Fitzhugh, and accepted by the said William Marbury, with the motive and intent of prevailing with
the holders of the said forged notes to forego a prosecution for the said forgeries; and also upon the
facts so given in evidence on the part of the plaintiff as aforesaid, if believed by the jury to be true as
stated, that the said deed is fraudulent and void as
against the plaintiff.".
This instruction the Court gave as prayed. It consists of two parts. First. that which authorizes the
jury to infer "the motive and intent" with which
the deed was executed ; and secondly, that which declares the deed " fraudulent and void as against
the plaintiff," if the facts given in evidence by him,
as stated in the bill of exceptions, are believed to be
true.

This last part of the instruction may possibly have
been intended to depend on the first. It may have
been intended to say, that if the jury should draw
the conclusion which was authorized by the Court,
respecting the motive and intent with which the deed
was executed, they should then find the deed fraudulent and void as against the plaintiff. But such is
not the direction of the Court, as it appears in the
case before us. The second clause of the instruc-

673
182.
iarbury

V.

Brooks.

CASES IN THE SUPRE51E COURT
1822.
Marbury

v.

Brooks.

tion is entirely independent of the first, and the jury
Sis
directed to'find the deed fraudulent and void, if
the facts stated in the bill of exceptions are believed.
The testimony of the plaintiff would certainly
justify the conclusion, respecting the motive and intent with which the deed was executed and received,
that he wished the jury to draw; and, although the
instructions on this point might have been expressed
in terms less exposed to cavil, we will not say that
they withdraw from the jury their right of deciding
for or against that conclusion. If the case rested on
this branch of the opinion of the Court, we feel some
difficulty in saying that it was too strongly expressed.
But the second branch of this instruction cannot,
we think, be austained.
Had the motive and intent with which the deed
was executed and received been left to' the jury ; and'
had they been instructed," that, if they believed it to
have been executed and received with-the motive and
intent of prevailing with theholders of thq forged notes
to forego a .prosecution for the said forgeries, then
the deed would be fraudulent and void against the
plaintiff," the single question of law respecting the
validity of such a deed would have been presented to
this Court. But the instruction, as given, does not
depend Qn this conclusion. It depends on their believing that the facts stated in the bill of exceptions
are proved ; and they are informed that if those facts
are true, the deed is void. To sustain this instruction, the facts must be such as clearly to amount to a
fraud.
The first fact is, that Marbury, the father-in-law

OF THE UNITED STATES.

57.5

of Fitzhugh, and the trustee in the deed, when first
informed of the forgeries which had been committed,

biarbury

being desirous of screening his son-in-law from dis-

1.
Brooks.

grace and from punishment, and being informed that
the forged notes amounted to only 5 or 6,000 dollars,
agreed to take up the notes on receiving a ccnveyante of property for his indemnity ; buton finding that
their amount was much more considerable than he
had supposed, he tore up the deed, and refused to engage himself for the notps.
This part of the transaction has been denominated
a fraud. We cannot think it one. To advance
money for a son-in law to repair the frauds he had
committed, even with the hope of concealing the
perpetration of them, is not, we think, an offence
which may not be excused ; nor can a security taken
for the repayment of money so advanced lie deemed
fraudulent. If the notes were to be taken upon condition that the holders would forbear to prosecute
the criminal, or if the repayment of the money advanced were to depend upon his escape from prosecution, the validity of the contract might well be
questioned. But the undertaking of Marbury was unconditional, as was the security for the repayment of
the money advanced. The only feature in the transaction to which blame is attached is the attempt of a father-in-law to conceal the forgeries of a son-in-law, by
paying off the notes lie had forged. It may be tiie
duty of a citizen to accuse every offender, and to
proclaim every offence which comes to his knowledge , but the law which would punish him in every
case for not performing this duty is too harsh for

1822.

576

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

man. This fact certainly indicates the uterest tako
Marbury by Miarbury in the escape of Fitzhugh, but goes no
V.
farther.
Brooks.
On cancelling this first deed, AIarbury said to
Fitzhugh, "now I advise you to make your escape
as soon as you can." And immediately after it was
cancelled, the deed now in contest was drawn by a
person then present, which comprises all the property
of Fitzhugh of every description, and purports to
secure all ihose creditors who were then understood
to beholders of the forged notes. It (lid not appear
that the creditors, for whose particular benefit the
deed was made, had any notice of the transaction ;
but William Marbury, thet rustee, and John Marbury,
who drew the deed, were severally stock holders iD
two of the banks for whose debts it provided. It,
was also proved that the evening before the execution
of the deed, Fitzhugh called on C. Smith, the cashier
of one of the banks, and a stockholder in it..; and in a
conversation with him respecting the forgeries, said
that Marbury would pay the notes. That Smith called
an Marbury next day, while the deed was preparing,
but on being told that he would not pay the notes,
departed before. it was executed. Two of the forged
notes fell due 4bout the time, and were taken up by
thetrustee on the day after the deed was-executed.
It appeared that Fitzhugh was anxious to remain,
some time longer in the District, but was urged both
by William Marbury and John Marbury, who was
"son of William, to escape immediately, as he would
certainly be prosecuted by the Bank of the United
'States if he remained 4 and that he did abscond the
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

677

1822.
night succeeding the execution of the deed. It appearedq, from'the -declaratibus of Marbury himself, that IMarbury
r.
his object,-throughout the whole transaction, was to
33mok&
save Fitzhugh from prosecution.
It is sufficiently obvious that Marbury acted as the
friend and adviser of Fitzhugh, and in the hope that,
if the notes should be taken up, the creditor banks
would not pursue him out of the District. It is stated
that they have not instituted any prosecution against
him, but it is not stated that it has been in their
power'to do so, or that they know where he is.
Do these facts, of themselves, avoid the deed ?
That a debtor has a right to prefer one creditor
taanother dannot be denied, and that his private motives for gifing this preference, provided the preferred
creditor has done nothing improper, cannot annul
this right, is equally certain. On the other hand, it
will be -also admitted. that any unlawful consideration
moving from the preferred creditor to induce this
preference, may avoid the deed which gives it. Had
Mr. Marbury acted as the agent of the banks holding
the forged notes, or with their knowledge and concurrence, had they been in any manner'pledged not
to prosecute Fitzhugh should the notes be taken up,
eith6r before or after the deed was executed, and
while it was in the power of Marbury to withhold
from them the money produced by the Iproperty conveyed, the case would be a strong one against the
banks. But there is no ingredient of this .sort in the
case' at least, none is submitted to the jury. The
fact, in its strongest aspect, is, that a deed was made,
giving this preference, in the hope that it would propiVOL. VII.

73

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
Marbury

V.

Brooks.

tiate the preferred creditors, and prevent their being
so active as they -might otherwise be in proceeding
agains the criminal. B. t the. facts, as they stand,
show no agreement made at any time to forbear to
prosecute, nor that the interest of the creditors would
be in any manner affected by the institution of a
prosecution, and carrying it on to the conviction of
the off, nder.
If Fitzhugh had remained, and his crime had not
been discovered, he might have sold all the property
comprized in this deed, and might have applied the
money to the notes he had counterfeited. His hope
that this act woul conceal the crime, and save him
from punishment, would not have vitiated the transaction.
Had he, on determining to abscond, executed to
Mr. Marbury the very deed now in question, conveying all his property in trust for the creditors who
are preferred in that deed, and afterwards for other
creditors, without any previous communication with
any person whatever, would such conveyance have
been distinguishable from an absolute sale ? Would
the hope in his own bosom, that such conveyance
might have the effect of exempting him from a prosecution, unaccompanied by any act of the favoured
creditors giving countenance to such hope, avoid the
deed ?
The consideration moving from the creditor,
would be a real debt, and consequently, a valuable
and fair consideration. It would not be tainted by
any secret hope working in the mind of the maker

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the deed. It would not be the less fair on account of that hope. We think that the validity of
such a deed could not be drawn into question.
doubt
The only circumstance which can create any
in this case, is, that the father-in-law of the maker
of the deed, the man who took a strong interest in his
escaping prosecution, and who advised his flight, is
made the trustee. How far ought this circumstance
to affect the preferred creditors ?
There are cases in whidh notice to a trustee may
affect the cestui que trust, and in which the acts of
a trustee may be considered as the acts of the cestui
que trust ; but we are not prepared to say that this
is one of those cases. Mr. Marbury was not a trustee selected for this purpose by the Bank. They
were entirely ignorant of all that was passing between him and Fitzhugh. He was not then agent
in obtaining the deed. He was not empowered to
act for them, or to make any representations in their
name' or to bind them in any manner whatever. He
is the agent of Fitzhugh to sell his property and pay
his debts in the order prescribed by himself. He
had a right to prescribe this order, and the secret
hopes of himself, or his agent, cannot affect those
who never did any act to inspire those hopes.
This deed is absolute on its face, and there is no
allegation that its effect was to depend on any subsequent agreement of the banks for the suppression
of the prosecution. There is no evidence of any
communication between the banks and Marbury before the deed was recorded and irrevocable. Sup-

579
i 8s2.
Dfarbury
v.

Broolm.

,580

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182e.
M
Marbury

-.

Brooks.

pose Marbury had applied to the banks, the deed not
being delivered as an escrow, and bad told them that,
unless they would consent to suppress the prosecution, he would not allow them to take any benefit
from the deed, would his attempt to deprive them of
its benefits be supported in law ? We think it would
not. Suppose Marbury had in consequence of the
actual institution of a prosecution against Fitzhugh,
refused to act under the deed. Would not a Court
of Chancery have decreed him to execute the trust,
or have appointed some other trustee to execute it?
It certainly would.
It-is then the opinion of the Court, that, even supposing the deed to have been executed in the hope
and expectation that it would operate as a suppression
of the prosecution, the favoured creditors having done
nothing to exciie that hope, and being entirely ignorant of the transaction, ought not to be affected
by it.
But that this was the motive to the deed, though
highly probable, is not certain. Fitzhugh might
have been impelled by other considerations to give
these particular creditors the preference. The Court
was not, we think, at liberty to say that the deed was
void, in consequence of any motive which the Court
might impute to its maker. The motive was a
fact of which the jury was to judge.
There are in the case some facts, which seem to
;e introduced for the purpose of raising a suspicion
that the banks might have had notice of the forgeries before the execution of the deed, and of the
transactions between Fitzhugh and Marbury. But

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the cause was not put on this point, nor do any -of
the instructions given by the Court, refer to it. The'e
is no allusion to notice to all the banks, and the deed
one, so
would not be void, on account of notice to
far as respected others.
There are several opinions given py the Court,
which are dependent on this single principle : That
the communications between Fitzhugh and Marbury,
though unknown to the banks, avoid the deed. The
cause, so far as it is now before the Court, essentially depends On this single principle. This Court is
of opinion, that in this, the Circuit Court erred,
and that the deed ;.s not void, unless Marbury acted
with the concurrence or knowledge of the banks, or
unless they assented to it under sinie engagement,
express or implied, to suppress the prosecution.
Judgment reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.

(ComoN LAw.)

DORR v.

The PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY.

Under a policy containing the following clause: "1And lastly, it is"
agreed, that if the above vessel, upon aregu," survey, should be
thereby declared unseaworthy, by reason of her-being unsound or
rotten, then the assurers shall not be bound to pay their subscription. on this policy," and it was found by the jury that thb vessel was
seaworthy atthe'time of the commencement oftherisk, and when she
sailed on the voyage insured: .Hdd, that proof,by a regular survey,
of unsoundness at anysubsequent period of the voyage, discharge
the undery-iters.

581
1822.
Blarbury
v.
Brooks

