496

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1822.
The
Arrogante
Barcelones..

The

ARROGANTE BAR CELONES.

The Consul Ge-

neral of Spaii, Claimant.
This "Coirtwill restore to the former owners property captiu'red In
violation of the neutrality of the United States, whore it is claimed
by the original wrong-doer, though it may have come back to hia
possessibn 4.ter aVregular conddmnation es prize.
Qaere, How far a condemnation "wbqldprotect the title f a third person, -beingalonaf!.i purchaser, vithout noticb, in such a oaso ?

APPEAL from th6 Circuit Court of Maryland..

This was a-,libel filed :by the Consul .General of
his' CatholiQ Miaesty, in the District Conyt of Maryiand, against the Spanish ship Arrogante .BarcJones, and cargo," prayibg restitution to the, original
Spanish 'owners, upon the ground of the same hav'ing be~n-captured on the high seas, in violafion of
the, laws, treaties, and neutral obligations 'of 'the
Uhited States, qnd brought within their territorial
jurisdiction.. A claim iias filed b3 Joseph Almeida,
who' insisted upon his title as a bona fide purchaser,
under a capture 'made by the Buenos- Ayres privateer,.Louisa, and..a regular sentence of condemnation
in the Prize Cort 4t Juan Griego, in the Island of
Margdritta, within the terikory of a co-belligerent.
It appeared, by thp. proofs taken in the.caibse' that
the' capturing vessel was a prize to the Buehos Ay.
rean privateer El Congres~o, and was purchased by
the claimant, Almeida, armed and equipped' by him
at Ensenada, and in April, 1818, came to Baltimore

OF THE UNITED STATES.

497

1822.
to be zefitted. She was there refitted, and sailed
Th
from that port in August, 1818 under the command
Arognte
voyon
a.sealing
of the claimant, ostensibly bound
Barcelonrg.
age to the North West Coast of America, with a
crew of'fiinety-six men, principalLy ciri&ens of the
United States; and armed with ten guns and some
small arms. The ship anchored off Patuxent, and
there received a considerable "addition to the armament. Before -the crew left Baltinore- they had
signed the usual ship's articles for the. voyage; but
after they had been at sea some days, the claimant
produced privateering articles, which he required
them to sign. Some of them refused, and' were
put in irons, and two were put on board another
vessel. The crew finally signed' the articles, and
proceeded to cruize off Lisbon, where, on the 9th
of Septeiber, 1818, they captured the Spanish ship
Arrogante Barcelones and.cargo, and proceeded with
them-to the port of JuanGriego, in the Island of
Margaritta, where proceedifigs were instituted, under
which the ship and cargo were condemned ift the
Court-of Admiralty as Spanish property and good
prize of war, and purchased by the claimant at public auction. - The-copy of the sentence produced in
evidence was certified by the Notary or Secretary of
Marine, and his -signature was verified by .the certificate of Lino -Clemente, deputy of the Republic of
Colombia to .the United States, but who had not
then been, received in that capacity' by our government." Decrees of restitution to the original Spaa Vide ante, Vol. IV. Ap'p. p. 49.
VOL. "VH.

63

498
1822.
The

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

nish owners were entered, proforma, in the District
and Circuit Courts, and the cause was brought by

Arrogante

appeal to this Court.

Feb. 2W.

Mr. Winder, for the appellant and claimant, argued, (I.) that it was the settled rule of this Court
not to interfere in a doubtful case of this description," and that the evidence in the presenLcase was._
too dubious to justify the Courtin depriving the captors of the p6ssession which they had acquired'in
war. (2.) That even supposing he was mistaken
on this point, this Was a capture by a lawfully commissioned cruizer of Buenos:Ayres, the title under which had been cohfirmed by a regular condemnation in the Prize Court of Venezuela, an ally of
Buenos Ayres in the war againt Spain. It may be
stated as an universal proposition, which has never
yet been doubted or denied, tnat a sentence of condemnation by a competent Court is conclusive, as to
the proprietary interest in the res capta, and upon the
mere question of prize or no prize: whatever,
doubts may have'been suggested as to the collateral
effect of such sentences. And a condemnation in the
Court of an ally or co-,belligerent is equally competent for this purpose with that of the captor's country itself.b This Court, as a neutral tribunal, is

Barcelones.

a The Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat. Rep. 385.
b Wheat. on Capt. 261. 2 East's Rep. 473.. 2 Bro.' Civ. and

.fdm Law, 257. 2B1.

"

Wbat has been said doe6 not extend

to ships carried into the ports of an ally in the war, and there
condeinned, or while the ship is there, condemned in the captor's country; and, therefore, in the presentwar a sentence of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

therefore precluded from all inquiry into the prewas
-vious circumstances under which the capture
•
made,- and whether the capturing vessel had been
armed and equipped in violation of'our neutrality.
There mnust be some linMit to such inquiries, and
there is'nbne so fit as a regular. sentence of condemnation, which, by.the universal jaw and usage
of nations,-quiets the. title .acquired in war. And
-even if a decree of restitution" in the present case
would not directly impugn the sentencei it would so
far affect the general :doctrine.of conclusiveness .as
to disturb the,safety- of neutral purchasers.
'Mr. D. Hoffman,.contra, insisted, (1.) that there
Was no sufficient legal evidence of -the existence
of the. condemnation get up in this case. We
.-have a mere. dry sentence of the Court of Juan
Griego,, contained in-a few lines, stating that
the. prppeity is Spanish, -and condemned as legal
prize,' The character of the capturing vessel, by
whom commandedy commissioned, or owned and
equipped, the authority of the Court to adjudicate
on the subject, the nature of the connexion (if any)
between.Venezuela and Buenos Ayres, or any power by whom the commission'may have been granted,
do not appear: every ground is withheld which
could etlighten this Court, now virtually called upon
condemnation at Bayonne, of a ship taken by the French and
carried into St. Sebastian, (22) and lying there at the -time
of the ientence, has been held valid; and this decision agrees
with Bynkershoek's opinion, Qu. "ur.Pub. cap. 4.
, (22 2 Robinson, p. 209. cue of the Christopher.

499
1822.
The

rro-,ante

CASES IN THE SUPkEME COURfT

toenforce this decree. In a case like the present,
the Court will require the most satisfactory informaThe
Arogante tion that can be furnished. Where a case is free
Barueones. from suspicion and difficulty of any kind, and when
the sentence itself, however concise, necessarily involves the point in discussion before another tribunal, it might be sufficient to produce the sentenceas
evidence of the condemnation relied on; but the
Court is pressed, on this occasion, With niany nccessary inquiries which do not usually occur. If the
condemnation is to operate as a conclusive bar
against the exercise of the restoring power of this
Court, so essential to the maintenance of the laws,
treaties, neutrality, and morals of the country, it has
hether their violation was
a right to be informed -.
ever the subject of inquiry before the Court which
pronounced the condemnation : it has a right to ascertain whether there was a commission, and by
whom the commission was granted ; for if granted
by an individual, or a people neither recognized as a
sovereign state, nor as engaged in a civil war, the condemnation would, on these grounds alone, be wholly
inoperative. In such a case the Court will require
the entire prize proceedings to be exhibited ; but if
not, then at least the libel, in addition to the sentence. Here is neither the libel nor an abstract of
proof, and the sentence itself is uncoinmonly bald.
The rule on this subjectformerly was, that the entire
proceedings should be set forth: now, however, if
the libel and -sentence are satisfactory, the Court dispenses with any thing further.a The libel, it would
1822.

MJ"

W

z Mar. Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 207. 220.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

appear, is essential: In Fernandis v. Da Casta" 18.
Lord Mansfield dispensed with the libel, only beThe
cause the plaintiff had, by an unequivocal act of his Arog=te
own, made it unnecessary to be exhibited. Sor.also in Barcelonem.
the case of Beake v. Tyrrelb the necessity of furnishing the Court with the material grounds of the prize
proceedings, is strongly urged by Lord Chief Justice
HOLT. If we advert to the general principles of the
common law on this subject, we shall find it an
established principle, that wherever a record is relied
on, all that concerns the matterinquestion must be produced. The authorities cited are pointed to this effect.'
No case can well be imagined in which the neciessity
of showing the grounds and extent of the proceeding
more strongly applies than in the present : for it does
not appear that Almeida had any commission; and if
this be the fact, no coidemnation would avail, vere
it ever so well authenticated.d
2. But were-ihe condemnation. iatisfactoriy proved, it is contended that it was pronougeed by a Court
wholly incompetent to adjudicate on the tase; that
the whole proceeding was coram ton judice; arid
that it appertains to all Courts to:.inquire iuno tlhe
jurisdiction of another Court, whose.jiidgments or
decrees are relied on. Itis presumed that under the
jus gentium an operative sentence of condemnation
must be pronounced': either, first, by a Court of the
a Park on Ins. 177. 178.
b Comber. 120.
c 3 Inst. 173. Trial per Pais. *166. 2 Rac. Abr. Evid. F. p.

611.613.
d 2 Bro. Cr. Law, 55.

502

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.

captor, sitting in the country of the captor; or, second-

The

4y, by a Court of the captor, held in the country of an

BArroante

ally or co-belligerent of the captor; but that the
Courts of the ally or co-belligerent are wholly incompetent to hold plea of captures made'by any one but
themselves. The question is entirely new; and it is
believed to be so onli, because it was never before attempted by the Courts of an ally to pass sentence on
captures made by their associates in war. That allies
and co-belligerents can co-operate judicially as well
as in a belligerent manner, is a position not to be
found in the works or opinions of any writer. Condemnations in the port of an ally or co-belligerent
are frequent; hut no case can be produced of a condemnation in he Court of an ally. No elementary
writer mentions this exercise of judicial power of an
ally. Dr. Browna has been eVidently misapprehended by the appellant's counsel. That sensible,
though hasty,, and sometimes inaccurate writer, has
not expressed himself, in the passages cited, as clearly as he might have done; but still he does niot speak
of the Courts of an ally condemning property taken
by a companion in arms. He speaks of ships carried
into the ports of an ally, and there condemned; but ho
does not state by whom condemned. It is, therefore,
but justice to him to infer that he meant a Court of
the captors established in the territory of the ally in
the war ; and that this, and nothing else, is his meaning, is obvious from the authorities which he cites.
All the cases in support of the condemnation now in
judgment, will be found, on examination, to be doa 2 Bro. Civ. Law, 215. 257. 281.

603

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

crees pronounced by' Courts of the captors, sitting in
the -country of the ally or co-belligerent i and thetefore confirmatory of our position. The'very silence
of the writers on the law of -the admiralty as to this
subject, and the absence of all judicial authority, argues the soundness of the doctrine contended for.
The case of the Harmon,? was a condemnation of a
British vessel, by.the French commissary of marine,
sitting in the country of an ally in the war; and the
cases of the Adelaide, and the Betsey Kruger, were
under similar circumstances. The Cosmopoliteb presents a condemnation by the rench. Consul, in a
Spanish port, Spain then being' a co-belligerent with
France; and though the res capta was American
property, the principle is the same. So likewise in
the case. of Oddy v. Bovffe,c mainly relfed on by the
appellant'i counsel, we find the condemnation to
have been pronounced by a French Court, sitting in
Spain, then in ally of France, in a war .against
Great Britain. In fine, all the cases of condemnation in thecountry of a co-belligerent, ar:6 by courts
of the captor sitting within the dominions of the
ally. But it is not alone on the absence of authority, sanctioning prize proceedings in the courts of the
ally, that the doctrine now contended for reposes.
Every principle and analogy of the law on the subject are at variance with the exercise of such a power. The principles which introduced condemnation
as an evidence of transmutation of property under the
laws of war, in lieu of the doctrine of deductio infra
a 2 Rob: Adm. Rep. 174. note.
C2 East's Rep. 474.

6 3 Rob. 268.

1822.
Aq

,504%
182 .

CASES IN THE SUPRiEME COURT

prersidia,pernoctation, &c. evince the imnpropriety of
transferring ihe investigation ad aiud examen. A jUh
The
Amgante dicial inquiry into the regularity of prize proceedings
is important to the world at large. The capturing
nation has an interest in knowing that its prize ordinances are. strictly adhered to, and the Courts of that
nation are the most competent to inquire into this,
and to enforce their observance. The nation Pf the
captured belligerent has also some rights in respect
to the things taken : as war is a contest by force to
compel the party in the wrong to make retribution
for some injuryi the principals in the war have an
account to settle, and they are reciprocally responsible for the justice and regularity of all -hostile acts.
No tribunals, therefore, but those of the capturing
bel!igerent, ought to inquire into the validity ofcaptures. Neutrals, likewise, are interested that the
regularity and validity of seizures made fromi them
should be passed on by the tribunals of that belligerent by whom the taking was effected. A contrary
*doctrine might deprive them of the benefit of that responsibility to which captors should ever be liable.
If the ally passes sentence, it is probable the neutral
would be referred to the capturing nation for any
satisfaction the case of an illegal capture might demand; and if application were then made to that
nation, the neutral might be referred back to the ally
who pronounced the sentence. In theory, therefore,
and practice, there appears to be a moral fitness in
the rule which would restrict the power of. condemnation to the tribunals of that -belligerent by whom
the property has been actually taken. The country

OF THE UNITED STATES.

then, of an ally, may be subservient to this purpose,
but not the Courts, unless where the captures are
made by the allies or co-belligerents themselves.

In addition to the objections to the mode of authenticating the condemnation, -and the competency
of the -tribunal pronouncing. it,, may we not ask for
some proof of an alliance or association in arms between Venezuela, the alleged ally) and the power,
whatever that be, under which the claimant pretends to have acted? Even the sentence itself affords no light on this subject, and if it did, the proof
should be by matter aliunde. As the condemnation
is silent as to the power granting -the commission,
and no commission has been produced, this Court
has no evidence that the condemnation was pronounced even by the Court of ah ally; for the
Court may justly infer that. there was no commission, and if the inference be not made, but it should
turn out that Almeida acted under an Artigas commission, the Court might then be of opinion that no
alliance could be formed with the Banda Oriental,
or its chieftain, Artigas, as none are capable of
maintaining the relation of an ally who cannot be a
sole belligerent. Hence, then, the necessity of
proving the alliance,, and thus -furnishing an additional reason for requiring the production of something more than a naked sentence of condemnation.
4. But should all these objections prove unfounded, we then resort to the ground, that a condemnation by a Court of competent jur .z4ction does not deprive this Court of the power it otherwise would possess of restoring this property, the exercise of this
VOL. VII

64

605
1822.

The
Arrogate

B3arccloe=.

606

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

power being essential to the maintenance of our
laws and neutrality.
The
That this sentence is wholly inoperative, as reArrogante
Barcelones. spects he restoring power of this Court, appears
to
be manifest from a-variety of considerations.
As the avowed object of this condemnation was to
close the judicial eye, and paralize the judicial arm,
of this tribunal, it will be proper to inquire into the
object and extent of the prize proceeding in the Vice
Admiralty of Juan Griego, and the jurisdiction and
power now required to be exercised by this Court.
We contend, first, that this Court, in vindication of
the violated laws of the land, will, if necessary,
wholly disregard this condemnation ; but, secondly,
that restitution may be decreed without impugning,
in any degree, the operation of this sentence, or the
general doctrine of the conclusiveness of admiralty
decrees. This is not a petitorj but a posscssory
suit. The title to the property is no way involved in
this proceeding. There is but one inquiry: Has the
claimant acquired the possession of this property by
means unlawful, as regards this country ? if so, that
possession will be restored to those from whom it
has been wrested by the instrumentality of our ci tizens. The possession will be placed in statu quo,
without any reference to the title which may o therwise have been acquired by the capture and condemnation. If this can hereafter avail the claimant
any thing, it is well; this Court only claims the
_power of undoing that which has been done in
breach of the laws, and only so far as to place both
1822.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

parties, in regard to the possession, in their former
condition.

507
1822.
The

Were the Court deprived of this wholesome Anr-to.
power, our citizens and foreigners might violate our Barc ones.
law. and most solemn treaties with complete effect.
The fruits of their illegal captures, though brought
here, and in the control of our tribunals, might be
at once snatched from it by the production of a condemnation decreed by the very power, and in favour
of the very persons, by whom our laws have been
infracted. If, during this investigation, the captors, by the pretended necessity of sending a commission abroad, should procrastinate the adjudication,
sufficient time would be gained for the production
of a well concocted condemnation, which would
never fail to make its appearance ifi due time; and
thus the violators of our laws would uniformly be
confirmed in the possession of the fruits of their
own wrong.
In the case of the Annea it was decided by this
Court, that a capture made within neutral territory,
is nevertheless valid, as between the belligerents,
though it be a nullity as respects the neutral whose
territory has been violated. If England, then, and
France be at war, and an English privateer captures a French vessel, in the port of Philadelphia,
and forthwith proceeds -with the prize to sea, carries
her i~ifa presidia capientium, where she is condemned, and is then brought, back to the port of
Philadelphia; what would probably be the lana 3 Wheat. Rep. 436.

508
1P22.

"
A Troganie

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

guage of this Court, when about to restore the prize,
if a condemnation were presented with a view of
closing all inquiry as to the violation of our territory? We apprehend it would be
to this effect.
In regard ,to France, your enemy, the capture is
rightful; your condemnation pronounces it such;
but in the present inquiry a third party is interested.
Your possession of this vessel was gained by an
abuse of our asylum, and an infraction of our
territorial jurisdiction: as we have now the possession of the corpus, we restore it to those from
whom yon have, as to this country, illegally taken
it. If such would be the language of this Court,
in the case of a gross violation of our territory, I
apprehend the same reply will be given to Alneida,
who has not only violated all the laws enacted for
the preservation of our neutrality, but has, also,
grossly abused the asylum accorded to the privateers of the South American provinces. If these
vessels, in the use of that asylum, completely equip
theinse Ives with our arms, ammunition, and men,
and all is to be rendered valid, or at least inscrutable,
by a formal condemnation, all legislation on the
subject of neutrality is but public and solemn
moCkery.
If this condemnation be a conclusive bar against
all inquiry as to the violation of our laws, the compet.ncy of the power granting the commission, the
competency of the person receiving the commission,
&c. it is manifest that Venezuela, Buenos Ayres, or
any of these new formed sovereiguties, may compel

609

OF THE UNITED STATES.

us, through the instrumentality of a condemnation, to
accord to them the rights of sovereignty to every extent.

In such case, captures made under the corn-

operamission of Aury, or Artigas, would be equally
tive with those granted by powers acknowledged to
be independent, or engaged in a civil war, and the
doctrine of Rose v. Hinely, and the distinction taken
in Palmer'scase, and that of the Estrella, would be
of no avail. Nay, even in the case of seizures clearly piratical, the 6th and 14th aiticles of our treaty
with Spain would be effectually annulled.
Again ; all inquiry into thefact of th violation of
our laws, and its civil as well as penal consequences,
belongs exclusively to the tribunals of this country.
The Courts of other nations have no right to pronounce a bindingjudgm,'nt as to the validity or invalidity of any act against our civil, political, or criminal laws: the right to vindicate our own laws is essential and inherent: it is a sovereign right, which we
have not parted with to the tribunals of other nations.
If the decrees or judgments of those tribunals come
in collision with our laws, the Courts of this country
must pursue their even way, and enforce those laws,
without any reference either to the laws or judgments of foreign state. Passive obedience to the
decisions of foreign tribunals has been sufficiently inculcated ; but no-attempt has ever been made of so
exceptionable a character as this: to require this
Court not only to yield to the demands of foreign
violators of our laws and sovereignty, but also to the
insolent requisitions of our own criminal citizens."
2

zuni, 252.

1 II. B1. 123.

2 H. BI. 410.

81.

The

Arrormnte

510
1822
Arrogante
Barcelones.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

To give force to this condemnation, is, in fact, to call
on this Court to enforce the decree of a foreign
Court. A Court, thus called on always claims the
privilege of examining into the jurisdiction of tho
Court pronomcing the decree, the regularity of its
judicial proceedings, and the intended extent of its
operation.
It cannot be denied, thatif a privateer, or even a
public vessel of war, of a foreign power, be fitted out
in our ports, her commission can protect neither her
nor her prizes from the sanctions of our law. Why
then should a condemnation, which is but the exercise of another species of sovereign power, place tile
property in a state of absolute immunity ? The position taken on- the other side, that decrees of a
Court of competent jurisdiction are always binding,
and exclude all inquiry, is far from sound. The general doctrine is well known, but its extent and its exceptions are equally well known.
Secondly: But this Court may decree restitution,
without in any degree impugning the doctrine of the
conclusiveness of admiralty sentences.
If the postulate be allowed, that the restoring power
of this Court rest exclusively on the ground of violated neutrality, then the prize Court had no right to,
and never did, in fact, institute any inquiry relative to
the illegality of the equipment, in reference to our
laws; that is an inquiry competent for the Court
solely. There is another inquiry, competenitsolely
for the Courts of the captors, viz. the fact of the capture, and its conformity to prize regulations and the
jus belli. These are distinct rights, in the exercise of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which neither tribunal is called on to pronounce on
1822.
any matter not essential to be proved in order tojustify "The
a decision. The taking was rightful, in regard to the Arro-anto
its Barceqc
belligerents though our laws were violated, and
restitution by this tribunal will be equally so, though
the seizure be valid qua prize. In this point of view,
there is no collision between the two tribunals ; tile
deiree of each stands, Valeat quantum valere potest.
Nojudgment or decree establishes any thing beyond
what was necessarily proved in order to arrive at the
decision. The sentence, at most, proves nothing
but its own correctness in regard to the mere -question of prize.a All the cases, where condemnations
are relied on, have a qualification to this extent.
The sentence in this case pronounces that the property was Spanish, and is condemned as good prize.
It does not state, either affirmatively or negatively, one
word about the equipment of the privateer; and it
cannot, therefore, be even primafacie evidence that
the privateer had proceeded legally in regard to the
whole world. Where a vessel is captured by a belligerent, for unneutral conduct, a condemnation would
be conclusive; she was condemned on this sole
ground, and she could not be restored by ile Courts
of the neutral nation, without falsifying the very fact
on which the capture and condemnation proceeded.
But here the possession will be restored to the Spanish owners, not qua prize, but simply on the ground
that the use of our neutral means in making the
a Maleyv. Shattack, 3 Craach45B.. 88. The ary, 9.Crah.
I Campb. X. P. Cas. 419. 1 .!cuss. ep. 91
126. 14i.
2 Bro. Cik. awl .ldr. Lau. 121.

CASES IN .THE SUPREME COURT

capture, was a matter in which the prize Court of
'Juan
Griego had no concern.
The
Axrganto
As a capture in violation of neutral territory is still
10Z165 valid, in regard to the contending Darties, the capture,
in a belligerent Court, would 'be omni exceptione
major. Spain, in the present case, would in vain
have set-up the violation of our laws as a defence,
and the United States had no persona standi in.judicio. A suggestion of violated neutrality, on. behalf
of this country, would not-have been regarded.
Adverting, for a moment, to the grounds on which
the doctrine of conclusivenessis said to 'test, we shall
find that none of them would be impeached by the
the restoration of this property. They are saifi to be
three: comity, notice to all the world, and the coequality of nations. As to the dobtrine of comity,
it is founded on the supposition of the utmost good
faith, and there must be a perfect -reciprocity in order
to -support it. Is it not too much to require of any
nation, on the ground of comity, to permit foreign
powers to confederate with the worst clhss of our
people, in insulting and trampling on our solemn
treaties, neutral obligations, and explicit laws of public policy ?
But it is supposed to be a second ground of this
doctrine of conclusiveness, that the whole world have
notice, and are parties to the proceedings in a prize
CQurt, they being in rem. This, if true in fact, only
applies to those who have a title or interest in the
res ipsa, and not to thuse who have such a collateral, incidental, or potential right as that of the United
1821.

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

States. But the notice is itself a mere fiction.a The
United States had no persona standiin that Court;
and if they had, it would have been impossible to
arrival
assert it, as the libel, condemnation, sale, and

of the prize in this country, were nearly cotemporaineous. It.is the nature of fictions- to work justice,
not palpable injustice : this Court, therefore, will not
suffer itself to be ousted of its rights by a forced application of such a fiction.
The last ground on Which condemnations have
acquired their power, is the admitted co-equality of
all nations. This, perhaps, is the true principle.
Admitting that the recognized competency to wage
a civil war would clothe these provinces with every
attribute of sovereignty, the reply is, that the Courts
of no nation are competent to render this condemnation binding to the extent contended for : this would
be at war with the very principle ; we should become
inferior. The deductio infra pr:esidiadoes not clothe
this Court with any power; its jurisdiction originates in its right to maintain our neutral duties, and
extends only so far as is required for that maintenance ; no power on earth can deprive us of this
right. If the sentence of any Court be extended
thus far, we may say, with Lord KENyot;, " it may

be throwing a veil over decisions founded on Algerine, or worse than Algerine principles; and if
such sentences are to protect their own injustice, redress would be sought in vain :" and it may be added, that the rights of this country, and those of the
a 3 Dall. 91.
VoL. VII.

0 Cranch, 144.
65

1822.

TArr.,

to

514
1822.
'dy.

Ile
Arrogante
Barceloneo.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

most vital nature, would be prostrated without remeIf, then, the prize Court of Venezuela have pow-

ers co-ordinate with this. we should not, however,
by asking restoration, impute to this condemnation

a legal infirmity, but to the capture a vice antecedent
and paramount to the decree, and not cognizable by
that tribunal.
Were the doctrine of conclusiveness permitted to
rest on its original principles, we should not be inclined to quarrel with it ; but where it is extended
beyond its known and salutary operation, we cannot
regard it but with a jealdus eye. If it be invoked by
a purchaser under the decree, or to falsify a warranty of neutrality, there are then special reasons of
policy, convenience, and comity, which sustain it.
These special grounds are satisfactorily explained in
the case of Croudson v. Leonard; a but it will be
seen that none of the three grounds there set forth
would be impugned by a restitution of this propertY: forfirst, the question of prize is not before this
Court; secondly, the present inquiry is not in a common law court, but before a tribunal of the law of nations, and every way competent to make the necessary investigation; and thirdly, the decision of a Court
of co-ordinate jurisdiction is not re-examined.
But it has been urged, that a restitution of this
property to the Spanish owner, though it might not
directly impugn the condemnation, would be so far
opening admiralty decrees as to disturb the safety of
neutral purchasers generally, and that this would be
contrary to the policy of nations. The answer to this
a 4 Cranch, 434.

515

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Is, that the purchaser under the decree of any Court
does not necessarily obtain an unimpeachable title.
He- must take the property cum onere; the paramount
vices in the title remain; he does not purchase under a general, but under a special warranty. The
title gained by the capture, remains; it was illegal in
its origin, and, as-to the offended power, can never
be rehabilitated.,
5. Lastly, the proof in the present case is positive
that this vessel and cargo were captured by the
claimant, for himself and his associates. The condemnation enures to his benefit.; the alleged purchase by
-him was nominal ; and, if it were otherwise, he
gained his title or possesion by a wrong, and no act
of his can purge the wrong. Here we may apply
the rule of the civilians : that no one can change the
cause of his own possession. On this principle is it,
in part, that executors, guardians, and all who stand
in the relation of trustees, are, (as a general rule,)
incompetent to purchase the trust estate. Almeida's possession was gained by a wrong; he cannot change the character of that possession; he cannot, by his own act, give himself a better title. A defective title may indeed be rendered good by the purchase of outstanding good titles ; but here is no outstanding interest in the subject matter, but in the U nited States. The condemnation then could only corroborate the title which he had gained, and could
not clothe him with a better one.
Mr. Harper also argued on the same side ; but
Hoodie v. The Betty Cathcart, Bee's Rep. 299

1e0.
The
Am-ote

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

516
1822.

The
Arrogante
Barcelones

as the whole of his argument upon the conclusiveness of the foreign sentence will be found reported at
large, in the next volume, in the case of the .Nereyda,
in order to avoid a repetition, it is thought
expedient
to refer the reader to that case, which involved the
same question.
Mr. Winder, in reply, denied the authority of tho
supposed rule that a decree of sentence or a Court
of Admiralty cannot be given in evidence, without
producing the libel, or other proceedings. There
can be no necessity for producing the libel, if the
sentence itself shows what the libel would show :
and in this case the decree sets forth every fact which
would appear on the face of the libel, or which is
material to establish the conclusiveness of the proceedings. The decree accompanies the possession
of the vessel, the essential muniment of her title. This
Court has never asserted a right to look beyond the
sentence of condemnation. It has always admitted
its conclusiveness, even as to collateral effects. But
even if the sentencebe conclusive as to the question of
prize only, the right of the original owner is completely devested. And even admitting this to be a
possessory action, yet the right of possession depends
on the right of property, otherwise any stranger
might claim. As to the competency of the tribunal;
the fact of the conneetion between the different Spanish provinces in the present war is notorious, and
Courts ofjustice will always take notice of such facts.
Indeed, the President, in his different official cominunications to Congress, has alluded to their being en-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

gaged in a common contest against the mother country.

18M2.

Why then should they not lend each other the '' The '
aid of their tribunals to pronounce condemnations, as BArceonte
arcelones.

well as of their ports to fit out the armaments with
which the captures of Spanish property are made?
If, according to the original practice of nations, a
carrying iifraprwsidiawere to consummate the title,
would it not be sufficient to carry the prize within
the territory of an ally, or co-belligerent ? If one cobelligerent can consent to a foreign tribunal sitting
within its territory, and condemning prizes made by
the cruizers of its ally, -why may not the ally permit
its captures to be adjudged in the Courts of its cobelligerent? But at all events, Venezuela was herself engaged in war against Spain, and this was the
property of her enemy brotighi into her territory. She
had a fight-to condemn it in her Courts, and did condemn it so as to make it a.part of the mass of national property. There is no positive authority. which
denies the authority of the Courts of a belligerent, to
condemn prizes captured- by its co-belligerent ; and
in the absence of any case to the contrary, it is sufficient that no reason of principle or public policy exists to prevent it. The learned counsel also referred to the Resolution of Congress during the revolutionary war, authorizing their Courts to condemn
prizes captured by French cruizers, to show that the
opinion and practice of nations had authorized similar proceedings.3
a 5 Wheat. Rep. Xppx. 123.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

518
1822.

The
Arrogante

Barmelones.
arch 141h.

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The offence proved upon Almeida in this case is

one of a very aggravated nature. He not only violated the neutrality of this government, but tunected
his purpose, by practising a flagrant fraud, either
upon his crew, or upon the revenue officers of the
port of Baltimore ; or perhaps partially upon both.
Every thing in the case proves that the seoding voyage round Cape Horn was a mere pretext; and if
it be true that the crew were kidnapped under that
pretext, and forced into belligerent service after getting to sea, it is a remarkable instance of bold and
successful imposition. But who can believe it? The
truth unquestionably is, that the crew, with perhaps
the exception of the few who were put in irons, understood perfectly the nature of the enterprize they
were embarking in, and were deceived into the belief that their affected ignorance, or the impudence
of the fraud, would screen them from the penalties of
the laws which forbade their entering into belligerent
service.
It cannot, then, be questioned that Almeida now
appears before us in the character of a flagrant offender against the laws and neutral obligations of this
country. And there is no shadow of a ground for
hesitating to apply to this case the established rule
of this Court, in cases of illegal outfit, unless it be
the condemnation of this vessel and cargo in the
Court of Margaritta.
This Court will, for the present, waive all expression of its opinion on the questions raised upon the
validity of that condemnation, or the sufficiency of the

OF THE UNITED STATFS.

519

1822.
document produced to prove it. We will put our
n
decision upon a single, and independent ground, that
the view of this Court, with regard to all such cases, An te
understood.
my henceforth be distinctly
We find the captured property in the hands of the
offender, -and hold it to be immaterial through what
circuity of changes it has come back to him. It is
not for him to claim a right springing out of his own
wrong. In the hands of a third person, a valid sentence of condemnation, properly authenticated, would
present a very different view of the subject. The
offender's touch here restores the taint from which
the condemnation may have purified the prize. Although a purchaser without notice, may, in many
cases, hold his purchase free from an interest with
which it was chargeable in the hands of the vendor,
yet it cannot return into the hands of -that vendor,
without reviving the, original heir. Nor will Courts
of jutice ever yield the locus standi in judicio to
the suitor, who is compelled to trace his title through
his own criminal acts."
Decree affirmed.
a In the case of the Nereyda, which was argued at the present term, the Court was of opinion, that in cases where a condemnation is relied on, the libel as well as the sentence ought
to be produced, in order that the Court might judicially see that
the foreign tribunal had jurisdiction, and what was the ground
of application for -condemnation, and the parties by whom it
was sought. The Court also thought that the claimant ought
to show by competent evidence that he was a bonz fide purchaser of the property for a valuable consideration ; and from the
defects of thte proofs on both points, the cause was ordered to
farther proof. It has therefore been thought fit to omit a re
port of the case, until its final decision.

