OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Syllabus

SCOTT

ET AL.

436 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

No. 76-6767.

CIRCUIT

Argued March 1, 1978-Decided May 15, 1978

Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
requires that wiretapping or electronic surveillance "be conducted in such
a way as to minimize" the interception of communications not otherwise
subject to interception under that Title. 18 U. S. C. § 2518 (5) (1976
ed.). Pursuant to a court wiretap authorization order requiring such
minimization, Government agents intercepted for a one-month period
virtually all conversations over a particular telephone suspected of being
used in furtherance of a conspiracy to import and distribute narcotics.
Forty percent of the calls were clearly narcotics related, and the remaining calls were for the most part very short, such as wrong-number calls,
and calls to persons unavailable to come to the phone, or were ambiguous
in nature, and in a few instances were between the person to whom the
telephone was registered and her mother. After the interceptions were
terminated, petitioners, among others, were indicted for various narcotics
offenses. The District Court, on petitioners' pretrial motion, ordered
suppression of all the intercepted conversations and derivative evidence,
on the ground that the agents had failed to comply with the wiretap
order's minimization requirement, primarily because only 40% of the
conversations were shown to be narcotics related. The Court of Appeals
reversed and remanded, stating that the District Court should not have
based its determination upon a general comparison of the number of
narcotics-related calls with the total number of calls intercepted, but
rather should have engaged in a particularized assessment of the reasonableness of the agents' attempts to minimize in light of the purpose of
the wiretap and information available to the agents at the time of
interception. On remand, the District Court again ordered suppression,
relying largely on the fact that the agents were aware of the minimization requirement "but made no attempt to comply therewith." The
Court of Appeals again reversed, holding that the District Court had yet
to apply the correct standard, that the decision on the suppression
motion ultimately had to be based on the reasonableness of the actual
interceptions and not on whether the agents subjectively intended to
minimize their interceptions, and that suppression in this case was not

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
Syllabus

128

appropriate. Petitioners were eventually convicted, and the Court of
Appeals affirmed. Held:
1. The proper approach for evaluating compliance with the minimization requirement, like evaluation of all alleged violations of the Fourth
Amendment, is objectively to assess the agent's or officer's actions in
light of the facts and circumstances confronting him at the time without
regard to his underlying intent or motive. Pp. 135-138.
2. Even if the agents fail to make good-faith efforts at minimization,
that is not itself a violation of the statute requiring suppression, since
the use of the word "conducted" in § 2518 (5) makes it clear that the
focus was to be on the agents' actions, not their motives, and since the
legislative history shows that the statute was not intended to extend the
scope of suppression beyond search-and-seizure law under the Fourth
Amendment. Pp. 138-139.
3. The Court of Appeals did not err in rejecting petitioners' minimization claim, but properly analyzed the reasonableness of the wiretap.
Pp. 139-143.
(a) Blind reliance on the percentage of nonpertinent calls intercepted is not a sure guide to the correct answer. While such percentages
may provide assistance, there are cases, like this one, where the percentage of nonpertinent calls is relatively high and yet their interception was
still reasonable. P. 140.
(b) It is also important to consider the circumstances of the
wiretap, such as whether more extensive surveillance may be justified
because of a suspected widespread conspiracy, or the type of use to
which the wiretapped telephone is normally put. P. 140.
(c) Other factors, such as the exact point during the authorized
period at which the interception was made, may be significant in a
particular case. P. 141.
(d) As to most of the calls here that were not narcotics related,
such calls did not give the agents an opportunity to develop a category
of innocent calls that should not have been intercepted, and hence their
interception cannot be viewed as a violation of the minimization requirement. As to the calls between the telephone registrant and her mother,
it cannot be said that even though they turned out not to be relevant to
the investigation, the Court of Appeals was incorrect in concluding that
the agents did not act unreasonably at the time they made these
interceptions. Pp. 142-143.
179 U. S. App. D. C. 281, 551 F. 2d 467, affirmed.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., and

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which

STEWART, WHITE, BLACKiTUN, POWELL,

and

STEVENS,

BURGER,

JJ., joined.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court
BRENNAN,

J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which

436 U. S.
MARSHALL,

J., joined,

post, p. 143.

John A. Shorter argued the cause for petitioners. With him
on the briefs were Samuel Dash and Michael E. Geltner.
Richard A. Allen argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McCree, Assistant Attorney General Civiletti, and Deputy Solicitor General
Frey.*
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.

In 1968, Congress enacted Title III of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, which deals with wiretapping and other forms of electronic surveillance. 18 U. S. C.
§§ 2510-2520 (1976 ed.). In this Act Congress, after this
Court's decisions in Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41 (1967),
and Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347 (1967), set out to
provide law enforcement officials with some of the tools
thought necessary to combat crime without unnecessarily infringing upon the right of individual privacy. See generally
S. Rep. No. 1097, 90th Cong., 2d Sess. (1968). We have had
occasion in the past, the most recent being just last Term, to
consider exactly how the statute effectuates this balance.1
This case requires us to construe the statutory requirement
that wiretapping or electronic surveillance "be conducted in
such a way as to minimize the interception of communications
not otherwise subject to interception under this chapter . . .
18 U. S. C. §2518(5) (1976 ed.).
Pursuant to judicial authorization which required such
minimization, Government agents intercepted all the phone
conversations over a particular phone for a period of one
*Peter S. Smith filed a brief for Chloe V. Daviage as amicus curiae

urging reversal.
ISee United States v. Donovan, 429 U. S. 413 (1977), which involved
that part of the Act which requires the Government to identify the person, if known, whose conversations are to be intercepted.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

month. The District Court for the District of Columbia suppressed all intercepted conversations and evidence derived
therefrom in essence because the "admitted knowing and purposeful failure by the monitoring agents to comply with the
minimization order was unreasonable ...even if every intercepted call were narcotic-related." App. 39. The Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed, concluding that an assessment of the reasonableness of the efforts
at minimization first requires an evaluation of the reasonableness of the actual interceptions in light of the purpose of the
wiretap and the totality of the circumstances before any inquiry is made into the subjective intent of the agents conducting the surveillance. 170 U. S. App. D. C. 158, 516 F. 2d
751 (1975). We granted certiorari to consider this important
question, 434 U. S. 888 (1977), and, finding ourselves in basic
agreement with the Court of Appeals, affirm.
I
In January 1970, Government officials applied, pursuant
to Title III, for authorization to wiretap a telephone registered
to Geneva Jenkins- The supporting affidavits alleged that
there was probable cause to believe nine individuals, all named,
were participating in a conspiracy to import and distribute
narcotics in the Washington, D. C., area and that Geneva
Jenkins' telephone had been used in furtherance of the conspiracy, particularly by petitioner Thurmon, who was then
living with Jenkins. The District Court granted the application on January 24, 1970, authorizing agents to "[ifntercept
the wire communications of Alphonso H. Lee, Bernis Lee
Thurmon, and other persons as may make use of the facilities
hereinbefore described." App. 80. The order also required
the agents to conduct the wiretap in "such a way as to mini2 The

application and subsequent court order identified the subscriber as

Geneva Thornton, but that was apparently an alias.
(DC 1971).

331 F. Supp. 233, 236

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U. S.

mize the interception of communications that are [not] otherwise subject to interception" under the Act' and to report to
the court every five days "the progress of the interception
and the nature of the communication intercepted." Ibid.
Interception began that same day and continued, pursuant to
a judicially authorized extension, until February 24, 1970, with
the agents making the periodic reports to the judge as
required. Upon cessation of the interceptions, search and
arrest warrants were executed which led to the arrest of 22
persons and the indictment of 14.
Before trial the defendants, including petitioners Scott and
Thurmon, moved to suppress all the intercepted conversations
on a variety of grounds. After comprehensive discovery and
an extensive series of hearings, the District Court held that the
agents had failed to comply with the minimization requirement contained in the wiretap order and ordered suppression
of the intercepted conversations and all derivative evidence.
The court relied in large part on the fact that virtually all the
conversations were intercepted while only 40% of them were
shown to be narcotics related. This, the court reasoned,
"strongly indicate[d] the indiscriminate use of wire surveillance that was proscribed by Katz E43 and Berger."' 331
F. Supp. 233, 247 (DC 1971).
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
reversed and remanded, stating that the District Court should
not have based its determination upon a general comparison
of the number of narcotics-related calls with the total number
of calls intercepted, but rather should have engaged in a particularized assessment of the reasonableness of the agents'
attempts to minimize in light of the purpose of the wiretap
and the information available to the agents at the time of
3 The word "not" was inadvertently omitted, but the agents apparently
understood the intent of the order. Id., at 245 n. 1.
4
Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347 (1967).
5
Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41 (1967).

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

interception. 164 U. S. App. D. C. 125, 129, 504 F. 2d 194,
198 (1974).'
Upon remand, the District Court again ordered suppression,
this time relying largely on the fact that the agents were aware
of the minimization requirement, "but made no attempt to
comply therewith." App. 37, 38. 7 "The admitted knowing
6 The District Court also made a number of other related rulings which
were affirmed on appeal. It upheld Title III against a claim that the
statute contravened the Fourth Amendment restriction against unreasonable searches and seizures; determined that the application and affidavits
were sufficient on their face to establish probable cause; and held that the
order complied with the requirements of the statute. Petitioners have not
sought review of any of these holdings. The Court of Appeals also held
that Scott could introduce evidence based on conversations in which he did
not participate to demonstrate that the intercepted conversations to which
he was a party were not seized "in conformity with the order of authorization." 18 U. S. C. § 2518 (10) (a) (iii) (1976 ed.). See 164 U. S. App.

D. C., at 127-128, 504 F. 2d, at 196-197.
7 This conclusion was based on the fact that virtually all calls were intercepted and on the testimony of Special Agent Glennon Cooper, the agent
in charge of the investigation, who testified that the only steps taken which
actually resulted in the nonreception of a conversation were those taken
when the agents discovered the wiretap had inadvertently been connected
to an improper line. The court laid particular stress on the following
exchange:
"BY THE COURT:
"Q. The question I wish to ask you is this, whether at any time during
the course of the wiretap-of the intercept, what if any steps were taken
by you or any agent under you to minimize the listening?
"A. Well, as I believe I mentioned before, I would have to say that the
only effective steps taken by us to curtail the reception of conversations
was in that instance where the line was connected to-misconnected from
the correct line and connected to an improper line. We discontinued at
that time.
"Q. Do I understand from you then that the only time that you considered minimization was when you found that you had been connected
with a wrong number?
"A. That is correct, Your Honor." App. 179.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U. S.

and purposeful failure by the monitoring agents to comply
with the minimization order was unreasonable . . . even if

every intercepted call were narcotic-related." Id., at 39.
The Court of Appeals again reversed, holding that the
District Court had yet to apply the correct standard. 170
U. S. App. D. C. 158, 516 F. 2d 751 (1975). The court recognized that the "presence or absence of a good faith attempt to
minimize on the part of the agents is undoubtedly one factor
to be considered in assessing whether the minimization requirement has been satisfied," but went on to hold that "the decision
on the suppression motion must ultimately be based on the
reasonableness of the actual interceptions and not on whether
the agents subjectively intended to minimize their interceptions." Id., at 163, 516 F. 2d, at 756. Then, because of the
extended period of time which had elapsed since the commission of the offense in question, that court itself examined the
intercepted conversations and held that suppression was not
appropriate in this case because the court could not conclude
that "some conversation was intercepted which clearly would
not have been intercepted had reasonable attempts at minimization been made." Id., at 164, 516 F. 2d, at 7578
On the remand from the Court of Appeals, following a
nonjury trial on stipulated evidence which consisted primarily
of petitioners' intercepted conversations, Scott was found
guilty of selling and purchasing narcotics not in the original
stamped package, see 26 U. S. C. § 4704 (a) (1964 ed.), and
Thurmon of conspiracy to sell narcotics, see 26 U. S. C. §§ 7237
(b) and 4705 (a) (1964 ed.).' The Court of Appeals affirmed
The Court of Appeals, with four judges dissenting, denied rehearing and
rehearing en bane, 173 U. S. App. D. C. 118, 522 F. 2d 1333 (1975), and
we denied certiorari, 425 U. S. 917 (1976). MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, MR.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE POWELL dissented from the denial
s

of certiorari.

9The specific statutes under which petitioners were convicted were
repealed in connection with the enactment of the Comprehensive Drug
Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, 84 Stat. 1292.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

the convictions, 179 U. S. App. D. C. 281, 551 F. 2d 467 (1977),
and we granted certiorari. 434 U. S. 888 (1977).
II
Petitioners' principal contention is that the failure to make
good-faith efforts to comply with the minimization requirement is itself a violation of § 2518 (5). They urge that it is
only after an assessment is made of the agents' good-faith
efforts, and presumably a determination that the agents did
make such efforts, that one turns to the question of whether
those efforts were reasonable under the circumstances. See
Reply Brief for Petitioner 4-5. Thus, argue petitioners,
Agent Cooper's testimony, which is basically a concession that
the Government made no efforts which resulted in the noninterception of any call, is dispositive of the matter. The
so-called "call analysis," which was introduced by the Government to suggest the reasonableness of intercepting most of the
calls, cannot lead to a contrary conclusion because, having
been prepared after the fact by a Government attorney and
using terminology and categories which were not indicative of
the agents' thinking at the time of the interceptions, it does
not reflect the perceptions and mental state of the agents who
actually conducted the wiretap.
The Government responds that petitioners' argument fails
to properly distinguish between what is necessary to establish
a statutory or constitutional violation and what is necessary
to support a suppression remedy once a violation has been
established. 10 In view of the deterrent purposes of the exclu10 The Government also argues that even if the agents in this case violated the minimization requirement by intercepting some conversations
which could not have reasonably been intercepted, § 2518 (10) requires
suppression of only those conversations which were illegally intercepted,
not suppression of all the intercepted conversations. See, e. g., United
States v. Cox, 462 F. 2d 1293, 1301-1302 (CA8 1972), cert. denied, 417
U. S. 918 (1974); United States v. Sisca, 361 F. Supp. 735, 746-747

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U. S.

sionary rule, consideration of official motives may play some
part in determining whether application of the exclusionary
rule is appropriate after a statutory or constitutional violation
has been established. But the existence veI non of such a
violation turns on an objective assessment of the officer's
actions in light of the facts and circumstances confronting him
at the time. Subjective intent alone, the Government contends, does not make otherwise lawful conduct illegal or
unconstitutional. 1
(SDNY 1973), aff'd, 503 F. 2d 1337 (CA2), cert. denied, 419 U. S. 1008

(1974); United States v. Mainello, 345 F. Supp. 863, 874-877 (EDNY
1972); United States v. LaGorga, 336 F. Supp. 190 (WD Pa. 1971). It
also renews its argument that petitioner Scott does not have standing to
raise a minimization challenge based upon the interception of conversations to which he was not a party. To permit such a challenge would
allow Scott to secure the suppression of evidence against him by showing
that the rights of other parties were violated. This, argues the Government, would contravene well-settled principles of Fourth Amendment law,
cf. Brown v. United States, 411 U. S. 223, 230 (1973); Alderman v.

United States, 394 U. S. 165, 197 (1969); Simmons v. United States, 390
U. S. 377 (1968), which clearly apply to Title III cases, see S. Rep. No.
1097, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 91, 106 (1968); Alderman v. United States,
supra, at 175-176.
Given our disposition of this case we find it unnecessary to reach the
Government's contention regarding the scope of the suppression remedy
in the event of a violation of the minimization requirement. We also
decline to address the Government's argument with respect to standing.
The Government concedes that petitioner Thurmon was a party to some
nonnarcotics-related calls and thus has standing to makc the arguments
advanced herein. Thus, even if we were to decide that Scott has no
standing we would be compelled to undertake the decision of these issues.
If, on the other hand, we were to decide that Scott does have standing,
we would simply repeat exactly the same analysis made with respect to
Thurmon's claim and find against Scott as well. In this circumstance we
need not decide the questions of Scott's standing. See California Bankers
Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U. S. 21, 44-45 (1974); Doe v. Bolton, 410 U. S. 179,

189 (1973).
11 The Government also adds that even if subjective intent were the
standard, the record does not support the District Court's conclusion that

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

We think the Government's position, which also served as
the basis for decision in the Court of Appeals, embodies the
proper approach for evaluating compliance with the minimization requirement. Although we have not examined this exact
question at great length in any of our prior opinions, almost
without exception in evaluating alleged violations of the
Fourth Amendment the Court has first undertaken an objective assessment of an officer's actions in light of the facts and
circumstances then known to him. The language of the
Amendment itself proscribes only "unreasonable" searches and
seizures. In Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 21-22 (1968), the
Court emphasized the objective aspect of the term "reasonable."
"And in justifying the particular intrusion the police
officer must be able to point to specific and articulable
facts which, taken together with rational inferences from
those facts, reasonably warrant that intrusion. The
scheme of the Fourth Amendment becomes meaningful
only when it is assured that at some point the conduct of
those charged with enforcing the laws can be subjected to
the more detached, neutral scrutiny of a judge who must
evaluate the reasonableness of a particular search or
seizure in light of the particular circumstances. And in
making that assessment it is imperative that the facts be
judged against an objective standard; would the facts
available to the officer at the moment of the seizure or the
search 'warrant a man of reasonable caution in the belief'
that the action taken was appropriate?"
(Footnotes
omitted.)
See also Beck v. Ohio, 379 U. S. 89, 96-97 (1964); Henry v.
United States, 361 U. S. 98, 102-103 (1959).
the agents subjectively intended to violate the statute or the Constitution.
It contends that the failure to stop intercepting calls, the interception of
which was entirely reasonable, does not support a finding that the agents
would have intercepted calls that should not have been intercepted had they
been confronted with that situation. We express no view on this matter.

OCTOBER TERM. 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U. S.

We have since held that the fact that the officer does not
have the state of mind which is hypothecated by the reasons
which provide the legal justification for the officer's action does
not invalidate the action taken as long as the circumstances,
viewed objectively, justify that action. In United States v.
Robinson, 414 U. S. 218 (1973), a suspect was searched
incident to a lawful arrest. He challenged the search on the
ground that the motivation for the search did not coincide with
the legal justification for the search-incident-to-arrest exception. We rejected this argument: "Since it is the fact of
custodial arrest which gives rise to the authority to search, it
is of no moment that [the officer] did not indicate any subjective fear of the respondent or that he did not himself
suspect that respondent was armed." Id., at 236. The Courts
of Appeals which have considered the matter have likewise
generally followed these principles, first examining the challenged searches under a standard of objective reasonableness
without regard to the underlying intent or motivation of the
officers involved."2
Petitioners do not appear, however, to rest their argument
entirely on Fourth Amendment principles. Rather, they argue
in effect that regardless of the search-and-seizure analysis
conducted under the Fourth Amendment, the statute regulating wiretaps requires the agents to make good-faith efforts at
12 See, e. g., United States v. Bugarin-Casas, 484 F. 2d 853, 854 n. 1
(CA9 1973), cert. denied, 414 U. S. 1136 (1974) ("The fact that the
agents were intending at the time they stopped the car to search it in any
event . . . does not render the search, supported by independent probable
cause, invalid"); Dodd v. Beto, 435 F. 2d 868, 870 (CA5 1970), cert.
denied, 404 U. S. 845 (1971); Klingler v. United States, 409 F. 2d 299, 304
(CA8), cert. denied, 396 U. S. 859 (1969); Green v. United States, 386
F. 2d 953, 956 (CA10 1967); Siimarco v. United States, 315 F. 2d 699,
702 (CA10), cert. denied, 374 U. S. 807 (1963). As is our usual custom,
we do not, in citing these or other cases, intend to approve any particular
language or holding in them.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

minimization, and the failure to make such efforts is itself a
violation of the statute which requires suppression.
This argument fails for more than one reason. In the first
place, in the very section in which it directs minimization
Congress, by its use of the word "conducted," made it clear
that the focus was to be on the agents' actions not their
motives. Any lingering doubt is dispelled by the legislative
history which, as we have recognized before in another context,
declares that § 2515 was not intended "generally to press the
scope of the suppression role beyond present search and seizure
law." S. Rep. No. 1097, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 96 (1968).
See Alderman v. United States, 394 U. S. 165, 175-176
(1969).13

III
We turn now to the Court of Appeals' analysis of the
reasonableness of the agents' conduct in intercepting all of the
calls in this particular wiretap. Because of the necessarily
ad hoc nature of any determination of reasonableness, there

can be no inflexible rule of law which will decide every case.
'. This is not to say, of course, that the question of motive plays absolutely no part in the suppression inquiry. On occasion, the motive with
which the officer conducts an illegal search may have some relevance in
determining the propriety of applying the exclusionary rule. For example, in United States v. Janis, 428 U. S. 433, 458 (1976), we ruled that
evidence unconstitutionally seized by state police could be introduced in
federal civil tax proceedings because "the imposition of the exclusionary
rule . . . is unlikely to provide significant, much less substantial, additional
deterrence. It falls outside the offending officer's zone of primary interest." See also United States v. Ceccolini, 435 U. S. 268, 276-277 (1978).
This focus on intent, however, becomes relevant only after it has been
determined that the Constitution was in fact violated. We also have
little doubt that as a practical matter the judge's assessment of the
motives of the officers may occasionally influence his judgment regarding
the credibility of the officers' claims with respect to what information was
or was not available to them at the time of the incident in question. But
the assessment and use of motive in this limited manner is irrelevant to
our analysis of the questions at issue in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U. S.

The statute does not forbid the interception of all nonrelevant
conversations, but rather instructs the agents to conduct the
surveillance in such a manner as to "minimize" the interception of such conversations. Whether the agents have in fact
conducted the wiretap in such a manner will depend on the
facts and circumstances of each case.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that blind reliance on
the percentage of nonpertinent calls intercepted is not a sure
guide to the correct answer. Such percentages may provide
assistance, but there are surely cases, such as the one at bar,
where the percentage of nonpertinent calls is relatively high
and yet their interception was still reasonable. The reasons
for this may be many. Many of the nonpertinent calls may
have been very short. Others may have been one-time only
calls. Still other calls may have been ambiguous in nature or
apparently involved guarded or coded language. In all these
circumstances agents can hardly be expected to know that the
calls are not pertinent prior to their termination.
In determining whether the agents properly minimized, it is
also important to consider the circumstances of the wiretap.
For example, when the investigation is focusing on what is
thought to be a widespread conspiracy more extensive surveillance may be justified in an attempt to determine the precise
scope of the enterprise. And it is possible that many more of
the conversations will be permissibly interceptable because
they will involve one or more of the co-conspirators. The type
of use to which the telephone is normally put may also have
some bearing on the extent of minimization required. For
example, if the agents are permitted to tap a public telephone
because one individual is thought to be placing bets over the
phone, substantial doubts as to minimization may arise if the
agents listen to every call which goes out over that phone
regardless of who places the call. On the other hand, if the
phone is located in the residence of a person who is thought to
be the head of a major drug ring, a contrary conclusion may
be indicated.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

Opinion of the Court

Other factors may also play a significant part in a particular
case. For example, it may be important to determine at
exactly what point during the authorized period the interception was made. During the early stages of surveillance the
agents may be forced to intercept all calls to establish categories of nonpertinent calls which will not be intercepted
thereafter. Interception of those same types of calls might
be unreasonable later on, however, once the nonpertinent
categories have been established and it is clear that this particular conversation is of that type. Other situations may
arise where patterns of nonpertinent calls do not appear. In
these circumstances it may not be unreasonable to intercept
almost every short conversation because the determination of
relevancy cannot be made before the call is completed.
After consideration of the minimization claim in this case in
the light of these observations, we find nothing to persuade us
that the Court of Appeals was wrong in its rejection of that
claim.1" Forty percent of the calls were clearly narcotics
related and the propriety of their interception is, of course, not
in dispute. Many of the remaining calls were very short, such
as wrong-number calls, calls to persons who were not available
to come to the phone, and calls to the telephone company to
14 Petitioners argue that the "district court found that the call analysis
contained errors of characterization and factual inaccuracies and did not
represent information known to the agents at the time of interception."
Brief for Petitioners 25-26. We do not think petitioners have fairly
characterized the District Court's findings, however. The District Court
found: "The 'call analysis' conflicts with the reports and characterizations
of the intercepted calls as made and determined by the monitoring agents
whose conduct is controlling in this case." App. 38. This does not
suggest that the call analysis was factually erroneous, but rather that the
categories used by the attorney who prepared the analysis were not necessarily of the same sort employed by the monitoring agents. This finding
would thus have relevance if the critical inquiry focused on the subjective
intent of the agents, but it certainly cannot be read as a finding that the
general analysis of the calls set forth in the call analysis contains "factual
inaccuracies."

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

436 U.S.

hear the recorded weather message which lasts less than 90
seconds. In a case such as this, involving a wide-ranging
conspiracy with a large number of participants, even a seasoned
listener would have been hard pressed to determine with any
precision the relevancy of many of the calls before they were
completed." A large number were ambiguous in nature, making characterization virtually impossible until the completion
of these calls. And some of the nonpertinent conversations
were one-time conversations. Since these calls did not give
the agents an opportunity to develop a category of innocent
calls which should not have been intercepted, their interception cannot be viewed as a violation of the minimization
requirement.
We are thus left with the seven calls between Jenkins and
her mother. The first four calls were intercepted over a threeday period at the very beginning of the surveillance. They
were of relatively short length and at least two of them
indicated that the mother may have known of the conspiracy.
The next two calls, which occurred about a week later, both
contained statements from the mother to the effect that she
had something to tell Jenkins regarding the "business" but
did not want to do so over the phone. The final call was
substantially longer and likewise contained a statement which
could have been interpreted as having some bearing on the
conspiracy, i. e., that one "Reds," a suspect in the conspiracy,
15Petitioners intimate that the scope of the investigation was narrower than originally anticipated because the intercepts revealed only
local purchases within the Washington area. That certainly has no bearing
on what the officers had reasonable cause to believe at the time they made
the interceptions, however. And while it is true that the conspiracy turned
out to involve mainly local distribution, rather than major interstate and
international importation, it is not at all clear that the information garnered
through the wiretap reduced the agents' estimates of the number of people
involved or the extent of the drug traffic. In short, there is little doubt
on the record that, as the agents originally thought, the conspiracy can
fairly be characterized as extensive.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

BRENNANw,

J., dissenting

had called to ask for a telephone number. Although none of
these conversations turned out to be material to the investigation at hand, we cannot say that the Court of Appeals was
incorrect in concluding that the agents did not act unreasonably at the time they made these interceptions. Its judgment
is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUsTIcE MARSHALL
joins, dissenting.
In 1968, Congress departed from the longstanding national
policy forbidding surreptitious interception of wire communications,1 by enactment of Title III of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 18 U. S. C. §§ 2510-2520
(1976 ed.). That Act, for the first time authorizing law enforcement personnel to monitor private telephone conversations,
provided strict guidelines and limitations on the use of wiretaps
as a barrier to Government infringement of individual privacy.
One of the protections thought essential by Congress as a
bulwark against unconstitutional governmental intrusion on
private conversations is the "minimization requirement" of
§ 2518 (5). The Court today eviscerates this congressionally
mandated protection of individual privacy, marking the third
decision in which the Court has disregarded or diluted congressionally established safeguards 2 designed to prevent Government electronic surveillance from becoming the abhorred
I Prior to the enactment of Title III, § 605 of the Communications Act
of 1934, ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1104, provided that "no person not
being authorized by the sender shall intercept any communication and
divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or
meaning of such intercepted communication to any person .... "
2See United States v. Donovan, 429 U. S. 413, 445 (1977) (MARSHALL,
J., dissenting in part); United States v. Kahn, 415 U. S. 143, 158 (1974)
(Douglas, J., dissenting); see also United States v. Chavez, 416 U. S. 562,
580 (1974) (opinion of Douglas, J.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

436 U. S.

general warrant which historically had destroyed the cherished
expectation of privacy in the home.3
The "minimization provision" of § 2518 (5) provides, inter
alia, that every order authorizing interception of wire communications include a requirement that the interception "shall
be conducted in such a way as to minimize the interception
of communications not otherwise subject to interception under
this chapter . . . ." (Emphasis added.) The District Court's
findings of fact, not challenged here or in the Court of Appeals,
plainly establish that this requirement was shamelessly violated. The District Court. found:
"[T]he monitoring agents made no attempt to comply
with the minimization order of the Court but listened
to and recorded all calls over the [subject] telephone.
They showed no regard for the right of privacy and did
nothing to avoid unnecessary intrusion." App. 36.
The District Court further found that the special agent
who conducted the wiretap testified under oath that "he and
the agents working under him knew of the minimization
requirement but made no attempt to comply therewith." Id.,
at 37. The District Court found a "knowing and purposeful
failure" to comply with the minimization requirements. Id.,
at 39. These findings, made on remand after re-examination,
reiterated the District Court's initial finding that "[the
agents] did not even attempt 'lip service compliance' with the
provision of the order and statutory mandate but rather completely disregarded it." 331 F. Supp. 233, 247 (DC 1971).
In the face of this clear finding that the agents monitored
every call and, moreover, knowingly failed to conduct the
wiretap "in such a way as to minimize the interception of communications" not subject to interception, and despite the fact
that 60% of all calls intercepted were not subject to intercep3 See United States v. Kahn, supra, at 160-162, and nn. 3-4 (Douglas, J.,
dissenting).

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES
128

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

tion, the Court holds that no violation of § 2518 (5) occurred.
The basis for that conclusion is a post hoc reconstruction
offered by the Government of what would have been reasonable assumptions on the part of the agents had they attempted
to comply with the statute. Since, on the basis of this reconstruction of reality, it would have been reasonable for the
agents to assume that each of the calls dialed and received
was likely to be in connection with the criminal enterprise,
there was no violation, notwithstanding the fact that the
agents intercepted every call with no effort to minimize interception of the noninterceptable calls. That reasoning is thrice
flawed.
First, and perhaps most significant, it totally disregards the
explicit congressional command that the wiretap be conducted
so as to minimize interception of communications not subject
to interception. Second, it blinks reality by accepting, as a
substitute for the good-faith exercise of judgment as to which
calls should not be intercepted by the agent most familiar with
the investigation, the post hoc conjectures of the Government
as to how the agent would have acted had he exercised his
judgment. Because it is difficult to know with any degree of
certainty whether a given communication is subject to interception prior to its interception, there necessarily must be a
margin of error permitted. But we do not enforce the basic
premise of the Act that intrusions of privacy must be kept to
the minimum by excusing the failure of the agent to make the
good-faith effort to minimize which Congress mandated. In
the nature of things it is impossible to know how many fewer
interceptions would have occurred had a good-faith judgment
been exercised, and it is therefore totally unacceptable to
permit the failure to exercise the congressionally imposed duty
to be excused by the difficulty in predicting what might have
occurred had the duty been exercised. Finally, the Court's
holding permits Government agents deliberately to flout the
duty imposed upon them by Congress. In a linguistic tour

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

436 U. S.

de force the Court converts the mandatory language that the
interception "shall be conducted" to a precatory suggestion.
Nor can the Court justify its disregard of the statute's
language by any demonstration that it is necessary to do so to
effectuate Congress' purpose as expressed in the legislative
history. On the contrary, had the Court been faithful to the
congressional purpose, it would have discovered in § 2518 (10)
(a) and its legislative history the unambiguous congressional
purpose to have enforced the several limitations on interception imposed by the statute. Section 2518 (10) (a) requires
suppression of evidence intercepted in violation of the statute's
limitations on interception, and the legislative history emphasizes Congress' intent that the exclusionary remedy serve as a
deterrent against the violation of those limitations by law
enforcement personnel. See S. Rep. No. 1097, 90th Cong.,
2d Sess., 96 (1968).
The Court's attempted obfuscation in Part II, ante, at 135139, of its total disregard of the statutory mandate 4 is a transparent failure. None of the cases discussed there deciding the
reasonableness under the Fourth Amendment of searches and
seizures deals with the discrete problems of wire interceptions
or addresses the construction of the minimization requirement
of § 2518 (5). Congress provided the answer to that problem,
and the wording of its command, and not general Fourth
Amendment principles, must be the guide to our decision. The
Court offers no explanation for its failure to heed the aphorism:
"Though we may not end with the words in construing a
disputed statute, one certainly begins there." Frankfurter,
4 Although the Court's refusal to recognize as violative of § 2518 (5) a
wiretap conducted in bad faith without regard to minimization necessarily
will result in many invasions of privacy which otherwise would not occur,
the objective requirement of "reasonableness" left unimpaired by the Court
will clearly require suppression of interceptions in other circumstances.
See, e. g., Bynum v. United States, 423 U. S. 952 (1975) (BRENNAN, J.,
dissenting from denial of certiorari).

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES

128

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Some Reflections on the Reading of Statutes, 47 Colum. L.
Rev. 527, 535 (1947).Moreover, today's decision does not take even a sidelong
glance at United States v. Kahn, 415 U. S. 143 (1974), whose
reasoning it undercuts, and which may now require overruling.
Answering the question in Kahn of who must be named in an
application and order authorizing electronic surveillance, the
Court held:
"Title III requires the naming of a person in the application or interception order only when the law enforcement
authorities have probable cause to believe that that individual is 'committing the offense' for which the wiretap
is sought." Id., at 155.
To support that holding against the argument that it would,
in effect, approve a general warrant proscribed by Title III
and the Fourth Amendment, see id., at 158-163 (Douglas, J.,
dissenting), the Court relied on the minimization requirement
as an adequate safeguard to prevent such unlimited invasions
of personal privacy:
"[I]n accord with the statute the order required the
agents to execute the warrant in such a manner as to
minimize the interception of any innocent conversations ....
Thus, the failure of the order to specify that
Mrs. Kahn's conversations might be the subject of interception hardly left the executing agents free to seize at
will every communication that came over the wire-and
there is no indication that such abuses took place in this
case." Id., at 154-155. (Footnotes omitted.)
Beyond the inconsistency of today's decision with the reasoning of Kahn, the Court manifests a disconcerting willingness
to unravel individual threads of statutory protection without
5

Accord, United States v. Kahn, 415 U. S., at 151 ("[T]he starting
point, as in all statutory construction, is the precise wording chosen by
Congress in enacting Title III").

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

436 U. S.

regard to their interdependence and to whether the cumulative
effect is to rend the fabric of Title III's "congressionally
designed bulwark against conduct of authorized electronic
surveillance in a manner that violates the constitutional guidelines announced in Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41 (1967),
and Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347 (1967)," Bynum v.
United States, 423 U. S. 952 (1975) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting
from denial of certiorari). This process of myopic, incremental denigration of Title III's safeguards raises the specter
that, as judicially "enforced," Title III may be vulnerable to
constitutional attack for violation of Fourth Amendment
standards, thus defeating the careful effort Congress made to
avert that result.

