FEBRUARY TERM 1811power of the country, yet, until some act is passed upon
the si.hbjct, it is still under the protection of the law, and
may be dlaimed atter the termination of war, if not
previously confiscated. We vill, therefore, make such
order respecting it, as -il pr1eserve it, subjtct to the
will of t1} Court, to be disposed of as future ci-cumstances shall render proper.

THE
ADVEXTUflE,
MASTE.

As to the mode of distributing the amount of the salvage, the Clourt haie concluded to adept an arbitrary
distibution; because tiere exists no positie rule on
that stbject. They w uild have adopted the rules of the
1prizi act relative to cases, of sah age, had the circumstances of the case adnittd of its application.
This Court orders and decrees, that the decree of filu
Circuit Court of virf. lia, in this case, be reversed
that the costs and chavges he paid out of the proceeds
1
of the sale ; that V
e one half of the balance be adjudged to the Libellants, to be divided into thirteen and a
half pauts, three of which shall be paid to the captain,
two to the suprcargo, two to the chief mate, one and a
half to the second mate, and one to each of t66 seamen.
And that the balance be deposit(d in the bank of Virginia, to remain subject to the future order of the Circuit
Court.

JOHN GREEN

Tv.

JOHN LITER iUn oMnS.

THIS was i Nirit of right brought by Gien, the
Demandant, against the tvnants, to recover seizin of. ";6, N1
a large tract of land lying in Kentucky, and set forth IT.S hve :c.
in the count. The writ of right was sucd out under risdirtion in
the act of the Virgia assebh, entilled - an act for v'!rif
(i'1treforming the method of proceeding in Alrits of right." Pertydemind-

e'd exceeds

5500 in value ;

At the trial in the Circuit Court for the Kentucky a,,liluponthe
arose upon which the Court trial the dedistrict, several questions
4
Mandant recowas divided ; whereupon those qwestions were certified ver les, he is
for tle opinion of the Supreme Court. They are as ,,ot to be alfollows :
flo
:owed
his
but.,tt
thecosts:
dis -

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1st. Has the Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction in a writ of right, where the land claimed by
LITERu the Deiandant is above the value of %500, but the tepe&oTInRS. Ment held by the tenant is of less value than* 7 500 ?
GREEN

,

cretion (f the

.2d. Can the Demandant join in the writ and count
srveral tenants claim *g under several distinct, separate
rosts.and independent original titles, all of which interav
l"'nwo,
ILaw9a u rit of fire with the land of the Df maniant? If he cin, must
right min ,ot he demand of them the tunements they severally hold,
lVe,
except
against
illhete- or may he demand a tenement to the extent of his own
ilant oih
til
tle ? If it comprizes a patt not claimed or held by any
fredhold deof f he said tenants, may he vmand, in iis count against
there a
the several tenants, his os, n tenement, or must he deerai tenants mand of each tenlant the tenement he severall holds?
Court, may be
adjudged to

,

claiming Eevc1al pal[1cels.of
land by distinct
ttles,
they cannot
lawfully
be
Yippd in ,one

3d. Can the tenant, under the act of the Virginia ass;mnbly ibr'reforming the method of proceeding in writs
of right, plead in abatement eitber the plea of nonwrit;
and
if
jnint tenancy, sole tenancy, several tenancy,
they are, they- tenure,
-1
ma-11
alkd in 0r never tenant of the freehold, or any of them, or othabatemeiccnt of er pleas in abatement necessary to his case; or is lie
I
t. f compellable to Jein in the mise in the form prescribed
demands aby.tie said act ? If lie can, when or at what stage 6f the
gahint any te- proceedi, s ? If lie cannot, may lie give it in evidence
unt more land
,"..
.
than he holds, on the inise joined ?
&

d vrr.'idat

he ma pleau
Iion.t nure as
4 hr. May the tenant, under the said act, plead spe1o tl pa.c. ,
fler holden.
chilly any matter of bar, or must lie join the mise, withbitt tli rit otohrpe
te"'b
l~ said act.
othe plea, in 'the form prescribed by the
-shall bate onut
'ly as, to the
wil
,here5th. Can a, )cnidant who has regularly obtained
41lioa-tepre'
"sleaded and t Patent from the land office 6f the' state of Virginia
or
for the land; in contest, undbr the act of the Virginia
tine'thenet, legislature passed in'the year-1779, commonly styled

admitted

the, land law, maintain a writ of right, tinder such patent, against a person claiming and holding possession
process ill
chiiicer- and
under t a younger patent from the said state, without
i-onmonja
law||a
toinl..V
"a'ing
first taken tie actual possession of the land,
teover, a
uder his patent, held by the trnant? If lie can mainthough -lie tahi a writ of right without such proof in the general,
prove only can he (1 it x here his right of entry is barred by an acart of the c
|.im in'his tual adverse possession of twenty years?
of
te

entucky,

azlend

decla-ation;
but it does not
enable Win to

6th. Is the eldest patent, obtained, as aforesaid, for

FEBRUARY TERM is81.

231

the. land in controversy, suificient proof of the best GUrEFl
..
mere right; or can the Demandant be put on the proaf
that, in the incipiency. and in the diflitrent steps ne- LITER
cessary to complete his title, he has complied with the &OTHEns
requisites prescribed by the acts, the one entitled "an
in
"a parties
ion, who
act for adjusting anl settlingZ5 the titles of Chimants to join
unpatented lands under the present and former govern- ct
joned at the
ment, previous to the estabhlishmen." of'the commonweplth
on law.
la oflad
n
land ofce," and he other, ,,an act for establishing a The act of
office and ascertaining tho terms and manner if granting vi'L.inia of
l'86,
ng tile reformmfethod.
.
.. and the subsequent laws
. ). ' lauds,"
.
"[
wiste and unappropiate
of i ginia on the same subject, i force at the t~ne o[ h, ofg toceeling
erection of the district of Kentucky into a separate state ? in writs of
siglit, did not,

legal predi*
rights
aten,
th teant touolinn-theor
sbmw any vrythe
comipellable
is cn
not
7th. If the Demandant his
eament
of
thec
thing beyondthing
his patent, can the t ant holdin tileon
parties, asthey

younger patent be permitted to impeach the Deman- existed at the
law.
of Itcommon
(11,1notther(
tl
•, " and. completion
dants patent, to slew the incipiency
the
lbrehange
his own title, and the relative merits of his own andl
tle nature ila
DemandanL's title?
ifeet of the

pleadings; and

Sth. Can the Derendant defend himself by slienvgi notwithstandthat act,
ing tenant
shall
an older and better existing title than the Demandant's, the

in a third person ?
9th. Where sever4 tenants, claiming in severalty,

still have the
full benefit of
tles'dinat-

are joined in a writ of right, should the finiding Qf the ruent. The,
jury be several of' the ,mere right, between the -Deian- which pravide*
dant and each tenant, or may it be a general finding thatthe tenant
the trial,
at
that the Demrandant hath the most mero.right?
may,7on the
general issue,

grant- gi,ent i,a e*'and
l0th. The commonwealth having first• made
y m t.
!
ed a patent to the Demandant, and afterwards, by her ter which
patent, granted a part of the same land to the Defen- mighthave
dants, who entered and obtained the first possession, the beenspecially
Demandant afterwards entered and took possession, inn- lned tormat.e in bar.
der his first grant, of that part of his land not within the Under
the sic
patent of the first grantee-who has the, best mere right of'Virginia of
to the land, where th patents conflict, outside of the ac- 1786, the ten.

tual close of the lapt grantee

ant may, athis.
any special

in bar
itti. Will an entry upon par% and taking the esplees inmatW
a writ.of

nnder the elder grant fromn the commonwealth, and ma- right

orgve

evidcn
king claim to the whole land inlded within the bounds itoninthe
mise,
of the elder grant, authorise the Demandant tQ maintain ;oin01d. Th,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
eREEN his writ of right against the tenants holding the previous
., possession under a younger patent interfering with the
LITER elder grant i
SqOTHERS.

WICxLIFF,for te Dernandant.
act is not com-

The Court below being divided in opinion
pulsive.
pno upon the
mulative.butrTheactofyir- several questions blreidy stated, they have been adjourgna
of
ned to this Court. The questions themselvs sufficientdidt not cha3nge
nure o? ly shew the controversy.

t

And the several points will

the inquirY as be dxamined as they present themselves on the record
to the titles of
the pasties to a

nrit of right.
With regard to the first, we contend that the Circuit
in the case therein stated : and
iaorderawer
rit Court has Jurisdiction
"?
sutpport

ofright, it is that the Defendant's only remedy, in such case, under
not necessary the act of congress, is, that lie shall be excused from

to prove an ac-

costs, and that he *may, at the discretion of the
be allowed his costs. In siippart of this point,
.vol. 1,
of-etples. A we rely on the judicial act of 1789. Lazes.
corstruetive po !7, 1 Sess. 1 Cong. ch. 20. § Li'- 90.
tual entry un- paying
dertitle,'or
swtual taking Court,
seizeil in deed
is su ffietent.

Undertheland

2l. Upon the second question, we contend, in behalf

.Lw
of Virgin- of the Demandant,that under theact 6fas mbly ofVirg.
"
t,
UIe whole Re

ia,
lep

estate & Rev. Co. P. P. 31, if his tenement is an entire one, and
seizs of the interfered with by (livers tenants, lie can only demand
coalto his tenement as it is-, and cm.not lknow how the adverse
wealth pa'os

the
upl
on patentee,
th e is su- Claimants
. dt h a

bound or- abut their claims or possession;

in&of hisspa-nml that as all claim and obstruct him in the use
tent, in as klland possession, lie has a right to sue all.
and
beneficial tend, further, that altholugh the Demandant
a.msssner,$

We, conclaim more
(subject only thaih the tenants or either of them hld, still lie may reto the
rights cover as much as is withheld from him by the tenant or
the cm
of
monwealth) tenants. To support this possition we rely upon the
,mthe com- act of assembly of Virginia of 1792, ch. 125, which
is in force in Kentucky aI is the same il substance
moniwealth itselfheld therm

A c-mveya,;ce with the act of 25 ldw. 3, ch.
ofwikl and va- by thb exce(ption of non-tenure
cntlands

16, which enacts -thtt
of parcel no writ shall be
abated but for quantity of the non-tenur, width is alleggvsa.construetive seizin ed ;" and the act of assembly of Kentucky, entitled "4an
thereof, in
deed, to the act to amed proceedings in chancery and common law;"
Tratee, and tie latter of which acts expressly provides, that if the
attathesohi
I Plaintiff at law shall:prove part of his demand or claim
all the la~gal
remelieimcident to the
estate.

A

fortiori, thwi

set up in his declaration, he shall not be non-suited, but
shall have judgment for what he proves. See also.
Boothe on ieal actionsv. 2.

FEBRUARY. TERM i814,
3d. On the third question, we insist, that, under a GHZEN
sound construction of the act of assembly of Virginia of
1786, (revised co'de, vol. 1, p. .33, cb..27,) no matter in iLT zt
abatement which does not affect the right (can be pleaded. &OT1rnms.
But if if can be pleaded, yet, undter the acts of assembly
of Kentucky, aud the roles of the Circuit Cou' of ther
district of Kentucky, it ought to be ph-saded during the principl a
appearance term, and be supported by oath. It is fur-I ,,at.nt.
n "Keil tu•c l 'N"
,
ther insisted, that only such matters as sstume the char- a illelnt
, ile
acter of abatement at common law, and which affect the voilipletin ol
the
it is title;
mere rig!it, such as non-tv-nure,.ean be given in evid, n(e tie
andtepl
on the mise joined. A ronlrary construction of the act Itlegtitle only
van come
would lead to the worst of cousequenc -. If, upon the inthtcontr--versy
nisc joined, all matter in abatenteit might Ibe given i inntrier y
evidence, a man might lose :-his valuable inheritance
by Ari.-ht.
•
lItter sutb.
the Defendant pi'oviin on th trial that lie claimed and ,stin aerse
held as joint-tenant, and not as sole tenant. It wotid title ;n a third
,n in ao
also involve the monstrous absurdity o" making the jury
the sole and exclusive judges of the Deniandan's count,* it ot right,
and pleading.
If tenants
claiming differeat parcels
of land by
oiitnct titleS

4th. Thefourth proposition seems to bf -abstract and
indefinite. If the matter in bar affects the mere rl.,ht
arid goes to shew substantially that the Demnndant has-that nmtter in
join tise
no claim in fee ,imple, it is submitted to the Co m to *snl
lateient,
say, whether, under aj ust construction of the act,.he can aliae, it is alt
plead it. But as the act allows him to give such bar in dmission that:
hyare joint
evidence oni the general issue, it is withidi the sound. dis- tenyita of the
cretion of the inferior Court, to permit the Defendant to whole; and
verdict, if
plead- fle special matter, or give it in evidence otihe the
for the De.
general issue ; and that must depend upon the time when mandant for
of
parcelm~ay
the application is made. Ou this point, the case of.
landl
= ~the
Resler -o. Sheehee, i Cranh, 110. and the cast, of Fax and begeeral y
that hebath
Wide, in the Court of....appeals in Kentucky, are relied mo,'e
mere
upon. It is further submitted, whether he mere etL-'right to iod
quette of pleatling amd the time Nlien that pleading shall the ,amethau
the tenants;
be filed, is not a matter of practice onhy. and pro pC r toU be ad
it of any
left to the Circuit Courts to settle undcr their oN n rules pal-eel for the
or the statutes and practice in Kentucky.
"

that
tenants,have
they
more mere,

Sth. The fifth question
seems to be a more important
to hold
.
.
t o right
tie same
th an
one, and it would have been, perhaps,more regular
the Deranhave I aced that before the other questions, inasmuch as dnt..
a decision upon that, affirmatively, .votuld premlude tile famanentai t tl ndhavnecessity ofdeciding several of the othes,

VOL. VJ

1.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Upon this question we contend that the' Demandant
call, uponl his patent, maintain~his writ of right; and that
.ITE]R actual possession is not necessary. To maintain this
&oTHEtS. point it is not at all material to prove that by the king's
letters patett granting titles to land in Englandi a writ
selzin is not of right could be maintained. It is believed that no case
by
nhas
occurred where that point has been directly deciMboundd
his etuml oebut ed. But titles in Englanj are conditional, not absolute.
hcupan'ey,
isheldto be Since the time of William the conqueror, all grants of
Wo-extensive
with his title land have been made on feudal principles ; and a patent
But if a
ima
n England is not ofitself a right, but an authority to
enter t ithout
title, his seizin the grantee to take a right ; that right rests upon conis otfined to ditions ; And one of those conditions is entering and takhis posessior ing
g possesslon of the land. In the grant there are two
by metesand
ueods
pardes supposed, the king and grantee ; and the grantee
hn he accepts the estate,
An etry into becomes bound to the king %t
a parle which
is vacant, min and not till then ; the ultimate property remains with
seizin the king ; and upon
not give
ot'a
parceel
only.the tenant's entering, he becomes
only ; and hence exists the reason, in
use
the
of
an
seizewhich isin
adverse seizin; the English books, of requiring the Denmandant, in the
to shew-and
nbutan entry
mos solemn trial of a right to real estate,
into the lazt
parcel, in the prove the highest title the subject ever had, the dominium
name ofVill
the utile, or usufr'uct of the property ; for if neither he nor
whole,
enure as an his ancesfor had entered and been seized of the use, (the
into the dorninium
directurn remaining in the king,) they never
entry
vacantpacl,
i
Under pateel' had a fee simple estate; the feudal grant not being
an
veyance, tak estate in fee, but a right to enter and take one ; and if
detefsect ut that right was never exercised, the estate was never' tader the statute
rih
of us", the ken. See 2Bl. Coin. i6. 101,, 10.5, 107. 108. It appears,
bargaince
a complete has -also.:. further, f om Bootl, and Fitz. .Mat. Brev. lit. writ
seizin in Aeed o right, letter F. that the Demandant had not only to set
without actual out when he was seized, but by what service he held the
entry orivey la .
of sez. .
ad.
G

rEN
.~

• It is important to state the kind of title made by
letters patent such as those under which the Demand
ant claims. In 1777, the lgislature of Virginia abolished all servile aid feudal tenures ; and, in 1779, passed her land law. undr which we derive title. In one
section of that act. the form of an allodial grantis given ;
and, by way of closing every doubt as to the title, the
Register was directod to endorst that the patentee had
title. Having provided, in that sectiot, for the complete
investment of an absolute and unconditional title under
that act, and actuated by a laudable'desire to place all

FEBRUARY TERM 18i4.

235

her citizens upon the same tenure, in the 19th section of GREMS
the same act she declares, ,, that all reservations and
T.
"conditions in tie patnits or grants of land from tile. LrrR
"crown of E ngland or of Great Britain, under the for- &OTHEUS.
"mer government, are hereby declared to be null and
".void; and that all lands tlereby rispectively granted
" shall be hold in absolute and unconditionl property, to
" all intents and purposes whatsoever, in the same mnan"ner with lands hereafter to be granted by the common"wealth, by virtue of this act." And by.a subsequent
section of the same act, all laws requiring the scating
or possession of land t- -vesttitle, are expressly repaled, It will be perceived th-at the legislature not only
gve the form of a patent such as never hafd been issued
before in that state, but provided that an indorsemen
should appear, on the back of the letters patent, that the
grant-e had title, no such endorsment ever having been
made or allowed during the regal government. But
lest the titles might, in some manner, be tinctured with
the learning of the feudal law, they 'explicitly declare
that the estate shall he held in absolute and unconditionhi property. It might here be aske , can any man say
that the patent of the conmonwe;lth, issued in stritt pursuance of this act, does not convey a fe simle estpte,
without any condtion being performed by the patentee
To us it seems that this is a point too clear for doubt.
The attention of the Court is next called to the act of
1786. That act, in its title and conlext, pr4fef.ses to be,
an act (o reforim tfe method ofpiroceeding in writs of
right; and epiressly provides, that it shall be lawful
for a pierson claiming a fee simple title to sue forth the
prwecipe quod reddat, &c. This act gives the writ. If
the D. mandant has a fee simple estate, (and the olily
question which can be involved is, ias the Demandant,
by these letters patent, a fee simple estate,) a ftrther
argument is dra\ i from the fact of passing the act itsAf.
T
he necessity ,)f tis reform had become obvious to the
legislature and the people of Virginia, from the great
and radical change of the land titles created by the act of
i779. That act had repealed all laws which require d
claimers of land to settle them ; had repealed and abolished every service anl tenure by which lands in that
state had been theretofore held. Of course the form of
the count at common law was totally defective and im-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
proper; because that cortained not only the charge of
a.'ttial seizin, but the time wher, and by what kind of
service the lands were held. The common law titles
MTETR
&OTHEiIS. fieving ceased, the remedy ceased also ; it then well be- came the tegisletuc to give a statutory remedy suited
to thi, statutory and th,-n existing state of titles ; and
thus you find a fwin of procipe and count given, precisely corr, spontent with the title. The act of 1779 abolished all the feudal tenures, and dispensed with actual
poss .ssion ; and the ol allegations of possession and the
kind of tenure, are omitted. This omissim means something; and why did i, take place if not for the causes
now assigned ? See. on the foregoing points, Cruise oit
leal Estates, 12.-Co. Litt.folio 4S.-Ch. Rev. 61.
onrN
,.

The form of the writ and count is very obviously taken from the British fiorms; and is not only the act of a
legislature famed fir its wisdom and learning, but report makes this form the peculiar work of a committee
of the first lawyers then of the Virginia bar. To ascribe such unm-aning omissions to such men and to
such a body, is wholly inadmissible.
But surely, on common law principles, it cannot be
fairly contended that the Demandant shall prove actual
possession. The statute has given him his count or
di-alaration. TJhat count will, it is believed, be sufficient
for him after verdict ; and if a man proves every thing
lie has alleged upqon a good declaration, we understand
the commn law to be, that he shall have a virdict. - If
you reqire of the Demandant to prove'mor- than his
count contains, mhere will you stop ? If you say that after he proves and exhibits a Ice simple title, ie shall
also prove possession, why not say that lie must prove
by what tenure lie holds, and whatever else lie was
bound to prove at common law; arid which were equally indispensable to be proved before this statute? The
case of Clay ". White, I.. 3Munford, 162, will be relied
on to prolve that the patentee is, to every legal purpose,
possess,.d of land, in Virgqinia. by his letters patent.
Upon this puint, the attention of the Covrt is farther
called to the state of the country at the date of the Virginia land law. It was in the midst of a war with
Oreat Britain ; when sound policy required that many
of the geantees who were engaged in the war (the ofiL

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
cers and soldiers) should -remain in it during its con- onuENntinnance; and that those not engaged sliould, to a cert.
ttin extent, -be drawn into its armies. IIn fact. this
ITrn
very land. offire waq opened with the two-fold - Jew of &oT'ItERS
raising men and money to carry on the war. It is
Itherefore asked, if the objects of the legislature would
not have been defeated if the very bounty offered for
the public service, and which might be the-price or the
blood of the father to the children, should depend upon
seating and possessing the land? For if the doctrin,
obtain, that actual possession is necessary to a perCect
title, or to give a fee simple estate, it is incontrovertible
(by the rules of the common law) that the death of the
grantee before entry, prevents the estate from descending ; that the grantee cannot sell nor devise a me
right of entry ; and that, by the bare attempt to-do the
one or the other, he works a forfeiture. See Co. Litt.
21, 266, and .N'o's .Maxim, 84. It is believed that
one third of the best lands in Kentucky are held by devise, purchase, or descent, without the original grantee ever having been possessed. With what astonisment
will the Virginian or Kentuckian learn; for the first
time, the monstrous doctrine that destroys every estjite.
of the kind. Again, with the exception of four small
forts or stations, the whole territor y which now forms
the state of Kentucky was, at the date "of the law, a,
wilderness, in the possession and under the power of
the Indians. In fact, a considerable part granted out
by the state, below the. Tennessee, is yetlheld, and may
be held for a century, by the Indians. And can it be
supposed that Virginia could have intended, when she
invited the soldier and the capitalist to embark their
fortunes in the war, and offered as a reward these lands,
to have imposed the necessity of actual settlement aind
taking the esplees as a pre-requisite to title? What-are
the esplees of a wilderness under the dominion of the
tomahawk and the scalping knife ? Are they the game
or the wild acorns? If we be correct in supposing that
the comnionwealt'h vests in the Demandant, in this case.
a fee simple estate, and legally possesses him of thates-,
tate, it follows, that nothing less tian an adverse p6ssession of thirty years can bar him ; and that twenty
years is not a sufficient bar., Insupport of.the foregoing observations. see Ch. AeRM. p. 97-id. p. 98, uec. 61. Rev. Code of ir. Laws, p. 33-id.p.
XNoys Max-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
us, 160-Co. ,Litt. 48, note-Boothe. 1l2-.id. 98-Hardimg's (Kentucky) Reports, 182, Bradford T. Palterson.
LiTEn Ailwed's Reports, :37,. Brown v. quarles-Co. Lit. 57&ATuEtIs.Fit . .. A 506, note-Rev. Code, ch. 114.
GREN

11.

oth. On the sixth question'proposed, we contend' that
the first patent conveys the legal estate in fee; that the
incipiency of title was a matter between the commonwealth and the patentee; and, when settled with the commonwealth, anti the title made perfect, that it do,'s not
lie in contest between the Demnandant and Defi'ndant.
We c,,n:erId, hsa, tiat, in a trial at law; of a mere legal
right, the Defendant cannot set up an equity against the
elder grant. This point was settled by the, Court of appeaIs of Kentucky, in the old case of Brown -. quarks,
and has ever since been considered the law of that state.
8th. On the eighth,question, we contend that the mise
is joined upon the me. o right between the Demandaut
and Defendant; and that the jury is to inquire whether
"the Demandant bath more right, &c. or the Defendant,
&c. and that it will be ahsurd to inquire whether the
Demandant or som6 one else hath the most mere right.
9th. On the ninth, it any be observed, that it must depend upon the nianner in which the rmise is joined. If
the tenants jointly and severally join the mise upon the
whole land claimed by the Demandant in his count, then
a general finding will be proper. But if they severally
plead as to part, and disclaim or plead non-tenure as to
the rest, then the finding should be several, and respond
to each issue.
10th. On the tenth, we contend -thatan enti into part
in the name of the whole, and claiming the whole, will,
on common law authority, sustain the writ and count
as to all claiming under a younger and inferior right,
that have not had thirty years adverse possession ; and,
of course, that the land in the Demandant's patent and
outside of the close of the Defendant, belongs to the De.aandant.

11th. The obs.rvations upon the tenth question will
.apply to this also.

FEBRUARY TERM tsi.
HUGHES, cotra.

GREElT

Thefifth question bing the most important, and that LITER
to which the Demandant's counsel has principally direct- &OTrMnS
ed his attention in the course of his argument, I shall
confine my observations alo, chiefly to that point.
The Virginia act of ssembly of19th December, i'92,
which declares that ",actual possession need nbt be proved to maintain a writ of right," was passed after the
separation of Kentucky from Virginia; and consequently is not in force in the former state.
At common law, a writ of right cannot be maintained
without proof of se:zin in the Demaudant, and actual
taking of spleps within the time of limitation; which, in
England, is thirty years on a man's own seizin, and fifty, on the seizin of his ancestors ; and such was the law
of Virginia untill the year'1786, when the gct for refwrin'ing the method of proceeding in writs of right, was passed. But this act merely changed the mode of tral,
not the substance of proof. It 'did not dispense with
proof of the D.-mandant's scizin; and, consequeutly,
the law on that subject remains the same as b,,foro the
passage of the act of 1786., Vid. Boothe, 85,1t.tt 1t.Co. Lilt. 2S1, 393, 294.-2 ,raund. 45, -6.-Bae. Jqbr.
Tit. Limitation of .'lcions,,B.-4 ReB. 8. Bevilt's eae.Old laws of rgihia, 1177.
From the case of risson v. Clarke, 3. WiTs. 19, it appears, that if the tenant did not pay his demi-inark, and
deny the seizin of the Demandant, such seizin was taken
for confessed- Hence the Defendant was put to prove
id. the ca:3e of
his title, contrary to the general -ule.
Tsson Te. Clarke, 8 1tr1W. 41 9.-id. 541.-Co. LIt. § ;;.
-Boothe, 13.-But the h-gislature of Virginia, by omitting to require the all6gation of.seizin, made it necessary that the Demandant should, prove it. ITf it had been
alleged, and not denied, such proof, on the part of the
Demandant, would not have been necessary.
Although, accoraing to the decision of the Court of
appeals of Kentucky in the case ofInnis and al. T. Crawford, (M. S. report) tile patent convei s a fee simple estate, yet the pawntee must so use it as not to lose his es-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GR

N

v.
rrn-rt
&OTHERS.

tate, and'in such a manner as to prevent the operation of
the statute of limitationg. A patentee may lose his right
by not entering in due time; and, in suc1i case, having
nothing superior to a right of entry, he cannot maintaii a writ of right. At the time of the separation of
Kentucky from Virginia, the statute of limitations t
Virginia was, verbatim, the, same as the statute of
32l of Henry VIII. c. 2. on which it has been decided,
that seizin was necessary within fifty years. V4d. the
M. S. report of the case of Sprigs v. Griffith, decidedin
Kentucky-also, the M. S. report of the case of Speed
,. Bhubrd, decided in the Court of appeals of the same
state, in May, i813.
But admit that a patent is equivalent to livery in law;
we contend that livery infict is necessary ; and so must
the case of White v. Clay in 1. Muuf. 162, be understood. Co. Lit. 2-40, b-id. it-Shep. Toth. -z09, 22s3.
The reason of the ]aw requiring proof of actual possession, is obvious : such proof N as reqired in order
to secure the peaceable occupancy of the land to the
rightful proprietor. Investiture and seizin more 'invented for the purpose of putting an end to litigation.
They were notorious acts in thte country, performed in
the presence of the vicinage; and where there had been
such actual seizin and- investiture, the law, after the
right of entry was gone, gave the Demandant the writ
of right to revive his former possession. 2. B1. Com.
Sit, 32, Shep. Touch. 209.
It is true that, accor4ing to the old law, a charter of
feoffinent, without actual livery, only gaA e an estate at
will; and the statute of uses transfers the possession
in law to the use ; but no change was made thit reby in
the law respecting writs of Fight, which requires proof
of actual possession.
'With regard to the other questions adjourned, the
counsel for the tenants contended,
As to the ist. and 2d. points, that the Demandant

could not join, in the writ and count, several tenants
claiming under several distinct, separate and ind pendent original titles; and that, as they could not be
.Joined, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction; inasmuch

FEBRUARY TERM it.

21

as no one of the tenements in question was of the value
oi S 500.

GREENo
LITER

As to the third point, that non-tenure, no seizin, &c. &OTHERS.
might be pleaded under the act of Virginia, of 1786.
The 4th point he submitted.
On the 6th and 7th, he contended that the patent was
not conclusive evidence in a writ of right.
On the 8th, he supported the affirmative of the question.
The 9th, lie said respected matter of form merely.
As to the 10th. he insisted, that when a man takes
possession, he takes possession to the extent of his
claim.
The lth, lie said was answered by the observations
on the 1st point.
WICKLIFFE,

in reply.

Contended, that the Kentucky cases cited by the te-,
nant's counsel, not being final and absolute, were not
authority ; that the Court of*appeals of Kentucky was,
in fact, waiting for the decision of this Court, in these
cases. But admitting them to be authority, still there
was error in the finding of the jury; they had ftund
a special verdict, which, by the common law, ihey could
not do ; they ought to have deeided the mere right, and
nothing more.
In the case of a grant from the crown of the same
land to two different persons, if the last grantee enter,
the former may maintain trespass.
In the case of Innis Tv. Crawford, the Court, in effect,
said, that the patent gave seizin; because they dated the disseizinby the tenant, from the date of his entry; but if the demandant was not seized, he could iit
have been disseized.
31
VoL,. VWil.

SUPREME COURT
GREFrE

V.
LITnER
&oTHERs.

L.

S.

The 'Conrt of appeals of Virginia, at differenat times
have decided differently on the same law; but the Courts
of Kentueky have always decided, that when the reason
of the.English"law ceased in consequence of the different
circumstances of the country, the law itself ceased.
Friday, .1farchl ith.

Present....lUthe Judges.

STORY,' J. delivered the opinion of the Court ai

follows
This is a writ of right brought by the Demaudant
against the tenants, to recover seizin of a large tract of
land set f'orth in the count. At the trial in the Circuit
Court for Kentucky district, several questions arose
upon which the Court were divided; and these questions are now certified for the opinion of tthis Court.
As to the first. questton, we are satisfied that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the cause. Taking the
11th and 20th sections of the judicial act of 1789, eh. 20,
in connexion, it is clear that the jurisdiction attaches
where the property demanded excees S 500 in value;
and if, upon thie trial, the Demandant recover less, he
is not allowed his costs; but, at the discretion of the
(Xiurt, may be adjudged'to pay costs.
As to the second question, we are of, opinion that,
at. common law, a writ of right will not lie, except
against the tenant of the freehold demanded. If thereare several tenants claiming several parcels of land by
distinct ttlWes, they cannot lawfully be joined in onewrit; and if they are, they Inay plead in abatement of
the writ. If the Detuandant demands against any tenant more land than he holds, he may plead non-tenure
as to the parcel not holden,; and this plea, by the ancient common law. would have abated the whole writ.
But the statute 25, Edw. 3, ch. 6,which may be considered as.a part of our common law, having been in
force at the earration o' our ancestors, cured the defeet, and declared that the writ should abate only as to
the pareel whereof non-tenure was pleaded, and admitted or proved. In fact the act of .Virginia of 1792, ch.
125, which is in force in Kentucky, enacts substantially
the same provision as the statute of Edward.

FEIBRUARY TERM 18%.

us

But it is supposed, in argument, that the act of Ken- ouErm
V.
tacky, to amend proceedings in chancery and common
law, which provides that if the Plaintiff at law shall LITER
prove part of his demand or claim set up in his declara- &o'rnEns.
tion, he shall not be-non-suited, but shall have judgment
for vvhat he proves, entitles the Demandant in this case,
to join parties who iold in severalty by distinct titles.
To this doctrine (ie Court cinnot accede. At coMmon law, in many instances, if the party demanded in
his writ more than h-e proved was his right, he lost his
action by the falsity of his writ. It was to cure this ancient evil that the act of Kentucky was made. It enables
the party to recover, although be should prove only parlt
of the claim in his declaration. But it'does not tend to
enable him to join parties iri an action, who could not
be joined at the common law. It could no more entitle
a Demandant in a real action to recover ag-ainst several
tenauts claiming by distinct and separate titles, than it
could entitle a Plaintiff to maintain a joint action of assumpsit, i%here the contracts were seyeral and independent. Infinite. inconvenience and mischief would result
from such a construction ; and we should not incline to
adopt it, unless it were unai'oidable.
As to the third question. It is clear, at the common
law, that non-tenure, joint-tenure, sole-tenure and s~vi
ral-tenure. were gopd pleas in abatement to a writ of
right. But they could only be pleaded in abatement;
for the tenant, by joining the mise, or ple'ading in bar,
admitted himself tenant of the freehold. Such pleading
in bar -%as ftn admission that lie had a capacity to defend the suit; and he w as estopped, by his own act,
f'rom denying it. The act of Virginia of 1786, ch. 27,
reforming the proceedings on writs of right, u as not intended to vary the rights or legal predicament of the
parties. It did not, therefore, intend to change the nature and effect, of thie pleadings ; and, notwithstanding
that act, the teInant sall still have the full benefitof the'
ordinary pleas in abatement. It is, true that the act
provides that the tenant, at the trial, may. on the gener.
al issue, give in evidence any matter which might have
been specially pleaded. But this provision is manifestly confined to-matters in bar. It would be absurd tb
suppose that the legislature mant to give to a mere

SUPREME COURT U. S.
exception in abatement the full effect of a perfect bar
on the merits; which would be the case if such an ex11TER
ception would authorize a verdict for the tenant on is&OTHERS. sue joined on the mere right. The time and manner
of filing the pleadings must, of course, be left to the.
established practice and rules in the Circuit Court.
oRiian
T'.

As to the fourth point, we are of opinion that, under
the act of Virginiaof1786, the tenant may, at his election,
plead any sperial matt.r in bar, in a writ of right, or
give it in evidence on the mise joined. The act is not
deemed compulsive but cumulative.
The fifth question is that which has been deemed most
important; and to this the counsel on each side have directed their efforts with great ability.
It is clear, by the whole amount of authority, that actual
seizin, or seizin in deed, is, at the common law. necessary to maintain a writ of right. Nor is this peculiar
to actions on the inere right. It equally applies to writs
of entry ; and the language of tie count, in both cases,
is, that the Demandant, or his ancestor, was, within the
time of limitation, seized in his demesne as of fee, &c.
taking the esplees, &c. It is highly probable that the
foundation of this rule was laid in the earliest rudiments
of titles at the common law. It is well known that, in
ancient times, no deed or charter was necessary to conyey a fee simple. The title, the full and perfect dominion, was conveyed by a mere livery of seizin in the
presence of the vicinage. It was the notoriety of this
ceremony, performed in the presence of his peers, that
gave the tenant his feudal investiture of the inheritance.
Deeds and charters of feoffinent were of a later age ;
and were held not to convey the estate itself, but only
tro evidence the nature.of the conveyance. The solemn
act of livery ofseizin was absolutely nFcessary to prod.1ce a perfect title, or as Fleta calls it, Juris et seishince conjunctio. But, whatever may be its origin, the
rule'as to the actual seizin has long since become an
inflexible doctrine of the common law.
It has boen argued, that the act of Virginia, of 1786,
ch. 27, meant in this respect to change the doctrine of
thid common law, because that act has given the form of

FEBRUARY TERM isiS.

245

the count in a writ of right, and omits any allegation of GRE .
seizin and taking esplees, There is certainly some
v.
countenance. in the act for the argument. But, on ma- IlTER
ture consideration, we are of opinion that it annot pre- &OT.HEIS.
vail. The form ofjoinbig the. nise in a writ of right,
is also given in the same act; and thiat form includes the
same inquiry, viz : "6which hath the greater right,"
as the forms at common law. It would se em to follow
that the legislature did not mean to change the nature
of the facts which werie to be inquired into, but 'only to
provide a more summary mole of proceeding. The
clause in the same act allowing any special matter to be
given in evidence on the rnise joined, may also be called
in aid of this construction, That clause certainly shews
that it was not intended to relieve the Demandant from
the effect of any exisfing ba' 5 and want of seizin was,
at the common law, a fatal bar. The statute of limitations of Virginia, of 19th December, 179'2, ch. 77. which,
as to this point, is a revival of the old statute, limits a
writ of right upon ancestral seizin, to 50 years, and
upon the Demandant's own seizin, to 30 years next
before the teste of the writ. It is therefore incumbent
on the Demqndant to prove a seizin within the time'of
liniitatiom; otherwise he is without'remedy : and it so,
it must he involved it the issue joined on the inere. right.
We are therefore of opinion, that the act of 1786 (lid
not mean to change the nature of the inquiry as to the
titles of the parties, but merely to remedy some of the
inconveniences in the'modes of proceeding.
If, then, an actual seizin orseizin in deed, le necessary
to be proved, it becomes material to enquire what constitutes such aseizin. It has been supposed, in argument,
that an actual entry under title, and perception of esplees
were necessary to be proved in order to shew an actual
seizin. But thisis far from,beingtrue, ,ena't the common
law. There are cases in whmich there is a constructive
seizin in deed. which is sufficient for all the purposes of
action in legal intendment. In Hargrae'snote, 3 Co.
Litt. 2-4, a, it is said, that an entry is not always necessary to give a seizin in deed; for if the land be in lease
for years, curtesy may be without entry or even receipt
of -ent. The same is the doctrine as to seizin in a cage
of possessiofratris. So if a grantee or heir of several
parcels of land in the same county enter into one par-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GaEN

eel in the name of the whole, whiere there is no conflict-

-c.

ing possession, the law adjudges him in the actual seiz-

LITER in of the whole. Litt. s. 417. 418.-In like "nainer,
&OTHERS. if a man ,have a title of entry into lands, but dare not

enter for fear of bodily harm, and he approach as near
the land as lie dare, and claim the land as his own, lIt
hath presently, by such claim, a possession and se*zin
in the lands. as well as if lie had entered. in ded. Lilt.
•s.419. Arid living vxhhin the view of the land will, under
'ti cumstances, give the leof&ee a seizin in deed as effectually as an actualentry. ['here af'e, therefore, cases in
which the law gives the party a constructive seizin in
deed. They are founded upon this plain reason, that
either the claim is made sufficiently notorious by an actual enttry into part, of which the vicinage can take notice, -or the party has done all that,' under the circum.
stances of the case, le was bound to do. "Lex non cogit
seu ad vana aut impossibilia. The same is the result
of conveyanees deriving their effect under the statute of
uses ; for there, without actual entry or livery of seizin,
Com. Dig.
the bargainee has a complete seiZin in deed.
Cruise Dig. 12.uses, [B. 1.] '[.]-Cro. Eliz. 46.Shep. Touch. 223, Jc. Ilarg. Co. Litt. 271, note. And the
Kentucky act respbcting conveyinces, which is, in substance, like h statute of useg, gives to private, deeds
the same legal effect.
It has, however, been supposed, in argument, that not
only an actual seizin or complete investiture of the land,
but also a perception of the profits, or, as it is teclnically called, -a taking of the esplees, is absolutely necessary
to support a writ of right. It cannot, however, be ad-,
mitted that the taking of the esplees is a traverseable
averment in the count. It is but evidence of the seizin; and the seizin in deed once established, either by a
pedis positia, or by construction of law, the taking of the
esplees is a necessary inference of law. It', therefore, a
seizin be established, although the lands be leased
for a term of years, and thereby the profits belong to the
tenant, still the legal intendment is that the esplees follow the sizin. And so it would be although a mere
trespasser, without claiming title, should actually takethe profits doring the time of the seizin alleged and proved And, indeed, of certain real property, as a barren
rock, a complete seizin may exist without the existence
of esplees.

FERRUARY TERX 1804.

2,7

The result of this reasoning is, that wherever there GRiN
exists the union-of title and seizin in deed, either by acV.
tual entry and livery of seizin,-or by intendmcnt of law. LITEX
as by conveyances under the statute'of uses, or in the &OTEUs
other instances Whikh have beeii before stated, there the
esplecs are knit to the title, so as to enable the party to
maintain a writ of right. And it will be found extremely difficult to maintain that a ded, which, by the lex loci, conveys a perfect title to waste and vacant lands,
without further ceremony, will not ydt enMble the grantee
to support that title by giving him the highest remedy applicable to it, withotut an actual entry.
Let us consider how far a perfect title to waste and
vacant lands can be cofisidered as having passed by a
patent under the land law of Virginia of 1779, ch. 13.
It is argued that such, a pa!ent conveys only a right or
title of entry, which, until consummated by actual possession, gives the patentee no itctnal inv-,stiture or seizin of
the land: and it is likened to the case of a patent from
the crown. Some countenance is lent by authority tothis position, so far as respects patents from the crown ;
Wt a careful examination %A
ill be found by no means to
establish its correctness. No livery of seizin is necessary to perfect a title by letters patent. The grantee,
in such case, takes by matter of record . and the law
deems the 'grant of record of equal notoriety with an actual tradition of the land in the view of the vicinage.
The contrary is thei fact, as to teoffinents. The deed
is inoperative without livery of seizin. This diff'rence
alone would seem to carry a pretty sitrong implication
that actual seizin passd by operation of law, on a patent from the crown ; for it is the nion of a riglit and
seizin that constitutes a perfect title; anid wher, once
th6i law has declared a title perfect, it must include every thing necessary to produce that effec t. Accordingly
we find it expressly held in Barwick'scase, 5 Co. 94,
that letters patent under the great seal do amount to a
livery in law. What is a livery in law, but such an act
as in legal contemplation, aniounts to a delivery of seizin?
If, for instance, a feoffinent include divers parcelN of
land in the same county, livery of seizin of bne parcel,
in the name of the whole, is livery of all not in an adverse seizin.
This, therefore, as to all tlie parcels
except that wherenfl'ivery is actually made, is but a liY-

2i8

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ery in law; and yet to all intents and purposes it is as
effectual as livery in deed. And it was upon tile footing
LITER I of this doctrine that, in Barwick's case, the court held
,coTiltns. that the conveyance of a freehold by lettenrs patent to
commence infttitro, was void as much as if the conveyance had been by feoffment; because in neither case
could there be, present livery of the future freehold estate. The livery must operate at the time when it is
made. or not at all. It is not therefore admitted by this
Court, that letters patent of the crown do not convey a
perfect title, where there is no interfering possession.
I.uEaN

-D.

But even admitting it were otherwise, still we think a
patent under the land law of Virginia: must be considered as a statute grant, which is to have all the legal effects attached to it, which the legislature intended. .It
cannot be doubted that the legislature were competent
to give their patentees a pe-rfect title and po-s-ssion without actual entry. Jave they so done? We think that it is
impobsible, looking to the language of their acts, or the
state of the country, todou'bt that the whole legal estate
and seizin of the commonwealth in the lands, passed to
the patentee, upon the issuing of his patent, in as full an
extent and beneficial a manner, (subject only to the
ights of the commonwealth,) as the commonwealth itself
held them. At the tihno of the passin- of the act of 1779,
Kentucky was a wilderness. It was the haunt of savages and beasts of prey. Actual entry or possession was
impracticable; and, if practicable, it could answer no
benefiial purpose. It could create no notoriety; it
could be evidence to no vicinage of a change of the property. 'An entry therefore would have been a vain and
useless and perilous act: and if there ever was a case
in which the maxim would apply that tle law does not
oblige to vain or impossible things, we think it is such a
onite as the present. There is no pretence thmtthe legislature have expressly made an entry a pre-requisite to
the completion of the title: Such a pre-requisite, if
it exist at all, must arise from mere implication only,
and under circumstances which would render it nugatory or absurd. We do not. therefore, feel at liberty to insert in the operation of the grant a limitation which
the law has not of itself ihterposed.

I1EBRUARY TERM 1811.
Xnd this leads us to say, that even if, at cbmmon lav,

GREEN

an actual ,pedis positio, followed up by an actaal- percep
,'.
tion of the profits, were unnccessaryv.to m-intan a whit LITER
of right, which w e do nbt admit, the doctrine woul be &OTHERS
.inapplicable to the waste and vacant lands of 6or ciuittry. The common law itseif in manpy, cases dispenses
with such a rule 3and the reason of the rule lts lf'cetises.
when applied to a mere wil4ernf-ss. "'he object o.f
the law in requiring actual seizin, was to evlncP notoriety of title to' the nlighborhood, and the coflsquent burthens of feudal duties. In the simplicity of ancient
times there were n,) means of ascertaining titles but by the
visible seizin ; and, indeed, there was no ,othermood.. be-tween subjects, of passing title, but livery of the lhCnd itelt
by the sy mbolical delivery ,fturf and twig. , The moment that a tenant was thus seiz d, he had a perfect investiture; and, if ousted,' could maintain his action, in ile
realty, although he had not been long .nough in possession even to touch the esplees. The very object of the
rule, therefore,.was notoriety, to prevent frauds up-n the
land and upon the other tenanso But in a mere ,uncultivated country, in wild and impenetrable woods, in the
sullen and s)itary haunts of beasts of prey, what notoriety could an entry, a gathering of' a twig or an Acorn
convey to civilized maii at the distance of hundreds of
miles ? The reason of the rule could not apply to such a
state of things ; &.ndcessante ratione, cessat ipsa lex.%We
are entirely satisfied that h conveyance of wild or vacant lands gives a constructive seizin thereof,' in deed,
to the grantee, it attaches to him all the legal remedies
incident to the estate.
dtfortiori, this principle 'applies
to a patent; since, at the common law, it imports a livcry in law, Upon any other constrution, infinite mischiefs would result. Titles by descen( and'devise, and
purchase, where the parties from whom the title was derived was never in actual seizin, would, upon principles.
of the connion law, be utterly lost.
As to the 'sixth question. We,are of opinion that in
Kentucky,,a patent is the completion of the legal titlo of
the parties; and it is the legal title only that can come
in controversy in a writ of right. The previous stages
of title are merely equitble, which a Court of chancery
may inforce, but a Court of common law will not enterfain. In this opinion, we"adopt the principles which 0hi
VOL. VIII.
S2

250
GRiEEN

T1.
.ITplI

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Courts of Kentucky have been understood uniformly to,
sanction. And this opinion is also an answer to the

seventhi question.

&0THEIIS.

As to the eighth question. We are of opinion that a
better subsisting adverse titl6 in a third person, is no defence ina writ of right. That writ'brings into controversy only the mere rights of the parties to the suit.
As to the ninth question. We have already expressed our opinion that tenants claiming different parcels of
land by distinct titles cannot be johicd in arwrit of fight.
I, however, they omit to plead in.abatement and join
the mise, .it is an admission that they are joint tenant of
the whole ; and.the verdict, if for theDemandant forany
pa'cel of the land, may be general, that he hath more
mere right to hold the same than the tenants ; and if
of any parcel for the tenants, that they have more mere
right to hold the same fhan, the Deihand ant.
As to the tenth question. The general rule isy that if
a man enter into lands, having title, his seizin is not
bfounded by his a~tual occupancy, but is held to ,be cb,
extensive with his title. But if a.man enter without tile, his seizin is conined to his possessi6n by metes and
bounds. In the case put by the Court below, the first
patentee had the'better legal title ; and his sizin presently, by virtue of his patent, gave him the best mere
right to the whole land, upon the principles which we
have already stated. .2fortiori, he must have the- best
mere right to the land-not included in the actual close of
the second patentee. For, by construction of law, he
has the eldest seizin as well as the ejldest patent.
As to the eleventh ipoint. We are of opinion, that if a
man haiing title to land efter into a part in the name of the
whole, lie is, apon c.mfnon lawprinciplesadjudgedin seizinof the whole, notwithstanding an adverse seizin thereof.
but iftlre4and 6ie in seizin of several'tenants claiming different parcels thereofin severalty, an entry into the parcel held, by om,tenant will uot give seizin to the parcels
held by the other tenants but there-must be. an entry
int each. C'o. Litt. 212, b. By parity 0treason, an entry
into a parcel which is vacant. will not give seizin of a pareel which is in an adverse seizin. But an entry into the
'last parcel, in thetame of the whole, will enure as an c-

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.
try into the vacant parcel. It does notappear, in tie question put by the Court below, into which parcel the entry

is 8upposed to he made.

GRzx

v.
LITER
&OTHRS,

Such are the unanimous opinions of this Court, which
are to be certified to the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

CARTER'S HEIRS
CUTTING AND WIFE.

Absent...

VAS -TNGTON, J.

THIS was, an appeal from the Circuit C3u1rt for An appeal lies
toin
thiie setence of the

the district of Columbia.

E. I. Lan, for the .O81pynInts.
TAYLOR, for

ie .4ppedles.

Cort
ofcuie
the district
of Columbig
1 , ofthesentence
Orphan's

March ii h....SToRY, J. delivered the opinion of the Courtof Alex.
Court as follows:
c it,
ed a -petition
Tie Appellants, who are heirs at law of Sally Carter to
rev vi"'&
the
probate
deceased, petitioned the Orphan's, Court of tle county ,rta.
of Alexandria to revoke and repeal the lrobate of a
wxill of the said Sally Carter procured by the respondents, upon the ground that the said will was admitted
to probate without notice to the Appellants, and that
the supposed testat-ix was an inhabitant of and resident
in Virginia at the time of her death, and left no assets
real or personal or debts in the county of Alexandria.
The Orphan's Court, without issuing a summons to the
respondents, dismissed the petition, and.upon an-appeal this dismissal was confirmed by the Circuit Court
ofthe district of Columbia.
Two objections have been taken to the sustaining of
the appeal to this Court-i. That by the act of congres of '2714 February, !801, ch. 86, s. 12, (Vol. 5, P.
272) it is enacted that on appeals from the Orphan's

