SUPREME COURT U. S.
M'CALL

V.
.1ARIll,

But it is contended by the counsel for the Plaintiff,
in order to escap , from this conclusion, that the word
66

unlaNful," in the policy, is confined in its operation

iNS. co. to arrests, and does not extend to - restraints and detainments." To this construction the Court cannot-assent. The grammatical order of the words and the coherence of the sentence require a different construction.
It is not against every ",unlawful arrest" that the underwriter undertakes to indemnify, but against iunlawful arrests, &c. of all kings, princes, and people,"
which have always been hehi to mean the arrests of
kings, princes, or people, in their sovereign and national capacity, and not as individuals. The necessary
connexion of the sentence, therefore, requires that-"arrests, restraints and detainments," should be coupled
together; and, if,
so, the qualification of unla-wful must
be annexed to them all. The intent of the parties, also,
urges to the same conclusion ; for every arrest is a restraint and detainment; and it would be strange if the
party coulil, unider the allegation of a restraint, recover
a loss from which the underwriter is expressly exempted by -an unambiguous-exception in the policy.
On the whole, the uourt are of opinion that the judg
ment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

18.1.
Feb.

SMITH AND OTHERS v. EDRINGT'ON.
9th,

Present....4ll the Judges.
stalute oftheVia,
iinia reqpcet- the
tUnder

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for
district of Virginia, sitting in chancery.

ing nills, it is
nece,sary (in
ordei that
The bill sought to charge the lands of Christopher
landaeqaired
after
the (late E drington in the hands of his son and heir at law, W.
of the willmav P. Edrington,

pass. by the

with a debt due by his father, Christopher Edrington, to the Complainants, by simple contract.

Vwill)
th the
intentionof the
testator should
It was contended that the lands passed, by the will
clearly appear of Christopher Edrington, to his son, W. P. Edrington,
upon the fice of the will,
charged with the payment of the debts of the testator,

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
although the lands were acquired by the testator after sMiorH
the date of the will.
& oTHEIs
'V.

The will expressed a desire that all the just debts of 'EDRINGthe testator should, be paid by his executors as soon as TON.
the means in their power should permit. It also an-

thorized his executors to dispose of and convey any of
his property that might be necessary for payment of his
debts; and afterwards it has these expressions, "cshould
"my son, Win. P. Edrin-ton, to whom I bequeath the
"whole of my property, after the payment of pny debts,
and provisions above made, die under the age of 2:1
"years, I then give,"'&c. The testator then proceeds
to make certain pecuniary bequests, in the event of his
son's so dying, and concludes by disposing of the residue of his property.
At the date of: the will the testator had no lands.
Those which the bill sought to charge were purchased
a short time before his death.
By an act of the legislature of Virginia, in force at
the date of the will, 1 Rev. Co. P. P. 160, it is'enacted,
it that every person aged 21 years and upwards, being

"1of sound mind, and not-a married woman, shall have
"power, at his will and pleasure, by last will and testa"nment in writing, to devise all the estate, right, tifle
"and interest in possession, reversion, or remainder,
- which he hath, or at the time of his death shall hare,
- of, in, or to lands," &c.
The-Court below dismissed so much of the Complainant's bill as sought to charge-the lauds in the bands of
the heir, and they appealed to this Court.
E. I. LnEm for the Jlteellanti.
The only question in this case is, whether the lands
passed by this will to the devisee, W. P. Edrington.
For if they did, he took them subject to the debts of his
father, by the terms of the will.
By the statute they would pass, if such was the intention of the testator.

....

458
&

SUPREME COURT U. S.

sMITH
That such was his intention is to be inferred from
OTHERS the following facts which appear in the case.
T.

EDRINGTON.

It is evidont from the will that he meant to dispose of
his -whole estate; and that his just debt- should be paid
at all events.

He bequeaths to Lis son, his -Mhole pro-

perty, after payment of his debts, and certain specific
legacies. In the summer of 1803 or 1804 , the testator

off red to convoy this land in payment of his debt to the

Complainants, which shows that he looked to the land
as a fund for that purpose, and that he (lid not mean to

cheat his creditors by converting his personal estate

into lands.
.The intention of the testator is to be collected not

only from the words of his will, but from his act. I
Irash. 96, Keannon, v. .T,'oberts-id. 266, Sherner -c.
Shermer.
TAYLOR, contra.
Under the statute of Hen. 8 (of wills) it has always

been holden in England that no after-purchhsed lands
can pass by a will. This will must have the same construction as if the devise had been to a stranger instead
of the heir at law. It must have been the iutention of
the testator, at the time, to devise what he had, nnt
whal h- had not. It does not apwar that lie even c ntemp, ated a purchase of lands. Under the first part of
hip, will it is clear that he alludes only to personal
estate.
In the rase Of Ilamersly -.
3 Call. 289. it
is said by the Court of appeals of Virginia, that the intention to devise after-acquired lands must appear by
expressions applicable to that kind of property.
February 23d....WASHINGTON, J. delivered the opinioi of the Court as follows:
This was a bill filed on the equity side of the Circut
Court for the district of Virginia by the Appellants, in
*orderto charge the real estate of Christopher Edrington in tIe hands of his Yon .and heir at law, Wilham P.
Edrington, with the payment of a debt due to the Ap-

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
pellants by Christopher Edrington, the father. The SmiTH
apteal being taken from that part of the decree of the & OTHERS
Circuit Court which dismissed the bill so far as it seeks
T.
to subject the real estate in the hands of Win. P. Ed- EDRINGrington to the payment. of the Appellaitfs demand, the
TON.
only question noW to be considere4 is, whether th, will
Af' Christopher Edrington can be so construed as to
charge his real estate with the payment of his debts ?
The clauses of the will reiied upon by the Appellant's
counsi I for this purpose, are that Which expresses the
devise of the testator'that all his just debts should be
paid by his executors, &c. so soon ,asthe means in their
pow\er should permit; also another, which atithovizes
his executors to dispose of. and convey, any of his property that might be necessary for payment of his ddhts;
and a third, which is still str.n~ger, and is expressed as
foll.ws: *,Should my son, Win. P. Edrington, to whom
I ht'qu ath the whole of my li)cq-erty, after the pa.ment
of my debts and provisions above made, die under the
age or 2r"years, 1 then give," &c. The testator then
proceeds to m.-ke ce.tain. pectiniary bequests in the
event of his son's so (lying, and concluiles by disposing
of the then residue of his property.
At the time that this will was made it is admitted that
the testator was nut possessed of or entitled to any estate in land, but that afterwards, and a short time previous to his death, lie purchascd the tract of land which
this bill seeks to chmrge. By an act of the legislature
of Virginia, passed in th.. year 178., and ,,ong h"foire.
the date of this will, it is declared 6 that any person
aged 2f yea's and upwards, bcing of sound mind, and
not a married woman, shall have power. at his will and
pleasure, by last will and testament in Niriting, to devise all the estate, right, title, and interest, in possession; reversion, or remainder, which he hath, or at the
tine of lis de'ath shall have, of, in, or to lands," &c. The
circumstance, therefore, that the land in question was
acquired after the execution of the will, presents no difficulty in this case, if it appears that it was the inten..
tion of the testator t,)
devise it to his son; because if"
it
passes at all under the will, it may readily be adnmitt -d
that the devisee took iWsubject to the payment of th:, tesfator's debts; the parts of the will above recited being

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sm.,rit strong to impose such a charge. But although a testa& OTHERS tor may, under the above law,- dispose by will of after"v. purchased lands, it is nevertheless necessary that his
EpRING- intention to make such a disposition should clearly apTON.
pear upon the face of the will. The rule in England,
as well as in Virginia, at the time this law was passed
was, that a will, as to land, speaks at the date of it, and,
as to personal estate, at the time of the testator's death.
The law created no new or different rule of construction, but merely gave a power to the testator to devise
lands which he might possess, or be entitled to, at the
time of his death, if it should behis pleasure to do so.
The presumption is, thatthe testator nieans to confine
his bequests tp land'to which he is then entitled; and
this presumption can only be over-ruled by words clearly showing a contiary' intention.
In this will there are no expressions which indicate
an rintention to devise, or in any manner to charge,
lands which the testator might -afterwards acquire. It
does not appear that the testator contemplated, at the
time he made hiswill, the purchase of any land, and
the words, " estate" and ",property," to be found in it,
may be filly satisfied by applying them to the personal
property of which he was possessed.
it is therefore the opinion of the Court that there is
no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and that
the same onght t6 be affirmed with costs.

810.
Feb.

BEALE v. THOMPSON AND MARIS.

18th.

.blsert.... WASHINGTON J q"JOHNSON, 3.
It is a fatgl
objection to a
ta-,
dep'oPtO
kenunder the

ERROR to the Circuit Court foi' the district of
Columbia..

On the trial_in the Circuit Court below, the Defenjdiwe.aet of dant, Beale; offered in evidence, the deposition, of Tu1789, Set. 3o, ris 'Craven, taken befdre the judge of the district Court
AIkit was Oof the United'States, for the district of New Hampshire,
pcw but
- Udder tie 30M1 sec. of thejudwiary act of Sep. 24th, 1789,
Court.
Tol.. 1), . 48, which, after prescribing the mode of taking

