SUPREME COURT U. S.
dolph are at liberty to exercise their diqeretion. They
it ; and until they do acreplt it. the
(DRnAM property must remcin in Th'lunpson. The sentct.,'e of
& n - condemnation, therefore, in this case, was warranted by
]oLVUII's the ev'idence befbre the Circuit Court.
XRHB

FRAN CES, 11a) accef or reject

CLAIM,)

BOYER,
MASTER.

Eut the Claimants pray 'n orderfor further proof;
and say, that, Ijefre the captare of the Frances, the
V'ann% had arr. ved, and 1)nhatn and Randolph had conseited to take both cargoes.
This application is opposed on the principle that, were
the fact evw n true, as alleged by the Claimants. belligerent property tannot change its character in transitu.
Reserving 'any opinion on the law of the case, until
the ftacts aiieged slhall be substantiated, if it shall be in
the power of the Claimants to substantiate them, the
cause is ordered to stand for further proof.

THE FRANCES, BoYER, MASTER.

rtennedy's claim.)

Qoeon of

THIS was likewise a
-t~l tO I- condemned in the Circuit
were claimed by Duncan
zen, who appealed to this

case of goods by the Frances,
Court of Rhode Island. They
Kennedy, an American citiCourt.

The case was submitted to the Court without argument.

Saturday, March 12th. ,bsent....LiavINGSTON, J.
MARISHAIX,

Ch. . delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows :
Duncan Kennedy, surviving partner of the house of
George Stayley & Co. merchants of New York, claims
eight boxes of merchandize part of the cargo of the
ship Frances, as his property.

FEBRUARY TERM im.
The invoice is headed

THE
FRANCES,

Glasgow, 8h j'ldy, 1812.

(KENNEDY S

"Messrs. George Stayjcy & Co.

CLAIM,)
BOY ER,

"Receive fromh James Smith."

1M

rTF.
.

A letter from James Smith to George Stayley & Co.
in speaking of the goods, terms then - our goods," and
does not, in any manner, indicate that they are the
goods of Stayley & Co. He concludgs his letter with
saying, ,, As it is to be hoped the trade will now open,
"I shall expect your inscructions saying what goods
are best suited for the market."
The bill of lading is filled up with the name of George
Stayley & Co. ,, on account and risk as per invoice."
There are several letters from George Stayley, in
GlasVow, to his fither; but none of the.n indicate an
opinion that the property of the goods was in George
Stayley & Co:
The sentence, condemning these goods, mnst be affirmed.

THE FRANCES, Boyn, 3AsTER.
(French's claim.)

THIS, like the former cases of the Fralces. was an An

intention,

appeal from the United States' Circuit Court for the clearly provEi, of aCol,

Rhode Island district.

to

vest the

William French, the Appellant, a citizen of the i.rty I this
United States, claimed fourteen boxes of merchandize consignee,
shipped on board the Frances by James Auchincloss, of n ot s,,fficient
Paisley, in Scotland, to A. and J. Auchincloss of INew chang of pro.

York, on their.account and risk. with orders to
the proceeds to the shipper for payment.

remit'per ,,,nr Ithe

The Clai-,,i,,a b. the

