FEBRUARY TERM 18i.
THE THOMAS GIBBONS, RocxwELY, MASTER.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Cir- Under the 8th
section of the
ouit Court for the district of Georgia.
prize act of
June 05th,

The ship Ti, ontq Gibbons saild from Liverpool f6r1 , the pres.
Savannah, on the 16th of August. 1812, was captured dent had full
on the itth of October following, on the high seas, off4i totTybee light house, and, the same day, hr.1glht into the tion of 28th
Th,,st, 12.
port of Savannah as prize to the privateer Atas.
slons of the
Of
the protection of a Privateers
tle U. States
The ship and cargo were under
•
special license, dated 21st July, 1812, aid conceived in DWy be qaalithe usual terms of the document usually denominated fled and rethe,,rSmouth licemse, except that, in this instance, te tinedbtheutos o
protection was ,xtendvd to the return voyage back to the president.
shipment
even afLiverpool, there to discharge the cargo, and receive Amaade,
knone
,
freight, if it should be found not to be allowable for the
of the
vessel andi cargo to enter the ports of the United States. lege
ear, is to be
eonsidered as

The clearance from Liverpool, 13th August, 1812. having been
mentioned the ship as being released, in cons(qoence of sniacn cotxher license, from an embargo laid on Amerikan vessels. repe-d or tl'e
or(L' s in coni -

. ... ef, it" made
cii so ear-e
The cargo, shipped at Liverpool by sundry British
merchants, was consigned to sundry commercial houses a period thereat Savannah, and was claimed by the respective con-aeftearasonsignees; by some, in their own behalf, and by others, able presumption that the
in behalf of their correspondents in the interior,
of
knowledge

that repeal

idaeet
From the evidence introduced into the cause, it ap- a'-ould
suipcnsion
peared diat part of the goods, altho u.-h expressed to be hostilities on
on account and risk of the consi.nees. was shipped the partof the
By states.
the mere
without previous orders or authority: that some of them U.
were shipped under~general orders (transmitted in time let of illicit ilthe
of peace) to ship goods: others, under particular orders terure
citienis ofoft a
and pjoperte
given during the operation of the orders in council
o
ipondivested
the non-intercourse act; such as,' to ship " when the
S facto
, it is

trade opened," "iat a proper season," " as soon as it ly lialeto-be
was lega! to ship to the United States," &c. aml lastly, condemned as
that some of them were shipped with an understandin,_ enemypmrothat they were to become the property of the cifzten C011- ring to'the en-my, if rilgitsignee upon arriving at the port of destination,

SUPREME COURT U. .
The commission of the .ttas was granted on the Ath

THE

THOMAS of Sept mber, 18f2, and was acconanied by a copy of

the president's instruction to privateers, of the 28tL of
August, 18-1., by which the public' and private armed
w.ELL,
vessels of the United States are dii'ected not to interMASTER. rupt ,,any vessels belonging go citizens of the United
,,"tatesocomilig from Britili ports t' the United States
fully captured " laden with British merchanize, in consequince ot the
iurggtzevy. 16 alleged repeal of the British orders in council."
GIBLONS,

RocK-

The presi-

dent oiate

tiOnd
ofSth
August 1812,

was meknt

JoqES, for the captors,

Contended that the ship and cargo were enemy pro.

e

to protect all
Dffth met'-

perty.

an ship,
xn
Vithout 4ny

I. Constructively so, by the maritime law of nations,
a.ccordiug to which law' the hostile character is im-

cb ndize on,

e

tishpreprietq-

ryinterest.

pressed.
I. By

being placed, by the-enemy's pass or license,

i2fra proesidiin hostis; and by the employment and
rourse of trqffc. I Rob. i0, 1t, The VYgilantia.
2. By direct trading with the enemy, jlagrante bello.
I. Actualy so, with regard to a great proportion of
the cargo,,according to the principles of municipal law,
as recognized and acted upon by prize Courts, in administering the maritime law of nations ;'according to
.which,
1. Goods shipped without previous orders or authority, although expressed to be on account and risk of
the consignee, continue the property and at the risk of
the enemy shipper, until accepted by the citizen conisgnee.
2. G neral orders (transmitted .intime of peace) to
ship goods, are,.ipsofacto, superseded, if war intervene
and render th'e act Unia'wfui as well as dangerous.

3. Particular orders (given during the operation of
the orders in council and the non-intercourse art) to
ship "'when the trade opened," or "9at proper seasons,"
or 6f as soon as it was legal to ship to the United

FEBRUAUY TERM 10.
States," could not authorize a shipment,, merely upon
TuE
tile conditional revocation of the orders in council, THoAS
whilst the American non-intercourse act continued il GfLBONS,
force: afortiomi if war should supervene.
ROCKIVELL,

4. The proprietary interest in goods shipped with an '31ASTER.
understanding that they are to become the property of
the citizen consignee, upon arriving at the port of, destination, continues in the enemy shipper until arrival and
delivery, without regard to the terms in which the consignment is ostensibly made. 9 Rob. ill, The Packet
de Bilboa.
That, therefore, goods captured in itinere, under
either of the foregoing predicaments, were to be treated
as the property and at the risk of the shipper, and as
partaking of his national character.
The principal question, he said, which would now be
agitated was, whether the instruction of the president
of the United States to American privateers, of 28th.
August, 812, extended to the case now under consideration. He conteidead that it did pot: or if it did, that
it could not legally avoid tile capture, nor in any manner affect the rights of the captors, quoad the-prize hr
question, but could only he enforced (.s or ginaiy in.
tended) by the exercise of executive discretion and authority over the commission of the privateer. That, according to the decision in the case of fthe Sally, that the
prize act operates as a grantfi'om the United States to the
captors, the president could not deprive them of their
rights under that ect. That the poweP of the president
to instruct must be limited by the rights so -granted to
the captors. That the authority with which'he was invested by congress,.was only given him to regulate the
conduct of our privateersme.n, and to prevenf abus'esnot to limit their rights already vested. That he had
no general authority to limit the rights of war, as was
clear from the pnssage of particulat acts of congress
investing him with. the respective powers of removing
British subjects, of giving licenses to depart, &c'. which
would have been wholly unnecessary had he possessed
a general power over these matters. That the position
contended for, was further supported by the terms employed in the third section of the prize act, in which
the owners, &c. of privateers are required 'to gi7e bond

SUPREME COURT U. S.
to the United States that they will observe ithe iftstructions which shall be -given them according to law,
oIGBoN,, for the regulationof their conduct:" also by the letter of
iocia- the secretary of state (Mr. Monroe) to Mr. Russell, of
VELl, August 31st, i82, written under the eye of the presiMASTER. dent, in which the secretary says, that it was not in the
power of the president'to control the privateers, except
by an indiscriminate revocation of their commissionts
But,
THE

THOMAS

2. That, admitting the power of the president to is-

sue the instruction under consideration, the present case
was not embra6ed thereby. That the property in quesion, having been shipped after a full knowledge of -the
war, could not be considered as shipped in consequence
of the alleged repeal of the orders in council." That the
only time in which the shipments contemplated by the
instruction, could be made, was that which intervened
between the repeal of the orders in council and the
knowledge.of the declaration of war; after which it was
unreasonable to calculate.on the safety of property shipped for the United States. That the ship, also, was
not within the description of vessels intended by the instruction to bp exempted from capture, because she was
engaged in an illicit intercouse with the enemy, under
an enemy passport issued after the knowledge of the
war in Englaud, and was therefore quasi enemy property. That, at all events, the property intended to be
protected, by the instruction from capture,- was /merican -property, and not British, and therefore that, as to
tHe latter, the capture was certainly rightful.
HlArBR, contra.

It has been said, on the part of the captors, that the
president had no authority to issue the instruction of
28th August, either on general principles, or under the
prize act. We contend that his authority to issue it,
may, be established on-either of these grounds.
1. On general principles. The president, as commander in chief of the- army and navy of the United
States, has, in time of war. the whble public armed
force of the nation under his control.' The privateers

of the Uited States constitute a part of the public arm-

FERUARY TERM i8o.
ad force: this appears from their commissions, withoat
which they would be pirates. On gencral principles,
therefore, the president was authorized to issue the instruction in question.

9.. By the 8th secti6n of the prize act, the president
isauthorized to establish and order suitable instructions

for the better governing and directing the conduct of
the privateers of the United States. Now this "governing and directing" their conduct, we conceive, may be
applied as well to the designatiori of the objects of hostility as to th mode of attack, &c. It is applicable, in
our opinion, to their whole conduct.
But it is contended, that the present case is not embraced in the instruction. 7t is said that the ship did
not sail in consequience of the repeal of the orders in
council. What, then, we would ask, was the motive for
sailing at the particular time this vessel sailed? What
could have induced the master t6 sail after knowledge
of the war, but a confidence that the repeal of the orders in council would have p'ut a' period to hostilities?
Itis well known that such a confidence did exist aimonthe merchants in England gene:ally, and that it continued until it was ascertained in that country that the
repeal of the order.s had not produced the expected effect. The act of congress of 2d January, 8-13 remitting certain fines, forfeitures, &c. has fixed upon the
15th of September as the period when it w ts known in
England that this effect had not'been prioduced. This
vessel sailed on the 16th of August preceding. We insist, therefore, that notwithstanding the.existence, of
hostilities was known in England at the tihe. the Tho-

mas Gibbons sailed, yet she sailed in consequence of the
repeal of the orders in council.
The expression in Mr. Munroe's letter of 31st August,
was probably accidetal--certainly incidental, and not a
particular object of the letter.
The expression, British merchandize, in the instruc-

tion of 28th August, was not intended to designate the
right of property, but the knd of goods. It ,mas the policy of Government to protect British as well as Ameri-

VOL. VIIl .

THE
TH1OMAS
G9inoxs,

ROCKWELL3,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT-U. S,
THEi

TH)MAS
GIBBONS,
ROCK-

WELL,
MASTER.

can property shipped under the particular circumstance

mentioned in the instruction.
PIINKNEi r, on the same side.
The president cannot coerce the privateers of the United States to do what he pleases, but lie may restrain
them, as lie thinks proper.
It has been said that the license under which this vessel sailed, was issued after knowledge of the war in England. This must be a miqtake :-it is dated on the 21st
of July, 1812, when the war.was not known in England ;
and it is to be presumed that it was issued at the time it
bears date. Being issued, therefore, before knowledge of
the war, it does not give a hostile character to the vessel.
HARPER. 'The property is vested in the captors only
when legally taken,-it is vested sub modb.
STORY, 7. That is the rule as laid down in the opinion of the Court delivered this moroing in the case of the
Sally: Theprize act vestsonly property lawfully captured.

JoNss, ut

reply.

The captors may be punished, if guilty; but the captured property must vest in them notwithstanding. The
instruction applies only to American vessels: but the
license, we still-contend, gave the vessel in question a
hostile character.
Where the instruction speaks of British merchandizey
the meaning is, British merchandize belonging to ./meriean, citizens. This construction is consistent with all
the acts of congress on the subject. especially the act of
2d Jantrar; remiting forfeitures, &c. It is consistent
also with Mr. Russell's declarations to the British mert
diants. See 2d vol. of reports of committees, p. 30,
Wednesday, M3farch 16th.,

Absent M.-4suAL, CI. J. and ffon ssoi ,J.
SToiY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
The ship 7hiomas Gibbons, laden with a cargo of Bri- Tn
lish inanufactures, on account of British and American THOMAS
mierchants, sailed from Liverpnol, in Great Britain, on GInnoSs,
the 16th August, 1812, bound for Savannah, in Georgia, ROCKand was captured on the 12th of the ensuing October, on wnu,
the high seas, off Tybee light-hpuse, by the private arm.-MASTE R.
ed vessel dlas, Thomas M. Newhall, comn.auder, and,
on the same day brought into Savannah as prize of %ar.
The ship sailed from Liverpool, under the protection of
a special license, dated the 21st of July 1812, granted by
lord Sidminuth, by order of the privy council, whercoy
the ship and cargo were protected frim British capture,
not 6nly on the voyage to the United States, but also ontiie
return voyage to Liverpool, in case the waster should not
he permitted to land the cargo in the United States; ant
the master was further allowed, in case of return, to receive his freight, and proceed in ballast to any port not
blockaded.
The commission of the Atas was granted on the 21th
or September, 1812, accompanied by a copy of the president's instruction of the 28th of August, 1812.
A libel was filed in the District Court of Geor.qia, upon which regular proceedings were had against the ship,
as prize of war. The respondents iniet'posed their claims
and the district attorney algo interposed a claim in behalf of the United Slates. At the huaring, the district
Court dismissed the libel of the captors, and upon appeal,
the decree was affirmed in the Circuit Court.
The principal question which has been moved at bar,
is, whether the capture of the ship was lawful: and that
depends upon the authority of the president to issue that
instruction, and upon the true construction of it, if
rightfully issued.
As to the authority of the president, we do not think
it necessary to consider how far lie would be entitled, in
his character of c6minander in chief of the army and navy of the United States, independent of any statute provision, to issue instructions for the government and dir'ection of privateers. That question would deserve grave
consirleration : and we shoultliot be disposed to entertain
ilie discussion or it, unless it become unavoidable. In the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
case at bar, no decision on the point is necessary; because we are all of opinion that, under the eighth s.ection
GIBBONS, Of the prize act of 1812, ch. 107, the president had full
itoc&- authority to issue the instruction of the 28th of August.
wELr,
That section provides, tlhat the president shall he authorMASTtR. ized ",to establish and order suitable instruction for
the better governing and directing the conduct" or ;rivate armed vessels commissioned under the act, their
officers and crews. The language of this provision is
very general, and in our opinion it is entitled to a liheral construction, both upon the mqanifest intent of the legis.
lature, and the ground of public policy.
THE

THoMAS

It has been argued, that privateers acquire by their
commissions, a-general right of capture under the prize
acts, which it is not in the president's power to remove
or restrain, while the commission is in force; that therefore his right to issue instructions must be construed as
subordinate to the general authority derived from the
commission ; and that, in this view, his instruct:nus
should extend only to the internal organization, discipline and conduct of privateers.
We cannot, on mature deliberation, yield assent to
this arg!tmeut. Itis very clear that the president has,
ynder the prize act, piwer to grant, annul and revoke,
at his pleasure, the commissions of privateers ; and by
the act declaring wns, le is authorized to issue the conxuinion in such form as he shall deem fit. The right of
capture is entirely d,rivd from the I w: Itis not a, absolute, vestrd right which cannot he taken away or mo.
dified by law: It is a limited right. which is subject to all
the restraints which the le.ilatur, ha,; impo:sed. aind is
to be exercised in the manner which its wisdom has pre,scribed. The commission, therefore, is to be taken in its
general terms, with refi rfnce to the lawis under which it
emanates, and as containing within itself all the qualifications an, restrictions which the act-, giving it existehce have presorihed. In this view, the commission is
qualified and restrained by the power if the president to
issue instructions. The privateer takes it subject to such
power, and contracts to act in obedience to all the instructions which the president may lawfully promulgate.
Public policy, also, would confirm this construction.

FEBRUARY TERM ISMi.
It has been the great object of every maritimenationtoreTim
strain and regulate the conductofitsprivateers: They are TrHoMIs
watcted with great anxi. ty and vigilanTce, because they GIBERGM,
may often involve the nation, by irregularities of conduct, RocKin serious controversies, not only with public enemies, wFLLx,
but alaD with neutrals and allies.' Ifapowerdid not ex- MASTZR
ist to restrain their operations in ftr, flie. public faith
mig!t be violated, cartels and flags of truce might be disregarded, and endlesst mbarrassments arise in the negotiati-nj with foreign powers. Considerations of.this
'weight and importance are not lightly to be disregarded; .ind when fhe-language* of the act is so broad and
compre-hensive, we should not feel at liberty to narrow
or weaken its for e by a construction not pressed by 'the
letter, or the spirit, or the policy of the clause. On tlh
whwLd, we are all (f opinion that t)e instruction of the
president of the !8th of August, is'within the'authority
deli gated to him by the prize act.
But it is argued, that, admittinz its legal validity, this
ingt: uction cannot protect the ship and cargo from capture as prize of war, because the cargo was shipped afterf
a full knowledge of the war, and not -;in consequence of
the alleged repeal of the British orders in council."
We are of a different opinion. We think that a shiiin(ent made even after a knowledge of tle war, may well
be deemed to have been made in consequence cf the repeal of the orders in council, if made within so early a
period as would leave a reasnablo presumption that the
knowledge of that repeal would induce a suspension of
hostilities, on the part of the United States. Congress
have evidently acted upon this -principle; and have themselves fixed the time, (the 1 Eth of September, '1812.) before
which, shipments might be reasonably made upon the
faith of that presumption. Set of 2d January 1813. c.: '149.
We are not ihtelined to hold a less liberal construetion in'
favor of the acts of individuals proceeding from a confidence in the avowed intentions of the government.'
It is further atgued, that the ship was not within the
description of vessels intended by the instruction to be
exempted from capture, because she was engaged in'an
illi it intercourse with the enemy, under an enemy passport, and therefore was quasi enemy property. We

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
THOMAS
GIBBONS,

cannot assent to this argument. The vessels exempted
from capture are -vessels belorging to citizens of the

nOCKwFYLL,

States." The ship, in this case, was duly documented
as an American, was coming to the United States, and

MASTER.

from a British port. How can it be possible to bring a

United States, coming from British ports to the United

case more perfectly within the terms of the description?
The arg-iment procecds upon the supposition that by the
mere act of ilhrit intercourse, the property of an American citizen becomes divested ipsofacto; but, in point of
law, this is not the operation of the rule. The property is
only liable to be condemned as enemy property, or as
adhering to the enemy, if rightfully captured during the
voyage. But it has never been supposed that the documentary charactur of the ship itself, or the character of
the, owner, were completely changed for every other purpose. It is sufficient, however, in our opinion, that no
such distinction as that assumed in the argument, is to
be found in the instruction itself; and we therefore hold
tihe case within the natural and ordinary import of the
language.
It is further argued, that, at all events, the property
intended to be protected by the instruction from capture,
was American property, and not British property; and
theretore that, as to the latter, the capture was rightfi. This is a question of some difficulty ; but, on full
consideration, a majority of the Court are of opinion
that the instruction meant to protect all British merchandize on board an American ship, without any excelition on account of British proprietary interest. It
was supposed that British as well as American merchants might, upon the repeal of the orders in counril,
be induced to make shipments, upon the faith that iuch
repeal would suspend the further operations of hostilities.
The government medInt to reserve to themselves the
ultimate disposal of such property, in order that they
might restore or condemn it,. as public policy or the
national interests might require. This construction is
supportcd and confirmed by the act of congresj, of 13th
July, 1813, ch. t0, which, after relinquishing all the
right and title of the United States,, to the property of
British subjects, captured on the high seas and shipped
f'oni British ports since the declaration of var, expressly excepts such property as had been captured in viola-

PEBRUARY TERM i814.
tion of the presidents instruction of the 28th of August,
1812. In giving this construction, therefore, we are
satisfied that we conform to the import of the language
of the instruction, and do not contravene any policy
avowed by the government itself.

THE

TIIOMAS
GIB
noNS,

noCiWELL,
MASTEI.

On the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel of -the captors,
ought to be affirmed, and that the cause should be remanded to the Circuit C3urt for further proceedings
as between the United States and the Claimants.

PRINCE -v. BARTLETT,

March

16tk

RRROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of 'Massachusetts, in an action of trover in which was involvcd In case of in.
the
the construction of the acts of congress, giving to Sthe solvency,
United States
United States a right of priority in payment of the debts r, not entidue by insolvent debtors.
fed to prlolty
£,f payment,
unless"
thc. itl.

The case was submitted to the Court without araCument, and is fully state4I in the opinion which was deliv-- lega
;ad
known insolered as follows, byiDuYALm, J.

fittc by some
noto~lou act of
the debtor
pursuant

The material facts upon the record are thc'se
On the 4th of June, 1810, sundry goods, wares and
merchandize, the property of Wellman and Ropes, were
attached by the deputy of Bailey Bartlett, sheriff of the
county of Essex, state of Massachusetts. by virtue of
certain writs of attachment sued out by several creditors of Wellman and Rolies.
On the 18th day of September, 1810. two several
executions issued on judgments recovered by the United
States against Wellman and Ropes, at the September
term, IS10, of the district Court held at Salem, on txeir
joint and several bond for duties at the custom house.
'ihe
actions in which these judgments in favor of the
United States were rendered, were first commenced on

lax,.

to

