36

ISO.
eb.

SUPREME COURT U. 8.

THE BANK OF ALEXANDRIA v. HERBERT.

14th.

.qbset....WAsHINoTo,
The trustee of
THIS
in insolvent
debtor in the the district
district of Co- dria.
3umbia, represents the credi-

'J.

was an appeal from the Circuit Court fo,
of Cdwnjbia, sitting in chancery, at Alexan-

A bill in chancery w.'s brought by W. Herbert, juni-

tors of the inpolvent, &ccan
bkeadvantage

or, trustee for the creditors of John Potts, an insolvent
of a defect in debtor under the act of congress for the. relief of insola mortgage,
whi h
f ventthdebtors within the district of Columbia, against
solventhimselfthe bank of Alexandria, to recover the proceeds of a
AQt4d not,
tract of land, the property of Potts, which had been
sold by consent and the money deposited in the bank.
This land had been conveyed by Potts to Ludwell Lee
in trust to secure the payment of money borrowed of
ti e bank by Potts, butt the deed of mortgage had not been
recorded -within the time limited nj the la-c of VTrgmia,
'which governs this case, and which declares that all
deeds of mortgage whatsoever, although good between
the parties, shall be void as to creditors and subsequent
purchasers without notice, unless they be recorded within.-eight months after their date.
SwAx~, for th d'ppellants,
Although the deed to Lee would be void as to a subsequent purchaser for valuable consideration without
notice, yet it is not void as to Herbert, who is the
trustee of Potts under the insolvent law for the district
of Chlumbia-(Laws U. S. W'l, 6, p. 294.) A trustee
under that law is like an assignee under a commission
of bankruptcy in England. He stands merely in the
place of the insolvent.' He takes the estate as the insolvent held it. He is bound by the same equity, and
liable to the same obligations. 6ooper's B. L. 128. 307,
2Ve.

633.

1 JAtk. 94,-162. , Z'Ve'#. 564i,

609, 7bVor

Wheeler. 1 Br. C., V. 269, Russel v. Russel. The deed
to Lee being goo4 against Potts, is equally volid against
Herbert,.
ii,

FEBRUARY TERM isis.
TAYLOR, contra.

BANK OF
ALEXAN-

No English authority can apply directly to this case.
P6tts remained in possession ten years after the deed to

DRU

Lee, and until his insolvency and the. execution of the

HERBERT.

deed to Herbert, when he delivered to Herbert the possession.
But the deed is void as to creditors-as well as purchasers, and creditors are not -affected by notice, although purchasers are. The fact that Herbert had notice does not appear; but if it did, he represents the
creditors; and their rights are his. If there had been
no deed to Herbert, the creditors might have obtained
a decree in their own names to vacate the deed to Lee
and compel a sale.
But if this cause depends upon the decisions under
the bankrupt law, yet the assignee of a bankrupt represents the creditors, and can t~ke advantage of defects
which. the bankrupt himself could not. Cooper 907.
In the case of Taylor V. Wheeler, 2 Vein. 561, it does
not appear that the.creditors had a right to avail themselves of the defect in the mortgage. If He rbert represents the creditors).the fourth section of the statute of
Virginia is conclusive. I' P. P. Rev. Co. 1,57. If he
does not represent the creditors, then all the provisions
of the insolvent law are of no avail. If the deed cannot
be set aside by a bill in the name of the trustee, the
judgment creditors may file a bill in their own names
Ind set it aside.
Sw&ww, in reply.
The assignee of a bankrupt also represents the creditors, but yet it has been decided (I .AMt.94.) that 'al.
though creditors might vacate a deed, yet an assignee
could not.
The case of Talb r v. Wheelr is'very strong. The
mortgage was void at law for want of a -surrender ot
the copy-hold in due time, yet it .was decreed that it
aho-idd be made good against the assignee of the mortgagor, who; it was adfnittd, represented the creditors.
But the ehancellor said that the Complainant also was

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
jBANK or a creditor, and had trusted to this particular fund, but
AI.BXADRIA

'vthat
xiERBERT.

the others were general creditors; and upon that dis-

tinction- his, decree seems to be founded. The reason of
case is precisely applicable to the present. The

bank lent the money upon the credit of this very security.
Febuary 16th....MARSHALL, Ch. .. delivered the opi.
jiion of the Court as follows:
In this case a bill was brought in the Circuit Court
for the county of Alexandria, by William Herbert, jr.
frustee for the creditors of John Potts. an insolvent
debtor. against the bank of Alexandria, to recover the
proceeds of a tract of land, the property of Potts, which
had been sold by consent, and the money deposited in
bank.
Thi.5 land had been conveyed by.Potts to the bank to
secure the payment of a sum of money borrowed by
him, but the deed of moilgage had not been recorded
until eight months after its-date had elapsed. The law
of Virginia, which governs this case, declares all deeds
of mortgage whatsoever, though good between the pirties, to be void as to creditors and subsequent purelasers without notice, unless they be recorded withii
eight moriths from the date.
The question is whether this mortgage can be set Up
in favor of the bank against the trustee for the creditors.
.- ;t-

The Circuit Court decreed in favor of the trustee,
and from that decree there is an appeal to this Court.
For the Appellant it is contended that the trustee
m,%.y be assimilated to the assignees of a bankrupt, and
he has adduced some cases from the books showing that
in England a deed declared to he void in law has been
supported-against the assignees in favor of the particu.
lar creditor who-holds a lien upon it.
The resemblance between the trustee for the estate
of an insolvent debtor in the district of Columbia and
the assignees of a bankrupt is admitted; yet a clear
distinction exists between" the cades cited at bar and

FEBRUARY TERM 1SI.
that before the Court. In those cases the deed was ae- BANK OF
clared void without any view to creditors. In this case ALEiXANthe deed is declared void for the particular benefit 6f DRIA
T.
creditors. To set up this deed against the creditors
would be to defeat the very object for which the law HERBERT.
Was made.
The counsel for the Appellant is well apprised of this
distinction, and though he claims for his clients the
benefit of this deed against the trustee, he admits that
it could not be sustained against the creditors suing in
their own names.
In reason there can oe no difference between this
suit, which asserts the right of the creditors in the
mode prescribed by law, and an assertion of that right
in their own names. Nor does the law distinguish between them. The cases cited did not turn on any distinction between the rights of the assignee and the creditors, but on the preference'which ought to be giiven to
him who has trusted on the credit of the particular fund
over those who had trusted the general fund.
TIe decree is affirmed with costs.

MIARCARDIE I

181-.

TV.

TILE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE COMPANY.

ERROR to the CirCuit Uourt for the distrit of Whreitecltotal Jos,
nical

Maryland.

The facts of this case were thus stated by
in delivering the opinion of the Court.

i souglit to b
maintained

STORY,

thbof
mere
J.upon
ground
de.
terioration
of
the
catgo, at
.in intermedi.

This is an action on a policy of insurance, under- ate port, toi.
written by the Defendants, on the 29th of October, 1806, moiety of its
for 9 31,000, upon any,y kind of la'wful goods on board valae'oll
rioration dete
of

the brig Betsey, whereof Alexander TA'Dougal was then memoraudii,

