FEBRUARY TERM i8i.
try into the vacant parcel. It does notappear, in tie question put by the Court below, into which parcel the entry

is 8upposed to he made.

GRzx

v.
LITER
&OTHRS,

Such are the unanimous opinions of this Court, which
are to be certified to the Circuit Court of Kentucky.

CARTER'S HEIRS
CUTTING AND WIFE.

Absent...

VAS -TNGTON, J.

THIS was, an appeal from the Circuit C3u1rt for An appeal lies
toin
thiie setence of the

the district of Columbia.

E. I. Lan, for the .O81pynInts.
TAYLOR, for

ie .4ppedles.

Cort
ofcuie
the district
of Columbig
1 , ofthesentence
Orphan's

March ii h....SToRY, J. delivered the opinion of the Courtof Alex.
Court as follows:
c it,
ed a -petition
Tie Appellants, who are heirs at law of Sally Carter to
rev vi"'&
the
probate
deceased, petitioned the Orphan's, Court of tle county ,rta.
of Alexandria to revoke and repeal the lrobate of a
wxill of the said Sally Carter procured by the respondents, upon the ground that the said will was admitted
to probate without notice to the Appellants, and that
the supposed testat-ix was an inhabitant of and resident
in Virginia at the time of her death, and left no assets
real or personal or debts in the county of Alexandria.
The Orphan's Court, without issuing a summons to the
respondents, dismissed the petition, and.upon an-appeal this dismissal was confirmed by the Circuit Court
ofthe district of Columbia.
Two objections have been taken to the sustaining of
the appeal to this Court-i. That by the act of congres of '2714 February, !801, ch. 86, s. 12, (Vol. 5, P.
272) it is enacted that on appeals from the Orphan's

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CARTER'S Court to the Circuit Court,

the latter ",shall therein

have all the powers of the chancellor" of the state of
Mhryland; and by the laws of Maryland the 'decree
CUTTING of the chancellor in a like case would be final. 2. That
& WIn'E. the decree of dismissal is not any final judgment, order,
or decree of the Circuit Court wherein the matter in
,-....
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds one hundred dollars.
nasIm
T.

The maiority of the Court cannot yield assent to the
validity of either of these oljcctions. As to the first,
we are of opinion that the conclusiveness of its sentence
forms no -part of the essence of the powers of the Court.
It powers to act are as ample, independent of their
final quality, as with it. Besides the act of February
27, 1801, § S. (vol. 5, p. 270) has expressly allowed
an alipeal from ",all final judgments, orders and decrees of the Uiir'uit Courts" where the xiatter in dispute excceds the limited value, and there is nothing in
the context to narrow the ordinary import of the lan.4uag. We cannot' adm~it that construction to be a
sound one, which seeks ,by remote inferences to %itlidraw a case from the general provisions of a statute,
which is chrarly within its words and perfectly consisient with, its intent. The case of Touing vT.the Bank of
"W1eS'aidra,I Cranch, 384, i§, in our judgment; decisive
augainst this objection.
As to the second objection, it is conceded by both
parties that the estate devised to the respondent, Sally
then,
C. Cutting, is worth several thousand dollars. It,
the-probate of the will had any legal operation and was
not merely void. the/controversy as to the validity of
that probate was ;f matter in dispute equal to the value
of the estate dovised away from the heirs. It cannot
he doubted that the Orphan's Court had jurisdiction to
allow probate ol'iwils made by persons in foreign states;
and that probate, once allowed, operated as a sentence
affirming the validity of such wills between the parties
so far as the lex loci could give them operation. It is un.derstnod that a will regulari proved in another state
in strict conformity with the laws of that state, acquires,
if it poqsess the other legal requisites. a binding effica,by in Virginia, so that it may be admitted to record
'ther'e. ' The estate devised is understbod to be. situated

FEBRUARY TERM 1814,
in Virginia, and the title of the lheir.thereto would con- CARTER'8
sequently be affected by the probate in this district. xijEiR
v.
The probate then not being merely void, but affecting
the title to lands exceeding one hundred dollars in va- CUTTNG
lue is a matter in controversy beyond that value within & wIFt.
the purview of the act of 1801.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the petition is reversed, and the cause -is to be remanded to
that Court with directions to proceed to a hearing upon
the mierits.

THE VENUS,

RAE, MASTER.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court

for the district of Massachusetts.

tie United
States esta-" -

The follo\ ing were the facts of th9 case, as stated by ruelin afbIxAsIlXKGTo , J. in delivering the opinion of the Court. reigncountry'

between W'h~eh
atd the Uniter

This is the case of a vessel which sailed from Ge'vat States ostli-,
go blongng
Clai- tics fterwards
respectie Cai-break
the resectve
too th
0114' Rny
Britain. with a cargo belonging
war property shipmant,. as was 'contended, before the declaration tif
by the United States against Great Britain was or pLd by such
e
rouhl have been known by the shippers. She sailed
from Liverpool on the Ith of July, 1812, unde.r a Bri- tlicnr,antd
apt
erl
Ijy
Americant
tish license, for the port of Ncw York, and was cap- anl
tured on the 6th of August, 1812, by tie Ameri-an cruizeeafter
privateer Dolphin, and sent into the district of MNassa- .thedeclaratim
fwar, mu~t kchlisetis, where the vessel and cargo were libelled in onderned
lawful prize.
tho District Court.
Upon a shipment of goods

Tile ,ship, 100, casks of white lead; 150 crates of to be sold, on
account.
"ti .econ.
earthen ware, 35 cases and -3 casks of €copper, 9 pieces joint
& ship.
of
coal,
were
claimed
sigee
bagging,
and
a
quantity
of cotton
per, oi-of the
by Lenox and Maitland.
latter alone P

tile etion -of

198 packages of merchandise and 25 pieces of cotton the consignee,
bagging were claimed by Jonathan Amory, as the joint the r1ght of
property of James Lenox; William Maitland and Alex-,totyest inthe

