FEBRUARY TERM 8I4.
to assert; it is sufficient if that were the reasonable expectation of the parties, as it certainly was, and it is
more than probable that such expectation would have
been realized, cousidering the veryimportant advantage
which the enemy was to derive from them. In case of
capture, there can be no doubt that the Claimants would
have interposed these very papers, which are now supposed to have emanated trom unauthorized agents, and
T,robaihly with success, as a shield against forfeiture.
.Whiy then. should they be permitted to allege here, that
they would have been ineffectual for that purpose?

THE
AURORA,

PiKE,
MASTEP.

It is also insisted, that, in this case, no illicit intercourse had actually taken place; that the %hole offence,
if any, consisted in intetozm; and that if a capture htd
iiot intervn-d, there was still a locus peuitentim, and no
ene can sai that even a project of going to St. Bartholomews mighit ot have been abandoned. In this reasoning the Court does not concur ; but is of opinion that tile
moment the Aurora started on the voyage. for St. Bartholoniews, with tl.e license in question and a cargo of provihious, she rendt red herself liable to capture by the public and private armed ships of the United States, who
were not bound to lay by aud see how she would conduct herself during the voyage, the consequence of which
woull be that no right of capture would ekist until all
chance of making it were at at end.
Jvdgment qffirmed.

THE ADVENTURE,

MASTEPX.

TilIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit The eabc of a
Court for the district of Virginia.
1I
e,.nl catgo, belonging

The facts of the case, as stated by .Joansow, J. in de- one,itgerent
livering the opinion of the Court, were as follow:
nation, capturedqS
high
,onbythe
a crui-

The Libellants were the master and crew of thdi Amer- zer ofthcother
ican brig 6Throe Fr ends." On the 14th November, belligerent,
t .t,
whilst on their voyage from Slto to th
r.azils, tr.
to anetA
, and
by
the B"z.,
1811Saem

SUPREME COURT U. S.
with a valuable cargo on board, they were captured by
the Nymphe and Medusa, French frigates, and by
them the brig was plundered and burnt. , On the -21st,
TuRD,
the frigates captured the 6 Adventure," a British ship
MAS'.rR. laden with British goods; and, after taking out a part
of the cargo, made a present of the residue to the Libel1inm brought lants. The fact of the gift is esfablished by a writing
ibto a port
under the hand of the captain of the Medusa, commandcourt of i~is er of tle' squadron, in which he says, ,,Je donne au
donaow
betw eenon
w tI7,
ich capitaine" &c. in the language of anl unqualified
e t the
t e squadron,
sq a r n
and thenption
.11 On the 23d November, they left
to
which
the and arrived at Norfolk on the 1st of February, 1812,
vessel
originally belond after a Long and boisterous voyage in a large ship
warbreaks out navigated by a very inadequate crew. On her arbefore final ad- rival in the United States, she was libelled by the capjudication, is to
be considered tain and crew as their prol)erty acquired under tile doasacase
mo- nation of the French captor ; and the United States inOneofadrage.
iety Olineludd terposed a claim for the fi'feifqure incurred under the nontothelibellants importation act.
At the time of her arrival, peace exand the othr isted between this country and Great Britain :'but on
moiety to remain subject to the 18th of June following, and pending this suit, War
the future or- was dec.ared.
m

A4DvN-

der of the
court from

whlch'the ap-

PIxK-NEY, for the Libeliants,

peal was
brought up;

Said it was not his intention, at this time, to inquire
whether or not this be a case for condemnation under
riginal owner
after the ter- the non-intercourse act of March , 1809; le did not
linaoatooftli mean to deny that it is not. 'Waving tlrat question, therea.d to be restored tothe o-

i tw,unles

gilative

e-,

ofre,

for the present, he contended that tile property i

sion sfiouid controversy is either, a droit of admiraltyj subject to salBut no
previously t va-e, or that it is to be considered as derelict.
nade
br the
9
confiscation of evidence has been produced in support of the latter supenemy's
pro-In position. It mtst therefore be considered as a case of
p~ertyA't1und(
ptcG'otld at the former description, and a case too, of the most methe deciaration ritorious character.
of war.

The act of
bringngin thke
If this be c nceded, the next question is, what rate of
cargo, though SIlvage shall be allowed ? Tile English rule on this subject
,
consisting o
srticles the is fixed only in the case of re-capture by government

ships ard privateers. The salvage allotted to the first,
a
-he
s a fie rate of one eighth of the beneficial interest in the
wa not coisi- whole .rC-captured property ; to the last, one sixth. In
dled, nder all other cases, the judge cf the Court is at liberty to
Some.
;rculwtaces Order such salvage as he shall deem reasonable.
importation o

3 hich was prohibited by law

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
times the whole property saied is allowed-sometimes
the moiety only, and sometimes less. Thepresnt case'

is one of extraordinarymerit.

TH9
ADVEN-

TVRE,

In the Court below, two points were made in behalf 'MASTER.
I
or tis case,,a
1. That this was' a case of forfeiture unter the n- ubjeding tho
intercourse act of 1st of March i809 ; and if not, then, oifhturtof the United States :

2. That it was a case of salvage, and the rate to be
allotted discretionary with the Court.
JouiNsoN, 3. here suggested a doubt whether it was
not a case under the non-intercdurse act; and asked
whether the United States could rightfully seize the property in question as a droit of adiniraly, in port, or any
other British property on the land. He also observed
that there might be some difficulty with regard to the allotment of salvage, should this prove to be a case of
that kind.
HARPER1for the Libellants.

On a capture of a vessel, the right of the captors is
only inceptive : In order to complete that. right, it is necessary to prosecute it to the condemnation of the vessel
in a Court 6f competent jurisdiction. In the present
case, the French captors transferrc d their right, whatever it was, to the Atnricau master and crew. Could
they lawfully do this ? The decision of th question iepends upon the doctrine relative to the transfer of a
chose in action. We contend that they could ; and that
the transferrees were consequently entitled, as captors,
to prosecute the original capture.
But ifthe Libellants are not entitled as captors, uie,
it is a question -%ether it be a case under the non-intercourse act, or a case of salvaige.
In orger to bring it within the mpeaning of the non-intercourse act, it must be shown that there was an intention to import for sale or use-that there was a 'voluntary
importation', and that the importation was from a foreign.
port or place. But here,, there was no such intention.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
AW, ENTURE,
MASTER.

here was no ".oluntary importation; and no importationi
as we conceive, from any foreignport or place -,ithin the
meaning of the act ; here was no intention to infract any
law vhatsoever; it was acase of clear necessity : the master and crew were obiiged to bring in the ship to save
their own lives.
But it may perhapq he said that though it was necessary to bring in the sip, it was not necessary to bring
in the cargo. Whatthcn was to be done with it. Was itto
be tirown into the sea? The Bitish omnet was not divested of his right. Such an act, therefore, would have
been inconsistent with the neutral character which it
was the duty of all Americansto preserve towards Great
Britain, with whom we were then a, peace. We conceive that the course pursued by the Libellants, w as uncxceptionable. They proceeded op(nly to the United
States, and, immediately on their arrival, delivered b
the property to be disposed of according ti law. 'There
is no appearance, throughout the whole trarisaction of
the smallest intention to violate any law wvhatever.
It must, therefore, be considered as a case of salvage;
and had the relations between Great Britain and the
United States continued as they were at the time of the
iinportation, the residue of the property in question, after deducting the salvage, must have been restored to
the British owner.
Beut the declaration of war has altered the nature of
tlie case: The ship and cargo have now become enemy
property, and, as such, are claimed by the American
govt rnment, subject, however, to the right of the libellants.
What salvage is to he. allotted to us, the Court will decide. Our case is certainly one of great merit: we were,
for more than two months, exposed to the perils and
hardships of a long and boisterous voyage; and that,
too, in ,h large ship to the management of which the
sm'-dl crew on board was by no means adequate. Less
than half the amount of the property would not we conceive, compensate us for the trouble and danger we have
incurred.

FEBRUARY TERM i84.
PINKNEY, observed that lie had not considered this
THR
as a case cotring within the meaning of the non-illter- ABVE.N'
course act, and had therefore waved the discussion of that 'rrn,
point: he still doubted whether there were sufficient
grounds to support it. The law only prohibits importa- MASTEP.
tions fi(m afirtign port or place. In cases of trans-shipment, it may perhps be said that the prolperty trans-shipped is imported from a i'a-eign place: but her,, was no
trans-shipment, no change of vessel : here, the property
is imported from the high seas, which can hardly be
considered as coming within the description of a forign
port or place. He did not mean, lie said, to enter into a
formal argument. lie would, however, observe that, in
his opinion, the captors, in the present case, could not
complete their right to the priperty in question by
means of a neutral master and crew, even if the British
owner was divested of his right.

RusH, ttorney general, conceived that the high seas
might beconsidered as a foreign place; that the cargoes
or whale-ships from the Pacific, s.ich as oil, whalebojie,
blubber. &c. which originate from the sea, might be considered as within the'meaning of the nfn-int4ercimrse act.
He suggested that the werd place, in the act, was proba.
bly used in contradistinction to port.
MARSHALL, Ch. . In the Circuit Court the high
seas were considered as common to all nations, and, of
course, forCgU to Pont:.

P-xNKxnx, said tlrir ,was a ase of very conskierable
difficulty. How isthe property to be disposed of? It
cannQt be decreed to he United States, for it is not a
case under the non-intercourse act, nor was the seizure
jure belli: A prize Court had nojurisdiction: for the seizure was in time of peace, for a supposed violation of the
non-intercourse law, and after the property was laned :
It cannot be decreed wholly to theLibellants, because it.
must be considered as a case of salvage.- Nor can it be restored to the original owner, because he is an alien enemy.
fMoulay, M11larch 71fz.

(josent.-.ToD,J.

SToRYr, .T.did vot sit in this cause, some distant relative
of his having an interest ibL it.
VOL. VIII.
%)

226
THE

ADvEzrTURE,
MA

TZ'.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

JoNioN, 3. after stating the facts of the case, as before inentioned, delivered the opinion of the Court as
follows:

The very peculiar circumstances of this case require
the- application of a variety of principles ; and the
Court lUs not been aided in its enquiries, by that elaborate discussion which s,tch uovel cases generally
elicit. But they are relieved by the refl.ction, that the
principles to which they must resort in frming their
.judgment are. well established, and le d satisfactorily to
a conclusion.
The most natural mode of acquiring. a definite idea
of the rights of the Libellants in the subject matter.
will be, to follow it through the successive changes of
circumstances, by which the nature and extent of the
rights of the parties were affected. The capture, the
donation, the arrival in the United States, and the state
of war.
As between the belligerents, the capture undoubtedly
produces a complete (divesture of 'property. Nothing
remains to the original proprietor but a mere scintilla
Juris-, the spes recuperandi.. Tie moderit and enlightened pniactice of natio is, has subjected- all such captures,
to the scruffiny f judicial tribunals, as the only practical means or furnishing documentary evidence to accompany ships th-it have been captured, for the purpose of provinig t,,at the seiz-ire was the act of sovereign
authority, and not nwre inhvidual outrage. In the
case of a purchase made by a neutral, Great Britain
demands the production of suqh documentary evidence,
issuing from a Court of competent authority, or will
dispossess tie purchaser of a ship originally British(the Fladoyen, 1, Rob. t4l, 1&5.)
Upon the donation,
therefore, whatever right might, in the abstract, have
existed in the captor, the donee could acquire no more
than what was consistent with his neutral character to
take. . He could be in no better situation than a prizemaster navigating the prize, in pursuance of orders front
his commander. The vessel re'nained liable to British
capture on the whole voyage. And, on her arrival in
a neutral territory, the donee sunk into a mere bailee
for the British Claimant. with those rights over the

FEBRUARY TERM 18ti.
thing in pos.4ession which the civil law gave for care
and labor bestowed upon it.

THF
AnMNTURE$

The question then occurs, is this a case of salvage ?
MASTER.

On the negative of the proposition it is contended, that
it is a case o forfeiture. and thcrefoi e not a case of salvage as against the United States-ilhat it u as an unneutral act to assist the enen y. in bringing the vessel
iinfra pre zdia. or into an3 situation where the rightsof,
re-capture wouh' cease. and th6refore not a case of sal'age as against the lDitish Claimant
But the Court entertain an opinion unfavorable to
both these objections.
Ths could never have been a case within the view
of the legislature, when passing the now-importation act.
The ship was the plank on w hich the ship-wrecked mariner reached tli. shore ; and although it may be urged
tht bringing in the cargo was not necessarily connected with their own return to their country, yci upon reflection, it will be found, that this also can he. exdused
upon very fair principles. It was their duty to adhere
strictly to their neutral character; but to have cast
into the sea the cargo, the property of a belligerent,
would have been to do him an injury by taking away
that chance of- recovery subject to which they took it
into their possession. . Besides, bringing it ihto the
United States, did'not necessarily ple-suppose a violation of the non-importation laws. If it came within the
decription of property cast casually on our shores, as-we
are of opinion it did, legal provision exists for disposing of it in such a manner as would comport with the
policy ofour laws. At last, they could but deliver it
up to the hands'of the governmient, -tobe re-shipped by
the British Claimant, or otherwise appropriated under
the sanction of judicial process. And such was the
course thatthey pursued. Far from attempting any violation of tlbe laws of the country, upon their arrival
hlere they deliver it up to the custody'of the laws, and
leave it to be disposed of under judicial sanction. The
case has no one feature of an illegal importation, and
cannot possibly have imputed to it the violation of law.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
ADvENTUlRE,
MASTER,

,

As to the question arising on the interest of the Bri
tish Claimant, it would, at this time, be a sufficient answer, that they -f ho have no rights in tids Court, cannot
urge a violation of their rights against the claim of the
Libellants. But there is still a much more satisfactory
answer: To have attempted to carry the vessel ,, iifra
pnesidia" of lhe enmy, would, unless it could have been
excused on the groun.of necessity, have been an unneutral act. But when every exertion is made to bring it
to it place of safety, in which the original right of the
captured would revive an(d might be asserted, instead
of aiding his enuemy, it is doing an act exclusively resulting to the benefit of the English Claimant.
It being determined to be a cas of salvage, the next
question is, as to the amountt to be allowed. On ilis
subject there is no precis,- rule; nor is it, in its nature,
reducible to rule. For it must, in every case, depend
upon p.-cu!iar circumstances, such as peril incurred, labor sustaint d, value decreed, &c. all of which must be
estimated and weighed by the -Court that awards the
salvage. As far as our enquiries extend, when a proportion of the thing saved has been awarded, a half has
been thue maximum, and an eighth the minimum ; below
that, it is usiial to adj:dge a compensation in numero.
In some cases, incoed, more than a haft may have been
awarded ; but they wil be found to be cases of very extraJl diuary mnerit, or on articles of very small amount.
In the prescnt case; the accoumt sales of the cargo was
near S 16000 ; and we are of opinion tmiat the one half
of that sini will be an adequate compensation.
Thq next question arises 'on the :application of the
residue. Oh this p7,int, the Court is led to'a conclusion
by the following considerations.
At the arrival of the vessel in the United States. the
original British owner would, unquestionably, have
been entitled to the balance. The state of war, however, at present, prevents his interposing a claim in
the Courts of this c;)uutry. But as this prop.,rtv was
found %ithin the United States at the declaration of war,
it mnqt stand on the same footing with other British pro.
pertv similarly situated. Althugh property of that deswripton is liable to be disposed of by the legislative

FEBRUARY TERM 1811power of the country, yet, until some act is passed upon
the si.hbjct, it is still under the protection of the law, and
may be dlaimed atter the termination of war, if not
previously confiscated. We vill, therefore, make such
order respecting it, as -il pr1eserve it, subjtct to the
will of t1} Court, to be disposed of as future ci-cumstances shall render proper.

THE
ADVEXTUflE,
MASTE.

As to the mode of distributing the amount of the salvage, the Clourt haie concluded to adept an arbitrary
distibution; because tiere exists no positie rule on
that stbject. They w uild have adopted the rules of the
1prizi act relative to cases, of sah age, had the circumstances of the case adnittd of its application.
This Court orders and decrees, that the decree of filu
Circuit Court of virf. lia, in this case, be reversed
that the costs and chavges he paid out of the proceeds
1
of the sale ; that V
e one half of the balance be adjudged to the Libellants, to be divided into thirteen and a
half pauts, three of which shall be paid to the captain,
two to the suprcargo, two to the chief mate, one and a
half to the second mate, and one to each of t66 seamen.
And that the balance be deposit(d in the bank of Virginia, to remain subject to the future order of the Circuit
Court.

JOHN GREEN

Tv.

JOHN LITER iUn oMnS.

THIS was i Nirit of right brought by Gien, the
Demandant, against the tvnants, to recover seizin of. ";6, N1
a large tract of land lying in Kentucky, and set forth IT.S hve :c.
in the count. The writ of right was sucd out under risdirtion in
the act of the Virgia assebh, entilled - an act for v'!rif
(i'1treforming the method of proceeding in Alrits of right." Pertydemind-

e'd exceeds

5500 in value ;

At the trial in the Circuit Court for the Kentucky a,,liluponthe
arose upon which the Court trial the dedistrict, several questions
4
Mandant recowas divided ; whereupon those qwestions were certified ver les, he is
for tle opinion of the Supreme Court. They are as ,,ot to be alfollows :
flo
:owed
his
but.,tt
thecosts:
dis -

