SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLEMENTSON v. WILLIAMS,

11.
14th,

Feb.

qbsent.... WASIIINKGTON. J.
An

eeknow,

ledgment of

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district o,
Columbia. sitting at Alexandria.

the original
justice. or a

claim is not

sufficient

to
take the ce
out of the

The facts:of the case are thus stat,'d by the CIdif

Justice,. in delivering" the opinion of the Court:

Tie Plaintiff instituted a stilt against James Williams
and Johin Clarke, merchants and partners tradi,,g tinder
knowledgrent mtust go the firUm of John Clarke .- Co. The writ was executed
o thefactth.t on Williams only, who pleaded 7,on assumpsit and IMe
statuteoflimitations; the ae-

'1he

statut of.Ict of limitations, on which pleas issuts w'ere joined.
s The jury fbund that the Defendant (lid not assum ; and

limitatios

entitled tq the

same respectj udgrent L'as rendered in his favor.
wyith other sta-

ougl,t At the trial the Plaintiff gaye evidence tending to
awvay. prove the partnership, and also to prove dealings of
Quere, 'ie- Clarke & Co. with the Plaintiff. He then offCrod a wittutest

plaine

ther aft aekn6wledgment by after
onr
partner,

iness who proved that lie presented. in December preceding the trial, to John ClArke a certain account
,dissoluion or against the said John Clarke & Co. in f .vor of t e
the partner- Plaintiff; and that said Clarke stated that the said actakea count was due, an( that he 'supposed it had been paid
iPettoiS
the Defendant, but had not paid it lnims.lf, ain(i did
ever paid.. And the %xitnessto
whom. the said Clarke made the said acknowl 'gd :li t

case otof the by

Atatutoflimi- noi know of its bein-

produces in 'Court the identical account so presented to
said Clarke and acknowledged by him as afiiresdid,
which account is in the Aords and figures folloxving. to
wit: '- an account," &c. And the Plaintiff's counsel
offered the contents of said account and the ackno%%ledgnuent of said Clarke in evidence tinder the issue joined
upon the plea of the statute of limitations, but the Court
decided that the said evidence so offered by the Plaintiff
of the contents of the said account and of the acknowledgment of the' same by the said Clarke was not adwissiple evidence in this cause, and refused to admit the
same." To this opinion the Plaintiff excepted. and from,
The judgment of the Circuit Court le has appealed to
this Court.

FEBRUARY TERM isi4.
TAYLOR,

for the Plaintiff in error.

CLEMENTSON,

T.
The only question is, whether the acknowledgment of
one partner, after the dissolution of the partnership, WUUIMA'S
takes the case out of the statute of limitations.

We contend that it does, and rely on the following cases:
Doug. 651, Witcomb v. Whiting. ' H. BI. 3 0, Jackson v.
Fairbanks,and 2 Johnson, 667, Smith v.
F. S. KEY, contra.
Although the opinion of the Court may be supported
upon other grounds, yet it may also be supported. upoGthe point raised, viz.: that thi acknowledgment of one
partner, after dissolution of the copartnership, cannot
be received to take the case out of the statute. It can
only be evidence of a new promise, and one partner
eannot, after dissolution, bind the other. No acknowledgment of the debt by one partner, after dissolution,
can be given in evidence n the general issue to fix the
debt upon the other partner. The cases in Douglass
and H. Blackstone are different. The joint concern was
not dissolved. The authbrity in Johnson was only a
dictum; the case was decided upon other evidence.
Such evidence would he extremely dangerous. No
man could be safe if, after dissolution of the partnership, is partner cquld continue to bind him forever.
At all events it is n.ecessary that the Plaintiff should
first prove the original debt by other evidence.
JoNEs, in reply.
If the opposite doctrine be correct, then, even if each
of the partners should acknowledge the debt, the evidence would not support a joint action.
The acknowledgment is not considered as a new promise, but simply as rebutting the presumption of payment arising from the length of time. and thereby taking
the case out of the reason of the statute.
Feb. i9h....MAnsHAi, Ch. J. after stating the facts
of the case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows 40
VOL. VI

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLv..
Ma?.TSON

V.
WILLIAMS

It is contended by the Plaintiff in error that, after the
dissolution of the. partnership, the acknowledgment of
one partner is evidence to revive the original cause of
action against both, and that the acknowledgment made
in this case by Clarke is sufficient for that purpose.
It has been frequently decided that an acknowledgment of a debt barred by the statute of limitations, takes
the case out of that statute, and revives the original
cause of action. 'So far as decisions have gone on this
point, principles may be considered as settled, and the
Court will not lightly unsettle them. But they have
gone full as far as they ought to be carried, and this
Court is not inclined to extend them. The statute of
limitations is entitled to the same respect with other
statutes, and ought not to be explained away.
In this case there is no promise, conditional or un.
conditional; but a simple acknowledgment. This acknowledgment goes to the original justice of the account; but this is not enough. The statute of limitations was not enacted to protect persons from claims
fictitious in their origin, but from ancient claims, whether weIl or ill founded, which may have been discharged, but the evidence of discharge may be Lost. It
is not then sufficient to take the case out of the act, that
the claim should be proved or he acknowledged to have
been originally just; the acknowledgment piust go to
the fact that it is still due.
in the case at bar, the acknowledgment of Joli
Clarke is that lie had not discharged'the account presented to him, but he does not say that it was not discharg.ed. His partner may have paid it without the
knowledge of Clark, and, consequently, the declaration
of Clarke that he had not himself paid it, aid that he
did not know whether his partner had paid it or not, is
no proof that the debt remains due, and therefore is not
such an acknowledgement as will take the case out of
the statute of limitations.
There is no error, and the judgment is affirmed with
costs.

