SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE FRANCES, BOYER, MASTEr..
(Dunham and Randolph's claim.)

A case ofter-

ti proor.

Goods, shipsh to an American house
artly in conrmity with

is
case of
goods by the Frances, cap
HIS another
tul'ed by the. Yankee, and condemned in tie C-icuit
Court of Rhode Island, brought up to this Court on
app'al.

Messrs. Dinham and Randolph, merchants of New
York, claimed thr.,e bales amd ninetepn boxg.s of goods
shipped by AiexAnder Tho: pson or Gla:,;gW, a Brit ish
had on option
toacceptorre-tsubject, and con.igned to Duonham an.! R:;ndolph.
The
iectthe whole bill of lailiog is in thej" na'ne,. and the i:voice purprts
limited time, to be on their account and risk. A letter from niompremain the
"property
ofthe son to
_- Dunham and Randolph, dated Glasgow, 11th July.
shippers until 1819,j after describing the goo)dI, and the labor he had
the
madecleeton
to at- be employed in tile business, and stating that the goods
were sent partly in the Fanny ani partly in the Frances,
cept them.
says, 6I have exceed.d in some articles, and have sent
"you others not ordered." ,, I leave it with yours-lves
" to take th,' whole or the two shipments, or none at all,
,,just as yolt please. If you do i)ot wish them, I will
"thank you t0 hand the'invoicei and l,,t,ers over to
" Messrs. Falconer & Co. I think twenty-lfmr hours
*4will allow you ample opportonity far you to rtake up
cyour minds on this point; and ifyoudo not hand theln
" over within that time, I will of course, consider that
" you take the whole."
orders, an.I
partly withmut
ordcwa,) who

Otn the 15th of July, Alexander Thidmpson again wrote
to Dunham and Randolph a loter in w!iirl, l mentions
the information that a bill declaring war had passed the
house of repres-ntatives. Ie then adds,." considering
"the circ411sfancrs o'the tilnes, I thoug-ht it best to in-

it fitni M 'ssts. Falconer, Jackson & Co. fully of the
"coithiti:,ns on which I have shipped you the goods by
"the Fanny and Frances."
In a letter to Messss. Falcomer, Jackson & Co. of the
same date, he explains, in fll, the prplosition ie had
made to Dunham and Randolph,'and directs how those
gentlemen are to act for him, should Dunham and Randolph reject the consignment.

FEBRUARY TERM im8i4.
This property was conde.,:ned in the Courts below,
and from the sentence 6f condemnation the Claimants appealed to this court.
PziHNREY, for the .Appellants.

THE

FRANCES
(DURHAM
& RAN-

DOLPn'S
CLAIMI,)

This is a mere question ot tact as to property.
Were or were not the goods the property of the enemy ?
W,,- contend, that they were not. All the documentary
evidence shows the property to belong to Dunham and
RThndidph,
The condition mentioned in Thompson's
letter of 11th July, was a condition subsequent. The proprty vested in the Claimants, liable to be divested, if
rejected by them within twentl -fours after receiving tie
letter.
The greater part of the goods, if not the whole, was
shippedby order of the Claimants, long before the sailing of the vessel. The delivery to the master of the ship
wa; an executi.,n of the order. The.- shipper had no
longer any control over the propli-ty. except, in case of
the insolvency of the consignees, in which event he might
stop it in transitu.
Every circumstance connected with the transaction
appears to be perf ctly fair 5 and if the evidence now before the Court is not sufficient to support tl~e claini of the
Appellants, it is"a case for further proof. The Claimants
had accepted the shipment by the Fanny before the capture of the Frances, and- thereby rendered certain what
was before opti;iial; They thereby bound themselves to
to take the shipment by the Frances.
HUNTER,

contra.

The goods in question were not shipped according to
order, as appears by Thompson's letter of itth July.
They belonged to the shipper until the consignees had
elected to take them ; and they could not. make their
election before.the arrival of the Frances.
At whose risk were the goods while at sea? Thompson had no power to impose the risk on the Claimants.
If the goods had arrived at Boston, they might hve
been attached as the property of the shipper. If attach-

BOYR,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ed as the property. of the Claimants, they might have
saiI the goods were not their property: or if they had
been sued -ts garnishees of Thomp,on, they might have
said the) owed him nothing. They were not bound to
uDoPR's accept the goods.

THE
FRANCES,
'(DLRUAM
& RAN-

1ovm.R,
MAtTER.

If the property, at law, belonged to Thompson, ajor..
tiori in a ease of prize. It is a rule o1" prize Courts
thai. in time of war, no future election shall be allowed
to change the right of property at sea-in transitqi. The
question is, in 'A hom is the legal estate? At wiLose risk
L7,,b.
9
were the goods pAssing at the time of capture?
111 133. The Packet de Bilboa.-1 Rob. 90, 107. The
Dackebaar .fricaam-5Riob. 115, 1'28. The Jan Frederick.-IL Rob. 2,33, 336. The Vr"ow .1Iarjarellu.-lob. 21. 25. 7TeJoscphine.-id.180,218. The .lurora.
-7d. 170, 207. The Carl Waller.-6 Rob. "37. The
6ar'ijna.- IRob. 2-3. 289. The' Copenhagen.-Ibese
cases all go to prove that, during war, property cannot
change in transitu.
DEXTER, same side.

In this case, there was lio contract to change the pro
perti. To constitute a contract, the assent of both parties 's necessary. The goods were not shipped according
to the order o thy Claimants, and a condition was annexCd. The property never vested in the Claimants:
It was only to vest in them on condition that they
faild to deliver over the goods to Messrs. Falconer
& Co.
rINKNEY, in reply.

The further proof which the Claimants would offer,
will'show that almost all the excess of goods beyond
the order, was on board the Fanny. Here was a direct
assignment to the Claimants. The goods were deli%ered to the'r agent, the master of the vessel. The dccuinents were all sent to the consignees. No clange ofproperty 'in transitu was necessary. The property was already vested in the Claimants : and, upon its arrival,
they might have asserted their right to it. So far as
the'goods comported with the ordet, the contract was

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
certainly executed : There can be no .doubtabout those
goods. Th.e Claimants milit have maintained trover or
rcpleviu for them.

Tre
FRAxCES.
(DURHAM

& RlAx-

This was not the sort of shipment described by sir W. DOLPHs
Scott, in the cases cited. Thompson, the shipper, was a CLAIM,)
nat'ualized citizeu of the United States: This appears noxzn,
in other cases before this Court; and that fact con- MASTER.
stitutts part of the further proof which we wish to introdure. Th, re was no knowledge of the war, in this case.
The traw action was not shaped by the expectation of
w:.r. Thompson did not believe that war would take
place, and he gives his rea ons. The shipment was diretcid on the i1l(h of July. Between that anti the 1StMb,
the intt lligence of the war was received.

Saturday March 12th. .9htbent....LivIxGSTO-, ..
MAjkRSLsL, Ch. J. after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the Court as follows.

It has been argued for the Appellants, that, by the invoice and bill of lading, and the true construction of the
letter of Alexander Thompson, the property was vested
in l)unham and Randolph, liable to be divested by their
rejecting the consignment within twenty-four hours after receiving the lelters. That the condition annexed to
the transfer, is subsequent, not precedent.
The Court cannot concur in this reasoning. It Ias
been very truly urged for the captors, that to vest this
property in Dunham and Randolph, a contracd is necessary ; and that to form a contract, the consent of two
parties is indispensable. In this case, no such contract
appears. Had Thompson, in execution of the orders of
Dunham and Randolph, consigned to them, uncondition.
ally, such goods as they had dir-cted, the contract would
have been complete; and the.goo!s would, on being ship-.
ped, have become the property of Dunham and Randolph.
But Thompson has not done this. With the goods which
were ordered lie has consigned other goods, expressly
stipulating that Dunham and Randolph shall not take
the goods they had ordered, unless they consent to
take the whole quantity put on board both vessels. This.
then, is a new proposition, on which Dunham and Ran-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
dolph are at liberty to exercise their diqeretion. They
it ; and until they do acreplt it. the
(DRnAM property must remcin in Th'lunpson. The sentct.,'e of
& n - condemnation, therefore, in this case, was warranted by
]oLVUII's the ev'idence befbre the Circuit Court.
XRHB

FRAN CES, 11a) accef or reject

CLAIM,)

BOYER,
MASTER.

Eut the Claimants pray 'n orderfor further proof;
and say, that, Ijefre the captare of the Frances, the
V'ann% had arr. ved, and 1)nhatn and Randolph had conseited to take both cargoes.
This application is opposed on the principle that, were
the fact evw n true, as alleged by the Claimants. belligerent property tannot change its character in transitu.
Reserving 'any opinion on the law of the case, until
the ftacts aiieged slhall be substantiated, if it shall be in
the power of the Claimants to substantiate them, the
cause is ordered to stand for further proof.

THE FRANCES, BoYER, MASTER.

rtennedy's claim.)

Qoeon of

THIS was likewise a
-t~l tO I- condemned in the Circuit
were claimed by Duncan
zen, who appealed to this

case of goods by the Frances,
Court of Rhode Island. They
Kennedy, an American citiCourt.

The case was submitted to the Court without argument.

Saturday, March 12th. ,bsent....LiavINGSTON, J.
MARISHAIX,

Ch. . delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows :
Duncan Kennedy, surviving partner of the house of
George Stayley & Co. merchants of New York, claims
eight boxes of merchandize part of the cargo of the
ship Frances, as his property.

