SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
UOTIUS,
SHEAFE,
MASTElI.

capture, are not sufficiently clear ; and that it will be
proper to make an order fQr further proof, to be furnished by the captors and the Claimants, with respect to all
the circumstances of the capture.
This point appears not to have been made or considered in the Court below.

1814.

ALEXANDER

AND

OTHERS

-v. PENDLETON.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the

cleni., a Coturt district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, as a Court
of Equity will of Equity.
itnterpose to
quiet the title.
A purchaser
The case, as stated by MARSlIALL, Gi. J. in delivering
with notice is the opinion of the Court, was as follows
pr otected by
lis vendor's
wantadversary
bfnotice.
This su:t was brougit in the year 1806, in the Circuit
Au

Possessionyot

Court for the coiintv of Alexandria, for the pui'pse of

y-ears,
though with
knou ledge
of a betterttle, constittes
a gcxxd defmiice
sAainst that
title.
A purcbaser

quieting the title of Nathaniel Pendleton, the Plaintiff in
that Court, to 83 acres of land contiguous to the town of
d

Alexandria which have beim in his possession, and il
the p0ssessi,n of those under whom he claims, from the

year [732 tothe present time.

has a right to

Robert Alexandr, being seized of a large tract, on
part of which the tov,n of Alexandria now stands, on the

inh..s aooeosarr tpos . n
to the ostensibleadversary

thenia Alexander, his bond in tle penalty of 8001.

withoutnotice

17th of January in th year 1731-94 executed to Dade
Massey, then about to intermarry wit'. his daughter Par-

ith

his 1e.do,, so a condition that le would convey to his daughter Partieas to girhim- nia aid her heirs, on deniand, four hundred acrt's of land
ofthestatute lying on Potomac, "1beginning on the river side and
of liitmtions, from thence running to his back -line, making a long
square so as to have the same breadth on the river as
on the back line."

The marriage soon afterwards took effiect, and she was
put into possession of the land by the following bounds,
that is to say: " Beginning at the mouth of Goings gut,
on the river Potomac, and extending down the river so

FEBRUARY TERM 18Hi.
as to include four hundred acres of land between the river ALEXAxand the back line."
DEa
& OTiERS

The back line called for in the patent was a due north
V.
course; that by which ,Robert Alexander then held %as PENDLEnorth 6 west. Claims have been since successfully asserted
TON.
which wojld vary the back line so as to run north 17
west. The Appellants insist that those who hol under
Parthenia shall be compelled to extend to the back line,
a3 now established, and proportionably to contract their
line down the river, so that the parallelogram shall still
comprize four hundred acres.
Pendleton, who is a
purchaser under Parthenia, insists on being limited on
the weqt by the line north 6 west, which was the back
line whei the title of Parthenia accrued.
In the year 173.5, Robert Alexander departed this life,
having first made his last will in which he
Idevised as follows : ,,Item, I give to my daughler Parthenia Massey
four hundrel acres in Prince William county, according
to my bond. Item, live
I
to my daughter Sarah Alexander, f;ur hundred acres joining Parthenia Massey, the
same length on the back line and the same breadth ori
the river."
Parthenia survived her husband, Dade Massey, and intermarried wit'Iownshrnd Dade. Sarah intermarried
with Baldwin Dade, and was put into possession of the
land devised to her.
John and Gerard Alexander were the only sons of
Robert, and were the co-devisees of' the bulk of his estate. In April. 1740, John instituted a suit against Gerard for partition ; and to this suit Townsienid Dade und
Parthenia, his wife, and Baldwin Dade and Sarah, his
wile, were parties Defendants. A decree of partition
was made, directing that the lands of the Dades also
should be allotted to them to be held in severalty.

Con-

inissioners were appointed to execute this decree, with
directions to report their proceedings to the Court.
Under tills interlocutory decree the land waq surveved
by Joseph Berry, and a division rnade. Four hlknl'(ldt
aors were allotted to "l'ownslen1 Dade and Part'oeuia.
his wife, and lhe same quaigtity to Baldwin Dadle avtI4

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ALEXANfDB.
& OTHIMPA

Sarah, his wife. This allotment was made on-the idea

that north 6-w,st was the true hack line. But as the
Alexandvis ihtended to institute suits for tiv purpose of
recovering Ihnds lying west of the north 6 line, tt was
Iv.
PENDLE- agreed between all the parties that the partition then
made sho,,ld not be conclusive, but should dipend'on the
TON.
suits about to be,i-stituted. In consequence, as is presumed, of this verbal agreement, the su,'vey -andproccedings unde-t!is interiocutory decr,- wer not etutmed
and in MaZ,1711, the suit was dismissed agreed.
Townshend Dade and Parthenia, his wife, remained
in quiet po'ssession of the four h~ndred acres devised to
Parthenia by her father, according to those boundaries
which had been marked out on the idea that north 6 west
was the true back line.
Sarah Dade died without issue'- on which event her
land was limited to her two brothers John and Gerard,
who entered thereon and continued to hold it according to
Berry's survey.
John Carlyle claimed the land west of north 6 weit;
and, in April .t766, commenced an ejyctment against
Alxander, who appears to hav,"r covered part of the
laid between north 6 and north 17 west in a previous
ejectment against one of his tvnanit . In May, 1771, a
verdict and judgement were rendered in his favor.
In the year 1774, Townshend Dade and Parthenia, his
Nife, instituted a soit against Jdihn Alexander for a title
to the land mentioned in the'bond of Robert Alexander.
To this suit John Alexander filed his answer stating the
deqjh of Dade "'MNassey leaving d son by Par'thenia-, hersubseqaent marriage with Townshend Dade,- and the
doubt who was entitled 0 the land, as the reasons for its
not having been previously convey ed.
In the same year, Charles Aexandpr, son and heir of
ohn, filed his answer in which lie states the doubt respecting the back line, admits the north 6 west tote the
present back line, and prays that. should a more western boundary be at any time established, he and his heirg
might be at libeftv to vary the bourriaries of Parthenia'es
land so as to conform to such future back line.

FEBRUARY TERM ie81.
In 1776, a deed was executed by Charles Atexander ALtxAW
DE
to Parthe,ti Dade conveying 400 acres of land according
to the bond of Robert Alexander. This deed specifies &'oTnE.Is
v.
no boundaries and contains n, stipulation respecting the
fktttr. cliange of the back line. It would confirm the PENDL-,
TON,
will of Robert Alexand,,r, if that will- wanted confirmation. In the year 1779, this suit was dismissed neither
p~rty appearing.
In May, 1778, Parthenia Dade conveyed this tract of
laitd , ita no other .:es.riptim of the metes and bounds
than was expr,.-sed in the bold and will of her father,
to Wiilia;n Harts'horne. who took posession of the land
and lidd it acc.u'ding to Berry's survey, which makes
north 6 west the back line.
William Hartshorne laid off the northern part of the
tract fi',m the f'iver t,) north 6 west in twnt) -three lots
which he sld to variou p .rs,'is ; aiui tep, i., May,
1779. conve'yed the ,'esidoe of the land, which iwi:udes
that in contrwersy, to Wiliiam Ilarman, of P, nnslvania, by metes and bounds tak~ng north 6 west to be the
true back line.
In the year 1786, Mordecai L.ewis, executor of William Harman, conveyed this land to Hisha CUt.'dFn Dick,
who in 1796, conveyed eiglity -three acr .s, the laed pow
in dikput,-, to Henry Lee, who, in June, 1797, conwyed
to Bahlwin Da.le, who, on the 29th day of Decen'ber, in
tle year 1801. conveyed to Philip Fitzhugh, who, on the
18th of February, 1i0,z. conveyed t0 Nathaniel Pendleton. In the same deed Fitzh ugh con vei s -also to Pendieton three acres of lnd. other part of the tract of 400
acres, with notice that Charles Alexander claims north
17 west as the back line.
Previous to the conveyance from Baldwin Dade to
Philip Fitzhu.h, the Said Dade had conveyed tl land in
cintroversy to Thomas Swan to secure 'a debt dse to
William Hodigson. Swan conveyed to William B. Page,
in trust for Hodgson, who conveyed to Hodgson, who, in
July, 1803, conveyed to Ppndieton.
Soon after the (icision in favor of Carlyle in May,
771, Charles Alexander brought an ejectment for the
b9
VOL. VIIL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ALFJxAXNDna
& OTHERs

IV.
rENDLE-

TON.

same lands, and in 1790, a verdict was given in his fa
vor. ,n which a juigvint was rend, red, which was affirmed on appeal in 179-. In 1796, Charles Alexander
instittited a suit in the C-urt of Chancl-ry in Virginia,
for the IUrtos of altering the boundari-s b which the
land o" Paielhenia had theretofore been held, and of layin g- off that tract so rs to extend it to n wrth 17 west,
thereby narrowing its breadth wlere it stretches towards the town of Al;oxan-lria, anl giving it more length.
To this suit, th .se-uuder whom Pendleton claims, with
others were made Defendants.
Charles Alexander. departed this life in the year 1806,
and the suit has not b.,ei 'revived.
Nathaniel Pendleton being about to sell the land in
controversy, tende~red to C..ales Alexander a deed for
quhting the title ; and, on his refusing to ex.cute it, instituted a suit to compel him so to do. After the death
of Charles Alexander this suit was brought against the
Defendant, his widow and children.
In the Circuit Court a decree was rendered in favor
of the Plaintiff, from which the Defondants have appealed to this Court.
The cause was argued last term, hy SWAN and JoNEs,
for the Appellants, and by E. I. LEE and C. LEE, for
the Appelee.
SWANN,for

the .Appellam..

The only qu-stion is, whether the long possession accordinto m.ptes and bounds, gives a good title notwithstandine the clain of Alexander to carry his back line
so as to run north 17 degrees west; instead of north 6
degrees west.
The b.ond to convey to Parthenia in 173t-2, calls
siniply for the'back line; R. Alexanders will in 1785,
devises the hNlud to her by the'sam, decription ; and the
deed of confirmation from Chaarles Alexander in 1776,
still rot'er'i to the back line. Whatver should he the
back line ef Alexander's tract, was to be the western
homndary of Parthenia's 400 acres. In i7O a suit was

FEBRUARY TERM 180.
;nstituted for partiti -n, in which Partlenia was a party. ALPXAWA survey and partition was nmde, but was not'acted upnun
on by the Court, becatse tie parties all understood that & OThERS
the back line was unsett(-d, and the partition thn made
v.
was agreed to be temp. rary, and to be reformed if the rENDLEback line sh,,uld be carred farther to the westward than
T'oN.
north 6 degrees west. This agreem, n, althougl verbal,
wds binding on Parilienia, at least so far as to prevent
her possessio, from being considered as adversary to
Alexander as to that part of the land which might be taken away upon settling the back line.
There was therefore no adverse possession until IT78,
when Parthenia sold to Hartshorne. From 1778 to 1796,
when C. Alexander instituted L.is snit in the Court of
Cliancery in Virginia, to all er the boundaries of the tract,
there had not been tzo years of adverse possession. If
Pendleton had looked back to his title he Ngould have
found that it was never conveyed by metes and bounds,
prior to 1778, and that the question of'boundary was still

unsettled. He purchased-while that suit was pending,
and therefore must be presumed to have had notice of the
claim.
E. L LEE and C. LEE, contra.
This case is not affected by the question, which was
the true back lint- of Alexander's land. Neither Parthemia nor those claiming uider her, were parties to any
suit in 'hich that qu stion was litigated, and cannot
therefore be bound by an) decision on that point. At the
date of the bond, and of Robert Alexander's devise to
Parthenia. he held only to the line north 6 west. The
conveyance is to be taken mrst strongly against the
grantor. In 1776, when C. Alexander made the deed
to Parthnia, lieheld only to the same line, and it had
been at that time established as his back line by a judgment in the year 1771.
If there were sufficient evidence of a parol agreement,
it could be onl.V an agreement to re-convey the land, if
the back line should be settled further to the west.%.rd.
Being a parol agreement to cpnvey land, it would havo
been void by the statute of frauds.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

& OTHERS
v.

If Pendleton had notice of the pendenry of C. Alexander's suit in chancery to alter the boundaries, yet that
Suit WaS after%%ards discontinued, and there is no evidence that lartshorne, or those claiming under him,

PEVDLE-

had notice of the claim until after they had made their

ToN.

purchases. Pendleton holds their rights, and can protect himself by their want of notice.

MLZxANDLR

JorEs,

in reply.

There was nothing in the title to deceive purchasers.
There was sufficient evidence on the face of the deed to
show that the possession was temporary. They all refer
to the back line of Howsen's patent; and every purchaset: would necessarily enquire where that line was. Upon the enquiry he would find either that the line was in
dispute and unsettled, or that it had been settled at north
1t7 degtiees west.
The agreement was merely evidence of the nature of
the possession, and was no more affeted, in this respect,
by the statute of frauds, than would be a simple declaration of the tenant, that he held not adversely to, but under, IL Alexander.
If the title is to be quieted, it must be upon the principle that long possession by certain metes and bounds,
induces a presumption that some dded had been mode
conformable to the possessioli. But such a pre~umptiort
is rebutted by the -agreement.
,March 12th.
MARSHALL. Ch. J. after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the Court as follows:
cc This boing an application to restrain a person from
the assertion of title in the ordinary course of judicial
proc-edings, the prayer of the bill ought not to be granted in a doubtfd case; but if the caie be a clear one,
the inP. .position of equity is allowable; and the situatiou of the land adjoining a growing city, the number of
persons who are consequently interested in the settlement of the question, and the numerous titles which d-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
pend on it, give it pectiLiar claims to the attention of the
Court.

ALXAW-

DER
& OTHERS

By the laws which govern this cast, a possession of
V.
thirt years under.some circumstances, and of fifty years, PEND. Eunder aiiy, constltutes a title against all the world. The TON.
Appellee claiming under a possession perhaps- from the
year 1732, certainl) from -th( year 1741, has 'a complete
title, unlkss sonethiing (an be alleged by the Plaintiffs
in error wbhi h shall deprive him of 'the advantages of

that possession.
It is urged that the contract of 1741, between the
Alexander's and the Dade's, made the latter trustees for
the former with respect to that portion of the land included in Berry's survey, which they had agreed tW surrender in the event of establishing a more western back
line. And that, therefdre, in computing time, we must
commence with the sale from.Parthenia Dade to'-William Hartshorne, in May, 1778.
-ad the land continued in possession of Parthenia
Dade and her heirs, the question wyhether this-contract
was of unlimited duration, or contemplated some particular suit then intended to be brought, would merit consideration. But-as the contract does not appear on the
title papers, but was verbal, a purchaser for a valuable
considt ration could not be affected by it unless he was a
purchaser mith notice. Finding Parthenia Dade in the.
quiet and undisturbed possession of four hundred acres
of land, tbrming a parallellogram. limited on the west by'
the line north 6 west, he had a7 right to consider that lite.
as established, so far as respected the land of'Parthenia.
He was not bound to know that a private parol agreement existed, Which would control the possession. This
trust therefore no more passed with the lmnd to Hartsborne, than would any other secret trust of which he'had
.no knowledge.
The various suits which have been instituted by, and
against the ancestors- of the Appellants cannot dffect this
cause. A suit not prosecuted to a decree or judgment
is not constructive notice to a person not a p~ndente lite
purchaser; and were the law otherwise, those suits, until that instituted in i796., would convey no notice of the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ALBXA?DER
& OTIERS

T.
PENDLE-

private agreement made in 1741. A knowledge of the
suits therefore wouh. not imjlly a knowt dge ok the trast;
and possession fir fifty 3ewas, though with knowledge of
a b(tter title, if auversar-y, constit tes a good defence
against that title.

TON,

In i7'96, Charles Alxander instituted a suit against
sun,,r persons claiming the land in controversy for the
purpose of altering the boundaries %lhihhad been held
by Parthenia, and those claiming under her, from the y ear
1732, and which had been surveyed under an interlocutory decree made by the Court of Chancery, in the year
17-11 In defending thchiseives against this claim, the
purchaser., of the land had a right to unite the 1 3ssession
of Parthenia Dade to their possession, without being affected by a secret trust of which they had no notice. If
upon the trial of that suit a possession of fifty years
,could not have been'established, and if the Court should
have been of opinion that this was not a case in which
an adversary possession of thirty, years would have constituted a bar, the merits of the title would have been
necessarily inVestigated. But if Charles Alexander had
permitted that suit to be dismissed, and had filed a new
bill, he would not have been at liberty, in the computation of time, to avail himself of the pendency of the former suit, unless he could have conniected the two suits
together. The law is the same vi here a suit terminates
by abatement and is not revived, such a suit takes no
time out of the act of limitations. " The title of Pendleton
therefire has from that act all the benefit wl'icli can be
derived from'a possession from the year 1741, when a
possession osten:;ibly adversary by metes and bounds unquestionably commenced, to tle. institation of this suit
in the year 1806. The deduwtion ii lich the laws of Virginia make from all computations of time in cons'qtence
of the war of the revolution, will not be sufficient to take
this case out of the act of limitations. The App,.llees
title, being secured by a posst-ssiitn of more than fifty
years, is unquestionably good, and it is proper that the
doui-fs which hang over it. sh,,nld he removed. There
is i;o ic'rcr in the proceedings Qf the Circuit Court an~t
the decree is affirmed.

