FEBRUARY TERM 18i4.

THE COMMON COUNCIL OF ALEXANDRIA

1811.

.Fch.

18th

PRESTON.

3 bsCt...WASHINGTON,

j.and JonsoN, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of A purchaser

of real estate.
in Alexandr4,
.sinotpersormal-

Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.

This was a motion in the Court below for judgment, rears Ofotand execution against Preston, (under the 11th section assesedbeffre
of the act of congress of 25th of February, 1801, "to his pureb.T'
amend the charter of Alexandria," vol. 7, p. 48) for
taxes due to the corporation for the years 1801, 5 and
6, on a lot of ground in Alexandria, which Preston purchased of Scott in the year 1807, after the taxes were
due. The assessors' books were returned on the 1st of
lay iii every year.to the office of the clerk of the common council, where they remained subject to public inspection.
The Court below, being of opinion that the summary
remedy by motion, judgment, and execution, was given
only against the person wiho was proprietor at the time
of the assessment of the .taxes, dismissed the miotion
and the common council brought their writ of error.
The l1th section of the act to amend the charter of
Ilexandria is as followvs:
"'Be it further enacted, That whenever taxes upoit
real property, or other claims charged upon real property within the toi ii, shall be due and owing to the

common council, and the proprietor shall fail to discharge the same, the said common

council,

after

giving the party reasonable notice when lie resides iu
town ; sixty days notice when he resides out of the
•town and in the United States; and after six months
publication in the newspapers when he resides out of"
"the United States; shall be empowered to recover the
"Itid taxes or debts, by motion in the Court of Alex
4

ah'ia; and, Provided it -shall appear to the satisfac-

SUPREME COURT U, S.
(Lo.mMo "6tion of the Court that such taxes or claims are justly
coMN CIL ",due, judgment shall be granted and an execution shall
OF ALEX- "issue thereupon, with the costs of suit, against the
ANDIA
,,goods and chattels of the defaldtcr, if any can be found
T.
-Within the town; if not, that the whole property, upon
iRESTON. "which thie tax or claim is due, shall, by order of 'the
" Court, be leased out at public auction for the shortest
"term of years that may be, offered, on condition that
"the lessee pay the arrearages, and also the future
"taxes accruing during the term, and be at liberty to
"renove all his improvements at the expiration of the
,,lease; provided always that the common council may
"prosecute any other remedy, by action, for the re.
.'covery of the said taxes and claims which is now possessed or alloVed."
E. .

for the Plaintiffin crror.
rLE,

I'he question arisin. upon this case is, whether te
proprietor. for the time being, of a lot in Alexandria,
is personally liable to a judgment and execution for arrearages of taxes assessed upon the lot before he became
!he proprietor thereof.
The act of congress gives a remedy, by motion, judgment and excutmon, against the pr4oelor who shaU
fail to discharge the taxes. Preston wvas the proprietol'
at the time of the demand of payment, and has failed to
pay. He is therefore within the express letter of the
law. - The defaultler" also is the person who,has failed
to pay on (lemand; the person who was liable to pay
when the demand was made upon him. Every proprietor of the land is liable 'for its taxes so long as lie is
proprietor. The claims, according to the words of the
act, ar cliweed upon tihe real property. They accompany the land into .whose hands soever it isay pass.
The law was intended1 to give a remedy against any
proprietor of the land. The taxes are )la(-ed on the
samee footing as other charges which ace hens oi the
land. It is not a case of .eater hardship than that of
other liens on Peal estate. Caveat emptor is the rule
where h'e has the means of knowledge. Here the assessors' bools wvere always accessible. The purchaser
is bound to take notice of the non-payment of the taxes.
He purchases at his peril.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.,
SWAN,

CO.MM,

Contra.

The statute uses the definite article, " THE proprietor." OF

ALEN

The question is, -which proprietor? Scott or Preston ? ANDRI.
V.
We say it Ineans him who was proprietor when the tax
was laid, ind in whose name the land was assessed, and PRESTO4.
who was nquestionably lfable in the first instance. He -was "'the proprietor," -the defaulter" contemplated
by the legislature. If he was liable, did his liability
cease when he sold the land? or is h' still'liable? There
is nothing in the law to justify an itt_.. that the legislatore contemplated a succession of pr'oprietors who
should be successively liable.; a succession of debtors;
nor that they should be all liable at once; nor that the
corporation should have its choice out of. the several
successive proprietors. It suggests the idea of one proprietor only, and of one debtor, or defaulter'only ; and
if but one, it can be no other than. him who was confessedly liable; him who was proprietor' at the time of
the assespsnent. The tax is a lien ou the lot so far as
to authorize the Court to direct it to be leased out to
any one who will pay the taxes, in case the goods- anao
chattels of the debtor cannot be found.
The books of the assessor and collector are not matter of record. The purcliaser has 'no 'right to inspect
thenk. The, tax is a secret lien.
, February Wi....THB CouRT affirmed 't
j u~ejit,
without assigning their reasens.

PLEASANTS
V."

-8sa.
Fb

l2th.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of When a a
by
insured
Maryland in an action upon a policy of insurance, dated is
diverse
lolio* the 18th of May, 181t0, on the cargo ofthe brig cies,insomeor
Elizabeth from St. Petersburgh or Cronstadt to Phila- which therate
dela again.st
exchrnsoe
iS
a1t
whch
delpha,
against all risks, for 6,000 dollars, 6. ^&ahtho, fixed

