FEBRUARY TERM 18i!.
Had the adjustment of the value of the ruble in the
other cases exceeded forty-six cents that adjustment
would not in any respect have resulted to his benefit.

iLEA.
sA'ri
V.
MARY D,

There is one difficulty of which the Court are fully i.xs. co.
aware, *hich is, that the interest assigned in the abandonment ifestimated in rubles will be inversely as the
rate at which the ruble is estimated, so that he who
pays most would acquire least. But in this &ase the
objection does not arise; as the Plaintiff by a compromise with the underwriters on some of the other policies has reserved a suflicient interest ii the subject of
abandonment, to meet the just claims of these underwriters. And in no case would this consideration create a difficulty as between the parties to a policy.
Among the underwriters alone in the distribution of tile
proceeds of the thing abandoned would it be necessary
to determine on the correct rule to be applied in such a
case.
Had the policy, which is the subject of this suit, been
a valved policy, and declared the value of t'e whole
cargo to be 9 43,929, the actual amount at the stipulated
valuation of the ruble, the same objection would have
presented itself, but certainly would not have availed to
prevent a recovery.
The judgment below must therefore be reversed and
!he case remanded.

M'CALL AND AL.
T.

MilE M1A1INE INSURANCE COMPANY

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of t a olicy in.
aryland.s
agaist
"unlawful arrcsts,

reso-

t,incs anddqby fl~tait~nments
This was an action on a poi-'y underwritten
•
ef

Detendants, upon all kinds of lawful goods and mer-,ii
king, rft
diandize, on board the ship Cordelia,.pn a voyage from ces,:".Ole
qldali
n to f
the Island of Teneriffe, t[o
Sur'abaya, and at anid from '11,,,af~l."

SUPREM1E COURT. U S.
thence to Philadelphia, worranted American property.
The ship sailed on the voyage, on the 5th of April, 1811,
MARINE having-n board a cargo of lawfil goods; the property of
ANs. Co. the Plaintiffs, rf.the value of 15,000 dollars. and pursued
the voyage until the 18th of July following, when, beextends in its ing in a place called Madura Bay, within abhot twelve
operation.
lhOurs sail of Surabaya, she was boarded by an olicer
well to "Ilestraints and de- of a British frigate, foiming one of a squadron, then
Lainmeps" " actually blockading the port of Sur~b:.ya, and all the
and i, such otherports of the islands of Java and Madura. The fi iise, a detain- gate took p.,sse,-sion of the Cordelia. atnd conducted her
fbree Illhlly lo the admiral commanding the blockading squadron,
blockadig a who, 6n the fihkt day, dismissed the Cordeila. nft( r inpoIt isinsured
nmt a dorsng her papers, and warning the master not to enperIl
aainst iby a ter the purtof urabaya, or any othur port in the island
pdi,.,otain- of Java, or of the island of Madura, on pain of capture.
Ing ; Wvarrf*nly
ei
aeaohrtemto
aofneutralily. On the same day, the .Co'delia made'another attempt to
enter Surabaya, but wqs chased by the same British
fiigate, and taken possession of S second time. After
being detained two days, the Cordelia, was again released, and the master was 'ordered to depart instantly
from the coast of 3iva, and the neighbortood of Surabaya, upon penalty of capture, and impressment of his
men.. The lnasteir finding it impracticable to pursue
his voyage further, resolvedI toreturn to Philadelphia,
where he arrived on the 19th of November, 1811. At
the time or sailing on the voyage from Teneriffi, the
blockade of Java was unknown to the parties. The
Plaintiffs abandoned to the Defendants, immediately after the arrivad of the Cordelia at Philadelphia, which
gave them the first knowledge of the occurences. Tie
Defendants refused to accept the abandonment.
M'CALL

v.

The policy contained the usual risks, except that the
word i,,ulawvid," was printed, before -arrests," so
that-the clause stood, ,, Uedawfit arrests,restraints,and
detainmentsof all kings, princes, or people of -what nation,
conditim or quality soever." The declaration alleges,
that th ship and cargo were, during the voyage, ", by
-persns acting under the authority of the British government, and by a certain ship of war bdlonging to
that gwVernment, unlawfully seized, restrained, and detained," anti thereby become totally lost.
The Circuit Court directed the jury, that2 on this

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
,tate of facts, the Plaintiffs were not. in law entitled to .MALL
recov'er . to which the Plaintiffs excepted and brought
v.

this writ of error.

MAUMN
IN..

HARPER.fOr

the Plaintjff',

Insisted that this direction xias erroneous.; because
the voy age was broken up, and lost.
ist. By men of war ;.2d. B? detention of princes; tie blockade having prevented the accomplistiment of the voyage.
That the Plaintiffs had therefore a right to abandon.
and were entitled.to recover for a total loss.
In support of his iurg-ument, he cited the rase of )Yarker v. Blake , 9 Bast, 280, cited also in 2 .Marsludl,
835, Jlppendix.
JONES, Contra.

This case is very distinguishable from that of Bar.
ker-v. Blakes.
Ist. Tn that case, the voyage was interrupted
as tn
the ultimate and only'port of destination. Here,there
was an interupti.i as to an intermediate port only,
which cannot, we contend, constitute a total loss. The
adventkre from Teneriffe to Philadelphia, might have
been as profitable as the acconmplishment of the whole
voyage.
Anlther distinction between the two cases ariSes from
the diffierent phraseology eniph.yed in the respective
policies. The English policy employs general words,
so as to include any detention of pinces, &c. Here,
the policy is limited to uniauful detention of princes,
&c. Unlessm, therefore, this detention can be shown to
be unlawful, the case is not within'the plicy; and it is
clear, that it was not unlawful, tinless the blockade was
so. But this is not contended; the blockade was maintained by an adew:-ate force, and was in every respect
oonformable to the law of nations.

CO

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Agaip, in the case of Barker v. Blakes, the blockade
of Havre wad not considered as the cause of the desMAIN, truction of the voyage; the detention in'Bristol, was
is .co. the only ground of loss. Here, on the contrary, the
blockade is the sole ground of abandonment.
M'CALL

V.

The abandonment itself, in the tase .now before the
Court, is liable to objebtion. An abandonment, to be
valid, ought to' be anhe during the impediment that
causes the loss. But in this case, the abandonment was
not made till long after the impediment had ceased.
PiEN EEY, same side.
It was contended by the Defendants in the Court below, that they were not liable for the loss in this case,
1st. Because, under the words of the policy, that loss
did not arise from any peril insured against
2d. Because the Plafntiffs had violated their warranty
of neutrality.
3d. Because at the time when the abandonment was
made, the property was not under the restraint of princes.
The same grounds of defence are now relied upon.
And, first, as to the words of the policy. This instrutient insures against i unlaful arrests, restraints
and detainments of all kings, &c. The word "unlalvfid" is that which the Defendants consider as taking the
present case out of the policy., This word is not inserted in the English policies, but has been introduced into
those of the Marine Insurance Company and some other American offices. Some meaning must be given to
t.he term, and that can be no other than the most usual
meaning; so that unless it can be made to appear that
the detainment in this case was unlawfld, the Defendants
cannot be considered as liable. But, as has been said
before, the blockade, which was the cause of the detain.
ment, was lawful ; the detainment itself was therefore
lawful. under the acknowledged law of nations.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i1.
2d. As to the warranty of neutrality.

M'CALL
'V.

When the voyage was undertaken, and the policy un- MARINE
derwritten, neither party knew that the port of destina- INs. co.
tion was blockaded; but the underwriters protected
themselves by a warranty of neutrality, and the assured consented to give it.
The import of the warranty is that the voyage shall
be performed in a neutral. manner; and, consequently,,
that if the vessel should find the 'port blockaded, she
will discontinue the voyage. She does find it blockaded; and not only physical force, -but the law of nations and the warranty oblige her to forbear the completion of the voyage. She, nevertheless attempts to enter
the port, and that, too, after being warned off by the
admiral commanding the blockading squadron. Has
the assured- in such a case, a right to set up the compliance with his own warranty as the foundation of a
total loss, or of any loss ? With such a warranty in the
policy, can the underwriter be considered as engagin.9
that, if the port of destination should be found blockaded, the voyage shall be completed? If such i his engagement, then he stipulates that the vessiel shall violate the warranty ; because without a violation of i.,
she cannot reach her port of destination, if she finds it
blockaded. It is plain that his undertaking is only for
a neutral voyage; and, therefore, that, the iioment it
becomes unneutral, the policy is discharged by force o'
the warranty acting upon the whole contract.
Cases upon tle British orders in comicil are far less
strong than this; for they made no blockade acknowledged by the law of nations. Physical force was there
every thing; and neutral duties were not affetted by
them. But here, the neutral obligations of tie vessel
turn her back, and intercept her path, and extract the
case out of the policy.
3d. Here was no restraint of princes. Restraint must
be physical; and an abandonment, to be of any avail,
must be made during such restraint. In the present
case the physical restraint continued but one day; all
afterwards was mere moral restr-aint, arising from the
11ireat of capture and confiscation as prize of war. But

SUPREME COURT U. S.
an apprelensi n, though just and reasonable, is not sutficient to justify an abandonment. 3, Bos. and Pid.
MARINE 39!, iladkinson v. Robinson. 5, Esp. Ca. 50. i, CampINs. co. bell, Black -. JHagea. See, als., the case of
6, Mass. T . R. i18, where the Coiurt d-'cided that apprehLenioa alone would not justify an abandonment; and, also, that if the waster, after being once
warned off, had made an ether attempt to enter the
blockaded port, it would have been barratry.
m'CA.LL

Iv.

HARPER, in reply.
ist. With regard to the wording of the policy. It is
unnecessary to examine what effect the term, "unlawful," may have upon the subsequent words, inasmuch
asthe declaration states the loss to have been occasioned by men of war, with which the word , unlawful"
had no connexion. But if such examination be made,
it will appear that thi3 term applies on]) to the v ord
,,arrests," which, in the original printed form of the
policy, was separated from the following part of the
sentence by a comma, and was theri'ore the only word
qualified by the preceding term 66undawful." The pointing of the sentence was the act of the parlti' s. aii1, as
sach, rnaterial, and as much a part of the cuntract as
the wordsthemselves.
2d. As to the violation of the warranty of neutrality.
The loss was complet" before the second attempt to
enter the blockaded port; and therefore could not have
happened by reason of that att nrpt; con.sequiintly, the
right of tihe Plaintiffs to recov.-r, could not 4e alf cled
by trat or any other act of the master, subseqaent to
the original l6ss, however inconsistent with neutrality
that act might be.
3d. Witl regard to the time of abandoning: the
Plaintiffs abandoned immediately after the arrival of
the Cordelia at Phila'l lphia, which gAve them the first
information of the loss. To hay.' expectedl them to
abandon before they knew any thing of the loss wbuld
have been absolutely inconsistent with reason.
.The cases cited from Bos. and Put. anl the .ufas. T.
R. are essentially different from the present, inasmuch

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
as in those cases, there was no physical force to prevent MCALL
the prosecution of the voyage. Park. 226, (6th Ed.)
v.
Blacketshager v. the London .JssuranceCo1lany.
M MRINF
INS. CO.

•Monday, February 21st....Present all the Judges.
STORY, J. after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows :
The Court below, at tie trial, held that the Plaintiff,
under the circumstances, was not entitled to abandon
as for a total loss; and the corrctness of that opinion
remains for the decision of this Court.
Whether the turning a-%yay ot'a ship from the port of
destination in conseqiuence of a blockade, be, in any
case, a good cause for abandonment, so as to entitle the
assured to recover from the underwriter as f,r a total
loss by the breaking up of the voyage; and, if so, whetier the doctrine could apply to a policy with a warranty of neutrality, the legal effect of such warranty
b(ing to compel the party to abandon the voyage, if it
cannot be pursued consistent with neutrality, are questions of great importance, upon which the Court do'not
think it necessary to express any opinion, because this
cause may well be decided upon an independent ground.
The loss of the voyage, in the case at bar, was occasioned (if at all) by the arrest and restraint of the
British blockading, squadron. The right to blockade
an enemy's p. rt with a competent force, is a right secured to every belligerent by the law of nations. No
neutral can, after knowledge of such blockade, lawfully
enter, or attempt to enter, the blockade port. It would
be a violation of neutral character, which, according to
established usages, would subject the property enga., d
therein to the penalty of confiscatiorr. It such a case,
therefore, the arrest and restraint of neutral ships attempting to enter the port is.,a la'wful arrest and restraint by the blockading squadron. It would follow,
therefore, from this consideration, that the arrest and
restraint, on account of which a recovery is now sought,
is not a risk within the policy against which the unde'
writer has engaged to indemnify the Plaintiff.
"
VOL. VIII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
M'CALL

V.
.1ARIll,

But it is contended by the counsel for the Plaintiff,
in order to escap , from this conclusion, that the word
66

unlaNful," in the policy, is confined in its operation

iNS. co. to arrests, and does not extend to - restraints and detainments." To this construction the Court cannot-assent. The grammatical order of the words and the coherence of the sentence require a different construction.
It is not against every ",unlawful arrest" that the underwriter undertakes to indemnify, but against iunlawful arrests, &c. of all kings, princes, and people,"
which have always been hehi to mean the arrests of
kings, princes, or people, in their sovereign and national capacity, and not as individuals. The necessary
connexion of the sentence, therefore, requires that-"arrests, restraints and detainments," should be coupled
together; and, if,
so, the qualification of unla-wful must
be annexed to them all. The intent of the parties, also,
urges to the same conclusion ; for every arrest is a restraint and detainment; and it would be strange if the
party coulil, unider the allegation of a restraint, recover
a loss from which the underwriter is expressly exempted by -an unambiguous-exception in the policy.
On the whole, the uourt are of opinion that the judg
ment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

18.1.
Feb.

SMITH AND OTHERS v. EDRINGT'ON.
9th,

Present....4ll the Judges.
stalute oftheVia,
iinia reqpcet- the
tUnder

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for
district of Virginia, sitting in chancery.

ing nills, it is
nece,sary (in
ordei that
The bill sought to charge the lands of Christopher
landaeqaired
after
the (late E drington in the hands of his son and heir at law, W.
of the willmav P. Edrington,

pass. by the

with a debt due by his father, Christopher Edrington, to the Complainants, by simple contract.

Vwill)
th the
intentionof the
testator should
It was contended that the lands passed, by the will
clearly appear of Christopher Edrington, to his son, W. P. Edrington,
upon the fice of the will,
charged with the payment of the debts of the testator,

