SUPREME COURT U. S.
sm.,rit strong to impose such a charge. But although a testa& OTHERS tor may, under the above law,- dispose by will of after"v. purchased lands, it is nevertheless necessary that his
EpRING- intention to make such a disposition should clearly apTON.
pear upon the face of the will. The rule in England,
as well as in Virginia, at the time this law was passed
was, that a will, as to land, speaks at the date of it, and,
as to personal estate, at the time of the testator's death.
The law created no new or different rule of construction, but merely gave a power to the testator to devise
lands which he might possess, or be entitled to, at the
time of his death, if it should behis pleasure to do so.
The presumption is, thatthe testator nieans to confine
his bequests tp land'to which he is then entitled; and
this presumption can only be over-ruled by words clearly showing a contiary' intention.
In this will there are no expressions which indicate
an rintention to devise, or in any manner to charge,
lands which the testator might -afterwards acquire. It
does not appear that the testator contemplated, at the
time he made hiswill, the purchase of any land, and
the words, " estate" and ",property," to be found in it,
may be filly satisfied by applying them to the personal
property of which he was possessed.
it is therefore the opinion of the Court that there is
no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and that
the same onght t6 be affirmed with costs.

810.
Feb.

BEALE v. THOMPSON AND MARIS.

18th.

.blsert.... WASHINGTON J q"JOHNSON, 3.
It is a fatgl
objection to a
ta-,
dep'oPtO
kenunder the

ERROR to the Circuit Court foi' the district of
Columbia..

On the trial_in the Circuit Court below, the Defenjdiwe.aet of dant, Beale; offered in evidence, the deposition, of Tu1789, Set. 3o, ris 'Craven, taken befdre the judge of the district Court
AIkit was Oof the United'States, for the district of New Hampshire,
pcw but
- Udder tie 30M1 sec. of thejudwiary act of Sep. 24th, 1789,
Court.
Tol.. 1), . 48, which, after prescribing the mode of taking

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
depositions, directs that "the depositions so taken shall be nBtiE
IV.
-retained by such magistrate until he deliver the same
',with his own hind into the Court for which they are TIIOMPSON
"taken ; or shall, together with a certificate of the rea- & mitlls.
"sons aforesaid of their being taken, and of the notice,
" if any, given to the adverse party, be, by him, the
"said magistrate, sealed up and- directed to such
' Court, and remain under his seal until opened i, Court."
The deposition was sealed up by the judge, but directed to the clerk of the Court, andl he, supposing it to be
a letter respecting his official business, opened it out of
court.
The Court below rejected the deposition ; which being stated in a bill of exceptions, the Defendant, Beale,
brought his writ of error.
The question respecting the inrormality of opening
the deposition out of Court, was not argued in this
Court, there being another objectionto it, which the counsel deemed more important, viz: that the deponent was
the drawer of the note upon which the suit was brought
against the Defendant, Beale, as indorser : the purport
ot the deposition being to show that Beale had not due
notice of the non-payment of the note by the deponent.
LAW k Jo.NEs, for the Plaintiff in error.
MORSELL,

fir the Defendants in error.

Fe'. 2 3d....STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows:
The single p6int in this caqe is whether the Circuit
Court of the district of Columbia, erred in rejecting the
deposition of Tunis Craveh.
Independant of all other grounds, the Court are of
opinion that the fact of the depositions, not having been
opened in Court, isa fatal objection.
The statute of 21th September, 1789, cit. 20, see. 30,
is express on this head.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must'be affirmed.

