I'EBRUARY TERM lnc1.
GRACIE

1814.
Feb.

THE MARINE INSURANCE

16th

COMPANY

OF BALTImORE.

Abself....WASUINGTO,

..

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district oftA policy oa
be
tolanded
goods
suriely
•
Maiyland.
"t Ixgliorn, is

The facts of the case, as stated by MAPSIIALt, Ch. 3. .liarge' by
a
in delivering the opinion of the Court, yerc as folloWs : landtthe
retto; that bethe trade.
This case arises on a policy of insurance bearing irgtheusagef
date the. 19th of June, 1S07, for S 20.000 on the cargo Qite, wheof the ship Spartan, - at and from Baltimore to Leg- t:e mnso°a
and toc.ed where
horn," the risk to commence on the loading,
there isawarcontinute ," until the said goods shall be safely landedSraety
agaist
partiuaraveat Leghorn aforesaid."
rage ?

The policy contained, in the printed part, the usual
stipulation that the assured, in case of loss., shall labor,
&c.for the preservation and recovery of the goods, to
the expcuse or which the assurers would contribute
according to the rate of the sum insured; in the policy is
inserted, in writing, the words "6 %arranted free ftom
particular average."
The vessel sailed from Baltimore'in June, 1807, and
on the 15th of August arrih ed in the port of Leghorn.
According to the laws and usages of the place, ships
arriving at that potrt, and their cargoes were, obliged to
perform a quarantine of thirty days before admission
(of the cargo, or of any person on board, into the tity;

the ships lerforming it in the port, the cargoes in- a
certain Lazaretto erected for that purpose on the shore
of the port about half a mile from the city. Some specre excepted from this rule, but the
cified articles
cargo of the Spartan did not come within the exception.
On the arrii al in port of a vessel liable to quarantine.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the officers of government took possession of the cargo,
and removed it in public lighters to the Lazaretto.
MARINE Freight was earned upon the depositing of the cargo
iNs. co. in the Lazar, tto, but payment of it,
though often made
Ji-fore, could not be eiforced until after the expiration
of the qtarantinr, and until paym, nt, the lien for tile
freight continued on the goods. The duties also accrued in thr- Lazaretto, and until they were paid, the
giods could not be removed'thtnce into the city.
GRACIF

v

The goods remained in tle custody of,the officers of
governm nt until the expiration of the quarantine, during the continuance of which, neither the master of the
sl.ip. nor the consignees had any power to interfere
with, or even see, them, but under a.permit from the l)cal authorities ; such permits were commonly allo ed
the consignees, %ho might take samples, and sell by
those samples, while the goods were performing quarantine.
After quarantine was perfermed, and an order fiom
the master obtained. the goods were recei%ed at the
Lazaretto by the owner or consignee, and transported at his risk and expense into the city.
i'd.is
transportation was mnost usually made by water; tLut
there was a road along which light goods might be, and
frequently were, carred. Even when goods were sold
during the quarantine, they were removed at the risk
and charge of the vendors.
It conformity with these regulations, the cargo of
the Spartan was placed in the Lazaretto. While it remained there, performing quarantine, a body Df French
troops took poss-ssion of the city, seized the Lazaretto,
sequestertd thegoods there deposited, and refused to give
them up unil a ransom, amounting to 53 per cent. on
their estimated value, should be paid for them. This
ransom the owners or consignees were compelled to pay
in order to obtain restite ion of their goods. This aclion is brought to recover it from the underwriters.
Judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court for the
Der',.,dants, which judgment is now brought hefore this
Court by a writ of error.

FEBRUART TERM

fltPvRn

8i4.

, for the Plaintitf in error, contended,

GRACIL

1st. That the laiding at the Lazaretto was. not a, MARINn
landing in safety at Leghorn, within the meaning of the iNs. (o.
policy.
.2d. That the Plaintiffis not prevented, by the Warranty against particular average, from recovering the
anmount of the ransom paid.
1. The goods %ierenot landed in saf,'ty at Leghorn.
They were landed at the Lazaretto, whir h is no part of
the city of Leghorn. The landing contemplated by the
policy was at the city-the place where the goods Nvere
to find a market; and not merely a hinding at t|
1p
port. The vo)age as to the ship might terminate at
th(: port, but the goods wore to go to the city, and b
landed in safety. Afier having lierform: d quarantine
at the Lazaretto, tiey were to be re-shiipid into lighters and carried to the city.
But if the landing at the Lazaretto be'a landing at
Leghorn, et they were not landed in safety within the
meaning of the pnlicy. It is natural to suppose that
the parties meant such a, landing as would put the cargo into the possession and under the control of the consignee. But while it was at the Lazaretto, it was subject to the orders of the master, not of the consignee.
It was still liable for freight, and although it is said to
be part of the tisage of the trade, that the freiglt is
earned by the delivery at the Lazaretto, yet it is not
payable until the termination of the qiarantine., The
Lazaretto is a mere substitute for the ship as a place
in which to perform the quarantine. If it had remained on board the vessel, it would unquestionably have
been at the risk of tme underwriters. The landing was
for their benefit inasmuch as the goods were safer on
shore than in the ship.
The seizure was a'detention of princes, and until the
goods were. ransomed, they were lost. 1, .farshallu,
264, 176, Waples v. Baines, id. 269, 181, PeUy u. Roy.
Ex.Aissur.

2. Notwithstanding tl warranty against particular

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
average, the Plaintiff niay recover upon the clause of
the policy authorizing him to labor and travel ,for t ie
MARINE . preservation of the property, to the expense whereof
INs. co. the underwriteis promise to contribute according to the
rate of the sume-msured. The ransom was an expense
incurred to -ave the residue and prevent a total loss,
for which the underwriters would have been liable.
GRACpE

V.

JoKr s and PxmiiNEY, contia.
1. Thevoyage was 'eymed by the landing of the goods
at the Lazaretto. The policy is satisfied i;" they are
landed at the port of Leghorn. When the name of a
place is used in a policy it means the port, although
Leghorn is a city, yet the port is also called Leghorn.
When a place is named as the terminus of the voyage, it
means the usual place to which ships come to unlade.
It does not always mean the caput portus. It sometimes means the house of general receipt. Doubtful
expressions are to be construed in favr of the underwriters. 1, Bur. 318, 3,19, Tierney -v. Etherington, cited' by lord Mansfield in the Bank-Saul case of Pelly v.
Boy. Ex. .ssur. 1, .Iarshall, 250, 251. Hargrave's
Law Tracts, 46. Hales Treatisede portubus M~aris, ch. 2.
p, 56. The termination of th voyage; in fact and in
law, is the landing of the goods at the usual place of
landing, at the ultamate port of destination according
to the usage of that trade. The usage of the trade is
all important, The parties are bound to know it. It
forms part of their contract. It may control and rnmdify a warranty, and illustrate the termination of the
voyage. The case states that the freight was earned
by delivery at the Lazaretto-the duties had accrued
to the Etrarian government-the transportation from
thence to the city would have been at the risk and expense of- the consignee or the owner. It was also a
place where the goods might be sold by samples: All
these circumstances show that the voyage uas ended.
Te general rule is that if the insured undertakes to
transport the goods, the underwriters are discharged.
1, ,tarsltall, 165, 249, Sparro-w v. Caruthers. id. 166,
253, Rucker -v. Lonad. dssur. id. 167, 251, Murry v. Roy.
Ex. .Ossur. The lien for the freight depends either upon
the agreement of the parties on.the municipal law ofthe
place ; it does not affect the question respecting the

FEBRUARY TERM 181.

In the cases of Tierney T. G.RACIF
I.
Etherinzgton, and Plely v. Roy. Ex. .ssur. the voyage
confessedly was not terminated, The government of MARINE
Leghorn receives the cargo at the Lazaretto as the i1s. Co.
agent of the owner or consignee and holds it for his benfit; it is entered on the books of the Lazaretto in the
name of the ship, the master and the consignee, if
known.
termination of the voyage.

The policy was never construed to undertake that
the consignee should have the unlimited control over
the cargo after it was landed. But in this case it was
under his control; not absolute, but modified by the
municipal government of'the place. The governmejnt
had a right so to modify it. Thus in London, sorie
goods must be deposited in the kings warehouse. So
also in France, the emperor took it into his head to
turn merchant and monopolize all the tobacco, and ordered it to be stared in his warehouses. In all countries the power of the consignee is in a certain degree
modified. lie had a power to take samples and sell
by ihem.
It is said also that the goods were to be huded at the
place of market. But if the place of market means the
placo where the goods may he sold, and where they are
under the control of the consignee-the Lazaretto was
that place. The Lazaretto was an appendage to Leghorn, as the Piroeum was to Athens. Suppose the voyage had been from Carthage to Athens, landing at the
Pirmtum would have terminated the voyage. So would
a voyage from the West Indies to London terminate at
the West India dock; yet something must be previously done by a consignee at the dock btfore he can have
the complete control over the goods in the wharehouses
of the dock company. So in the port of Baltimore.
some goods must be delivered at the Lazaretto. And
if a cargo should be delivered at Fell's Point (which is
out of the city) under a policy on a voyage to Baltimore, the policy would be discharged. The cargo
would have been brought to its market.
In the case of Waples v. Eames, the ship was not 2-1.
hours moored in good safety. There w as no opportunity to unlade. But here the goods were actually tn-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
laden. In the Bank Saud case there was no question
v.
whether the voyage was ended. The ship was in itinere.
mA-Atw The only question was whether, by the usage of the
IN%. co. trade, the goods might be unladen for safe keeping
while the vessel was repairing.
GRACIE

2. It was only a partial loss, which is excepted from

the policy by the vmnuscrzpt %arranty against particular
average; which means partial Loss.
Although it would have been a total loss if abandonment had been offered while the goods were detained,
yet as no such offer was made, it is now only a partial
loss.
Those parts of the policy which are in manuscript
are to be particularly regarded, as they contro the
printed form. 1, .3larshall, 229, 305. Park, 4, 6, 60.
-t, East, 130.
Ransom is only a parthia loss. It was never considered as coming under the clause of laboring and travelling for the interest of all concerned. If it can come
under that clause, then that clause is so far repealed by
the express manuscript warranty, that the underwriters
shall not be liable for a partial loss. If the French general •had taken a part of the goods, there could have
been no question that the underwriters would ,not have
been liable-the ransom represents thl, part which might
have been so taken. The clause respecting the expenses of labor and travel was.first introduced i'm t741, to
remove a doubt whether the insure,1 could so labor and
travel without losing his right to abandom ; but he is
not bound to labor and travel, nor to ransom. i,
,Marshall, 231, 488. 3, Bur. 1731. Doug. 610.
But if the underwriters are liable under that clause
of the policy, they are only liable in the proportion
which the loss bea!'s to the amonnt saved.
HARPER, ilt repljy.
1. The first point depends upon the usage of the trade.
We say that the usage merely substitutes the Lazaretto
for the sihip ; like the cases of the store ship at Gibral-

FEBRUARY TERM is4.

81

ter, and the Bank Saul at Canton. The prfnciple of all
these cases is sustitntion. The goods were not in the
power ot the consignee. He could only make an executory contract. He had no more power over the goods
than if they had been upon the ocean.
The lien for the freight continues until the end of the
quarantine, whn it is to be. paid, and not belire, because the master has not until then done all that the
contract requires.
2. It is said that the exception of partial loss operates upon every part of the policy ; not. merely upon its
general provisions, but upon every particular provision,
however contradictory it may be to that exceptioh.
But the tvo clauses, viz: the engagement to pay for.
labor and travel, and the warranty against pal-tial losses, may stand together. The latter meas warranted
free from all partial lossess except such as arbsefrom.
labor and travel for the pr servation of the go.,ds. The
blanks in the printed form'of the clause resperting labor and travel were filled in manuscript, as %ell as the
warranty against particular average. an-l th r 'fore arc
to be equally regarded. That circumstance also shows
that the parties intended that both clauses should stand,
and have effect. The ransom was as much the means
of saving the underwriters froun a total loss, as if it
had been strictly labor and travel.
Feb. 19th...MARSIALL, Ch. . after stating the case,
delivered the opinion of the Court as folloss:
The Plaintiff in error contends,
1st. That the placing of the ioods in the Lazaretto
was not -,a landiag in safety ai Leghorn," and a termination of the voyage.
2d. If the loss happened during the continuance of the
risk, the-Plaintiff is not prevented from recovering, by the
warranty in the policy against particular average.
In support of his first point he contends that it Leg.
horn," in the policy, mdans the city and not the port of
Leghorn.
VOL. VII,1

GRACTX

v.
MA'-'IW ,
INs. co.

82
GRACIE

IV.
m.iR&i,
INs. co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

2d. That the Lazaretto being substituted for the ship
for the greater safety of the goods, their situation, as il
respects all parties, while pertormin, quarantine in the
Lazaretto, is precisely the same as if performing,quarantine in the ship. This argument is supposed to be
much strengthened by the facts, that freight cannot be
demanded until quarantine is performed, and that tht
lien for the freight continues after the landing of thegoods.
3d. That a landing in safety must be such it landing as
placeg the goods at the disposal of the owner or consignee.
However true it may be in general that when we
speak of Leghorn, we speak of the city which bears
that name, it does not follow that the same meaning is
attached to the word when used in a policy. 'The insuranceis "i at and from Baltimore to Leghorn." Now
if, as is admitted, Baltimore means the port of Baltimore, it would seem not unreasonable to suppose that,
in the same instrument, Leghorn means the port of
Leghrn-the place -i hich is the ultimate destination of
the vessel on board which the goods are laden. The
voyage is understood to be terminate(] when the vessel
arrives at her port of destination, and has been moored
there in safety for twenty-four hours.
But it will. be conceded that the termination of the
voyIe as to the ship, does not necessarily terminate
the risk on the goods. This risk may continue when
the voyage as to the ship is ended. Its duration depends
on the intention of .the parties, and this intention must
be found in their contract.
This brings us to consider the argument that the
goods while performing quarantine in the Lazaretto remain atthe risk of the insurer in like marner as if pertfrming ouarantine in the ship.
The words of the policy being ,c beginning the adventure on the said lawful goods and merchandizes from
and immediately following the lading thereof on board
of said vessel at Baltimore aforesaid,, and so shall continue and indure until the said goods and merchandizes
shall he satciv landed at Leghorn aforesaid." The risk
continues until the goods be safely landed, although the

FEIRUARY TERM

8I.

83

voyage as to the ship, might be terminated previous to
their landing.
-'hr ordinary cases, where the government does not interfere between the parties, this iisk would continue until the goods should be landed in safety at the usual place,
arid at the disposal of the consignee. If it were usual to
receive goods at the Lazaretto or at any other place on
the shore of the port, it would be the duty of the owner
or consignee to receive them there, and a landing at
such place, it is admitted, would be a landing at Leghorn.
If on the other hand the goods while performing
quarantine remained on board the ship, and could not
be landed, it is not to be doubted that they would remain
at the risk of the insurer. How their, it is asked, can the
substitution of the Lazaretto tr the ship alter this risk ?
A substitution made, not by the act of the parties, but of
the govermient of the country ? A substitution which
does not alter the rights of the parties since it reaves
the lien of the master for-his frieght unimpaired, and
grves no power ovw-r the goodsto theowner or consignee?
A subsi itution beneficial to the insurer since it diminishes the risk on the goods ?
Whatever might be the effect of this reasoning if the
establishment of the Lazaretto, and the laws of quarantine had been of so recent a date, as not to have been in
the contemplation of the parties to the contract, as to
which the court gives no opinion, this cause may well be
decided upon the usage found in this case, a usage of
ancient date and of general notoriety. It existed and
was known to exist Nlien this contract ,was formed.
When the parties stipulated that the a,;venture should
continue till the geods were landed in safetyat Leghorn,
they knew that the place of lauding was the Lazaretto,
and that the landing would M made under the direction
and control of ttm local authority. This then must be
considered as the landing contemplated in the policy.
It is the landing which terminates the risk. Had the
parties intended to continue the risk during the continuance of the goods in tle'Lazaretto,- they would have
inserted, in the policy, words manifesting that intention.*
Instead of terminating the adventure on the landing, a

ORACIE

-.
MARINE
iNs. O.m

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GOACxl,

V.

fact which they knew must take place at the Lazaretto

tbirty days before ihe goods could be delivered to the
iiwiier or consignee, they would have continued it, till
xs. co. the g ods shduld be landed in safety and should perform
their quar antine.

MARINE

The Court is of opinion that under this policy the
goods in the Laztretto were not at the risk of the underwriters and consequ-ntly that there is no error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court.
It is affirmed with costs.

)

• GRA-tCXIZ7

THE MARX'].

7V.

INS. CoM P'v.

This case differs fi-om that against the Marine Insurance Company of Baltimore only in one particular.
A part of tha cargo remained on board the ship until
the arrival of the Fiench troops when the departure
of the vessel was prohibited by the general and the ransom made.
This circumstance does not, in the opinion of the
Court, vary the case; because, omitting all other considvrations, the loss, within the risk, being en only a
part of the cargo, is a partial loss, and is affected by the
warranty against particular average loss.
Thisjzulgnent is also to be affirmed with cost. .
RICHAR)S AND OTEERS,

181..
Feb.

lith.

AsSIGNEES OF M';KEAN, A BANKRUPT,
7T.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANM.
WASHINGTON,
.8bsent....

Upon the

ERRCR to the Circuit Court for the district of
-Marykand, in an action of covenant on a policy of in-

death ofan s-.

sirne under

J.

