SUPREME COURT U. S.
GOACxl,

V.

fact which they knew must take place at the Lazaretto

tbirty days before ihe goods could be delivered to the
iiwiier or consignee, they would have continued it, till
xs. co. the g ods shduld be landed in safety and should perform
their quar antine.

MARINE

The Court is of opinion that under this policy the
goods in the Laztretto were not at the risk of the underwriters and consequ-ntly that there is no error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court.
It is affirmed with costs.

)

• GRA-tCXIZ7

THE MARX'].

7V.

INS. CoM P'v.

This case differs fi-om that against the Marine Insurance Company of Baltimore only in one particular.
A part of tha cargo remained on board the ship until
the arrival of the Fiench troops when the departure
of the vessel was prohibited by the general and the ransom made.
This circumstance does not, in the opinion of the
Court, vary the case; because, omitting all other considvrations, the loss, within the risk, being en only a
part of the cargo, is a partial loss, and is affected by the
warranty against particular average loss.
Thisjzulgnent is also to be affirmed with cost. .
RICHAR)S AND OTEERS,

181..
Feb.

lith.

AsSIGNEES OF M';KEAN, A BANKRUPT,
7T.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANM.
WASHINGTON,
.8bsent....

Upon the

ERRCR to the Circuit Court for the district of
-Marykand, in an action of covenant on a policy of in-

death ofan s-.

sirne under

J.

FEBRUARY TRIRM 181 ,

85

surance under seal. The Defendants pleaded thle Ma- RICHARDS
ryland statute of limitation of 12 years, 1715. ch. 23, & OTHERS
T.
§ 6, which enacts, 96that no spt cialty whatsoever, shall
"be, go d and pileadable, or admittd in evidence MARY'D.
"against any person or persons of this province, after imsw. Co.
,,the principal debtor and creditor have been hoth.dead
612 years, or the debt or thing in actio above 12 ytears the bankrupt
kaw of did U.
in
-stiniiiig," with a saving of 5 years incases of in- st,., die
fancy, &c.

right of aztion,
for a dlebt dti
,,
othe bank-

substance
i,t,
veste
thiscause
pica of
stated
The replication
d in
actionin accrued
on te
the te
executor
following
facts, thattothe
on t-ofhte ,signee.
1st of May, 1797. That .31.Kean was declared a bank- Ifan executor
rupt, and on the 9lth' of March, isO, his estate was dio net cause
duly asignwd to Thomas .4llibone, who, on the B0th fhmaepart toe
October. fS0.,instituted a suit on th'e policy and died a suit brought
1809, whereby the. suitwas abated. ill the life
on the 1st of August,
Z3
fi
time, and in
That on the Iith of January, 1910, the Plaintiffs were, the name, of
tesfator,at
the pending
pursuance
in
assignees
appointed
by the commissioners, •
and
of the choice of the creditors regularly convened for hidet, itis
tht purpose, and brought the present action at the'next to be considervoantary abandonterai after the death
•~ ,of Allibone, the former assignee. eda'a
mentoftheaeTo this replication there was a general demurrer.
tion,so as to

elude the
The judgment of the Court below, ,upon the demur- xecutot
from
equity of
wag in favor of the Defendants; and the Plaintiffs the
rer,
the
exceptions
h
t their writ of errotr,

brought

fto

the statute

of' limitations.

HARPER, for the Plaiditiffs in error, made four points. Quere,
comther the wheof
nli-Sionars

1. That an assignee, under the commission of bank- bankiupt had
ruptcy, had no interest in the effecLs of the bankrupt point a second
which could vest in his executors or administrators, but assignee in
case of the
was a mere trustee or agent of the commissioners.
death of the
first;.

common
bad power, upon the At
l aw,' no0action
death of an assignee, to appoint another in his stead, could be r-

2. That the commissioners

and so toties quoties.

hewed

by

Jounley's accounts, in n

. That under the equity of the statute of limitations case of volunthe Plaintiffs had a right to bring a fresh suit upon the t1-y abatid,,
MenL
abatement of the first.
-I. That there was a good continuance of the suit by

.Tourney!'s arcounts.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RICHARDS
I. Theobankrupt law gave no estate to the assignee.
& OTHERS He had no interest in the effects of the bankrupt; the

.v.

object of the law was merely to appoint a curator of tire

MAUY'D. estate, with an authority like that of an administrator.

xis. co. It was 4 mere personal agency which terminated by the
death of the assignee. It was tie intention of the law
that this agent should have the confidence of the creditors; but that intention would be defeated if the executor or administ'ator of the assignee should become the
ide Bankrupt law of the United States, vol. 5,
agent.
p. 50, § 6, 7 and 8.
-2. The commissioners, under the equity of the 6th
and 8th sections, had power to appoint a new assignee
or assignees in case of the death of the assignee for the
time being. Theii' power was like that of the.ordinary
in granting lett, rs of administration. No express authority is given to the ordinary'to grant letters de bonis
non; yet his atithority to do it was never disputed. The
intention of the bankrupt law was that there should always be an assignee until the estate should be settled.
The general power to appoint, inrplies an authority to
heep the office always full. The Plaintiffs, therefore, had
power to maintain this action.
3. 'The act of limitations doeg not apply to this case.
2 Salk. 4,21. Cary ad ux. v,. Stephenson. The principle
of that case was7 that the Plaintiffs had done all in their
power, and, therefore, the statute of limitation was not
a bar. To make tie statute apply'there must be negli,ence on the part of the PlaihtifT, and injury to the Defendant by the delay. If a administrator commence
the action within a year after tre granting of letters of
administration, the statute is no bar, unless it began to
run in, the life of the intestate. So in the case of an
executor of an executor. Butler .'. P. 15G. .Esp. .'.
P. i50. These cases all depend on the same general
principle-the equity of the statute. If there *be no
wegligence on the part of the Plaintiff and no injury to
tie Defendant, the case is within that equity.
4.. This new action is a good continuation of the old
suit by Journey's aecouitts. 6 Co. 10, Spencer's case. - A
new action by Journey's acmunts may be had where the
former action abates by the faultof the clerk, &c. 'but,

iEBRUARY TERM isii.

87

not if it be abated by his own default. Thedoctrine RTCHARDS
applies as well to personal as to real actions. 1 Ld. & OTrERS
T1.
Ray. 283, Elstob v. Thorowgoid. The principle of that
case is that where the second Plaintiff derives his au- MARY "I.
thority from the same scource as the first, he may have INS. CO.
the action by Journey's account.
PXNXNFEY, contra.
The argument divides itself into two parts.
1. The construction of the act of congress.
2. Ther effect of the act of limitations.
1.'Undei the bankrupt law the contimissioners had
ao power to appoint a new assignee iWicase of the death
of the first assignee. Their power iWithis respect was
linited to the case of a removal of tle assignee by the
creditors. Much is said -about the equity of the statute,
but this Court is authorized ins dicere, non jus dare.
The 6th sectionprovides for the appointment of an as-,
signee. The 7th authorizes the commissioners to appoint a temporary assignee without the consent of- the
creditors, and the 8th section provides for the removal
of an assignee, and the appointment of another in his
place. If the Court can extend the equity of the statute
to the case of the death of an assignee, it must be by a
very, liberal constructionBy the 18th section the estate and effects of the bankrupt are to be conveyed to the assignee, his heirs, executors, administratorsand assigns forever. The Both section conveys the same idea. The estate .lescends to the
heir of the assignee, clothed with the trust, and he has
all the rights and is subject to, all the responsibilities
and duties of the original assignee.
But if the Court can, by equity, extend the power of
the comissioiiers to the appointment of a new assignee
in case of death, then, under the 9th section of the act,
the new assignee might have been substituted for the
old, and the action would not have abated by the death,
but might have been prosecuted to judgment by the new
assignee. So that if the suit was abated, it was through

88

SUPREME COURT, U. 8S

iicIivlDs his negligence, or voluntary act; and no Plinitiff, who
& OTUER2S is in defauft, can have the benefit of the equity of the
r.
statute by Journey's accounts.
MXARY'D.

INS. CO.

2. As to the Maryland statute of limitations. It differs from the English statute of 21 Jac. which contains
no limitation of actions upon specialities, judgments or
recognizances. -The' same rule of equitable construction, therefore, cannot apply to both. But even if the
same rule of construction could be applied to the Maryland statute, yet it does npt contain the same clause
upon which the equity aristes in Englanl.
The object of the statute was to prevent injury to
Defendants by the loss of evidence, If the statute once
begins to run nothing will stop its course but an effectual suit. If a promise be made to a frme sole, and the
day after the cause of 'action accrues, she marry, the
statute continues to run notwithstanding the coverture,
so in case of non compos, absence, &c. 4f Rac. .b. 479,
note. 1 Rac. .6b. 41s.
But it is only the equity of the 4th section of the English statute that could have aided the Plaintiffs: That
section allows a new action to be brought within a year,
in three cases. 1. Whore judgment has been reversed
by writ of error. 2. Where judgment has been arrest,ed: and, 3. Where an omtlawry has been reversed.
!A Bac. .Ab. 171, Gwiltim's edition, § 4. The Court,
have said that abatement is within the same reason, but
they have not said that other representatives than those
mentioned in the 4th section may bring a new action,
(except in the case in lord Raymond, which has been
over-ruled in that respect. I Ld. Ray. 281.)
The Maryland statute does n t contain a section
similar to the Ith section of the 21st James.
HARPER.
But that section of the English statute
has been always in.Use in Mariland in that respect,
and is in daily practice in their Courts; and, therefore,
and by force of the bill of rights and constitution of
Maryland, has been adopted as part of the law of the
land.

FEBRUARY TERM i81.
PINKNEY. The statute of James is not in force in RICHARD.
Maryland in respect to those cases for which the sta- & OT.IERS.
v.
tute of Maryland provides. .This statute professcs to
provide a limitation for all actions, and to enumerate MARY'D.
all cases in which exceptions should be made. With INs. co.
the English statute belltre them, and while exercised in
selecting such parts of it as they thought proper, the
legislature cannot be presumed to have been so negligent as to omit the 4th section if they intended to
adopt it.
But if it he in force in"Maryland, this Court will not
push the equity or it farther than has been done in the
Courts in England. They have never permitted such
a representative, as these Plaintiffs are, t6 bring a new
action, nor any one to bring a now action where the
benefit of-the former one has been lost by negligence or
voluntary abandonment; which we say was the case
here, for the action might certainly have been continued
and maintained by either the executor of Allibone, or by
the new assignees. In the case cited trom 2 Salk. 121,
Cary v. Stzphenson, the cause of, action arose hifter the
death of the intestate and before the letters of administration were granted. For if the statute had begun to
run in the life of the intestate, it would have continued
to run although no administration had been granted.
The next case is Carver v. James, or Carver -D.James,
or Karver v. James, as it is differently called in several
books. Buller, V. P. t50. Esp. X. P. 150. 'Wille's
Rep. 255. In that case the a'tion was brought by the
executor, and the equity of the Ith section of 21 Jac.
extends 6nly to the pai'ty Iiimself, his heirs, exeicutors
and administrators,and not to any other represeutative.
The case cited from 1 Ld. Ray. 283, supports the same
doctrine. Both Plaintiffs were executors of the originial creditor. The Court decided the case upon the
doctrine of Journey's accounts and the equity of the 4th
section of the statute of James. The case put by the
Court, by way of illustration, is precisely in point. If
the first Plaintiff had been administrator(ingtead of executor) durante minoritate. the executor, when of age,
could, not have continued the suit by Journey's accounts,
nor would he have been aided by the equity of the statute, because he. was not the legal representative of the
1
VOL. VII

SUPREME COURT U. S.
former Plaintiff. There is no case in which an assignee
& OTH -us has been decided to be within the equity of that section
1V.
of the statute. Although both assignees may derive
MAURY'D. their authority from the same'source, yet the one is not
INs. co. ;he legal repe'esentative of the other. The opinion in
the case of Estob -v. Therowgood (Ld. Raymond, 283)
is expressly retracted, in the case of Kinsey v. Heyward.
I Ld. Ray. 432, where the same Court say "cthat in no
- case can. a writ of Journey's accounts be, but by the
" same Plaintiffs, or some of them, who were Plaintiffs
",in the former writ; and that to say that the general
-executor, and the executor durante 7ninoritate, were
" as one person in the office, is to strain the point too
",far; for it must be the same Plaintiff, not only by re4,presentation, but by name; for the second writ is a
"continuance of the first, which cannot bo but by the
" same person, .pot in representation only, or in respect
"of their office, but strictly and truly the same person."
UTCHAIRDS

JoxEs, same side.
.Even If the doctrine of Journey's accounts could ap.
ply, the Plaintiffs were too late. In Journey's accounts
the writ is said to be granted per dietas computatas,
which originally meant as many days journies as the
Plaintiff was distant from the Court of chancery, where
he was obliged to go to get a new writ, accounting 20
miles for a day's journey, and it was originally necessary to show the number ef days in the replication that
by computation it might appear that he was within the
time allowed. This was afterwards settled by a gene.
ralorule to be 30 days. In this replication the Plaintiff
has replied simply the facts, and says nothing of the
dicta3 compntatas. The new writ, by Journey's accounts, operates a continuance of the old suit, and in the
judgment the Plaintiff recovers the costs of both writs,
and, therefore, it must be brought by the same Plaintiff.
8 Co. 10, Spencer's case. -2 Inst. 288. 2 Corn. Dig. 43s.
Tit. coIs. In none of the cases decided, upon the equity
of the statute of Jameq, has the Plaintiff prevailed upon
appeal. They are little better than obiter dicta.
IIAuPER,,

in reply.

The opposite counsel almost admit our construction

FEBRUARY TERM isi.

91

of the bankrupt law. The authority of the assignee is nIcHAmDs
like that of an administrator. The power of the corn- & OTHERS
missioners is like that of the ordinary.
1.
NIARYDV.
Although the writ was abated, yet the Plaintiffs might Ins. co.
renew the suit. They were not in default by not ,(on.
tinuing the old writ, for if they might have continued
it, they were not obliged so to do. Thus in Maryland
an executor may be made a party in the place of his
testator; but if he does not come in and the suit is
thereby abated, he may bring a new suit. The right ot
the Plaintiffs to continue the old suit, unde.r the 9th section of the bankrupt law, was doubtful. They preferred
a safe, plain, clear, undeniable remedy. Their having
done so ought not to exclude them from the equity of
the statute of limitations.
It is well known to every lawyer in Maryland, that
the 4th section of the statute of James had been used
and practised in the Courts of that state, and it has,
therefore, become the law of the land by force of the
bill of rights.
Th case of ICinsey v. tUey-ward was not reversed on
its merits, the doctrine of the Court of common pleas,
that the Plaintiff was within the equity of the 4th section of the statute of James, was not denied by the
king's bench. Nor was the case of Carver v. James
reversed upon the merits. The doctrine, therefore, was
in effect affirmed by implication ; because they would
not have assigned other causes of reversal, if the principle of the case itself was erroneous.
February 251t....JouisoN, J. delivered the opinion of
the Court as follows:
This is an action of covenant brought on a policy of
insurance under seal. The facts as made out in the
pleadings are these: The cause of action accrued on the
Ist M;ay, 1797. M.Kean was declared a bankrupt,
and on the 19thMarch, 1801, his estate -was assigned
to Thomas Allibone. On the sixth of October, 1806,
the assignee. instituted a suit on this policy and died on
flie 1st of August, 1809.
On the lith of January, 1810, the Plaintiffs were

SUPREME COURT U. S.
appointed assignees in fiursuance of the choice of the
& OTHRs creditors regularly convened for that purpose, and
S,.~ brought the present action to the term next after the
.IARY'n. death of the assignee.
INS. CO.
The plea is the statute or limitations. To this is filed a special replication, setting. forth the above facts
with a view to sustain an exception from the operation
of the statute. rhe case comes up on a demurrer to
the replication, and for the Def.ndaiit there were two
points made at bar.- ist. That the action is not mainta~nable at all hy the present Plaintifl, because the
lankrupt act makes no provision for the appointment
of a new assignee upon the demise of Ilhe first. .2d, That
the right of acti.'n vests in his personal representative
and could be maintained by him-that the abatement
by the death of the first assignee, was a volunta-.y
abandonment of the suit, and put the case of the Plai itiffs out of the reason of the exceptions from the operation of the statiite. In support of the action it was
contended, that the former suit abated by the death of
the first assignee-that the right did not vest in his
executors, because it was a mere trust or agency-that
the right of substituting the new assignees in the action
is secured only iii the case of removal by the creditorsthat this case is without the statute oj"limitations upon
an equitable construction of that statute-and lastly,
flat this action is a good continuance of the foriner,
by Journy's accountRIClIAKDS

We are of opinion that the pha of the statute of
limitations must be sustained. On the first point made
by the Defendant, the Court would be underst d to
give no opinion. Being satisfied that the Plaintiff has
not brought himself within any one of the exceptions
which have been'admitted to the statute of'limitations,
and feeling no inclination to multiply those exceptions,
they dispose of the case upon the second ground alone.
Th. -ases which, though literally within the words of
the statutk, have been held to be without its spirit, are
those only in which circumstances intervened, which
rendered it impossible or inconsistent with known and.
established principles, that a cause of action could be
revivrd by the renewal of the contract, or enforced by
a suit at law within the time prescribed. The object

FEBRUARY TERM 1814i
of the law is to secure the individual from the machin-

cIsHARDs

ations of dishonesty, when attempted under the advan- & OTHERS
V.
tages attendant upon lapse of time, logs of papers, and
death of witnesses. But when cases present themselves XAOIty'n.
in which no laches can be imputed to the Plaintiffs, but iss. co.
great inijustice would be done by applyin to such cases
tile Affect of the statute, the conclusion ot reason and of
the law is that such cases were not in the mind-of the legislature when enacting that law. Such are the cases
of a want of parties, Plaintiff or Defendant, whereby a
temporary suspension of legal remedy takes place. But
in no case of a voluntary abandonment of an action,
has an exception to 'the statute of limitations 'been supported. And such we ar6 of opinion is the case before
us, Whether it was or was not a case in which te
bankrupt law authorizes the, appointment of the pr6sent assignee we deem immaterial. Thi6 case is certainly not within the express letter of the statute, and
it is only under its, equitable, and perhaps its proper
consteuction, thiat the appointment of the n w assignees
(the present Plaintiffs) can be supported. But the same
equity which would support this appointment, would
support the substitution of the new assignees for the
former in the existing action. We are, however, of
opinion, that the first assignee was not a mere naked
agent or attorney for thu creditors. The words of the
bankrupt act. sect. 1., are that the debts assigned to
him shall be vested'in him, as if they had been contracts
made with himself originally. Now one necessary incident to such a contract would be, that the right of
action would- vest in his personal reprtsentative, and
the act of Congress saves the suit from abatement by
authorizing the substitution of the executor or adininistrators instead of-the deceased Pltintiff. The same
answer applies to the antiquated doctrine of continuance by Journey's account. The fact is, that the m-ode
of continuing a suit in the name of the executor .or adrministrator provided for by statute is a complete substitute for the continuance by Journey's a(,nunt. But
even at common law, stich a continuance or connexion
of suit was allowed in no case of voluntary 'abandon,
ment, and if the benefit ,f it was intended to be asserted, it was necessary to laim it in the form of renewing
the action.

JIulpment qffirined with costs.-

