FEBRUARY TERM 1814,
in Virginia, and the title of the lheir.thereto would con- CARTER'8
sequently be affected by the probate in this district. xijEiR
v.
The probate then not being merely void, but affecting
the title to lands exceeding one hundred dollars in va- CUTTNG
lue is a matter in controversy beyond that value within & wIFt.
the purview of the act of 1801.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the petition is reversed, and the cause -is to be remanded to
that Court with directions to proceed to a hearing upon
the mierits.

THE VENUS,

RAE, MASTER.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court

for the district of Massachusetts.

tie United
States esta-" -

The follo\ ing were the facts of th9 case, as stated by ruelin afbIxAsIlXKGTo , J. in delivering the opinion of the Court. reigncountry'

between W'h~eh
atd the Uniter

This is the case of a vessel which sailed from Ge'vat States ostli-,
go blongng
Clai- tics fterwards
respectie Cai-break
the resectve
too th
0114' Rny
Britain. with a cargo belonging
war property shipmant,. as was 'contended, before the declaration tif
by the United States against Great Britain was or pLd by such
e
rouhl have been known by the shippers. She sailed
from Liverpool on the Ith of July, 1812, unde.r a Bri- tlicnr,antd
apt
erl
Ijy
Americant
tish license, for the port of Ncw York, and was cap- anl
tured on the 6th of August, 1812, by tie Ameri-an cruizeeafter
privateer Dolphin, and sent into the district of MNassa- .thedeclaratim
fwar, mu~t kchlisetis, where the vessel and cargo were libelled in onderned
lawful prize.
tho District Court.
Upon a shipment of goods

Tile ,ship, 100, casks of white lead; 150 crates of to be sold, on
account.
"ti .econ.
earthen ware, 35 cases and -3 casks of €copper, 9 pieces joint
& ship.
of
coal,
were
claimed
sigee
bagging,
and
a
quantity
of cotton
per, oi-of the
by Lenox and Maitland.
latter alone P

tile etion -of

198 packages of merchandise and 25 pieces of cotton the consignee,
bagging were claimed by Jonathan Amory, as the joint the r1ght of
property of James Lenox; William Maitland and Alex-,totyest inthe

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T HU

vEKus,
RAE,

ander MGregor; - ot distinguishiiig the proportions of
eacli': but the 25 pieces of cotton bagging were afterwards claimed fo. MGregor as K3 sole property, and

MXASTER. also 5'trunks of merchandize.'cotsistgeuntiil
21; .t'unks of merchandize wer claimed by James
he
"ha
made Magee, of New York, as the joint property of himself
hIS eLction
Yr,
jitpoet
under tle ol- audJohn P. Jones, residing in Great Britain;

don givenh in.
, If. two
part-

mersoWlJoit- ,The District Court, on the preparatory evidence, dely a commer- creed restitution to Alagee and Jones, and also to Le,vial house in
New York, &nox and Maitland) except as to the t0 casks of white
one of tlien
lead; as to wich, and a's
to the claim of MGregor,
obtains an -futher proof ,as ordered.
werican regs-

,

ter fo,.
a ship
by
'thatswearing
he, toge-

From this decree, so far as it ordered restitution of
%he witil
his
the merchandize to Magee and Joiles, and to MaitlanfT,

paitner, o'te and
city ofNe

.York, irchant, are

-of the ship to Lenox and Maitland, the captors ap-

pealed to the Circuit Court; where the decree was aftip firmed pro forma, arid an appeal was taken tQ this

only owners 0 Court.

the vebsel hi,"u
which Eie re-

April,* Si, the caude was heard or further proof
fct hisp,.t-i.n thd District Court; and iv August the rlaim of
'her is ioiicil- M'Gegor was rejected, as well at that of Lenox.and
te vesselis Maitland to the white lead. But at another (lay, on .
.*-.blc tofor- further hearing, the Court ordered. restitutioA to
di
detr(d
MGregor of one fourth of the propeLfty claimed by
., s of lDc- him, and condemned the other-three fourths as belongecinbr 3'S4 ing to his yitrtners, being British'subjects.
Both par171.Laws
.
U. V),
, . ties appealed, as did also Lenox and Maitland in relation to the white lead. A lrnE forma decree of affirmatce was made, from which an appeal was taken to this
g.ii,
isebtWin--. I

cdur.t

Maitlatid, M-.Gregor and Jones were :iative British
subjects, who came to the United -States many years
prior to the present war, and, after the regular period
of residence, ,.yere admitted to the rights of naturalization. Some timo aftei-this, but long prior to the declaration of war, they returned to Great Britain, settled
themselves there, and engaged in the trade of that
country, were' they "werefiund carrying on their cormmercial business at the tine these, shipmeqts were
made; and .at the time of the capture. Maitland is yet

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
in Great Britain, but has, since lie heard of the capT)IE
ture, expressed his anxiety to return to the United vuNUK,.
States; but has been prevented fiom doing so by vari- RtAE,
ous causes set forth in his affidavit. MGregor actiral- MAST'LP.
ly returned to the 'nited States some time in May
last-Jones is still in England.
PITMAN, for

the captors.

In relation to the several claims set up in this caw-,
it will be contended, on the part 'of the captors, 1st.
That they are to be determinedj as it respects the capacity to claim, by the national character-of the Claimants at tho time of tficapture. If the Claimants, at
the the time of capture, were British subjects the roperty is undoubtedly liable to condemnation.
It is admitted, on all hands, that the Claimants.
Maitland. M'Gregor and Jones, had acquired a domicil
in Great Britain at the time of the declaration of war;
and were actu'ally domiciled in that country at the time
of the capture: they must, therefore, be considered as
British subjects, in reterence to the property claimed
by them respectively. Nor will an intention to return
to the United States, if that intention he not manifested
until after the capture, be ofany avail, lbr it is a principle in prize law, that the national character of
property, during war. cannot be,altered, in. transitu, by
any aL of the partky subsequent to the capture.
The following casrs are cunsidered as going to establish the foregoing positions: I '?ob. 97, 115. The
Herstelder. .id.90, 107. The D)anchebaar J<rieaan.
5 Rob. 2517. The Joedes Lust 3. Rob. 17, 12. T'he Indian Viief, 1 Rob. 1:. 14?. Cases cited by sir IV. Scott
in the rigilania. 2 Datltas,,42, loop Chester v.BJri
Experiment. 3 loo. 2% The Indjan Chief. Li'cingv'het
and at. -v. the .3laryland Ins: Co. decided in the Sapreme
Court of the United States at the last lerm. 3 Bos. and
Ptd. 207. Case of the Fraiklincited in v'ote. 3 Rob. 37,
38. The Citto, 5 Rob bO. The Danu., 2 Rob. 65,
323. The t1armony. 5 110. 270. The Jonge ClassfiO.
It appears that Maitland has, since he heard of the
capture, expressed his anxiety to ret4in 'to the United

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

vi.ucrs,
4AE,
X(ASTEI.

States; and that MGregor did actually return. But
we contend, upon the principle above stated, that neither the intention of Maitland, although formerly natu'r.liz~d in this country, nort the actual return of
M'Gregor, inasmuch as they did not take place till
ofter, the capture, can avail for the purposes of their respective claims.
And veii if it should be proved that Maitland's irtention to return existed .previous to the capture, it
would not avail him, if nothing more than intention
could be proved. The case of the President,5 Rob. 277,
is in point: it is there decided that an intention to retori is of no avail, unless that intention be evidenced
by some hvert-act. Here nosuch overt-act, on the part
of Maitland, is proved. The following eases go to establish the. same point: 3 RoD. 37, 33. Thc Citto.
Curtios' case cited in 5 Rob. 65. The Diana, and in $
Rob. i7, i2. The Indian Chief. As to M.Gregor, ,vid.
3 Rob. 264, 322. Txe Harmony.
M,Gregor's return to America, after capture of the
ve'ssel, will not avail him unless lie can prove,
Ist. That Ije had, previous to the capture. set himseit
in motion to return.
2d. That he had done so with a bonafide intention of
remaining in America.
id. That lie had no intentibn of returning to England.
Vid. the case of the Indian Chief,"3 Rob. 17, 12.
But the national character of tliese parties, Maitland,
MGregor and Jones, does not depend up-,n domicil.
They were originally native stubjects (if Great Britain;
and, after being naturalized in this couniry, they returned to England, and resumed their nati
llegianre,
in violation of their oath of naturalizatr.n. By this
conduct we contend that they lost the - character of
American citizens, and could not.flagrante bello, resume
it for the mere purpose of protecting their pi'operty. In
a Court of tle law of nations, as well as by the navigalion laws of the United States, they cannot but be con-

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
sidered as British subjects. In the case or La Virginie,

6 Rob. 98, sir W. Scott said, , It is always to be remeni-

"bered, that the native character easily reverts, and
-that it requires fewer circumstances to constitute do"mcil in the case. of a native subject, than to implrcss
"the national character on one wjho is originally of
"another country."
It is not necessary to contend against the doctrine of
expatriation. We do not deny the right. We contend
only that in order torender his naturalization valid for
the purposes in question, a man must expatriate himslf
bona fide, must remove from his o.riginal country and
not return to it, animo manendi. In support of this
doctrine, vid. the act of congress of .March 27, 1804f.
Laws of U. S. -ol. 7, p. 146-also act of 31st December,
1792, § 2.
Laws U. S. -vol. 2, p. 132. -3 Dallas, 153,
Talbot v. Janson.
The British doctrine on this subject is well known;
iOnce a British subject, alvays a British subject," is an
established rule in the English law. Great Britain respects the naturalizaton'laws of the United States only
for commercial purposes. If one or her subjects be naturalized in this country, and afterwards return to a
British territory, she con.iders him as still, to all intents
and purposes, a British subject. She does not even require him to abjure his adopted allegiance.
It is to be presumed that Maitland, MGrogor and
Jones knew the laws of their own country yet with
this knowledge they returned to Engf1and; and that, as
it appears from their subsequenit conduct, not for a
temporary put-pose merely, but anirno manendi. They
have established there a house of trade. They have
placed themselves and their property under the protection of Great Britain, and cannot now, with any show
of reason, claim protection from th. United States, although the United Statf's may still claim something
fronm them. 2 Cranch, 120, .turray v. Schooner Charming Betsy.
It is evident, from all the circumstances of the present case. that Maitland did not intend to return to the
United States until he heard of the capture of the ves-

VOL. VIL

38

THM

v

us,

RAE,
MASTER,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'THE

VENus,
RAE ,

MASTER,

sel: on the contrary, it appears that, with a full knowledge of the war, he made his election to remain in
England.
Whetl MGregor left England for the United States,
he embarked as a British subject. His passport was
from 'the prvy council, and signed by lord Sidmouth;
whereas American citizens obtained their passportt
from the alien office. He is still a partner in a house
of trade in England-he is engaged in a British trade.
It remains for these parties to explain their conduct.
We have stated the facts, and the burden of proof now
lies on the Claimants. Sach would be the rule even if
they, were neutrals. 3 Rob. 37, 38. The Citto. 4 Rob.
AQ1, 232. The Dree Gebroeders. I Rob. 88, 104.
The
Brrnon. i Rob. 1, 15. The Vigilantia. 3 Rob. 40, 11.
The Portland. 5 sob. 9k. The Ocean. 2 Rob. 264, 322.
The Harmony.
In attempting to.establish the national charactd- of
these Claimants, as American citizens, it was said in
the Court below, that they held landed property in this
counti T . This argument is overthrown by the 4lecisiou.
in the case of the Dree Gebroeders cited above; !Rob.
19 1, 2 3 -.
'2. It appears that MiGregor has fraudulently attempted to cover the whole property in question; his
claim, therefore, being false in part, he cannot recover
even-his own sh-are, although we sh,)uld admit him to
be an Awr rican eitizen. Thle whole, therefore, is justly liable to condemnation. 2 Rob. 212, 157. The Susa.
1 Rob. 210, 2AO. The Odin. - 2 Rob. 281, 343. The
Rosalie &,. ' BDty. S Rob. 9,, 109. The Graaf Bernstoif. * Rob. 6i, -,i The Jonge Pieter. "
3. As to the claim of Lenox and Maitland to the
ship, we content', 1st. That, ider the act of congress
of March 27, 1601, (Laws U. S. vol. 7, p. 146) she
cann ,t be considered as an Amnerican vessel. By that
act it is declared - That no ship or vessel sh II be entitled to be registered al-a ship or vtssel of the United
Stais, or. if registered, to the benefits thereof, if owned in whole or in part bi any person naturalized in the
TUnited States, and residing for more than one year in

FEBRUARY TERM 1814,

259

the country from which he originated- &c. But MaltT!xE
land had been residing in England more than a year, vTNvs,
and consequently was not entitlhd to an American reR&E,.
gister. 2d. That Lnox being found in violation of the MASTER.
law, as it respected the ship's register, he is not rectus
in curia for the purpose of claiming the ship. Vid. the
cases cited in the Rapid, on this poinf. -iz. 2 Rob. 72,
77. The i7d-singham Packet. 5 Rob. 28, 32. The Corvelis and .aria. 6 Rob. 348. The Recovery. 3d. That
Lenox and Maitland having attempted to conceal enemy's property, (the 100 casks.of white lead) and to
withdraw the same from the belligerent rights of the
United States by a fraudulent shipment and claim,
their claims to the property captured therewith must
be rejected, and the penalty of confiscaion attaches to
the same. This principle is intended to be applied to
the claim of Maitland as well tothe cargo as to the ship.
There can be no reasonable doubt that the leau yelonged to some person or persons other than tLe Claimants. The following facts-are considered as conclusive
on this point
1. The original bill of parcels enlosed in a letter
dated 3d July, 1812, from Win. Maitland & Ce to
Lenox and Maitland, is headed thus: ",Thomas t1olloway bought of Thomas Walker, Malby & Co. lead,
merchants," and is dated at Liverpool, June 2d. 1812.
2. In the bill of lading of the goods claimed as the
property of Lenox and Maitland, in which the white
lead is included, the freight and. primage ,iscast upon
the lead in the margin of the bill of lading, and not upon
the crates, copper, bagging, or coal.
3. To a letter from Maitland to Lenox of 22d August, 1812, found on board the Lady Gallatin, is annexed a list of goods shipped by Win. Maitland & Co.
by the Venus, on account of and consigncd to Messrs.
J.Lenox and Wm.Maitland. In this list all the goods
claimed by Lenox andMaitland, m'd by lenox, Maitland and A'Gregor, are enumerated, except the wvhite
lead.
1. Upon the order for further proof in the District

SUPREME COURT. U S.
Court, no further proof was offered respecting the lead.
Maitland, in his affidavit made January 7th, 1813, in
Liv.rpool, swears that the copper, crates, coals and
RAE
M1sTER. bagging were pirchased and shipped on board the Venus, on the sole account and risk of himself and Lenox:
he also swears as to their joint property with MGregor: lbnt says not a 'word about the lead.
THE

vibifus,

From these circumstances we must conclude that the
white lead was the property of Thomas Holloway, an
acknowledged British subject; that it is therefore liable to condemnation, and subjects the property captured
with it to the same fate.
4 In respect to the claim of Magee- an Jones, we
contend that at the time of. capture the property belonged solely to Jones, a British merchant and ssbject,
ftnd is therefore to be condemned as enemy propert).
In the bill of lading of these goods, they are expressed to be shipped by MGregor & Co. unto and en account of James Magee & Co. of New York. The invoice is signed by Jones, at Manchester, and ilescribes
them as goods to be shipped on b,ard the Venus. and
to be consigned to James Magee & Co. of New York;
but does not specify (n whose ac, ount and risk. It is
therefore to he considered as.at the risk of Jones. Vid.
on this point, the case of the .mariauna, 6 Rob. 27.
In a letter from John S. Jones to James Magee &
.Co. dated at Manchester, 1st July, 1812, he says,
" This serves to hand *ou invoice of 21 trunks prints
per Vnus. amount 1,3231. 13s. Od. subject to the same
terms as the goods per Aristomenes; thai is, to be sold
on joint ac-ount, or on mine at your option." Now, to
effecta change of prop, rty, it is essential that there be
a contract of sale agreed to by both parties. Here appears to have been no such contract. The property,
therefore, at the time of capture, was exclusively in
Jones.
If Jones had a right to stop these goods in transitu,
so had the United States, who. by the laws of war, succeeded to his rights. 6 Rob. 127. The Constantia. The
Copenhagen, A Rob. A5, 291, is an analogous case.

FEBRUARY TERM i81s.
STOCKTON,

contra, for .MGregor,contended,

1st. That MGregor, to the exclusion of his partners,

THE
VENUS,
RAE,

Lenox and Maitland, was owner of one half of 198' MASTER.
packages of Manchester goods, and oi half of Z5
pieces of cotton bagging, and to the whole of five trunks
of goods.
2. That these goods were not-the goods of an enemy, and ought to be restored to M, Gregor as an American citizen.
In support of the first point, he relied on the ship's
papers. on certain letters of Maitland & Co. and of
MGregor himself,-on the affidavits of MGregor in the
Court below, &c. He contended that the testimony o,
this poinit, introduced since the ovidence in prreparatorio,
was incompetent; but if competent, not important., tie
cause was heard in September, 1812, and further proof
allowd for the Claimants; but no such order on the
part of the cat tors, nor any order to proceed by plea
and proof. The cause stood, on their side, on the proof
taken in prarparatorio. The evid,:nce introduced by
then is upon simple affidavit. I Rob. 263, 31.3. The
.adriana. Letter from ,ir W. Scott and sir J. ,Jicll
to
Mr. Jay, 1 Rob. (.dmer; ed.) p. 8.
Setond point. As to the national character of MGregor. He came to the United States a minor; was an
established merchant in New York before 1795; he was
'then naturalized; he married in New York, and purchased a house'there before his departure for Erngland,
which lie still retains: he has also purchased large
tracts of land in the states of New York and New Jersey, which he yet owns: he resided about twelve years
in New York. His return to Eniand was produced
by temporary causes. In 1798 he returned thither on
account of the sickness of bis wife, who died in Scotland. His secondreturn was for ,his own health. In
1805 lie commonced business in Liverpool as an American 'merchant. His employment was that of an Anierican merchant shipping goods from England, and receiving American produce to sell there on commission.
His residence in England was in time of peace: it was
lawful, and could in no manner impair his 'rights as a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THrn

vENus,
RAU,'
NIASTE'.

citizen of the Unitea States. He had no intention to
abandon his American rights, or to remain permanently
in Englaud; but intended to return to the United States
vIenever his duty should require him to return. Such
a residence, iln time of peace, could not stamp a hostile
character upon him; and, at the breaking out of war,
he was crtitlet to a reasonabic time to depart from the
British domnions, before he could forfeit his- American
character and become identified with the enemy. He
did ilepart therefi'om, and returns.d to the United States
with his family within a year after the declarition of
war. His having formedi a connexion in trade with
British partners was a lawful act, which did not derogate fiom his American character, but extended and facilitated his busitiess as an American merchant.
. Congress did not mean to authorize the capture of
property belonging to meie inhabitants of the hostile
country. When the bill to authorize the president Lo
issue letters of marque was brought into the senate of
the UnitedStates in June, 1812, it authorized him to
issue them agaiiist all persons inhabiting in Gveat Britain or its territories or possessions ; but was amended
in the senate so as to authorize him to issue them only
against the united kingdom of Great Britain. and Ireland and lie subjects thereof. See the secret journal.oJ
the senatefor June, i812.
Many cases have been cited by the counsel for the
captors in his endeavor to prove this a case for condemnations The answer to most of them 1s, that the
controversy .in those cases was between neutrals and
belligerents ; not between Great )Britain and her subjects. The two cases are entirely different in principle.
The connexion between a citizen and his government
depends on the municipal law of the land. The rights
of a neutral depend upon the law of nations.
With regard to the doctrine of naturalization, it is
well known that, by the law of England, a person naturalized by act of parliament is as much a subject, to
ail intennts; a'nd purposes, as-a native. Go. Lit. 129, a.
BL Corn. B. 1, c.10, p. 37,4. M'Gregor, we have seen,
was naturalized in the United States. But it is said
that he has returned to his former allegiance, and there-

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
by lost his American character. This we deny. He
retuined to England in tiie of peace; by which we contend lie neither forfeited nor ab-indoncid his character
as an American citizen. Our act 'of naturalization
contains nothing to authorize the opinion that he did.
Nor could he throw off his adopted all;'giance if lie
would. If found in arms against us lie would be punished as a traitor.
The act of March, 1804, which has been cited by tht
captors, merely dco arcs that a naturalized citizen shall
lose one particular privilege of his citizenship by rsiding for more than a year in the country from which
lie originated; from which the implication isclear, that
lie shall retain all his other privileges.
In the case of the Charming Betsy, 2 Cranch, 64, and
in the case of .JIIrainev. Coxe'.- lessee. decided in 4
Cranch, 211, the decision of this Court was, that residence in a foreign country does not deprive an Apierican citizen of his rights as such. It has'been decided,
also, that by such residence in time of peace, the national character is not changed upon the sudden brea ing out of a war. Residence in time of peace is laWful; and if the person so residih return to his own
country in'a reasonable time after the breaking ot of
the war, lie does not los- his origihial national character.
I Bos. and 1ul. 112. Xkrryat m Wilson. Fattel,B. 1, o.
19, § 218, t. i69. Sir TV. Scott has never said that such
a residence would, on the sudden breaking out of a
war, give a hostile character to the resident: he has
never gone so far as to (condcmn property situated like
That now in question. 5 Rob. O. Tie Ocean.
Tiattel (B. 3, e. 4, § 63, p. 77) says, that the sovereign declaring war iN to allow those subjects of the
enemy who are within his dominions at the time, of the
declaration, a reasonable time for withdrawing with
their effetq: and certainly a nation ought not to grant
less indulgence to its own citizens than the enemy alrows them. I trust this Court is not yet prepared to
adopt, even with respect to neutrals, much less with regard to American citiz-ns, the rigid rules of the British
Court of admiralty-a mere political Court-a prerogative Court regulated by the king's 6w1derg il council,

THE

vENus,
RAL,
MASTEU.

26&
THE
VENUS,
RAE,
-MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

designed to give Great Britain the sovereignty of the
ocean, to subject the whole commerce of the world to
her grasp. and to make the law of nations just what her

policy would wish it to be.
It is doubtful whethker the Court ought to condemn,
under the cii'cumstances of the present case, although
it should be proved that the property in question was
enemy property.
The shipment, in the present case, was made on the
faith of the repre entations of the American charge
d'affaires, Mr. Rut, el; who had given it as hi- opinion

that property shipped after the repeal of the Bt irish, orders in council, and bethre knowledge of the war, would

be admitted into the United States. Utider these circumstances the conduct of the owners of this property -was
perfectly justifiable. It hws been decided in a British
Court, that property w hich comes into the possession
of a nation under the public faith. is not liablo to forfeiture, and Congress has virtually ackn ,l, dgetd the
same principle, by passing the act of 27th February,
1813, remitting the forfeitures which had accrued tinder
the non-intercourse act of March 1, 1809. Laws U. S.
vol. 11, p. 388. id. .Mr. RusseU's statement in the report
of the committee of congress...journal of I. of Rep. and
the case of the .Althea, cartel, which was captured at Halifax as American property, and discharged by judge
Croke, because it caine into the possession of the British
under the publicfaith.
PITM tN, as to the objection to the invocation of papers from other Courts, cited the following-authorities :
44th hliterrogate, I Rob. (ner. ed.) 3-23. -6 Rob. 3m.
The llovico. I Rob. 170, 205. The Convenietia I. Rob.
27, 31. The .Aagnas. 2 Rob. 2, 3. The Eenrom. id.
211, 2 1. The ,%nsd. id. 281, 313. The Rosalie and
Betty. He observed that there was an order, in the
Circuit Court, for further probf-on the part of the captors, saving the question whether it were a case for further proof.
IIARPEn, for Lenox and Jlaitland and Jones and
-Vagee.
Lenox and Maitland claim.

FEMRUARY TERM 1814Y.

Ist, The ship Venus.

.rX.
VENUS,

RAE,
2d. As their joint property, the white lead, crates,
MA.-TEu.
copper, cotton bagging and coal.

3d. One moiety of 198 packages of merchandize aind
cotton bagging, as the joint property (if Lefiox and
Maitland and Alexander MGregor, and shipped by
them.
Magee and Jones claim 2t trunks of prints, part of
the cargo of the Venus, as their joint property.
Lenox and Maitland are natives of Scotland. They
removed many years since to New York. where the former was naturalized on the 10th of',November. 1794,
and thiL latter on the 8th of July, 1801. 'They entered
into partnership in trade in 1797, and established their
house in New York, in which they were al.ine interested, under the name and firm ofJ. Lenox and W. Maitz
land; which has continued to the preseiit time,. For
fourteen years they both iesided, without interruption,
in the city of N'ew York, carrying onthe business of
their American house, as American citizens; and, as
such, they hold valuable real estate in the city and in
the state of New York, and also hold Ameri'an regis.
tered ships. Lenox still resides in New York ; but
Maitland. in July 1810. to promote the interest of their
commercial establishment in New York, by attending
the sales of the shipments to Europe and the returns to
America, went to Liverpool. in England, where, in 418.1,
lie took a house and counting-room and transacted business tr the said concern, under the name and firm of
W. Maitland and Co. consisting only of said Lenox and
Maitland lie has long sinc givn up his counting.:
room and attempted to dispose )f his house; and is
still in England, detained there by sickness. In July,
1812, and long befo'e and at the time ,of the capture of
the Venus by the Dolphin, Lenox and Maitland were
the sole owners of the said ship under an American
register4 The Venus sailed from Liverpool for New
York, on the Ith of July. 181t, with a cargo of Britisli
produce and manufactures, the proretds of the fonds of
Lenox awl Maitland, with instruction., to wait off the
Hook, to know if the goods could be landed. Proceed34
VOL. VII.

266
THE

vF~rus,
RAE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ing with her cargo on this, voyage, she was captured

and liclled as has been before stated.

James Magee was naturalized 9th August, 1803; and
has c- er Lince resided and been ,'establislied in New
York
John S. Jones was naturalized 10th December, 1795,
and resided in New York thirteen years. In 1810, he
went to Manchester (England.) and arrangements were
made for shipping goods to Magee, the partner in New

York.
It has been contended, on the part of the captors, with
regard to the ship. that, by the laws of the United
States, she is not to be deemed an American ship, nor
entitled to the benefits of an American register, on account of the residence of Maitland in Liverpool for

more than a year.
Admitting, for the sake of argument, that this posi.
tion is correct, still we contend that the ship is hot forfeited. She has merely incurred the disability atta,.hed
to a foreign ship. Her owners are still American citizens, but have lost the'privilege of availing themselves
of the register. It is contended, however, that this very
disability which attaches to the ship, renders her belliger-nt property. This is truly a novel doctrine.
There is no law by which it can be supported.

As to the right of Lenox to his share, of the ship,
therer can be no reasonable doubt. He is certainly an
American citizen and has done nothing to forfeit that
character. Fle, has been naturalized in this country,
and has continued to reside here ever since. It is sAidi

however, that he has made a false claim to the white
lead. This point will be considered in the c6urse of
the argument.
Maitland, it is true, has be(n residing in England
for a considerable time-past ; and it is upon this ground

that the ship and car.go is claimed by the cgptors. They
contend that his residence in EnglAnd (although an
Americaif citizen) clothes him with a hostile character.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i1.
To this it may be answered, that the-residence which
imparts a hostile character must be re. dnci, connected
ifith some act of commerce blended with th commercial transactions of the enemy. Mere residence does
not giive a hostile character, so long as ti.e resident refra61s from all voluntary acts tending to the. aid and
comfort of the enemy.* If lie engages in the enemy's
commerce, lie must, to be sure, be considered as an enemy ; but evcn then, only to the extent of the combnercial property engagcd in the hostile trade, which may
chance t.5 be captured. A man in an entemy's country
may send home books or furniture puirchased before the
war for his own use, and they will not b, hostile property. There must we a trading with the enemy to constitute an offence. Trading is essential ; time is not. A
mere continuation in an enemgs country aft('r tl.e corninencemenit of hostilities,' without an. act of trade, has
never been decided to constitute a man an enemy. Sir
Wr. Scott hiiniself allows a person found in the enemy's
country, a reasonable time to withdraw his effects, and
even to trade with the enemy so far as it may be necessary for the removal of his property. 3, Rob. 17. 12.
The Indian Chief. 4, Bob. 161, 195, .Madonnadelle Gracie. 1, Rob. i6, 196, the Hoop.
But it is said, that though an illegal act should -be
proved to have been committed by Maitland, yet that
Lenox has been guilty of making a false claim to part
of the cargo, wlich act of Lenox has criminally affected
the property of Maitland.
We answer, that the doctrine on the subject of covring enemy property, applies only to neutrals ; but Lenox N as a citizen of the United States. Besides, it
(toes not by any means appear, that, in making this
claim, Lenox was influenced by a fraudulent motive.
His conluct was, in all probability, owing to mistake.
He had not seen the lett.rs and.papers proving the property, claimed by him, to belong to the enemy ; and
therefore cannot be -supposed to have known that fact.
It is furrler urgett ty the captors, that a letter 'by the
Lady Gallatin, of 22d -August. 1812. shows that wpurchase of ;00 bags of cotton was made by Maitland, after k nowlcd- e of the war:

'rZ
vnwus.
RAE,
MASTER,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

vENUS,
RAE,
MASTER.

To the admissibility of the invoked papers, among
which this letter is one. we have already objected, and
nmst still insist upon the objection. Setting aside those
papers, it. does not appear that Maitlanl did purchase
the cotton after knowedge of the war: and the presumption ought to be in his favor. But suppose this
single purchase was made olle day after war was known
to exist, (which is all the captors contended for) is this
syifficient to fix a hostile character,. especially under
circumstances like those attending this transaction,
when it was universally supposed that the repeal of the
orders in council would have put an end to the war?
With regard to Jones, it has only been proved that lie
wvas residing in England a fev mnonths aftr the commniencement of hostilitieq; but there is no evid nce that
lie ha's not returnd ; nor is there anv evidence of his
having traded with the enemy. The burthen ofpro(f
lies on the captors.
DEXTER, in reply.
In cases like that now before the Court, the advantage
in obtaining evid nee is clearly on the side of the Claimants. They have in their power the knowledge of all
thi, facts relative to the case. The evidence in pra,pai'atorio con.ists of the documents on board the ship,
and the testimony of the crew. They may make out
their own case. If the evidence in their favor be deficient, they may have an order for fl!rther proof, wbich
does not give the captors any opportunity of introducing further evidence on their part. Under circumstances so manifestly advantagems, if the Claimints do not
filly prove their basp, the presumption must lie against
them. Whether the Claimants in the present case have
satisfactorily dne so, it is for the Court to decide.
With regard to the question of domicil. . 'Sir W. ,5cott
has decided that the animus inanendi is to be presumed
under circumstances perfectly analogous to those of the
present case. What are the facts with regard to the
several parties whose claims are now disputed ? M'Gregor, it appears, is a native of Scotland : lie became a citizen of the Unitedl States by naturalization, in 1795,and
resided at New York until 1802, except a temporry

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
visit to his native country, for the health'oT his wife. In
THE
1802. lie left New York f*,rhis on health, and in 1801, VENUs,
establisld himself in a house of trade in Liverpool (EnRaE,
gland) in connexion with J-ames Dennistown, a British MASTER.
subject. Two other partners were aft- rwards admitted,
h11th British suhjectS ., MI'Grcgor ,Nas the only one or
the partners who resided in Liverpol , and was the actin.g partner of the concern. He married a second wife
in Great Britain, and had several children there, during
his residence in Liverpool.
These facts are abundantly sufficient to 9stablish his
domicil.
The question, then, remains--did he take timely and
sufficient steps, after knowledge of the war, to divest
himself of his British character, and return to the United Staifs? This does iot appear. On the cont;,arv, it
appears rom pIaper i~voked and introt'uced into'*this
ca,1se, and it islnotcontr.dicled. that he continued lis connexion with his Brtiqh par:ners t~n mosths afti.r the
declaration of war. ,nd, as atcting partner (fthe house,
made a shipment t,6
Halifax. He has nt, in any of his
affidavits. declare(d that he Oid not coitinue hiq trade.
The testir-ony on I4i4
part does not deny all secret
trusts, le comes in'o Court. well inford of th- suit,
yet without the books4 articles of .partnership. original
bihs of parcels, and the olher pipers connected with the
transactions under consideralion.
It has been urge'l in his defence, that heing a commission merchant, having the prorerty of others in his
hands, and bliug the only actin.g parduer of the firm, he
was justified in remaining inEngland till he could wind
up his business. But this is no sufficient jdstificaflon.
The contracts of a citizen residing abr,)ad. must be consisfeut with the interests of his country. If the good of
his country requires his return, as in the.event of war
it is is, duty to leave his business in other hmnds.
M'Gregor might have left his affairs to the care of his
partners.
Most of the facts with regard to Maitland have been
already stated. It may be hdded, however, that he cfntinued to reside in England and was transacting' busi-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THF.

VISus.

a.An.
'MAS'FM.

ness there as late as April, 1813; whereas the war'
was known on the 2ith or 2Qth of July, 181.. In his
letter of the 20d of Au1gust, 181, in which he informs
his partner of a pro'chase of cotton wool he had just
made, lie says nothing of any intention of returning to the
United States.
His continuance in England is dfuded on i, arly the
same grounris as that of M'Gregor; viz. his extrnsive
mercantilconce:ns." Sickness was riot alleged by him
as an excuse, till 13th April. 181.
As to the goods shipped by Jones, it has already been
observed, that, in his letter to Magee of 1st of July,
iSiE', he gives him tis option either to b(- interested in
them or not. Of course, atthe time of the sl:ipment,
they were the sole property of Joncs ; and before the
letter was receceived by Magee-before there was a
possibility of ',is making an clection, the goods were
captured ; but it is an a,'knowle.ig-d rule of prize law,
that th- characler of goods cannot change in transita;
at the time of capture. therefore, tOey were the solo proper'ty) f Jones, and must, we contend, be condemned
i toto.,
Besides the particular circumstances wlich have been
urged in justification: of the individijals concerned in this
cause, a general defence has been set ip ; viz. That
thongh the property in question should be determined
to be British, yef it came here under the faith of the nation; and is therefore entitled to protection. T"attel, it
is said, lays down this doctrine. This is not denied.
But did the property in confrovei'sy come into the country under the national faith ? It was not .here at the.
breaking" out of hostilities. It was not brought into the
country urlil after the deelaration ofwar; arnd then it was
brought in as a prize of war. 'Besiles, if it was considered as protected on this principle, why was the attempt
nade to cover it under the name of M'Gregor? This
has a suspicious appearance; and shows clearly that the
Claimants themselves placed little reliance on the ci'cumstance which is now rgcd in their defence.
As to the ojection to the admission of the invoked
papers, it need only be observed that the counsel for the

FEBRUARY TERMs1814.
Claimants is under a mistake on the subject. There was
an order for further proof on the part of the captors ;
and under that order these papers were invoked.

THE
vENus,
MAE,
MAkSTER°

The great question of law on the subject of domicil
yet remains to be examined.
Three classes of residents are recognized by the la-%
of nations.
1st. Mere residents.
2d. Domiciled residents.
3di Natural born subjects,
Before entering upon the discussion of the main question, I Nould remark, with regard to some observations
which have fallen frrom the counsel for the Claimants
respecting the severity of the rules adopted by the Bri.
tish Court oPadmiralty, that these rules have been applied by sir W. Scott with equal rigor, to British subjf.cts as
to neutrals; which is a sufficient answer to the dlegption"
that they have been introduced merely to subserve the,
graspimg policy of the British nation, and destroy all
neutral coimnerce.
With regard, then, to the first class of residents. It
is admitted that mere residence in a foreign ci untry,, for
a particular temporary purpose, without engaging in
the coninerce of the country, is not sufficient to change
tih national character.
2d. Residence in a fereign country connected with the
carrying on a general trade and mixing in the commercial affairs of the nation, constitutes domicil; thereby
inakingaaman, sub modo, asubjectofthatforeign country :
arid in eae af war breaking out between his ,riginal and
adopted country, if he continues, notwithstanding, to
reside and trade in the latter, he is to be cousidered by
his original country, as investcd with a hostile character
to all intents and purpos.s. He ought not, it will be
admitted, to be considered in this light immediately on
the declaration of N%
ar : he ought, perhaps to be allowed
a reasonable time to make his election whether to remain

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TIE

v"ius,
R E,
MASTEu.

where he is or return'to his own country. Respectable
a thorities, however, have said that, if 'required, he is
hound to return. Sir V.' Scott says hi is bound iimediately to put himself in motion to return.
-d. As to mere native subjects, it is needless to make
any remarks. The persons whose national charactfr is
now in qutestion are natural born subj -cts of Great Britain, naturalized in the United States, and who afterwards returned to the country of their nativity. The.p
persons, we contend, are, even witho.ut the intervention
of a war, as much British subjects as if they h.vd never
been naturalized in another country. The Brtsh overninent had a right to iprevent their return to th,' United States. In saying this, we w.,ull not be understood
as admitting the legality of impressment; the cases are
materially iffrent.
The natuiralization law of the United States requires
permanent residence: and no longer than that restlence
continues, can a man claim the privi!eges of naturaliza.
tfon. Before he can be :d:nitted to thase privileges, lie
must abjure all allegiance to the state of which h was
before i citizen. By so doing, hiu binds himself not to
return to that state. By returning lie violates his oath ;
and can thereafter claim no protection fr',m the country
which he has thus abandoned. AIjitration does n.,t absolve him from his former allegiance ; lie may incur ney
duties, but he cannot swoar away his old obligations. It
is for this Court to explain the tne meaning of the lawof naturalization. It may, however, be observed, that
neither the constitution nr the la,. s of the United States
"con-ider a naturalized citizen in the same light a- a native. rhe laws of Great Britain, 'also, and indeed the
laws of every country, make 'a distinction between the
two. A native is conidered as a citizen wherever he
goes ; but a perion naturalized is n, longer looked upon
as a citizen,than while he continues in hisadopted country. No nation confers the privilege of naturalization
wi!h1ut an equivalent. No nation extends its protection
to naturalized subjects, if they return to their former
cou!try. And shall we be an exception ? Shall we be
the first to extend to naturalized foreigners this Quixotic protection ?

FEBRUARY TERM 18i14
The expression , adJflden utriusque regis," from Cal-

TIlE

'ivin's case, has been mis-translated, -the faith of both vThN s,
kings." Had that 'been the meaning of the phrase it ,R n,
would have been utrunique regum, in the plural: rhe MAS'rIn.
meaning is, that a man may be the subject of' either power according to his residence. Were the doctrine, -that
he may be the subject of both. correct, he would have it
in his power to enjoy the priVileges ofboth governments,
without being subject to the duties of either-.
"Wjth regard to the false claim of Lenox. It is a rifle
of prize law, that a man who makes a false clain to protect enemy property, forfeits any property uf his iown
that may be captured with it. Thiq Lenox appears to
have d6me with respect to the white leuid. If lie has,
not only his own property is forfeited, but thatof Maitland his partner must share the same fate. What has
been said by the counsel lbr the Claimants to exculpate
Lenox, is mere conjecture.
As to the ship. It is clear that 'the register was improperly obtaied-not to savjraidlently. Maidand, by
residing in England, was not eitifted to an American
register. Lenox, by cmcealing, when m oath, the fact
of laidland~s residence in England, becomes particeps
criminis, and ifthe mixes his'interest with that of' his
partner, the same decree must be rendered as to the property of both.
STOCKTON, with regard to the withholding of papers
with which M'Gregor was taxed by the counsel on the
opposite side, stated that the deci ce of the Ciu, t below
waq onl, rendered in October last. when M'(NGrcor liad
the first intimation that the papers were required; since
which, there had not been time to obtnin fliem.

Saturday, March 12th. .Absent....LI0 NGSToN. J.
WASHINGTON, J. after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the majority of the Court as
follows:

The claims of Maitland, McGregor and Jones are resisted, in toto, upon an objection to the national character of the Claimants. The general question afl'ecting
VOL. VIII.
35

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tl-

vFr-is,
hEln,
MASTER.

these parties, will, forthepresent, be postponed in order to
dispose of particular objections which are made to all
the claims, either in whole or in part, and which will
dpend on the particular circumstances applying to
those cases.
1. The first claim that will be considered will be that of

Lenox and Maitland to the 100 casks of white lead,
which it is contended, is the property of Thos. Holloway,
an acknowledged British subject, but shipped in.June,
1812, by Wn. Maitland & Co. (a house established in
Liverpool, and composed 'of Win. Maitland and James
Letiox) to Lenox and Maitland, a house establish' d at
New Y(trk. and composed of the same parties. To establish tie fact of pr iperty in Thos. Holloway, the captor reIes upon iite following cvidel.e: The original
bill of parcels. enclosend in a lett-r under date of the 3d of
July, 1812, from Win. Maitland & Co. to Lenox and
M1aitiand, which is headed thus, ,,Thos. Holloway
bou.12t of Thomas Walker & Co. lead merchants,"
dated June 2d, 18i2. In coroboration of this primafacie
evid,,nce of property in lHoll.way, the freight and primage ofihis lead is cast in the margin of the bil! of
lading, but not so upon the acknowledged property of
Lv'n'x andlMaifl dd, the ownrs of the ship, and include'd in'the same bill of lading; from which circumstance it is arguwd that this artict e did ltot belong th
Lenox and Maitland ; since, if it did, no freight could,
have been charged on it, any more than upoa the other
par's of the catgo claimed by them.
i aldiiin to
this, in a list of good.- shippedl by Win. Maitland & Co.
Lenox
by this vessl, on account of.and consigned t,,)
alld Maitland, and enclosed in a letter of the 22d August, 1812, from tie former to the latter, by the Lady
g
Gall tin, all the goods claimed by thait house separately, and also by them anld M.Gvvgor jointly. are enumerated, except this parcel of white lead. This evidence
is certainly very strong to fix a hostile character on
this property; and is rendered conclusive by the omission of .Maitland, in his affidavit made tinder the order
for further proof..to say any thing in relafion to the
white lead, alth,)ugh lie is very particular as to all the
other prop-rty claimed by Len,,x and Maitland, and by
fhiat house jointly with M.Gregor. This Court is

FEBRUARY TEPM 181.

275

therefore of opinion that the Court below did right in

rejv.cting this 6laim.

TEt
VZNUSp
RAE,

2. The Uext claim to be considered, is that of Magee MASTER.
and Jones to a part of the cargo on board of this vess.I..
Magee is 4 citizen of the United States, settled in New
York, and cofinected with Jones in a house of trade.
It is urged by the captors that the whole of this property ought to have been condemned as the sole property of Jones. The bill of lading of these goods expresses
them to be shipped by MGregor & Co. unto and on
account of James Magee & Co. of New Yock. The invoice is signed by Jones, at Manchester, in England,
and describes them as goods to he shipped on board the
Venus, and to be consigned to James Magee & Co. of
New York; but it does not specify on Nhose account
and risk. In a letter from Jones to Magee, dated the
Ist of July, 1812, coverIng an invoice of these goods,
he says ",they are to be sold 'on joint 'account, or on
mine at your option." The whole question, as tW the
exclusive property of Jones in these goods, is rested,
by the captors, upon the above expressions giving an
option to Magee to be jointly concerned or not in the
shipment. The question of law is, in whom the right
of property was at the time of capture? To effect a
chahge of property as between seller and buyer, it is
essential tlat there should be a contract of sale agreed
to by both parties, and if the thing, agreed to be sold,
is to be sent by the vendor to the vendee, it is necessary to the perfectioil of the contract tha it should be
delivered to the purchaser or to his agent, which the
mastr, to many purposes, is considered to be. The
only evidlence of a contract, guch, as is now set up, appears in the aidavit of Mlagee; who states that, in
1810, he was in England, and agreed With Jones that
the latter should ship goods on joint account, when the
intercourse between the two countries should be opened; and that, in consequence of this agreement, the
present shipment was made. Now admit that such an
agreement was made, yet the ,delivery of the goods to
the master of the vessel was not for the use of Magee
and Jones, any more than it was for the use of the shipper solely ; and, consequently, it amounted to nothing
so as to divest the property out of the shipper, until
Magee should elect to take them on joint account, or

SUPREME COURT U. S.
to act as the agent of Jones. Until this election was
made, the goods were at the risk of the shipper, which
is conclusive as to tiue right of property.

THE

vz.Nus,
RA.,

MASTER.

S. The next claim is that of Lenox and laitland to
the sh;p. The f&cts in relation to this smbject are, that
James lefnox, as joint owner with W. Maitland of this
ship, obtained, in November, '181, a register for her,
which wts granted upon his oath, that he, tog,'th r with
W. Maitland, of the city of .N'wYork, merclunt, were
the only owners. At this time, Maitland was d.omiriled
in Great Britain ; and it is contended that the stateYhent, that Maitland was of New York, was untrue, and
subjected the vessel to forfeiture, n'lei' the act of congress of the 31st 6f December, 79t; and that altho~igh
no claim is interposed for the United States. still the
'forfeiture produced by the misconduct of Lenox, is soffi~ient to turn him out of Court, whatever disposition
may ultimately be made of the property. Tle rule of
the prize Court is correctly stated in this ar.gument ;
and the only question is, whether a forfeiture did accrue
to the United States. The act of congress directs that
the owner who takes the oath, in case there are more
than one owner, shall, in his oath, specify the. names
ani places of abod- of such owners, and that they are
citizens of the United States, if such be the fact; and
if one or more of them reside abroad, as a partner or
partners in a co-partnership consisting of citizens, and
carr- ing on trade with the United States, that such is
tAe case. The law then proceeds to declare, that if any
of the matters of fact in the said oath alleged, within
the knowledge of t~ie party swearing, shall not be true,
the ship shall be forfeited to the United States. It cannot be denied that, at the time this oath was'taken,
W. Maitland was a resident merchant of Great Britain, carrying on trade with the United States; a fact
totally inconsistent with that alleged in the oath, that
he was of the city of New York. It is probable, and
the Cotirt is willing to believe, that this statement was
inc-ntly made, nndr a misconception of the real
character which the for.ign domicil of Maitland had
impressed upon him. But still, the law required explicitness on this point, and marked the distinrtion between
Sperson residing itbrad, and one residing within the
United States. It must be admitted, ii, point of law,

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
TEW
that the fact sworn to by Len.,x was not true; and the
conseq'ienre is a torfeiture of the ship to the United vENUs,
mt.E,
States. The claim, therefore, of Lnox and Maitland
to this vessel nist be rejected. What order shall be MASk17ER.
made -as to the ultimate disposition of the property,
miust depend upon the opinion which this Cotutt may
give in some other cases touching this subject.

The great question involfed in this, and many tther
of the prize cases which hav,' becn argued, is, whether
the propvrty of these Claimants vho were settled in
Great Britain, and engaged in the commerce of that
country, shipped before they had a knowledge of the
war, but.which was captured, after the declaration of
war, by an American cruitxr, ought to be condeined
as lawfvl prize. It is contended by the captors, that as
these Cladimants had gained a domicil in Great Britain,
and coutinued to enjoy it up to the time when war" was
declared, and when thuse captures were made, they
must be, considered as British subjects, in reference to
this property, and, consequently, that it may Itgally
be seized as prize of war. in like manner as if it had
beloni-ed to real British subjects. Biat if not so, it is
then in~isted, that these Claimants having, after their
naturalization in the United States, returned to Great
Britain, the country of their birth, and there re-settled
themselves, they became redintegrated British subjects,
and ought to be considered by this Court in the sanme
light as 'if they had never emigrated. On the other
side it is argued, that American citizens settled in the
country of the enemy, as these persons Were, at the
time war was declared, were entitled to a reasonable
timeto elect, after they knew of the war, to remain there,
or to return to the United States ; and that, until such
election was, bonafide, made, the Courts of this country
are bound to consider them as American citizens, and
their property shipped before they had an opportunity
to make this election, as being protected against American capture.
There being no dispute as to the facts upor which
the do nicil of these Claimants is asserted, the questions
of law aloue remain to be considered. They are two.First, By what means and to what extent, a national
character may be impressed upon a person, different

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THh

from that which permanent allegiance gives him? and
consequences to which
this acquired character may expose him, in the event of
a war takingplace between the country of his residence
and that of his birth, or in which he had been naturalized ?

VENLT , secondly, What are the legaJ
RAE,
MAS'PER.

1. The wiiters upon the law of nations distinguish
between a temporar residence in a foreign country, for
a special purpose, and a residence accompanied with an
intention to make it a permanent place of abode. The
latter is styled by Vattel, domicil, which he defines to
be, - a habitation fixed in any -place, with an int, ntion
of always staying there." Such a person, says this author, becomes a inember of the new society,, at least as
a permanent inhabitant, and is a kind of citizen of an
inferior order from the native citizens; but is, nevertheless, united and subject to the society, without participating in all its advantages. This right of domicil, lie
continues, is not established, unless the person makes
sufficiently known his intention of fixing there, either
tacitly. or by an express declaration, Vaft. ), 92, 93Grotius n where uses the word domicil, but lie also
distinguislies between those who stay in a foreign country by the necessity of thcir affairs, or from any other
temporary cause, an.d thos6 who reside there from a
permanent cause. The former he denominates strangers, and the latter, subjects; and it will presently be
seen, by a reference to the same author, what different
consequences these two characters draw after them.
The doctrine of the prize Courts, as well as of the
Courts of common law, in England, which, it was hintedl, if not asserted, in argument, had no authority of
universal law to sfand upon, is the same with what is
stated by the above writers; .xcept that it is less general, and confines the consequences resulting from this
acquired character to the property of those persons
engaged in the commerce of the country in which they
reside.
It is decided by those Courts, that whilst an Englishman, or a.neutral, resides in'&hostile country, he is a
subject of that country, and is to be c.onsidered, (even

FEBRUARY TERM i811.
by his own or native country, in the former case) As
having a hostile character impressed upon him.

THE
vENVs,
RAE,

In deciding whether a person 'has obtained the MASTVII.
right of an acquired domicil, it is not to be expected that much, if any, assistance should be derived from mere elementary writers on the law of nations. They can only lay down the general principles
of law; and it becomes the duty of Courts to establish
rules for the proper application of those principles. The
question, whether the person to be affected by the right
of domicil had sufficiently made known his intention of fixing himself permanently in the foreigi
country, must ilepend upon all the circumstances of th(
case. If he had made no express declaration on the
subject, and his secret intention is to be discovered, his
acts must be attended to, as affording the most satisiaetory evidence of his intention. On this ground it is.
that the Courts of England have decided, that a pe'son who removes to a foreign country, settles himself there, and engages in the trade of the country, furnishes, by these acts, such evidence of an intention permanently to reside there, as to stamp him with the national character of the, state where he resides. In questions on this subject, the chief point to be considered, is
the animus manendi; and Courts are to devise such
reasonable rules 'of evidence as may establish the fact
ofintention. If it sufficiently appear that the intention
of removing was to make a permanent settlement, or
for an indefinite time, the right of domicil is acquired
by a residence even of a few days. This isone of the
rules of the British Courts, and it appears to be perfectly'reas.nable. Another is, 'that a neutral or subject, found residing in a foreign country is presumed
to be there aninw maunzdi ; and if a state of war should
bring his national character into question, it lies upon
him to explain the circumstances of his residence--Tw
*ernon, 1, Rob. 86, 102. As to some other rules of the
prize Courts of England, particularly those which
lix a national character upon a person on the ground
of constructive residence, or the peculiar nature of hi-_
trade, the Court is not called upon to give an opinion
at this time : because, in this case, it is admitted that
the Clailnants had acquired a right of domicil in Great

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THEfl

vNus,

Britain, at the time of the breaking out of the war be.
tween that country and the United Stts.

EAE,

MASTER.

2. The next question is, what are the consequences to
which this acquired domicil may legally expnse the per,
son entitled to it, in the event' o a war taking place
between tile government under which he resides and
that to'which he owes a, permanent allegfianre ? A neutral in his situation, if ie should engage in open hostilities with the other belligerent, would be considered
and treated as an enemy. A citizen of the other belligerent could not be so (onsidered, because lie could not,
by any act of hostility, rer.ider himself, strktl. spe-aking,
an enemy, contrary to his permanent allegiance. But
although lhe cannot be considered an enemy, in the
strict sense of the word, yet he is deemed such, with reference to the seizure of so much of his property concerned in the trade of the ene:nmy as is conn,.cted with
his residence. It is found adhering to the enemy.
He -is himself adhering to the encrny, ahhough nft
criminally so, unless lie engages in aots of hostility
ag.inst his native 'country, or, probably, refus,-s,
when required by his country, to retarn. The
same rule, as to property engagcd in 'he commerce of
the enemy. applies to neutrals; and for the same reason.
The converse of this rie inevitably applies to fhe subject of a belligerent state domiciled in a neutrd rountry ; ie is deemed a neutral by both helli. -rents, wilh
reference to the trade which lie carries on with the adverse belligerent, and with all the rest of the world.
But this national character which a man acquires by
residence, may be'thrOwn ofF at. pleasizee, by a return
to his native country, or cyen by turning his back on
tfie country in whiclh he has resided. on irs way to another. To use the languiage of sir . Scott. it is an adventitious character gained by res;dnce. and which
ceases by nun-rcsidence. It no longer adheres to the
party from the moment lie puts himself in motion. bona
fide, to quit the country sine animo re7,ert,'dui. 3 Rb.
17, 12. The Indian Chief. The reps-nahl ness , ' this
rule can hardly be disputed. Havinx once acquired a
national character by residence in a &eigh country. lhe
ought to be bound by all the consequenres of it. until
he has thrown it off, either by an actual return to his

FEBRUARY TERM i8&.
native country, or to that where he was naturalized, or 'rHn
by commencing his removal, bona fide, and without an v Eius,
intention of returning. If any thing short of actual reRA.,
moval be admitted to work a change in ihe national MTASTER.
character acquired by residence, it seems perfect y reasonable that the evidence of a bona fide ifitention to rc-'
move, should be such as 'to leave no doubt of its since ity. Mere declarations of such an intention ought
never to be relied upon, when contradicttd, 'or at least
rendered doubtful, by a continuance of that r'esidehce
which impressed the character. They may hay, been
made to deceive; or, if sincerely made, they may never
be executed. Even the party himself o ght not to be
bound by them, because he may aftvrwards find reason
to hange his determination, and ought to b, permitted
to do so. But when.he accompanies those d,'clarations
by acts whicli speak a lang.age not to be mistaken, an
can hardly fail to be consummated by actual rirmovol,
the strongest evidence is afford6dwhich the nature of
such a came can fhuish. A.nd is it not proper that the
Courts of a belligerent nation should deny to any person the right to use a character so equivocal, as to put
It in his power to claim which :ver may best suit his
purpose, when it is called in question
If hi. property
be taken trading with the enemy, shall he be allhwed to
shield it from confiscation, by all ging that lie had iditended to remove friom tie country of the enemy to his
own, then neutt al, and, terefor,- that, as a neutral,
ihe trade was lawful? If war exist oetween the country of his residence and his native. country, and his property be seized by the foriger, or by the latter, shall he
he heard to say in the former case, that he was a domiciled subject of the country of the captor, and in the
latter, that he was a native subject of the country of
that captor also, because lie had declared an intention
to resume his native character; and thus to parry the
belligerent rights of both? It is to guard against such
inconsistencies, and against the frauds which such p:e
tensions, if tolerated, would sanction, that the rule
above mentioned has been adopted. Upon what s6und
principle can a distinction he framed between the case
of a neutral, and the subject of one belligerent loiiiled in the country o the other at th6 breaking out of
the war? rhe property of each, found ergaged in the
9owamerce of their adopted country, belonging to them,
VOI1. VIII.
36

SUPREME COURT TT. S.
before the war, in their claracter of subjects of lhat
country, so long as they continued to retain their domiRAE,.
cil - and when a state of war takes place between thai
MASTE.,. country and any other, by which the two nations and
all their s ibjects become enemies to each other, it follows that the property, which was once the property of
a friend, beloneS now, in reference to that property. to
an enemy. This doctrine of the common law and prize
Courts of England is founded, like that mentioned under
the firt head, upon national law; and it is believed to
be strongly supported by reason and justice. It is laid
down by Grotius, p. 563, it that all the subjects of the
"enemy who are such from a permanent cause, that is
"to say, settled in the country, are liable to the law of
"i reprisals, whether they *be natives or foreigners ; but
" not so if they are only trading or' sqIourning for a
"little time." , And why, it may be confidently asked,
should not the property of such subjects be exposed to
the law of reprisals and of war, so long as the owner
retains his acquired domicil, or, in the words of Grotius,
eontinues a permenent residence in the country of the
enen ? They wvere before, and cont!nue after the war,
hound, by such residence, to the society of wlih'h they
are m'mnbi's, subject to the laws of the slate, and owing a qualified allegiance thereto; they are obliged to
defend it. (with an exception in favor (if such a sulbject,
in relation to his-native country) in return for"the,protection it afflrds them, and the privilqg s which the
laws bestow upon them ds subjects. The property of
such persons, equally with t'iat of the niative su!jects in
their totality, is to be conqidered aq the gods of the
nation, in regard to other states. It belongs, in some
sort, to the state, from tMe right which she has over the
goots of its citizens which make a part of tie sum
total of its riches, "tntd augment itq power. Valt. 1 i.7,
and'also B. 1, e. 14, § is-;. In reprisals, continues the
same author, we seize on the property of the st'tject,
just as we would that of the sovereign ; every thing
that belongs to the nation is subject to reprisals,
wherever it can he seized, with the exception of a deposit entrusted to the public faith. B. 2, c. 18, § 31,,
Now iffa permanent residence constitutes the person a.
subject of the country where lie is settl.d, so loug as
lie continues to reside there, and qiu~ects his property
to the law of reprisals, as a part of the property of tlw
'ruG
vZNVqs,

FEBRUARY TERM

814.

nation, it would seeia difficult to maintain that the same
TuL
coosequences would not lollow in the case of an open vFNirs,
and public war, x h tlher between the adopted and natA,;,
ti% countries of, peisons so domiciled, or between the 1IASTEP,.
forn-er and any other nation. It, then, notliing but an
actual renmval, or a banafide beginning to remove, can
change a national character, acquired lly doi:icil, and
if, at the time of the inception of the voyage, as well
as at the time of capture, the property belonged to such
domiciled person in his char'icter of a subject, what is
there that does, or ought to exenipt it from capture by
the privateers of. his native country, if, at the time of
capture, lie continues to reside in the country of the adverse belligerent? . It is contended that a iative or naturaliz d subject of one country, who is st.rprised in
th. couinLtry where lie was domiciled by a declarati'on
of msat, ought to have time to make his election to contimue there, or to remove to tire country to NOhich he
dwves a pernianent dlegiance; and that, until such election' is made, his property ought to be protected from
capture b3 the cruizers of* the latter. This doctrine is
believed to be as untounahd in reason and justice, as it
ch arly is in law. In the first place, it it founded upon
a presumptio'n that the perst -%il certainly remove,.
before it cati possibly be known wvhetlher he may elect
to do so or not. It is said that thispliresumption ought
to be made. because, upon rccewng inf-Pination of the
wai, it will be his duty to return home. This position
is drnied. It is his duty to commit no acts of hostility
against his native countri-v and to return to her assistance when r quired to do so ; nor will any jtist nation,
regarding the mild princmph s of the law of natilms, require him to take at ms agaihst his native country, or
refuse her permission to him to withdraw whenever he
wishes to do so, unless under peculiar circuimstancez,
which, by such removal at a criticil period, might endanger the public safety. "-The conventional law of nations is in contormity with those principles.' It is not
uncommol to stipulate in treaties that the subjects of
each shall be allowed to remove with their property, or
to remain unmolested, Such a stipulation does not coerce those subjects eitlher to remove or to remain. They
are left free to chuse for themselves; and wheir they
Itave made their election, they claim the right of enjoy.

Sui'REME COURT U. S.
TnE
VENUs,
R. E,
MASTER.

ing it under'the treaty. But until the election is made,
their former character continues unchanged.
Until this election is made, if his property found
up,,n the high seas, engaged in the commtrce of his
adopted country, should be permitted, by the cruizers
of the other belligerent, lo pass free, under the notion
that lie may elect to remove, upon notice of the war,
an shoul l arrive safe, what is to be done in case the
owner of it should afterwards elect to remain where he
is? or, if captured and brought immediately to adjudication, it must, upon this doctrine, be acquitted un'til
tie Ol'ction toxemain is madc and known. In short,
the pint contended for would apply the doctrine of relation to cases where the party claiming the benefit of
it ,nai gain all, and can lose nothing. If he, after the
capture. should find it his interest to remain where he
is domiciled, his property embarked before his election
was made, is safe ; and if lie finds it best to return, it
ig safe of course. It is safe whether he goes or stays.
This doctrine, producing such contradictory conse-.
que.nes, is not only unsupported by any authority, but
it would violate principles long and well established in
thf prize- Courts of England, and which ought not,
Without strong reasons which may render them inap.
plicable to this country, to be disregarded by this Court.
The rule there, is, that the character of property, during
war.-cannot be changed in transitu, by any act of the
party, subsequent to the capture. The rule indeed .goes
farther: as to the correctness of which in its greatest
extensior no opinion need now be given; but it may
safely be affirmed that this change cannot and ought not
to be effhcted by an election of the owner and shipper
of it made subsequent to the capture, arid, more especially, after a kno*led'e of the capture is obtained by time
o"ner. Observe the consequences which would result
from it The capture is made and known. The owner
is allowed to deliberate whether it is his interest to re-'
main a subject of his adopted, or of his nhtive country.
If the capture be made by the firmer, then he elects to
be a subject of that country ; if by the latter, then a
subject of that. Can such a privileged situation be
tolerated by either belligerent? Can any system of law
be correct, which places an individual who adheres to

!one belligerent, and, to the period of his election to re-

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
THE
move, contributes to encrease her wealth, in so anoInalous a situation as to be clothed with the privileges of vEvts,
nAE,
a neutra as to both belligerents? This notion about
a temporary state of neutrality impressed, upon a sub- MASTER.
ject of one of the belligerents, and the conscquent exemption of hs property from capture by either, until
lie has had notice of the war aid made his dIzc ion, is
altogcther a novel theory, and sems from the course
of tie argument, to owe its origin to a supposed hardship to which the contrary doctrine exposes him. But
if the reasoning employed on this subject be correct, no.
such hardship can exist. For if, before the election is
made, his property on the ocean is liable to capture by
the cruizers of his native and deseried country, it is not
only free from capture by those of his adopted country',
but is under its protection. The privilege is supposed
to be equal to the disadvantage, and is therefore just.
The double privilege claimed seems too unreasonable to
be granted.
It will be observed, that in the foreg.ong opinion respecting the nature and consequences of domicil, very
few cases have been referred to. It was thought best
not to interrupt the chain of argument, by stopping to
examine cases; but faithfully to present the essential
principles to be extracted fromi those which were cited at
the bar, or which have otherwise come under the view of
the Coturt, and which applied to the subject. With Nhat
success this has been executed, is not for me to de(ide.
But there arc two or three cases which seem to be so applicable, and at the same time so conclusive on the great
points of this question, that it may not be improper briefly to notice them. In support or the general principles,
that the national character of the owner at the time of
capture, must decide his right to claii, and that a sublject is condemned by it, even in the Courts of his native
country, without time being allowed to him to elect to
remove, the following cases may be refel-red to. In the
Boedes Lust, 5 Rob. 217, it was decided that the property
of a residentof Demarara, shipped before hostilities of any
kind had occurred between Holland and Great Britain,
but which was captured under an embargo declared by England upon Dutch property, as preparatory to war which
ensued soon after the seizure, was, by the retroactive effect
of the war applied to property so seized, to be consider-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ed as the p'olertv of an enemy taken in war. Ini this
r41;
v r rs, cast', sir M4.Scotdlays it down, that, whel'e propertyis
taken in a state of hostilitki, the univ(rsal practice has
u ta.
MxsTF-,. ever been to hold it subject t, c 'ndeinnation although
- the Claimants may have become ifriends and subjects
prior to the adjiidi-'ation. This case is somewhat mtronge" than the priscnt, in the circpnslance that in that,
the state of h(ostilityalleged to ,have existed at the time
of capture was made ott by considering the subsequent
declaration of war as relating back to the. time of seizure
under the embargo, by which relerence it was decided to
be a hostile einhat'o. and of couirse tantamount to an
actual state of war. But this rase also proves, not only
that the hobtile character of the property at the time of
capture establisizes the legality of it, but that no future
circtnistance changing the lIwstile charart..r of the Claimayrt to that of a friend or subject, can entitle him to restitutipn. Whether the Claiinant, in this case, was a neutral or a British sub ject, doeg not appear. But if the
forner, it will not, it is prerinumed, be contended that he
is, upon the'principles of national law, less to be favored in the Courts of the belligerent, than a subject (f that
nation domiciled in the cotfitry of the adverse belligerent. Whitehill's case, however, ikeferred to frequently in
.4ob. reports, comes fully tip to the present, because lie
was a British subject, who had settled but a few days in
Mhe hostile country, but before he knew. or could have
known or the declaration of war;" yet, as he went there
with an intention to settle, this, connected with his resi(lence. short as it was, fixed his national character, and
identified him with the enemy of tWe country he had so
recently quitted.

Tltte want of notice, and of an oppor-

tunity to extricate himself from a situation to which lie
had so recently and so innocently exposed himself, could
not prevail to iro~ect his property against the belligerent rights of his own cointry.and to save it from 6onfiscation. There are many bther strong cases upon theqe
liointi', which I forbear to notice particularly, from an
unwillingness to s ehll this opinion already too tong.
The sentence of the Court is as follows :
This cause cane on to be heard on the transcript of
the fecord, and was argued by counsel; on comsid ration
whereof, ft is,decreed and ordered that the sentence of

FEBRUARY TERMi1814.
TH
the Circuit Court of Massacliusetts condemning the one
hundred casks of whitelead claimed by Lenox and Miait- VnNU$,
land be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs. And nxg,
that the sentence of the said Circuit Court as to thLe MASTER.
claim of Alagee and Jones to twenty-one trunks of mer-"
rhandize be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled ; and.thai 'the said twenty-one trunks of merchandize be condemned to t!.c captors; and tbat the sentence
of the said Circuit Court as to the ship Venus claimed
by Leno.h and Maitland be and the same is hereby reversed ; and that the said shi) Venus be condenined, the
One half thereof to th,, caitors, the other half to the United States, under the order of te said Circuit Cont .
That the sentence of the said Circuit Court as to the
claim of Win. Maitland to one half ofone hundred and fitty crat-s of earthen wor, thirty-five cases andthree casks
of coppvr, nine pieces ofcotton baggingand tw enty apd for
twvnti-th, tons of coal, be and thle same is hereby reversed, and that the same be condemned to the captors ; and
that the sentence of the said Circuit Court. as to the
claim of Alpxander M'Gregor to one half oone hundred
and ninety-eight packages oflmerchandize as tle joint
prop rty of himself and Lpnox and' Maitland. and of the
claim of Win. Maitland fo.r one fourth of thesame goods.
-tnti of the claim of Alexander MoGrfor to twienty-five
pieces of cotton bag;Jg andfive t,.u:nks of merchandize.
lie, and the same is herebv reversed and annulled, and
that the same he condemned to th'l captors; and that the
said caus, be remanded to the said Circuit Court for fmrter proceedings t6 be had therein.

.founsoN, J. declined giving an opinion.
STrt..L I do not sit in tbiN cause: but the great
question involved in it, respecting the effect of domicil
on national character, forms the leading point in many
cases betre the Court. Those cases have been ably
and fidily argued, and I have listened, with great slicitnde and attention, to lhe discussion. On so important
a question, where a difference of opinion has been expresse(I (n the bench, I do not feel at liberty to wt-drhaw
mhyself from the responsibility which tlle law imposes on
Ine. The parties in the other cases have a right to my
opinion; and, however painfid it is. in tim embarrassing

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TArE

VENUS,
RA

.,

MASTER.

situation in which I stand, to declare it, I shall not shrink
from what I deem a perein)tory duty. The question is
not new to me i It has b'een repeatedly before me in the
Circult Court, and has been applied sometimies to, relieve
"and sbm~times to condemn he Claimant. I shall not
pretend to go over the grounds of argument; but content uiyself with declaring my entire concurrence in the
)pinion expressed by Judg. Washington on this point.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. I entirly concur in so much of the
opinion delivered in th[s case, as attaches ahostile character to*the property of an American citizen continuing, after
the declaration of war; to resi,e and trade i,, the country
of the enemy ; and I subscribe implicitly to the reasoning urged in its support. But from so much of that
opinion as subjects to confis'ation'the property of a citizen shipped before a knowledge of the war, and which
disallows the defence fouhded on an intention to change
his domicil and to retun to tlm United States, manifestW(l in a sufficient manner, and within a reasonable time
after knowledge of the war, altiough it be subsequent to
the capture, I feel myself compelled to dissent.

The question is undoubtedly complex and intricate.
It is difficult to draw a line of discriination which shall
be at the same timd precise and equitable. But the difficulty. does not appear t,0 me to be sufficient to deter
Courts from making the attempt.
A merchant resisling abroad for commercial purposes
may certainly intend to continue in t4Me foreign country
so long as peace shall exist, provided his commercial objects shall detair, him so long, but to leave it the instant war shall break out between that country and his
own. This intention, it is not inecessary to manif.'st durin- peace. and when. war shall commence, the belhgerent cruizer may find his proprty on the ocean, and may
captureit, before he knows that war exists. 'h question wlether this he enemy property op not, depends,'fn
my judgment, not exc1sively on tile residence of the
owner at the time, bitt on his residence taken in connexion with his national character as a citizen, and wvith his
intemtion to continue or to discontinue his commercial
damicil in the event of war.

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
TUX
The evidence of this intention will rarely, if ever, be
given during peace. It must, therefore, be furnished, if vF-Nus,
at all, af er the war shall be known to him ; and that RA,
knowled.ge may be preceded by the capture of his goods. MASTE.R.
It appears to me, then, to be a case in which, as in ma---.
ny others.justice requires that subscquent testimony shall
be received to prove a pre-existing fact. Measures taken
for removal immediately after a war, may prove a previous intention to remove in the event of war, and may
prove that the captured property, although, primafacie,
belonging to an enemy, does, in fact, belong to a friend.
In such case, the citizen, in my opinion, has a right, in
the nature of thejus postliminii, to claim restitution.

As this question is not only decisive of many claims
now depending before this Court, but is also of vast inportance to our merchants generally, I may be excused
for stating, at some length, the reasons on which my
opinion is founded.
The whole system of decisions applicable to this subject rests on the law of nations as its base. It is,
therefore, of some importance to enquire how far the
writers 'on that law cousider the subjects of one powei
residing within the territory of another, as ietaining
their original character, or partaking of the character
of the nati )f in which they reside.

Vattet, who, thouga not very full to this point, is more
explicit and more satisfactory on it than any other whose
work has fallen into in; hands, says, ," the citizens are
"the members of the civil society ; bound to this socie"ty by certain duties. and subject to its authority, they
"equally participate in its advautages. The natives, or
,indigenes, are thuse born in the comitry, of parents
"who are citizens. Society not being able to subsist
",and to perpetuate itself but by the children of the citizeus, thos" children naturally follow the condition of
"their fathers, and succeed to all their rights."
", The inhabitants, as distinguished from citizens, are
"strangers who are permitted to settle and stay in the
"country. Bound by their residence to the society, they
,are subject to the laws of the state, while they reside
"there, and they are obliged to defend it, because itgrants
37
VOL. VIII.

SUPREME COUWr U. S.
"them protection, tikough they do not participate in all
9ithe rights of citizens. They enjoy only the advanRAE
- tages which the laws, or custom gives them. The perMASTER. ',petual inhabitants are those who have received the right
"of perpetual residence. These are a kind of citizens
"of an inferior order, and are united and subject to the
,,society, without participating in all its advantages."
THE

vENUs,

, The domicil is the habitation fixed in any place,
"with an intention of always staying there. A man
"does not, theen, establish his domicil in any place, un"less lie makes suficienfly known his intention of fixing
6there, eithf.r tacitly or by an express declaration.
,,1HowevWr, this declaration is no reason wly; if he'af" terwards ch;nituge
his mind, fiemay not remove his
-doipicil elsewhere. In this sense, liewho stops, even
for a long time, in a place; for the managenent of his
*affatirs. lhas 0nly a Simple habitation t"here, but has
11e
"donmicil."

A domicil. tlen, in the sense in which this term is
used by J'a'tel, requires not only actual residence in a
foreign country, but 66an intention of alwa.,s staying
there." Actual. residence without this intcnt'on, amounts
to .fo ne~re than ,,simple habitation."
Although this intention may b ; implied without being
expressed, it ought not, I thi: k, to be implied, to the injury ofthe individual, from acts entirely equivocal. If
the stranger has not the power of making his residence
perpetual. if"
circumstances, after his arrival in a country, so change, as to make his continuance there disadvantageous to himsehr, and hiA power t6 continue, doubtflul ;
, an intention al ays to stay there" ought niot, I think, to
be fixed upmo him, in consequence of at unexplained residence previous tf) that change of circumstances. Mere

resid, nee, under particular circumstances, would seent

to me, at most, to prove only an intention to remai so
long as tho.s3'circumstances continue the same, or equal.
ly advantageous. This foes not give a domicil. The
int'utin which gives a domicil is an unconditional in-

tention "to stay always."

The right of the citizens or subjects of one country to
remain inanother, depends on tho will (fthe sovereign

FEBRUARY TERM 18i.
f that other; and if that will be not expressed otherTHE
wise than by that general hospitality which receives .nd vErNus,
affords security to strangers, it is supposed to terminate
RAE,
with the relations of peace between the two countrits. MASTEn.
When war breaks out, the subjects of one belligerent in
tie country of the oler are considered as enemies, and
have no right to remain there.
Vattel says, ",enemies continue such wherever they
happen to be. The place of abode is of no account
"here. It is the political ties which determine the qual"ity.
While a man remains a citizen of his own c,:nntry, he remains the enemy of all those with whom his
',,
nation is at war."
It would seem to me, to require very strong evidence
(fan intention to become the permanent inhabitant bf a
foreign country, to justify a court in presuming such intention to cpntinue, when that residence, must expose
the person to the inconvenience of being considered and
treated as an enemy. The intention to be inIrred solei
ly from the fact of residence during peace, for commercial
purposes, is, in my judgment, necessarily conditional,
and dependent on the continuance of the relations of
peace between the two countries,
So far is the law of nations from considering residence
in a foreign country in time of peace, as evidence of an
intention -. always to stay there," even in time of war,
that the very contrary is exprcssed. Vattet says, "6the
",sovereign declaring warcan neither detain those sub.
,"jects of the enemy who are within his dominions at the
"time.of the declaration, nor their effects. They came
"into his country on the public failh. By permitting
"them to enter his territory and to continue there, he
",tacitly p'omised them liberty and security for their
"return.
He is' therefore to allow them a reasonable
,,time for withdrawing with their effects; and ifthey
,,stay beyond the time prescribed, he-has a right to treat
'them as enemies, though as enemies disarmed."
The stranger merely residing in a country during
peace, however long his stay, and whatever his employment, provided it be such a-s strangers may engage in,
cannot, on the iriuciples of national law, be f.onsidered

SLTPhEME COURT U. S.
TiE

as incorporated into that society, so as, immediately on

vENus, a declaration of war, to become the enemy of his own.
RAE,
",His property," says Vattde, "t is still a part of the totaMASTER. "lity of the wealth of hisnation." ",Thecitizen or sub.ject of a state, who absents himself for a time, witlhgut
" any intention to abandon the society of which he is a
"member, does not lose his privilege by his absence ;
"he preserves his rigots, and remains bound by the
" same obligations. Bring received in a foreign coun" try, in virtue of the natural society, the communication
"and commerce, which nations, are obliged to cultivate
"with each other, he ought to be considered there as a
" member of his own nation, and treated as such."
Die subject of one power inhabiting the country of
another, ought not to be considered as a member of the
nation in which ieresides, even by foreigiiers; nor ought
he, on the first commencement of hostilities, to be treated
as an enemy by the enemies of that nation.
Burlainajuisays, "as to strangers, those who settle in
"the enemy's country after a war is begun, of which
"they had previous notice, may justly be looked upon
" as enemies and treated as such. Butin regard to such
" as went thither before the wari justice and humanity
" require that we should give thm a reasonable time to
" retire; and if they neglect that opportunity, they are
caccounted enemies."
If this rule be obligatory on foreign nations, muc
more ought it to bind that of which the individual is a
member.
I think I cannot be mistaken when I say that, in all
-he views taken of this subject by the most approved
writers on the law of nations, the citizen of one country
residing in another, is not considered as incorporated
in that other, but is still considered as belonging t0 that
socieiy of which he was originally a member. And if
war break out between the two nations, he Is to be permitted, and is expected, to~return to his own. I do not
perceive in those writers any exception with regard to
Inerchants.
It must, however, be acknowledged thaf~he great ex-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
THE
tension of commerce has had considerable influence on
national law. Rules have been adopted, perhaps by vNus,
general consent, principles have been engrafted on the
AE,
original stalk of public law, by which merchants, while MASTER.
belonging politically to one society, are considered commercially as the members of another. For commercial
purises the merchan is considered as a member of
roar society in which lie has his domicil; and less conclusive 'evidence than wbuld seem to be required in genere cases, by the.law of nations, has been allowed to
fix the domicil for commercial purposes. But I caarwt
admit that the original meaning of the term is to be entirely disregarded, or the true nature of this domicil to
be, oveilooked. ,The effects of the rule: ought lo be
regulated by the motives which are presumed to have
induced its establishment, and by the convenience it was
intended to promote.

The policy of commercial. nations receives foreign
merchants into their bosom; and p,'rmits their 6wn
citizens to reside abroad for the purposes of trade
without injury to theiiv rights or character as citizens.
This fr'ee intercommunication must certainly be believed, by the nations who allow it, to be promotive of
their-interests. Nor-is this opinion ill founded . Notbig can be more obvious than that the af",'rS of a
commercial company will be transactedto most advantage by being conducted, as it respects both purchase
and sale, under the eye of a person interested in the result. The nation hhich takes an interest in the prbsperity of its commerce, can feel no inclination to restrain
its citizens from residence abroad for the purposes of
commerce ; nor will it hastily construe such residence
into a change of national character, to the injury of the
individual. It is not the policy of such a nation, nor
can it be its wish, to restraih its citizens from pursuii.
abroad a business -which tends to enrich itself. It ought
not, then, to consider them as enemies in consequence
of their having engaged in such pursuit in the country
of a friend, who, before their removal, becomes an
enemy.
If, indeed, it he the real intention of the citizen permanently to change his national character, if it be his
choice to remain in the coubtry of the enemy during

. 99

SUPREME COURT U. S.

war, there can be no harshiess-no injustice in treating him as an enemy. But if, while prosecuting his
RAE,
business in a foreign country, he contemplates a return
MASTER. to his own ; if, in the prosecution of that business, ho
is promoting rather than counteracting the interests
and policy of the country of which he is a member, it
would seein to me to be pressing the principle too far,
and to be drawing conilusions which the premises will
not warrant, to infer, conclusively, an intention to continue in a country which has become hostil., from a residence and trading in that country while it was friendly; and to punish himn by the confiscation of his goods,
as if he was fully convicted of that intention.
THE

vENUS,

It is admitted lo be a gefieral rule, that, while the
state of thingh remains unaltered, while the motives
which carried the citizen abroad continue, while lie still
prosecutes a business of uncM'tain duration, his capacity to prosecute which is not imupairedo his mercantile
character is confounded with that of the country in
which he resides, and his trade is considered as the
trade of that country.
It will require but a slight examination of the subject
to perceive the reason of this rule; and-that, to a certain extent, it is convenient without being unjust.
In times of universal peace, the question of national
.character can arise only when some privilege or some
disahility is attached to it, or in cases of insurance. A
particular trade may be dlowed or be prohibited to the
merchantg of a particular nation, or property may be
warranted to be of h particular ndtion. If, in such
cases, the residence of the individual be received as evidence of his national mercantile character, the subjects
or enquiry are simplified, the questions are reduced to
a plain one, and the various complex enquiries, which
mightotherwise arise, are avoided. There is, therefore, imuch convenience in adopting this principle in
sucji a state of things.; and it is not perceived that any
injustice can grow out of it; since the individual to
whom the rule is applied is not surprised by any new
or unlooked for event.
So if war exists between two nations.

Each bellige-

FEBRUARY TERM iMi4.

295

rent having a right to capture the property of the other
found on the ocean, each being.intent on destroying the
commerce of the other, and on depriving 'it of every
cover under which it may seek to shelter itself, will certainly not allow the advanta.ges of neutrality to a merchant residing in the country of his enemy. Were this
liermitted, the whole trade of the enemy could assume,
and would assume, a neutral garb.
There is, in general, no reason for supposing that a
merchant residihg in a foreign country, and carrying
on trade, means to withdraw from it, on its engaging
in war with any wther country to which. he is bound by
no obligation. By contin".ing, during war, the domicil
acquired in peace, he violates n, duty, ofi-nids against
no generally acknowledged principle, an(d retains all
his rights of residence and commerce. The war, then,
furnishes no motive for presuming that he is about to
change his situation, "andto resume his original national character.
These reasons appear to me tp require the rule as a
general one, and to justify iis application to gefieral
cases. But they do not, in my opinion. justify its application to the case of a merchant whom war finds engaged in trade in a 'ountry which becomes tlie enemy
of his own. His country ought not, I think, to bind
hint by his residence during peace; nor to consider him
as precluded by it from showing an intrution that it
should terminate with the relations of peace.
When it is considered that his right to remain and
prosecute that trade in which he had. been engaged
durhig peace, is fort'itd ; that his duty, and most prohably his inclinations, call him home; that he has be
come the enemy of the country in ,which he resides;
that his continuance in it exposes him to many and
serious inconveniences ; that hig per.son and property
are in dange.r; it is not, I think, going too far to.say
that this change in his situation may be considered as
changing his intention on the subject of residence, and
as affording a presumnption of intending to return.
Let it be remembered that, according to tbe law of
nations, dornicil depends on the intention to reside per-

THE
VENUS.
RAE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

wNUS,
RAE.
MASTER.

manently in the cduntry to which the individual has rem~oved ; and that a change of this intention is, at any
time, allowable. If, upoii grounds of general policy
and gneral-convenience, while the circumstances under
which the residence commenced, continue the same, residence and emplayment in permanent trade be considered as evidence of an in ention to continue permanently in the country, and as giving a commercial n',tinal
character, may not a total change in circun-stan es-a
loss of the capacity to carry on the trade, he received,
in the absence of all conflicting proof, as presumptive
evidence of an iit-ntion to leave the country, and as
extricating the trade, carried on in the time of supp,'sed
peace, from the national character, s, far as to protect
it from the perils of war? At any rate, do not rpason
and justice require that this change or circumstances
shojuld leave the question open to be decided on such
other evidence as the war must produce?
The great object for which an American merclant
fixes himself in a foreign country, is, most generally,
to carry on trade betw,'een that country and his own.
In almost every case of this description before the Court,
the Claimant is a-member Qf a house established ip the
United States; and his business abroad is subservient
to the business at home. This trade is annihilated by
the war.
If, while peace subsists between the United States
and Great Britain, ilhile the American merchant possesses there all the commercial ri-lhts allowed to the
citizens of a friendly nation, and may carry on uninterruptedly his-trad, to his own country, -he is presumed, his intentions being unexplnined, to intend remaining there always, and may, for, geineral conveni(nce, be clothed with the commercial character of the
nation in which lie resides, oulht this prestiInption to
be extended, by his own government, beyond the facts
out of which it grows, if the interest of the individual
be materially affected by that extensiQn ? Do not reason and justice rQquire'that we should consider his original intention as being only Go-ettensive with the
causes which carried .him to and detained him in the
country, as being, in its nature, conditional, and de.
pendent oi the cbntinuance of those causes ?

FEBRUARY TERM i&14.
If such a person were required, on his arrival in a
foreign country, to declare %is real intentions on the
subjrct of residence, he would, most probably, say, if
he spoke honestly, ," I come For the purpose of trade:
I shall remain mhile the situation of the two countries
permits me to carry on my trade lawfull), securely,
and advantageously: when that situation so changes as
to deprive me of these rights, I shall return." His intention, then, to reside in the country, isis domiil in it,
and, consequently, his commercial character, unloss he
continued his trade after war, would be clearly lin.it~d
by the duration of peace. It would not, I think, be unrasonable to say that the intention, to 1w implied from
hi§ conduct, ought to have the same limitation.
To meit seems that amere commercial donticil acquired
in time of peace, necessarily expires at the commencemnent
of hostilitfis. Domicil supposes rights inconipatible with
a state of war. If the foreign merchant be not compelled to abandon the country, itis not because his commercial character confers on him a legal right to tav,
but because he is specially permitted to stay. If in this
I am correct, it would seem to fjllow, that, if all the
legal consequences of a residence in time of peace do
not absolutely terminate with the peace, vet the national
commercial character which that residence has attached
to the individual, is not so conclusively fixed upon him
as to disqualify him from showing that, within a reasonable time after the commencement of hostilities, he
made arrangements for returning to his own country,
If a i esidence and trading after the war be not indispensably necessary to give thek citizen merchant or his
property a hostile character, yet removal, or measures
showing a determination to remove, w ithin a reasonable time after the war, may retroact upon property
shipped before a knowledge of the war, and r.scue that
property from the hostile character attadhled to the property of the nation in which the individual resided.
The law of nations is a law founded on the great and
immutable principles of equity and natural justice. To
draw an inference against all- probability, whereby a
citizen, for the purpose of confiscating his g'ods, is
clothed, against his inclination, with the character of
an enemy, in consequence of an act which, when com38
VOL. VIII.

'rE
vENUs,
RAE,
MASTEP

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THP

VENUS,
RAE.
MASTER.

'nitted, was innocent in itself, was entirely compatible
with his political character as a citizen, and with the
political views of his government, would seem to me to
subvert tose principles. The rule which, for obvious reasons, applies to the merchant in time of peace or
in time of war, the national commercial character of the
country in which he resides, cannot, in my opinion,
without subverting those principles, apply a hostile character to his trade carried on during peace, so conclusively as to prevent his protecting it by changing that
character within a reasonable time after a knowledge
of the war.
My opinion, then, is, that a mere commercial domicil
acquied by an American citizen In time of peace, especially if he be a member of an American house, and
is carrying on trade auxiliary to his trade with his
own country, ought not to be considered positively as
continuing longer than the state of peace. The declaration of war is a fact which removes the causes that
induced his residence in the foreign country. They no
longer operate upon him.- When they cease, their effects oughit to cease. 'An intfntion which they produced, ought not to be supposed to continue. The character of his property shipped before a knowledge of the
war, ought not to be decided aholutely by his residence
at the time of shipment or captare, but ought to depend
on his continaing to reside and trade in the enemy
country, or on his takingprompt measures for returning
to his own.
This is the conclusion to which -my mind would certainly be conducted, might I permit it to be guided by
the lights of reason and .the principles of natural justice. But it is said that i course of adjudications
has settled the law to be otherwise-that we cannot, without overturning a magnificient system bottomed on the broad base of national law, and of which the
facts are admirably adjusted to each other, yield to the
dictafes of humanity on this particular question. Sir
Milliam Scott, it is argued at the bat-, has, by a series
of decisions, devceloped the principles of national law on
this suhlibt, with a perspicuity and precision which
mark plainly the path we ought to tread.

FEBRUARY TERM 18it.
I respect sir William Scott, as I do every truely great
THE
man ; and I respect his decision ; nor should I depart v,, us,
iUAE,
from them on light grounds: but it is .impossible to
consider them attentively, without perceiving that his MAS'cTfL.
mind leans strongly in favor of the captors. Rvsidence, for example, in abelligerent country, will ondctmn
the share of a neutral in a house, trading in a neutral
counlry; but residence in a neutral country will n,, pro'tect the share of a belligerent or neutral in a con-n-ercial
house established in a helligerentcounutry. In agreatimaritime countri, depending on its navy for its .lor. and is
saftety, the national bias is perhaps st entirely in ehis direction, that the judge, without being conscious of the fact,
must feel its influence. How ever this may be, it is a fact
of which I am frully convirced ; and, on this accounti
it appears to me to be the more proper to investigate
rigidly the princii,les on which his deciskins have been
made. and not to extcnd them where sucl extension
may produce injustice.
While I make this observation, it would betray a
want of canlor not to accompany it with the acknqw
led.geineit that I perceive in the opinions of this eminent judge, no disposition to press this principle with
peculiar severity against nettrals. He has certainly
not mitigated " when applying it to British subjects.
With this iinpr,'ssion respecting the. general character of British admiralty decisions, I pr,,c ed to examine them so far as they beat- on the question of domicil.
The case of the Vigilantia does not itself involve the
point. But in delivering'his opinion, thp jutlge cited
tw6 cases of capture which have been quoted and relied on at bar. In each ,of these, the share of the partner residing in the neutral country, m restored. and
that of the partner- residing in the bIlligerent country
wai condemned. But tht-se de, isi, ns applied to a trade
continued to be carried on 4uring war.
In a subsequent case, the share of the partner residing
in the neutral country also was condemned ; and the
lords commissioners said that the prinipe on which
restitution was decrced in each of the first nwntioned
cases, was, "that they were merely at the commence-

SUPREME COURT. U S.
ment of a war." They said that "; a pei'on carrying
ii on trade habitually in tihe country of the enemy,
ti though not resident there, should have time to with]RAE,
AIASTEnR. 4c draw himself from that commerce; that it would press
"too, heavily on neutrals to sai that. immediately, on
"the first breaking out ofa war, their goods would be- come subject to confiscation."
cHWs

VENcs,

On these cases it is to be obseived, that, although
the two first happened at the commencement of the war,
yet they happened during a war; and tihe partners
whose interest was condt tned, do not appear to have
discontinued their residence and trading in the country
of the enemy, after war had taken place. The declaration ;( that it would press too heavily on neutrals to
say that, iinmdiaiely on the first breaking out of a war,
their goods would become subject to confiscation,"
thugh applied to a neutral not residing in the belligerent country, clearly discriminates, in a case of capture, between the ri.ghts of parties at the commencement of a war, and at a subsequent period. But it is
suflic~ent to say that neither the case itself, nor the cases
and opinions cited in it, apply directly to the question
bebre this Court.
In the case of the liarmon'. the property of Mr. Murray, an American citizen residing in France, was condemned on account of that residence. But Mr. Murray I.ad removed to France. during the war, and had
continued there for four years.
The scope of the ar.gument of sir William Scott goes
to show that the single circumstance of residence in
the enemy country, if not intended to be permanent, will
not give the enemy character to the property of such
resident captured in a trade between his own courti'y
and that of the enemy. It ia material that the conduct
of Mr. Murray, subsequent to the capture. had g,'eat
influence in determining the fate of his property. Had
lie returned to the United States immediately after that
event, I do not hazard mnich in saying that restitution
would have been decreed.
In the case of the Indian Chief, Mr. Johnson, an
American citizen domiciliated in England, had engaged

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
in a merchantile enterprize to tlF British East IndiesTun
a trade allowed to an American citizen, but prohibited YnNus,
to a British subject. On its return, the vessel came
R.AE,
into Cowes, and was seized for being concerned in illi. MASTEI
cit trade. Mr. Johnson had then left England for the
United States. He was considered as not being a British subject at the time of capture, and restitution was
decreed.
l delivering his opinion in this case" sir William
Scott said, t6 Taking it to be clear that the national
character of Mr. Johnson, as a British merchant, was
founded in residence only, that it was acquired by residence, and rested on that circumstance alone, it must be
held, that, from the moment he turns his back on the
country where he has resided, on his way to his oWn
country, he was in the act of resuming his original character, and is to be considered as an American. The,
character that is gained by residence, ceases by'nonresidence. It is an adventitious character that no longer adlere!, to him from the moment that he puts himself in motion, bonafidc, to qiit the country sie aniw'
reertendi."
This case undoubtedly proves, airmatively, that the
national character gained by residence ceases with that
residviice ; but I cannot admit it to prove, negatively,
that this national character can be laid doWn by no- other
means. I cannot, for instance, admit that an American citizen, who had gained a domicil in England during peace, and was desiroiks of returning home on the
breaking out of war, but was detained by force, could,
under the authority of this opinion, he treated as a Brib
tish trader, with respect to his property embarked hsi_
fore a knowledge of the war.
In the case of La Virginie, the property of. a Mr. Lapierre, who was probably naturalized in the United
States, but who had returned to St. Domingo, and id
shipped the produce of that island to France,' was condemned. But he was considered as a Frenchman, was
residing at the time in a French colony, and was engage&
in a trade between that colony and the mother country.
The case, the judge observed, might have been otherwise
djecided, had the shipment been made to the U. States.

302

SUPREME COURT U. S.

In the case of the Jonge Clarissn, Mr. Ravie had a license to make certain importations as a Britis>: subjt ct.
IZA.,
He had a house iii Amsterdam, went therm in person
SIASTER. during the war. and made the shipment under his own
inspection and control. It was dLtermintrd that, ,rt
this
transaction, he artod in his character as a Dutch mereitant, and was not protected by his license. This was
a trading during war.
'Hm
SvEN V s,

In the case of the Citto, the property of Mr. Bowden,
a British subject r'siting in Holland, was condemned.
It appeared that he had settled in Ainsterdam, where he
hasi rcsided, carr; ing on tr;ade, fr six years. In 1795,
whtn the French troops took possession of that country,
he left it and settled in Guernsey. The Citto was a Danish vessel captured in April, i796, on a voyage from a
Spanish port to Guernsey, wbere Mr. Bowden then resided. In June, 1796, after the capture of the Citto, he
returned to Holland. In argument, it was contended,
that it appeard that British subjects might rside in
H}olland, without firfeiting their British charact, r, from
the proclamation of the 3d of September, 1796, which directs the landing of goods, imported under that order
into the united provinces, to be certified by British merchants residcnt there.
The judge was desirous of knowing the nature of Mr.
Bowden's residence in Holland-whether he had cotifined himself to the objvct of withdrawing his property, or
ha'f be,n engaged in the general trzffic of the place. If
the former,
he may," said the judge, ,be entitled to
restitution more especially adverting to the order in
"council, which is certainly so worded as not to be very
• easy to be applied."
The cause stood for further proof.
It is plain that, in this opinion, the residence of the
Claimant at the tinie of capture was not considered as
conclusive. Had it been so, restitution must have been
decreed, because Mr. Bowien was a British subject, and,
at that time, resided in Guernsey. It is equally apparent, that, had his subsequent residence in tho' enemy
country been for the sole pnrpsr of wit hdrawing his property, the law was- not understood to forbid restitution.

FEBRUARY TERI 814.
The 4anguage of sir WiUiam Stot certainly ascribes conTHZ
siderable infidence to tile proclamation, but does not viNEUS,
rest the right of the Claimant altozether on that fact.
RAn,
MASTER

On the 17th of March, 1800, an affidavit of Mr. Bowden, made the 6th of August, 1799, was produced, in
which he stated his residence in Holland previous to theinvasion by the French. That he quitted Holland and
landed in E nglandI, the 20ith of 'January, 1795, whence
he proceeded to Guernsey, where he resided with his
family. That, in the month of Jue, 1796, h wes under the absolute necessity of returning to Holland, "for
the purpose of recovering debts due and effects btlonging
to the partnership, his partner remaiing in Guernsey.
The affidavit then proceeded to state many initances
of his attachment to his o~n government, and concluded
with av'erring that im was still tuader the necessity of remaining in ilolland, for tie purpose of recovering part
of the said debts and etffects, which would be itnp,,ssible
were he to leave tle country ; but tflat it was his intention to return to his native contry, so soon as his affairs
would permit where his mother and his relations reside.
The Court observed that it appeared. from the aflidavit, that Nir. Bowd,, n was. at that time, in [Tolland,; and
addel, "it wuhl be a strange act ol'i jusfi&, if.whilv
",we are condevining the gods of pers'sin of all nktions
,"resident in' Holland. we were to restore, the goods of
" native British sul.jers resid,'nt tliere. An English~luan
it residing and tradinig in Ho'and, 'is just as much a
•',Dutchoierchaut as a Swede or a Dane would be."
This case was decided in 1S00. Mr. Bowden had retinned to Holland in 1796, durin. the war, and had continued in the country of the eir-my. 'It is not denied
that ie continued his trde, and the fact that le' did continue'it is fairly to be inferred,' not 'only from his omitting to aver thp contrary, but from the language of sir
William Scott. "An Englishman residiing and tritding
in Holland," says thatjudge, "is *just as much a Dutch
"6merchant as a Swede or a Dane would be." The case
of Mr.'Bowdt.n, then, is the case of a British subject
who, continued to reside an t trade in the enemy country
four years after the commencement of hostilities. His

UPREME COURT U. S.
THE

property must have been condemned on one of two prin-

YFYNus,

ciples. Either the judge must have considered his residence in Guernsey, from January, 1795 to June, 1796, as
a temporary interruption of his permanent residence in
Holland, and not as a change of domicil, since he returned to that country, and continued in it, as a trader,
to the rendition of the final sentence ; or h", must have
decided that, although Mr. Bowden remained and intended to remain in fact a British subject, yet the permanent national commercial character which lie acquired after this capture, retroacted on a taoade which, at the
time of capture was entirely British, and subjected the.
property to confiscation. On whichsoever of these principles the case was decided, it is clear that the hostile
character attached to the property of Mr. Bowden in
consequence of his residing and trading in the country
of the enemy during the war. This case is, I think,
materially variant from one in which the residence and
trading took place during peace, and the capture was
made before a change of residence could be conveniently
eifected.

RAE,
MASTER.

The Diana is alsb a case, of considerable interest,
which contains doctrines entitled to attentive consideration.
During the %%arbetween Great Britain and Holland,
which commenced in 1795, the island oef Demarara, surrendered to the British arms. By the treaty of Amiens,
it was restored to the Dutch. That treaty contained an
article allowing the inhabitants, of whatever country
they might be, a terin of three years, to be computed
from the notification of the truaty, for the purpose of
disposing of their property acquired and possessed before or durin.- the war, in which term they may have
the idl exercise of their religion and enjoyment of their
property.
Previous to the declaration of war against Holland, in
1803. the Diana and several other vess.1 . loaded with
colonial prodtce, were captured on a vo- age trom Demarara to Holland. Immediately after the declaration
of war, atid lefore the expiration of three years from
the notifcation of the treaty of Amiens Deinarara again
surrendered to Great Britain. Claims to the captured

FEBRUARY TERM 1s14.
property were filed by original British subjects, inhabitants of Dema'rara, some of wihom had settledl iii the colony while it was in possesmion f Great Britain, others
before that event. The trial came oil after the island had
again become a British colony.
Sir Milliam Scott decreed restitution to these British
subjects who had settled in the colony %Nhilein British
possession, but condemned the ptoperty of those who
had settled there belbre that tine. He heid, that their
settlingq ia Denarara while belonin- to Great Britain,
afrorded a presumption of their nteuding to return, if

the,island shouli be transferred to a l'reign power ;
which presumption, re -ognized in tue treaty, relieved
those Claimants from the necessity of proving such intention. He thought it highly reasonable that they
should be admitted totheirjits postlminii, a'nd be held
entitled tithe protection of British siubiects.
But the property of those Claimants who had settled
befhre it came to the possession of Great Britain, was
condemned. "6Having settlea a ithout any faith infri-,
tish possession, it camnot be supposed," lie said, 'cthat
"they would have relinquished their residence, because
,that possession had ceased. They had passed frlom
, one sovereignty to another with indifference ; and if
they may be suppos,.d to have looked again to a con, nuxion with this country, they ,niust have viewed it as
" a circumstance that was in no de.-rce likely to affect
" their intention of continuing there."
-,On the situa-

"tion of persons settled there prev ious to tl!e time of
,"British possession, I feel myself," said the judge,
"5obliged to pruononce that they must be considered in
the same light as persons resident in Amsterdam. It
" must be understood, however, that if there were amonx
these, any who- have been actually removing, and that
" fact is properly ascertained, their goods may be capa"Wle of restitution. All that I mean to express is, that
" there must be evidence of an intention to remove, Oil
",the part of those who settled prior it)British po.sses"sion, the presumption not being in their favor."
This having been a hostile seizure, tho)ugh made before the declaration of war, the property is held equally
VOL. VIII.
39

Tmn
vENUsj
RAE,
MAStEIl.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

'v.Nus,

liable to condemnation as if captured the instant of that
declaration.

RAE,
MASTER.

So much of the case as relates to those Claimants
who had- settled during British possession, proves that
other circumstances thank an actual getting into motion
for the purpose of returning to his own country, may
create a presumption of intending to return; and may
put off that hostile commercial character ,hich a British subject residing and trading in the country of an
enemy, is admitted to acquire. The settlement having
been made in a country which, at the time; was in possession of Great Britain, though held only by the right
of conqu,st-a tenure known to be, extremely precarious, and rarely to continue longer than the war in
which the acquisition is made, is sufficient to create this
presumption; but the case does not declare negatively
that no other circumstances would be sufficient.
I am aware that the part of the case which applies
to Claimants who had settled previous to British possession, will, at first view, appear to have a strong
bearing on the question beforf lie Court. The shipment was in time of peace, and the seizare was made
before the declaration of war. The trade wits one in
which a British subject, in time of peace, might lawfully
engage. Howiwer strong his inter.tion might be to return *to his native country in the event of %&ar, lie could
not be expected to manifest thatd intention before the
actual existence of war The re-conquestof the island
tilowed the declaration of war so speedily, as scarcely
to leave time for p)utting in execution the resolution to
return, had one been formed. Taking these circumstances into view, the condemnation would seem to be
one of extreme severity. Yet even this case, admitting
the decision to be perfectly correct, doe.q not, I think,
when accurately examined, go so tar as to justify a
condemnation under such circumstances as belong to
some of the cases at bar.
The island having surrendered during war, such of
its inhabitants as were originally British subjects were
not allowed to derive, from this re-annexation to the
dominions of Great Britain, the advan.ages to which a
voluntary return to their own country, cf the same

FEBRUARY TERM 1814?.
date, would have entitled them. They NN
ere considered
as if thev had been 6, residents of Amsterdam."
But sir William Scott observes, that ,, if there are
"among these aiiy vvbo have been actually removing,
"and that fact is properly ascertained, their goods may
be capable' of restitution." 66 Actually removirg";h
when? Not, surely, before the seizure; f r that was
made in time of peace. Not before the declaration of
war, when the original seizure was conveitcd into a
belligerent capture ; for until that declaration was
known, a person whose intention to remain or return
was dependant ou peace or war, would not be ",actually
removing." On every prificiple of equiiy, then, the
time to which these expressions refer. must be te surrender of Demarara, or a reasonable time after the declaration of war was known there. The one period or
the other would be subst(quent to that event which was
deemed equivalent to capture.
It is not unworthy of remark, that sir William Scott
adds explanatory words which qualify and con! rol ihe
words "actually removing," and show the sense in
which he used them. "tAll," says the judge, 61 that I
,"mean to express is, that there must be evidence of an
" intention to remove, on tl.e part of those who settled
" prior to British possession, the presumption not being
" in their favor.
It would, then, I think, be rejecting a part, and a material part, of the 'opinion, to say that an intention to
remove clearly proved, though not accompanied by the
fact of removal, would have been deemed insufficient to
support the claim for restitution.
Were there no other circumstances of real importance
in this case-did it rest solely on the sentiments expressed by the judge, unconnected with those circuiistances, I should certainly consider it as leaving open
to the Claimants before this C.urt, the right of proving
an intention to return within a reasonable time after.
the declaration of war, by other overt-acts than an actual removal.

But there are other circumstances which I cannot

THE

VENUS,
RAE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T E
v.npus,

deem immaterial; and, as-the opinions of a judge are
always to be taken with reference to the particular
case in which they are delivered, I must consider these
RAE,
M1ASTER. expressions in connexion with the whole case.
The probability is, that the Claimants were not merely British merchants. Though the fact is not expressly stated, there is s-)me reason to believe that they had
become proprietors ,f the soil, and were completely incorp rated with the Dutch colonists. They are not
denomiaatcd merchants. They are spoken of, through
the case, not as residents. but As settlers. - They bad
"pssed," said sir William Scott, "gfrom one sove' rei.-n.y to anot!,.r NA
ith indiff -rence." This mode of
cxpr. ssion app:irs to in- to indicate a more permauent
interest in the country-a more intimate connexion
with it thjan is acquired by a merchant removing to a
foreign, country, and residing there in time of peace,
for the sole pumpose of trade. And in another of the
,same class of cases, it is -aid that, previous to the last
war, th" prinipal plantations of the island w~re in
possession of British planters from the other British
islands.
T7e voyage, too, in malin which the Diana was
captured. was a dtmect voyage between the colony and
the mother country. The trade was completely Dutch;
and the proporty of any neutral, wherever residing. if
captored ii such a voyage, during war, would be condeimned.
'But it is still more material that those who settled in
Demarara before British possession; must have settled
during the war which was terminated by the treaty of
Amiens : or, if th-y settled in tine of peace, must have
continued there while the colony was Dutch, and while
Itollna was at war-with Great Britain. Which ever
tlie fa.'t might be. whether they had settled in an enemy
cbuntry dring war, or had continued, through the war,
a settlement made in time of peace, they had demonstrated that war made no change in their residence. In
their case, then, it might be correctly said, ", that war
"created no presumption of an intention to return""that they .passed frcm one snvereignty to another with
indifference."
-'

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
I cannot consider claims under these circumstances,
as being in tht same equity with claims made by persons who had removed into a foreign country, in time
of peace, for the sole purpose of trade, and whose trade
would be annihilated by war.
The case of the Boedes Lust differs from the Diana
only in this: the Claimants are not alleged to have
been originally British subjects. Restitution was asked, because the property did not bel' ng to an enemy at
the time of shipment, nor at the time of seizure, nor at
the time of adjudication. These grounds were all- dedared to be insufficient. The original seizure was pro"Visionally hostile ;.and the declaration of war colsummated the right to condemn, and vested the proprrt) in
the crown, as enemy property. The subsequent change
in the chhracter of the Claimants, who became British
subj, cts b the surrender of Demarara, could not divest
it. - Where property is taken in a state of hostility,"
said sir William Scott, "the universal practice has ever
,, been to hold it subject to condemnation, althpugh the
" Claimants may have become fr-iends and subjects prior to adjudication." ,, With as little effect," he added, ,can it be contended that a postliminium can be at"'tributed-to these parties. Here is no return to the
"original character, on which only ajus postliminii can
be raised. The original character at the time of
"seizure, and immediately prior to the hostility which
"has intervened, was Dutch. . Th present character,
"which the events of war have produced, is that of
"-British subjects; and, although the British subject
"might, under circumstances, acquire the jus postlimi-cnii, upon the resumption of his native character, ii
"'never can be considered that the same privilege ac
; trues upon the acquisition of a character totally new
0 and foreign."

This oliinion is certainly not decisive; but it appears
to me rather to favor than oppose the idea, that a merchant residing abroad, and taking measures to return
on the breaking out of war, may entitle himself to the
jus Iostlimini4 with respect to property shipped before
a knowledge of the war.
The President was captured on a voyage fiom the

m
vENUs,

RAF,
MASTkR.

SUPBEME COURT U. S.
TRMZ
Cape of Good Hope to Europe. Mr. Elmslie, the
vinus, Claimant, was bortn a British subject, but claimed as a
RAF,
citizen of the United States. He had removed to the
MssTER. Cape of Good Hope, during the preceding war, and
still resided there. The property was condemned. In
delivw-ring his opinion, sir Williant Scott observed, "6It
",is said the. Claimant is intitled to thp bieneilt of an in,tention of removing to Philadelphia, in a few months,
•A mere intention to remove, has never bten held suf"ficient without some, overt-act, being merely an inten"tiun residing secretly and undistinguishably in the
,breast of the party, and liable to be revoked every
hour. The expres.,ions of the letter in which thib in"tention is said to be found, are, I observe, very weak
"a:d general, of an intention merely in futuro. Were
"they ev,.n much sronger than they are, they would
"not be sufficient. Something more than mere verbal
"declaration, sonic solid fact showing- that the party is
"in the act of withdrawing, has always been held ne"cessary in such cases."

It is to be held in mind, that this opinion is delivered
in tile case of a. person who had fixed his residence in
an enemy country, durn.g war, and that lie claimed to
be the subject of a neutral state. For both these reaeons, -thie war afforded no presumption of his intending
to return either to his native or adopted country. To
the vague expression of an intention to return at some
fuiture indefinite time, no influence can be ascribed.
"Vhen the judge says that is something more than mere
- "verbal deela-'afion, some solid fact showing that the
"party ig in the act of withdrawing, has always been
"held necessary in such cases," I do not understand
him to say that the person must have put himself in
personal motion to return, must have commenced his
voyage homeward, in order to be considered as in "ithe
act of withdrawing." Many other overt-acts, as selling
a commercial establishment, stopping business, making
preparations to return, accompanied by declarations of
,the intent, and not opposed by other circumstances,
may, in my opinion, be considered as acts of withdrawing.
In the case of the Ocean, sir William Scott said ,,This
"t;claim relates to the situation of British subjectsset-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
"tled in a foreign state, in time of amity, and taking
-- early measures to -,fithdraw themselves, on the
.,, breaking out of -war. The affidavit of claim states
"that this gentleman had been- settled as a partner in
" a house of trade in Holland, but thatt he had made ar" rangements for the dissolution of the partnership, and
- was only prevented from removing personally, by the
", violent detention of all British subjects who happened
"9to be within thw territories of the enemy, at the break- in.g out of the war. It would, I think, under these
- circumstances, be going further than the principle
- of law requires, to conclude this person by his former
"s occupation, and by his present constrained residence
"in France, so as not to admit him to have taken him" self out of the efftct of supervening hostilities, by the
", means which he had used for his removal."
If other means for removal were taken, than arrangements for the dissoltion of the partnership, they are
not stated ; apt] it is fairly to be presumed, that these
arrangeme ts were the most permanent of them, since
that fact is alone selected and particularly relied tpon.
In his statement f the case, the reporter sa- s that the
Claimant had actually made his escape and returned to
England, in .ulyn 1803; (the trial was in January, 1804)
but this must be a mistake, or is a fact not adverted to
by the judge, since he says, in his opinion, that the
Claimant is, at the tine. , a constrained resident of
France."
I shall notice two other cases ,1hich are frequently
cited, though I have seen no full report of either of
them.
The first is the case of Mr. Ctrtssos. This gentleman, who was a British subject, had gone to Surinam
in 1766, and from thence to St. Eustatius, where he
remained till 1776. He then went to Holland to settle
his accounts, and with an ititentioi., "cas was said," of
returning afterwards to England to take up his final
residence. In December, 1780, orders of reprisal were
issued by England against Holland. On the first of
January, 1781, the Snelle Z.-ylder was captured, and.
on the. 5th of March and 10th of April, 1781. the vessel
and cargo were condemned as Dutch property. On

TH
vmNus,
RAE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

vENus,
RAE,
MASTER.

the 97th of April, 1781, Mr. Curtissos returned to England: and, on an app,'a. the sentence of condemnation
was reversed by the lords of appeals, and restitution
decreed.
Other claims of Mr. Curtissos were brougit before
the Court of admiralty; and, on a full disclosure of
these circumstances, restitution was decreed, before the
decree of the lords in the case of the SnetIe Zeylder was
pronounced,
The principle of this decree is said to be, that Mr.
Curtissos was in itinere, and had put himself in motion,
and was in pursuit of his original British claracter.
I do not mean to find fault with this decision ; but
certainly it presents some strong poirts more unfavora.bleto -the Claimant than will be found in some of the
,cases now before this Court. Mr. -Curtissos had obtained a commercial domicil in the country of the encn . At the timnr of the sailing, capture and condemnation of the Snelle Zeylder, he still residdd bi the country
of the enemy. But it is said h was in itinere ; he was
in motion in pursuit of his original British character.
What was this .jimrney he is said to have been performing in purstut of his original character ? He had passed
from one part of the Iloininions of the united provinces
to another. He had moved his residence from St. Enstatius to Holland, where ie remained from the year
1776 tiI 1781-a time of sufficient duration for the
acquisition of a donicil, had he not preyiousi," acquired
it. This change- of residence, to make the most of it,
is an act too equivocal in itself to afford a'strong presumption that it was made for the purpose of retiirnin- to .Enland. Had his stay in Holland even been
short, a colonial merchant trading to the mother country, may so fiequently be carried there on the business
of his trade, that the fact can afford but weak evidence
b'f an intentim to discontinue that trade : but an interval of between four and five years elapsed het ecn his
arrival in Holland and his departazre from that country,
d~iring which time he is not stated to have suspended
his commercial pursuiits. or to have niade any arrangemehts. such as transferring his property to England,
or making an establishment there, Which might indi-

FEBRUARY TERM iMi4,.

.

3

cate, by overt-acts, the intention of returning to his naTim .
tive country. Tli.4journey to Rolland. cennected with vrNcs,
this long residence, would seem to wc to be made as a
RA.,
Dutch merchant f(r th purpose of (gtablisin iiimsdIf MIASTr
there, rkther than a preparatory to his return to England. But it. was said that he intended to return to
England. How was this intention shown ? If not by
his journey to Holland and his loiq reside'nce there, it
was only shown by his being employed in the s3,ttlement of his accounti while a raerchmnt at St. 1,utstatius,
a business in i Ilch lie would of ('oul-.e enga"e, whatever his future objects might be. This equivocal act
does not appear to have been explainild, otherwise than
by his own declarati mis ; nor does it appear that these,
declarations were made previous to the capture.
But could I even admit that the journey from St.
Eustatius to Holhnd was made with a view of passing
ultimately from Holland to England, Yet the intention
was not to be immediately. executed. The time of carrying it into effect, was remote and uncertain ; subjct
to so many casualties that, had not the war supervened.
it might never have .been carried into effiect.
But laying aside these circumstances, the case proves
only that being in itinere, in pursuit of the native
character, divebts thie enemy character acquired by
residence and trading; it.is not insinuated that this
character can be divested by,no other means.
Mr. Whitehills case, though one of great se erity, does
not, I think, overturn the principle I am endeavoring
to sustain. He went to St. Eustatius but a tew days
before admiral Rodney and the British forces made their
appearance before that place. But it was proved that
lie went for the purpose of making a permanent settlement there. No intention to return appeaiN to have
been alleged. The recency of his establishment seems
to have been the point on which his claim rested.
This case, in principle, bears on that before the

Court, so far only as it proves that war does not, under
all circumstances, necessarily furnish a presumption#
that the foreigner residing in the -enemy countrv" intends to return to his own. Tle circumstances of th!ug
VOL. YI11.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
case, so far as we understand them, were opposed to
the presumption that war could affect Mr. Whitehis
RA.,
residence. War actually existed at the time of his remASTER. moval; and had that fact been known to him, there
would have been no hardship in his case. He would
have -oluntarily taken upon himself the enemy character at the same time that he took upon hinself the
Dutch character. There is reason to believe that the
Court considered him in equal fault with a person removing to a country known to be hostile. St. Eustatius
was deeply engaged in the American trade, which, from
the character of the contest, was, at that time, considered by England as cause of war, and was the fact
which drew on that island the vengeanc6 of Britain.
Mr. Whitehilt could have fixed himself there only for
the purpose of prosecuting that trade. ,, He went,"
says sir William Scott, ,, to a place which had rendered
itself particularly obnoxiotis by its conduct in that
war." This was certainly a circumstance which could
not be disregarded, in deciding on the probability of
his intending to remain int the country in the veait of
T'kE

vrsus,

war.

These are the cases which appear to me to apply most
strongly to the question before this Court. No one of
them decides, in terms, that the property of a British
subject residing abroad in time of amity, which was
shipped before a knowledge of war, and captured by a
British cruizer, shall depend, conclusively, on the rpsidenceof the Claimant at the timeof capture, or-on his having. at that time. put himself in motion to change his residence. In no case which I have had an opportunity
of inspecting, have I seen a dictum to this effect. The
cases certainly require an intention, on the part of the
,oubiect residing and trading abroad, to return to his own
country, and that this intention should be manifested by
overt-acts; but they do not, according to mV' understand...
iig of them, prescribe any particular overt act, as being
exclusively Admissible ; nor do 'they render it indispensable that the overt act should, in all cases, precede the
capture. If a British sijbject residing abroad for commercial .purposes, takes decided measures, on the breaking ou of war, for returning to his native couptry, and
especially if he should act'allv retimrn, his claihn for the
restitution of property shipped before his knowledge of

FEBRUARY TERM MIsi.
tie war, would, I think, be favorably received in a BriTHR
tish Court of admiralty, although his actual return, or VENus,
the neasures proving his intettion to return,, were subRAE,
sequent to the capture. Thus understanding th English MAS'TER.
authorities, I do not consider them as opposiag the
principic I have laid down.
An American citizen having merely a commercial domicil in a foreign country, is not, I think, unler the British authorities, concluded, by his residt'nce and trading
in time if peace, from averring and proving an intention
to change his domiil on the breaking out of war, or
from availing himself of that proof in a Court of admiralty. The intrinsic evidene arising from the chauge
in his situation, produced by war, renders it extremely
probable that in this new state of things he must intend
to return home. and will aid in the construction of any
overt-act by which such intention is manifested. Disso-.
lution of partnership, discontinuance of trade in the enemy country, a settlement of accounts, and other arrang.ennts obviously preparatory to a change of residence, are, in my opinion, such overt-acts as may, untier circumstances showing them to be,made in good
faith, entitle the Claimant to restitution.
I do not perceive the mischief or inconvenience thai
can result from the establishment of this principle. Its
operation is confined to property shipped before a kitowledge of the war. For if shipped afterwards, it is clearly liable to condemnation, unless it be protected by the
prn, iple that it is merely a withdrawing of funds. Being confined to shipments made before a knowledge of
the Nvar, the evidence of an intention to change or continne a residence in the country of the enemy, must be
speedily given. A continuance of trade after the war,
unless, perhaps, under very special circumstances, and
for the mere 1)i'pose of closing transactions already commenced, would fix the national character and the domicil previously acquired. An immediate discontinuance
of trade, and arrangements for removing, followed by actual removal within a reasonable time, unless detained
by causes which might sufficiently account for not removing, would fix the intention to change the domicil, and
show that the intention to return had never been abandoned ; that the intention to remain always had never

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
been formed. It is a case in which, if in any that can
vr.,vus, be imagined, justice requires that the citizen, having
I LE,
entirely recovered his national character by his own act,
.4-STRa. and by an act which shows -that he never intended to
part with it finally,should, by aspeciesof thejus postliminii, be allowed to aver the existence of that character at
the instant of capture. In the establishment of such a
pin(iple, I repeat, I can perceive no danger. In its rejectiou, I think I perceive much injustice. An individual whose residnce abroad is certainly innocent and
law ftd, perhal)s advantageous to his country, who never
intended that residence to be permanent, or to continue
in time of Nxar, finds himself, against-his will, clothed
with the character of an enemy, so conchcsively that not
even a return to his native country can i'escue from tihat
ciaracter and from confiscation, property shipped in
the time of real or supposed peace. My sense of justice
revolts from suth a principle.

In applying this opinion to the Claimants before the
Court, I should be regulated by their conduct after a
knowledge ofthew'ar. Ifrtey continued their residence
and trade after that knowledge, at any rate after knowinpg th:at the repeal of the orders in council was not immediately followed by peace, their claim to restitution
would be clearly unsustainable.
If they took immediate measures for returning to this country, and have
since actually returned, or have assigned sufficient reasons for not returning, their property I think may he
capable of restitation. Some of the Claimants would
conic within one description, some within the other. It
would, under the opinion given. by the Court, be equally
tedious and useless to -go through their cases.
My reasoning ia. been applied entirely to tho case of
native Aineticans. 'J'his course has been pursued for
two reasons. It presents the argument in what I think
its true light; and the sentence of condemnation makes
no discrimination between native and other citizens.
The Claimants are natives of that country with which
we are at war, who have been naturalized in the Unitea
States. It is impossible to deny that many of the strongest arguments urged to prove ta probability that war
nmust determine the inative American citizen to abandon

FEBRUARY TERM fiSI.

the country of the enemy and return home, are inappli-

THE

cable, or apply but feebly, to citizens of this description.
Yet I think it is not for the United States, in such a case
as this, to discriminate between them.

VENUS,
RAS,

MASTER.

I will not pretend to say what distinctions may or
may not exist between these two classes of citizens, in
a-contest of a different description. But in a cont(st
between the United States and the naturalized citizen,
in a claim set up by the United State- to confiscate his
property, he may, I think, protect himself by any defence
which would protect a native Am'rican. In the prosecution of such a claim, the United States are, I think, if
I may be excused for borrowing from the common law
a term peculiarly appropriate, estopped from saying that
they have not placed thi adopte4 son on- a level withl
those born in their family.
LiVINGSTON, J.

concurred in opinion with the Cidef

Justice.

THE MERRIMACK.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Goods pr s.
ed by Brt ,
Court fer the district of Maryland.
rnerchants,be.
fore the war

The following are the material facts of th case:

between
theUnited States
and Great Bri.

The ship Merrimack, owned by citizens of the United Wn, inpursu.
States, sailed from Liverpool for Baltimore, a few days "', Aersiafter the declaration of war, by the United States can cidiens,
against Great Britain, was kno-a'n in that country, shipped to the
having on board a cargo of goods shipped by British ntishe
r

subjects, and consigned to citizens of the United States. Uniated
hantsinStates,
de
On the 25th of October, 1812, she was captured, in theaMan'AmeriChesapeake bay, between Annapolis and Baltimore, by can citizen,
0m"on account
the private armed vessel Rossie, Joshua Barney, corn- andrisk
of an
inander.
Arerican citif
zen,' and no,

The goods, being libelled as prize in tle Ditrictcircairtan

of t*and or on.

