FEBRUARY TERM fiSI.

the country of the enemy and return home, are inappli-

THE

cable, or apply but feebly, to citizens of this description.
Yet I think it is not for the United States, in such a case
as this, to discriminate between them.

VENUS,
RAS,

MASTER.

I will not pretend to say what distinctions may or
may not exist between these two classes of citizens, in
a-contest of a different description. But in a cont(st
between the United States and the naturalized citizen,
in a claim set up by the United State- to confiscate his
property, he may, I think, protect himself by any defence
which would protect a native Am'rican. In the prosecution of such a claim, the United States are, I think, if
I may be excused for borrowing from the common law
a term peculiarly appropriate, estopped from saying that
they have not placed thi adopte4 son on- a level withl
those born in their family.
LiVINGSTON, J.

concurred in opinion with the Cidef

Justice.

THE MERRIMACK.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Goods pr s.
ed by Brt ,
Court fer the district of Maryland.
rnerchants,be.
fore the war

The following are the material facts of th case:

between
theUnited States
and Great Bri.

The ship Merrimack, owned by citizens of the United Wn, inpursu.
States, sailed from Liverpool for Baltimore, a few days "', Aersiafter the declaration of war, by the United States can cidiens,
against Great Britain, was kno-a'n in that country, shipped to the
having on board a cargo of goods shipped by British ntishe
r

subjects, and consigned to citizens of the United States. Uniated
hantsinStates,
de
On the 25th of October, 1812, she was captured, in theaMan'AmeriChesapeake bay, between Annapolis and Baltimore, by can citizen,
0m"on account
the private armed vessel Rossie, Joshua Barney, corn- andrisk
of an
inander.
Arerican citif
zen,' and no,

The goods, being libelled as prize in tle Ditrictcircairtan

of t*and or on.

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
TIs.

MERwaI-

Court of. Maryland, were severally claimed by sundry
citizens of the 'United States.

MAVK.

tirness ap-

pearing in the

These several claims, and the circumstances connected with tirem respectively, were thus stated by MAR-

in deliYerin. thiopinion of the Court:
1. William and Joseph Wilkins, merchants of Balticitizens at the
time of the
more, claimed the goods contained in eleven cases and
shipmeit, and one bale marked W. J. W.
transactionSnALL, Ch. J
were vested in

the Anierican
are not liable
to condt-mna-

tion, although
These goods were made up for them, in pursuance
the vessel
al- of their orders, before the war was known in Great
ed f'ons En-.

aftr the Britain, by .a manufacturing company, one member of.
declaration
of which, Thomas Leich, resided in Leicester,
war was KnoVwn

gliad

in Great

there.

lution,

and the other, Edward Harris, was an American citizen residing in the United States.

Resti- Britain,

But if goods
pirchased as

above, though
The bill of parcels was in the name of Messrs.
the
acconspa- liam and Joseph Wilkins. This paper also served Wilfor
nying invoices.1,
bills
or hling n invoice, and there was no other on board for these
and letters he goods.
nddressed by
the British

conignors to

the American 'i
citizens for
whom the pur-

The bill of lading was in the name of Edward Barwho was the consignee.
,

al
The goods we'e accompanied by a letter from Thoconeurto show has Leich to Edward Harris, dated Leicester, the 29th
the propert- of July, i8.1, ill
which lie says, 'With this you will
Cha

to be in theta, " receive bill of lading of 1i cases of worsted and cotton

set if these

;do
qment. x " hosiery for Messrs. W. and J. Wilkins, Baltimore,
inlosed I,,a ,,and with insurance to 8921. & It is a large sum,
oositte
the "but, from what I can learn, they
are very respectable.
their agent i Indeed Mr. Brown of' the house of Chancellor & Co.
the U. "States,
:hougbh an A-" came with him, and seemed almost offended that did
met'ican citi- " not send tie cotton hose he ordered before, and said
Zen, direeting,, ie would grarantee the amount of the.worstetl goods,
Vim not to deliver the goods ".therefore must hav, offended him if (lid not comply.
in -case of t e .Have not sent but about half the cotton goods they
eXistencC of
vertin chi "tor ered," &c. "informed them that we thought it
,:nmstanees,
to secure our property to ship all to you,
Jfor
ulntil lie"necessary
should hae
as yOU could prove that they were American proper;
.eeived pay- " tv by making affidavit they are bonafide your propersncnt fiorn the~
, ° As our orders in council are repeale. hope your
consignees in ty.
eash-thepro- "1government will be amnealoy inclined as well; and

FEBRUARY TERM 18i4"that trade will be on regular footing again, but for

",fear there should be some other points in dispute, I
"cshall send you, and our friends through your hands,
"all the goods prepared for your market which you'll
"perceive is very large." ", Hope you will approve

TIM
MERRLMACK.
perty in the

someidgoodsce somethlaed
in Lte
" of my sending all, and as there may have been
" alterations in some of your friends, shipping them to Britsh con"
"you gives the power of keeping back to you."

the
siors
tune ofatCaqpture. Condemnration
G t o 0o d(s S b Iy the

Leicester,
There was also on board, a letter dated
~ i .
i'. ~
22d July, 1812, signed Harris, 'Leich & Co.- and :d- same shp,
dressed to Messrs. Win. and Joseph Wilkins, mer- puremased
the
above, & coit- t" sinedto
chants of Baltimore, in which They say, 6c Tie rpe1
- of the ordets in council having-been agreed on by our aqent of the
consinors, be"government, we have availed ourselves of the oppor- ingar
Araeri"tunity of sending the greater part of your spring ant can citizen, in
name
whose
your
dlint
oi dcrs." &c. " As we are not certain
"fall
hill of
"governntept will protect 'British property, me have l
~.ladine is mnade
"thought it right to ship all ours under cover to Mr. (nit, but the
parcels
and of
invoice
in
"Harris, who can claim as his own bona fide property,s bil

and ne, being a citizen of' the United States, thought thl name of
American
for
-proper to use every precaution, having receiv d some theerhants
"unpleasant accounts about your gov.rlmenmt having Whom tie
was
war with this country, which ;re hope will purchase
on case."
"agreed
made; tle
lnot be the
shipment al'so

bei;g express-

f to bu o,,
2. MKean and Woodland, citizen.5 of the United their
nceounl
States, claim sundry parcels of goods, part of the same though the
cargo, as their property.

are stlgoms
ken of in tho
letter of the

These goods Were pureased by Baily, Eaton and consignrs as
proBritish vestte
. •perty;
Brown, merchants of Shellield, in pursuance of orders
Amerthe
in
from. tl.e Claimants. They were shipped to RoI)ert,
ie
nue of
Holladay, also an Americancitizen. Tile bill ot lading"D,,canieifmerthiaiits
tnnt.
was to Robert Holladay, " o accou t and risk
.qnerican citizen." The invoice was also headed to The circumRobert Holladay.

etitthe
,stace

goods Contti-

nue, duniug

thee ,wholevo-at tile Iis]
A letter from Baily, Eaton and Brown to Samuel aN,
M'Kcan, dated lith July, 1812, says, "A.few days i'thslipperi,
"ago we received a letter from Mr. Rogerson, of New i~inmmaturisl.
Restitution.
"York, informing us that the partnership of Messrs.
does
he
but
-McKean and Woodland was dissolved,
" not say whether yotr or Mr. Woodland continue the
c busin-9s, or whether both of you decline it. W1-e have
ccpurcased about 3,0001. sterling of goods by 'order o'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

NiERmiMACK.

"the late firm, and on their account, most of which
"have been purchased and paid for by us, from fifteen
"toeighteen months agd, and have been on our hands
"waiting for shipment. We have this day giveil orders
"to our shipper at Liverpool, to put them on board a
",-good American -vessel sailing for your port with a
66 British license ; but from, the uncertainty we are in
it respecting the particulars of your dissolutnio of part" nership, and, in fact, not knowing whether to consign
",them to you or Mr. Woodland, we have finally con'cludpd to cbnsign them to Mr. Holladay, with whom
,You will be pleased to make the necessary arrangeinents respecting them." ,,We have addressed the
',itvoic6 to ,INr. Holladay to your care; and directly
",on receiving it, if he should not be in Baltimore, you
"6will please advise him of its arrival."
The residue of the letter contains their reasons for
hoping that Mr. M'Ken will not insist on thie usual
credit, but will remit immediately on receiving the,
goods. This request is founded on their having been
so long in advance for the purchase of them.
Messrs. Baily, Eaton and Brown addressed a letter
to Mr. Holladay, dated the'loth of July, 18i2, in which
they say, " Enclosed you will receive invoices of sundry
,,goods for Messrs. MKean and .Woodland, which
-,complete tlhter orders." They then assign the same
reason for-shipping the goods to Mr. Holladay, that is
.giVen'in their letter to Mr. MKean; and, after directing him to arrange with Mr. MKean, add, ",We can, not view this consignment at all in thi light of an intercepted shipment coming within the meaning of the
",articles of agreement between you and us." This
letter also contained a proposition for immediate remittince, founded on the time which had elapsed since
the goods were purchased. This proposition, they say,
is made to all their friends in the United States, and
they hope none will refuse to accede to it. ,But,"
they add, " in thus acting, we have left the matter to
the free and unbiassed will of our friends, and they are,
certainly upon honor.'"
3. Messrs.iKimmel and Albert, merchants of Baltimore, claimed seven packages of goods on board the

FEBRUARY TERM

I4.

Merrimack, which were purchased, in pursuavce of their
orders, by Bail3, Eaton and Baily. The invoice, bill
of lading, and letters, a(dressed (one by the consignor's
and the other by the shipper, who was their a.en;) to
-Xtssrs. Kimmel and Alburt, concur in showing property in the Claimants. But all thkse documents and letters are inclosed in a letter of the 5th of August, 1812,
written by Baily, Eaton and Baily to Samuel M'Kean.
In this letter, the writers refer to a former I. (ter of the
Sd of .Juy,in which they informed Mr. M,Keau that
they should, on the recommendation of their general
agent, Mr. Hollaway, inclose their irv.ices and bills of
laling for the adjacent country to him, and requested
him to make inquiries into the circumstances of their
correspondents, and be regulated, as to putting the letletters, &c. into the post.office so as to reach the persons to whom they might be addr~ssed, by the result of
those inquiries. Messrs. Baily, Faton and Baily indulge the hope that the repeal of the British orders in
concil will restore peace between the two countries, in
which event M,Kean is still to be governed by their
letter of th 3d of July. "IBut," they add, ,.'if, when
cyou receive our invoices and hills of ladiug, a state'
"of war should really continue, it will be proper not
-to deliver these goods until you have received the
" amount of the invoices from the consigneei, in cash."
4. John H. Browning & Co. were also Claimants of
part of the cargo.
This claim stood on precisely the same principles
with that of Kimmel and Albert. The documer.ts givelL
in evidence, were, in effect, the same. and were enclosed in the same letter from Baily, Eaton and Baily
to Samuel McKean.
It was contended by the captors, in the District Court.
that, from the pipers and letters on board, it appeared
that the goods were not sold and delivered in England,
so as to vest the property in the Claimants, but were
sent to the agents of the shippers in the United States,
to. be delivered or not, according to their discretion: consequently, that the property was not change'l, and the
goods, therefore, were liable.to capture as British pro-

perty.
V(OL. VIII.

THE
2.I RkMACK.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
R"stiteation was decreed in the District Court, and the
MBTRI- decree was affitrmed in the Circuit Court. An appeal
Ac . was taken to this Court, where t'e captors pray condennation on the same grounds as in the Courts below.

HARPER,for the .ppellants,
After stating the facts of the case, argued that the
claims of the captors to the several parts of the cargo in
question all rested on the same principle; viz. That
no transfer of the propi rty had talen place at the time
of the capture. The shippers were British subjects.
1st. As to the property claimed by William and Joseph Wilkins.
It appears, from ihe evidence introduced into this part
of the canse, that the goods were not to be delivered to
$he Claimants, until they had cpme first to the hands of
the, hilppers' agnt. who w.:s to decide upin the solvency
of W. and J. Wilkitts, an ! to regulate hims:lf accordingly, with regard to the delivery of le goods. He evbn
had a power, under i erte in circumstances, to make them
his on. W. mnd J. Wilkins were als' tb hlavean option,
either to take the g.)ods or not. But a more powel'ful
argumnent than either, is, that the shipl.-i s themselves,
in 1heir letters buth to the c' nsignee, and the Claimants,
denominate Ihese goods Britih prpperty, and express
their al.pjrehensioun that the Auierican gwernment will
not protect it. Again, if these goods had been lost at
sea, they could n,.t hive be,.n c'harr, d to the Messrq.
Wilkins, as goods sold Prn' delivered. The loss wf,tld
clearly have bern the loss of the shippers. The property in this part of the cargo cannot, therefore, be considered as havi-ig ben vesled in W. and T. Wilkins.
it was clearly in the British shippers, both at the time
of sitipment, -In: at the time of capture. The claim of
the Messrs. Wiikins ought,.tlhrefore, to be rejected.
2d. As to the claime'or M,Kean and Woodland, HARslated the facfs, and prayvd condemnation on the
gerral principle that the property had not been transferred.

PER,

3d and 4th. In opposing the respective claimsof Kim-

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
mel and Albert, and of John H. Browning & Co. tile
THE
counsel for the captors argued on nearly the same NiuRnigrounds as in the case of W. and J. Wilkins; and. in M.vci(.
addifion tlier. to, he urged thecondition ofpab ment which
was aniiexed to these two cases, and wbich was to be
performed before the delivery of the goods to the Clai-.
mants.
He also made a second point, in regard to all the
clai ,s, viz. That, admitting the go ods to have been
the property of American citizens, yet, since the d claration of war was known in Liverpool, at the time of
the shipment, thit' Claimants are to be considIered as haying been engaged in a hsstile trade, which gives the
property an en'my character. and sukiect-4 it to condemnation. The shippers on this supposition, must be looked upon as the agents of the Claimants -and the acts of
agents, are, in law, the arts of their principals.
PINKNEY,

contra,for the Claimants.

If the title of the Chimants be good in equity, it is sufficient; but it is good at law, as well as in equity.
In examining the several claims, I snall follow the order which has heeli pursued by the coupsel for the
captors.
First, as to the claim of W. and J. Wilkins. The
invoice andbill of parcels show the purchase by the Claimants. Tihe bill of parcels is alwavs good evidence, in
an action on a policy, to show interest. The invoice
corresponds with the bill of parcels and is not contradicted by the bill of lading. Leich's letter to Harris
speaks of the goods as being. '. for Messrs. W. and J.
Wilkins." \ These circumstances are.stronely in our favor. It has been urged, however, on the other side,
that the property of tme giods could not have been in the
Claimants at tile time o1' capture, because, Ist. There
was a condition. of payment, without complying nith
which,thegood3 werenottobe delivered; and 2d, because
there was a power vested in Harris, to keep back the
property, in case of the insolvenci of the Wilkins's
The first objection is founled on an error in fact. The
objection, if applicable to the Claimants of the other parts

SUPREME COURT U. I.
THE

of the cargo is not so here. It appears, indeed, in some

MERRI- part of the evidence, that an inducement to prompt payM CK.

ment was held out to the Wilkins's, viz. an of.'ii to allow seven per cent. discount for prompt payment; but
there was.no expr.,ss condition of paymant. 'The second
objection, viz. that Harris was empowered to keel) back
the goods, in case of 'the insolvency or the Claimants,
is easily answered. Insolvency of the parties was the
sole ground on which Harris could retain the goods;
but this is only the same power which the shipper himself would have had by the general law in maritime ca.
ses, if he had consigned the goods directly to the Wilkinq's. It is the general law, in case of the insolvency
of tie consignere, that the shiljiper may stop the goods in
transit in itinere, although purchased in Eugland, if te
purchase was on credit. The intervention of Harris, in
this case, merely gives a facility to the right which the
shippers before possessed. - Rob. 21, 25. The Josephine.
It is-also urged, that the shippers themselves, in their
letters, have denominated the grotds in question, British
property, and expresed an apprehiension that it would
not be protected by the American govornn'nt, and have
therefore -uggestf-d to Harris, that lie coul'! s%%car they
were his. This objection possesses little wAght. A
mere attempt to con-eal belligerent property only deprives the party of the. benefit of further proof. but is
not a gr rand of confiscation. i. Rob. 161, 193. The Xa.
donna deUe Gracie.-Gregory'scase.
2d. As to the claim of M'Ktan and Woodland. Two
ohjoctions to tlhis claim, at ising front the letter of Badly,
Eaton and Brown to M'Kean, have been urged by the
paptors.
Ist. The consignment to Holladay.
2d. The expectation of the shippers that M'Kean and
Woodland would pay cash.
The consignment to Holladay needs no farther explaiation than is to be found in the lettvr which qtates the
fact. The shippers, having heard that te partnership
of M'Kean anti Woodland was dis-olved, were uncertain
to which of-thein the consignment ought to be madep and

FEBRUARY TERM i8t4.
therefore determined to consign the goods to Holladay.
But the property vested in M'Kean and Woodland, notwithstan iingthis intermediate consignment. In aCourt
of prize. such intermediateconsignmentis not considered
as altering, in any degree, the nature of the case.
2d. Thtugh the letter from the shippers requests an
immediat, cash payment, there is no express condition
to that effect: thern is merely an appeal to the justice
and honor of the Claimants.
An additional proof that the property was in the Claimants, is, that it was insured for them and not for the
stippers.
It appears, that all the bills of lading, except that for
W. and J. Wilkins, express the shiiments to have been
made on account and risk of American citizens generdly. The reason for this general mode of expression
was the uncertainty of the shippers respecting the dissolution of the partnership.
3d and 4tb. We now come to the claims or Kimmel
and Albert, and Browning &Co. which dependingon precisely the same principle, will be examined together.
In these two cases only, is there an absolute condition
ofpayment. But the goods had been regularly ordered
by the Claimantq, long bef-re they were shipped. They
we,'' finally shipped for them, and in pursuance of their
orders. They were delivered to the master of a general
ahip, The invoice, bill of lading and letters, all concur
in showing praperty in the Claimants. The legal property vested in them by the delivery of the goods to the
master. The shipper, having delivered them tothe master, was functus ofiio, and could not thereafter stop the
goods on any ground butthe insolvency of the conlsignee,
which is the only case of stoppage in transitu authorized
by the common law or the law mauitime. 1 Rob, 18,
219. The slurora, (Conversation between sir Wr.&ott
qnd Dr. Lawrence.) 6-Rob. 325, 6, 7. "The Constantia.
Again. Can a captor divest the eveiitual rights 9gf
citizens, or doeq hetake the proper-ty subject to the conditions to which .it would be subject in the hands of the
consignor or his agent? We contend for the latter doc-

THL
E
MERRIMACK.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T115
MERRIMACK.

The rights of the citizen become absolute upon
his complying with those conditions. In the present
case, if the goods had arrived at their port of destination
,vithout capture, the title to them would have become absolute in Kimmel and k4bert, upon payment to the consignor of the amount requred: And, as the captor, according to our doctrine, does but stand hn the )llce of
the consignor, we contnd that the property will become
equally absolute in tWe Claimants upon making the same
payment to him.
trine.

'Ve do not admit the dnctrine, that property cannot,
upon the'high seas, pass in transitu, so as to defeat the
captors. Suppose it had been agreed that the property
should change after it had p-ssed a certain degree of
longitude ; would not the agr'eenent be carried into effect, upon that degree of longitude being past? But it is
not now necessary to contend fol this doctrine, because
the property in the presr'nt case, was vested in the Claimants, upon the shupment, liable, however, to be divested upon a condition.
There is manifest inconsistency in the English prize
law. A belligerent lien will be condemned, but a neutral lien will not be protected : neutral property may
become belligerent in transitu, but belligerent property
cannot become neutral. This Court will adopt the reason of the rule, but not the rule itself.
HARTER, il reply.

In this case, there, was no transfer of either an equitable or legal right. In the case of W. and J. Wilkins,
the delivery of the gpods wa only to Harris; or to the
master of the ship, who, by undertaking to deliyer them
to Harr-is, became his agent, and not the agent of the
Wilkins's. So with regard to the invoice. bil1 of lading
and bill of parcels; they were all delivered, not to the
Wilkins's, but to Harris or his agent, the master. No
evidence of the title, of W. and J. Wilkins was put in a
course to reach thein, butthrough the agency of Harris,
whovwas not to deliver it at all, but in a certain event.
The goods, although purchased by order of the Claimants, were not delivered to them. The Claimants
could not hive maintained an action for them,. either at
law or in equity.

FEBRUARY TERM iSi4.

527

MKean and Woodland's case is still stronger against
them. The business of that concern was not continued
by any person. They have bec6me insolvent. Holladay has the absolute control over the goods. He wts
to make arrangements with the Claimants or with
MKean alone, and was to require cash.
Saturday, Mrarch i:2th. .Absent....LiVINGSTON, J.
MAtiuALL, Ch. J.
After stating the facts relating to the several claims
in this case, delivered the following opinion of the.Court,
as to the claims of AiKean and W.-odland, Kimmel and
Albert, and John H. Browning & Co.
1. As to the claim of MKean and Woodland.
The question of property, in this case. depends on
certain letters written by 11aily, Eaton and Brown,
which were found on board th6 capt'ured vessel. A letter of the 11th of July, 1812, addressed to Samuel
M,Kean, shows in the clearest inauner, that the'pr~pcr:.
ty in dispute was purchased and shipped for M.Kean
and Woodland, in pursuance of their orders; and accounts for assigning it to Mr. Holladay,
There is nothing in the cause which can throw the
slightest suspicion on the fairness of this transaction.
It-unquestionably is, whit, on the face of these letters,
it purports to be, a purchase for MKean and Woodland, mad, in puisuance of iheir orders.' and shipped
fur them to Robert Holladay, because, in the moment of
shipment, information was received that their partnership was dissulved, and the shipper had no instructions
in what manner to direct to them. In this situation.
he considered himself as acting most certainly for their
advantage by addressing the goods to an hgent residin. in the same town with M'Kean and Woodland, who
should receive them to their use. In kuch axcase, the
Court is of opinion that the property was. vested in
M.Kean and Woodland, and is, consequently. not liable
to condemnation as enemy property
The sentence is affirmed.

T'
MEBRI-

MA(5n.

SUPREME COURT U; S.
-113

2. As to the claim of Kimmel and Albert.

'MERRI-

MACK.

From their letter it is apparent that, in the event of
war.Bafily, Eaton and Bail), reservid to the slves
that power .which ownership gives over goods, an! in.
structed their agent, M.Kcan, in what manner that
power was to be exer(is d. There being no letter addressed to Kimmel and Albert, but under cover to
MKean, it is apparent that they were to know nothing
of the shipment, unless. in the opinion of MeKean, it
should b, prudent to make'the communication ; and
even then, the property was to becm, theirs, not under the original contract, but under a neA contract to
be made with MKean. The delivery on board the
ship was a delivery to M.Kean, not absolutely for Kimmel and %lbert, but for them provided they acceded to
unew and distinct propositions made by Baily, Eaton
and Baily. In such a case, no chan.e of property
coul,' take place till Kimmel and Albrt should accede
to these new propositions; andl the capture hat ing ta.
ken place before the contract was complete, the goodt
must be considered as enemy property.
The sentence is reversed, and the claim dismissed.
3. The claim of John H. Browning & Co.
This claim stands on precsely the same principlet
with that of Kimnmel and Albert. The docuniemary
evidence is in effect the same, and was enclosed in the
same letter from Baily, Eaton andi Baily to Samuel
MKean.. The claim therefore must be dismissed.
The sentence is reversed and the claim dismissed.
JonNsoN, J. delivered the opinion of the majority of
the'Court, as to the claim of W. and J. Wilkins, as
follows:
The points of distinction between this case and that
of MKean and Woodland, unfavorable to these Claimants, are the following:
1. That Harris, the direct consigkiee, had a control
given him over the goods, which authorized him, had

FEBRUARY TERM f8i.
he thought proper, to refuse to deliver them over to
the Wilkins's.

THE
MERRI.
MACK.

2. That Harris had also a power, under certain cir- .
cumstances, to make them his own.
S..That, in the letters both to the Wilkins's and
Harris, the consignor alleges as his reason for making
the shipment through Harris, his fears that this government would not protect B'itish property ;. thereby;
as is contended, acknowledging this property to be
British.
On the other hand, it is a circumstance favorable to
this claim, that the original bills of parcels , ere made
directly to the Claimants, and were sent along with tho
shipment, as a substitute for an invoice.
It is assumed as a postulate, that a direct consignment on account of the consignee, made in pursuance
of his orders, is not subject to condemnation as prize of
war; and that it is imniaterial nhether it be purchased
for cash or credit; or insured in, the enemy's countryor elsewhere.
It will, then, be enough to show that every beneficial
interest which such a shipment would vest in the copsignue, was vested in the Claimants in this case.
The first difficulty arises from the circumstance that
the bill of lading was made out to Harris, and not to
the Wlkins's, whereby the captain of the ship became
bound to deliver them to Harris or his assigns.
Upon a fair view of the wli e transaction, this dis.
tinction will be found rather to be formal than real;
and thtt it produces no difference in the state of right
between these parties.
The interest vested in the consignee by the delivery
to the captain, is not absolute to all purposes. So far
as relates to the right of stoppage in transi2, it continues subject to the control of the consignor, and ma
he reduced by him into possession, before actual delivery ; or the authority of 'the captain to deliver them
VOL. Vlf.
43

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TxIM
according to the original bills of lading, may be counmFmlnI- termanded, and another destination given them.
MACK.

Upon comparing all tie circumstances of this case,
it Nvill be found that the transaction Was so arranged as
to produce no other change in the rights of the parties,
than to put it in Harris's power to exercise this right
of stoppage in transitu, in case of the insolvency of the
Wilkins's.
The bill of lading is made out to Harris, which gave
him the right to demand the goods of the captain.
But the invoice, which has the additional strength of
a bill of parcels, is made out to the Claimants, which
gave them the right to demand the goods of Harris.
Both in the letter to Harris and to the Wilkins's, the
shipment is declared to be on account of the latter;
an,', in the letter to the former, the ship'per goes into a
detail of his reasons for giving the Claimants so large
a credit.
Thus these papers, taken togetlier, place the interest
of the Claimants on the same tfoting as if the bill of
ladhfg; had been made out to Harris for the use of the
Wilki.s's ad in that case', there could have been little douibt that thd claim must be sustained.
If the 'invoice, although *made out to the Claimants.
had been inciosed to the direct consignee. it would have
furnished a strong, argument in favor of the captor.
But hiere, the evidence of right s place(d in the 'Claimanfs' own hands ; thereby acknowledging their right
in' the goods shipped, and furnishing them with the
means of assering it. Thus the shipper could never
have denid the rights of the Claimant in this case;
fori, lie had furnished the most direct and conclusive evidence against himself.
,But it.is asserted that Harris had it in his power to
make these goods his own, in defiance of the will of the
Claimants.
If this were the fact, it would only show that, in

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
either view of the alternative, it was a shipment on
American account, and that the shipper had parted with
all hit; interest.
But the fact is not so: and in Answering this argumeut, we answer the remaining one also.
'File shipper knew what li was about. War was already probably declared, and he Nas aware.of the crash
of mercantile credit which generally follows oi, such an
event. He also knew that, in case of asserting his,
right or stoppage in tranitu, the property reveried and
became British; in which case, as he expresses himsdf,
the property might be uubjected to seizure, as enemy's
property.
With these considerations on his mind, he makes out
the bill of lading to Harris. and informs him that his object is to enable him to ke- the goods back in case of an
alteration in the circunslanc's of the Claimants : and in
this case only is the hint given him that lie may claixu
thent as his own. It is contended, that he acknowledges,
in his letter to the Claimants, that the property is British;
But this is an error in fact. It was necessary to assign
some reason or some excuse for not having the bills of lading made out to the Claimants themselves. And for this
reason, lie urges an apprehension that our government
would not protect British property. But this reason
could only be applicable in the event of a stoppage in
transitu; as a direct shipment to the Claimants would
have left no room 'or such an appreliension. In tihe letter, also, to Harris, it is said, is contained an a knowledgment that the property is British. This, also, is
founded in iistake ; for the letter to Harris only conmunicates the reason which had [)een assigned in the
other letter, for haxing the bill of lading umade out as it
was. But suppse the passage iii the letter to the Claiiants, on this subject. I id bceen full and explicit to the
declaration of an opinion that 1he property continued
British, alihough shipped on American account ; yet
this would have been but an expression of anm erroneous
opinion, anti certainly ought rot. a§ tIlu' as the intersts
of the Claimants are concerllnv, to have anl influence on
the decision or this Court. But it is asserted that the
goods continped, on tie whole voyage at the risk of

THiE
MERU]
MAC,

SIPREME COURT U. S.
THm8

This may be true, and yet it does not
Had the shipnent been direct to the
Claimants, and insurance omitted contrary to o'der or
custom, the shippers would have been equally liable, and
yet the property would not have been subject to capture.
It is enough for the purposes of the Claimants, twat the
property inthe goods had been transferred to them, independently of the control of the shipper or hlii agent,
except so far as the right to stop iairansitu interfered.
And such was the situation of the rights of the parties in
this case. The goods ordered by the Claimants were
shipped to.an agent for their use, subject only to a right
which unquestionably, under any circumstances, existed
in the shippers. In their letter to the Claimants, they
inclose a bill of parcels, by way of invoice, containing a
positive acknowledgment of the sale to them ; and the
letter itself, as well as that to Harris, speaks of the
goods expressly as their goods. The immediate consignee could, therefore, only be considered as the bailee
of the Claimants. Nor does it appear that a tender of
the money would have been necessary to entitle them to
receive the goods of Harris, as, in tfhe letter to Harris,
it is acknowledged to be a sale on credit, and particular
discounts offered as an inducement for an early payment.
the shippers.

IMERRI- prove enough.
MACK.

indeed. there are words in the letter to the direct consignee, which amount to a positive declaration that the
shipments were not on his account nor on that of the shipshall send
pers, but for the use and benefit of others. ";I
you, and ourfriends through your hand,, all the goods
-prepared for your market." By connecting these words,
with the bills of lading,the result is, that. althougli the direct consignee was entitled to demand the goods of the
captain, yet it was not to his own use, but to the .,se of the
several persons on whose account they were sbipped.
Decree qfrmed.
STORY, J. delivered the following separate opinion,
as to the claim of W. and J. Wilkins.
I cannot concur in the opinion of the Court, just delivered, as to the claim of the Messrs. Wilkins. It is
true that the goods were purchased pursuant to the orders of Messrs. Wilkins ; but I -do not think that the

FEBRUARY TERM igl&.

833

property, by the mere purchase, became vested in them ;
TUB
and the usage and course of trade is'generally otherwise. MMEIRIThe purcwasc nis made with the money of theshipper: MACI.
and, *unti a delivery, actual or constructive, to the-Meve;sr . Wilkins, the propriety thereof remaind comJetly in the shipper. The goods weore also shippei as
the property of the shipper. caisigncd to t he agent ot the
shipper, and not to the agent of the Mfesp's. A ins, to
be deli ered oily in cas6 of the consignec's -being satisfied of their perfect solvency. It i true that the bill of
lading purports that the goods are shipped on accounit
and ru:;k of the consignee; but the confidential letters
expla;n thle transaction. an.l shew that the shipment was
so made as a cover agnm.si Iclliger(ut risks; and that
the iroperty was not intended to be changed from the
British shipper, in its transit. The dclivery, then,-bf
.the goods on board of a general ship, was no delivery to
the Messrs. Wi;kins : It was not even a delivery which
vested the property of the goods, in the consignee. The
legal property and possession thereof still remained in
the shippers ; and if the goods find actually come to the
hands o"Mr. narris, his possessi~m would have been but
a continuation of tli p,sses.ion of the shipper. In conL
templation of law, the goods were as much under the
controi and possession of the shipper, as if lie had been
on board the vessel during the voyage, or had shipped
them in his own name. If they had been lo9t during thW
voyage, the loss would haie been his. lie had not a
mere right of stoppage in trausitu in case of insolvency,
for that can be exercised only %%herethe property by the
shipment is vest, d in the consignce for his own use ; but
he had a perfect right of counntrinand in all cases whatever. He might sell the property, give it a new direction, control its delivery, and, indeed, exercise all the
rights of full dominion and propriety. It seems ta me,
that if the Messrs. Wilkins had neither a js ad rem,
nor aj9 in re, and the latter only is recognized in prize
Courts, they could not, by subsequent acts, overreach
the legal rights of the captors. At the time of the shipment and capture, it was, in my view, enemy property
liable to condemnation, having no neutral or American
anus attached to it. It was subject to the legal claims
of the creditors of the shipper ; and nothing existed in
the Messrs. Wilkins but a mere spes occupandi or, as the
common law phrases it, a mere possibility, which attached

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
neither to the substance nor the form of the thing. Upon
MERti- what ground, then, if I am right as to the ownership of
MACK.
the goods, can the claim be maintained? The right of
capture acts upon the proprietary interest of the'thing
captured, at the time of capture. It is not affected by
the secret liens, or private engagements of the partics.
It repudiates even the strong claim of a bottomry bond,
because it is not ajs in re. Can, then, a mere possibility be of more consideration in a Court of prize ? The
absence of all authority to this effect, and the strong and
emphatic language of all thp cases as to secret liens,
speak as powerfully as the most direct and pointed decisions against it.
There is a case cited by the Court in the Aurora, 4
Rob. 218, where property was shipped by a merchant in
Holland to A. a person'in America, by order of B. and
per account of B. but with directions to A. not to -deliver
it unless satisfaction should be given for the payment;
and it was held as good prize on the ground that the property still remained in the ehemy shipper. This case
I think strongly in point; and the manner in whiich
Lawrence attempted to distinguish it from the case then
on trial, shews a full concurrence in its correctness.
The reasoning of the Court in the Aurora itself, and in
the .Ilarianna,6 Rob. 22, are also illustrative of the general doctr'ine.
On the whole, I consider that, by the doctrine of the
common and the prize law, these goods were, at the
time ofcapture, enemy property ; and that the claim of
the Messrs. Wilkins, ought to be rejected ; and in this
opinion I have the concurrence of TWO* of my brethren.
Monday, Mfarch 14th.
HARPER, suggested diminution of tue record in, the
caso of W. anti J. Wilkins, and prayed the Court to
grant a writ of certiorari to the. Court below ; but the
Court refused, the case having been argued and'decided.

' JudgesWAsnr_,,rToq and ToDD.

