SUPREME COURT U. S.
U. STATES

-v.

The decision, as in that case, was founded upon the
gruund of a sale to a bona fide purchaser without notice.

ERIGAN-

TINE
MARS.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Massachusetts
district, in this case is therefore reversed, and the Brigantine Mars adjudged forfeited to the United States."

THE FRANCES, BoYER, MASTER.
cIroin's claim.)

N;o lien upon
enemy's property, by way
of pledge for

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Cirquit Court of Rhode Island, condemning certain British
goods captured on board the Frances. These goods
the payment were claimed by Thomas Irvin, a domiciled merchant
of p'n~ehsase
money, . o- of the'United States, on the. ground of lien.
ther 'ic-, is
mufielentto defeat the rights

of the captors,

IRVING. far ,Jppellant.

in a prize
PINCNEY, for Captors.
Court, uless
in very pculiar cases
Tuesday, J1arch 15th. tbset,...MiAA,' Ch. J.
"where the lien
h
is imposed by
a general law
WASHEINGTON, ,. delivered the opinion of the Court
of the mnelcantile world, i- as follows:
dependent of

:,ny

traet

Thomas Irvin is a merchant of New York, and claims

deliveryo the

at the time that these goods were shipped, which, ac-

T
a
oofierchanoe
orkgndto him
cimsby
certain
pat:ges
merchandize consigned
Wvsre. goods Robertson and faitie, and also tbre&, boxes of merchanare sent upon
,the account &dize consigned to him by Pott and MMillan. The conipsk or the signws were British subjects, residing in Great Britain
betwean
parties,

the

master is a de- cording to the terms of the bills of lading, were on aclivery to hit count and risk of the shippers.
as agoit of the
shipper, not of
the consignte;
It is not pr-tended that the real ownership in these
and it is con.
petent to the goods was not v.,9ted in the consignors, enemies of the
consignor, at United States; but the Claimant founds his pretensions
any time be.
fore actualde- on a lien created on the goods consigned by Robertson

li'vY to the iLnd Hasfib, in consequence of an advance made to the
consignee, to shippers, in consideration of the consignmen4 by his

FEBRUARY TERM 18A4.
agent in Glasgow; and on the gqods shipped by Pott
THE
and MMilan, in virtue of a general balance of account FaANCES,
due to him as their factor. To establish these claims (IRVIN's
in point of fact, an order for further proof is asked for, CLAIM,)
and the question is, whether, if proved, the claim can, BoYEE,
in point of law, be sustained?
MASTER.
The doctrine of liens seems to depend chiefly upon countermand
the rules of jurisprudence established in different coun- it, Tnd thus to
prevent thct
tries. T'here is no doubt but that, agreeably to the consignee's
principles of the common law of England, a factor has lien from 't
a lien upon the goods of his principal in his posses- taching.
sion, for the balance of account due to him; and so has
a consignee for advances made by him to the consignor.
The consignor or owner cannot maintain an action
against his factor, to recover'the property so placed in
his possession, without first paying or tendering what
is thus due to the factor. But this doctrine is unknown
in prize Courts, unless in very peculiar cases, where
the lien is imposed by a general law 6f the mercantile
world, independent of any contract between the parties.
Such is the case of freight upon enemies' goods seized
in the vessel of a friend, which is always decreed to the
owner of the vessel. dtbbott on Shipping, 181. It is, to
use the words of sir W. Scott, "an interest directly and
- visibly residing in the substance of the thing itself."
The possession of the property is actually in the owner
of the ship, of which, by the general mercantile law of
all nations, he cannot be deprived until the freight due
for the carriage of it is paid. He has, in fact, a kind
of property in the goods by force of this general law,
which a prize Court ought to respect and does respect.
On the one hand, the captor, by stepping into the shoes
of the enemy owner of the goods, is personally benefited
by the laborof a friend, and ought, in justice, to make
him the proper compensation: and on the other, the
ship 6wner, by not having carried the goods to thd
place of their destination, and this, in consequence of
an act of the captor, would be totally without remedy
to recover his freight against the owner of the goods.
But in cases of liens created by the mere private contract of individuals, depending upon the different laws
of different countries, the difficulties which an examination of such claims would impose upon the captors, and

SPrEME COURT. U &.
rHEn

even upon t1]e prize Courts, in deciding uponb them, and
the door which sm t a doctrine would open to collusion
(IRVxN's between the enemy owners of the property and neutral
CLAIM,)
Claimants, have excluded such cases from the consider]BOVER,
ation or those Courts. In the case of the Tobago, 5 Rob.
WASTR.
196, where a. attempt %Nasmade by a British subject,
-to set up a bottmry interest on an enenn.'s ship, sir
W. ,cott observed, that no precedents to sanction such
a claim coul be produced : and he very properly coneluded, that this wvas strong evilence that it had not
been the practice of the Court to consider such bonds
as propertN entitled toits protection. And it seemed to
be conceded. that. upon the same principl,, the captor
could not entitle himself to the advantage of such liens,
existing in an ellemy. upon neutral property. From
this it appears that the doctrine of the prize Courts
"uqpon this subject, works against as well as in favor of
captors. The case of the .Xlariamuz, in 6 Rob. avoids
all the objections made to the application of the case of
the Tobago to the present. It is precisely in point.

PRANcE.s,

Tie principal strength of the argument in favor of
the Claimant in this case, seimed to be rested upon the
position, that the consignor in this case could not have
countermanded the consignmeit after delivery of the
gnods to the master of the vessel , and hence it was inierred that the captor had no right to intercept the passage of the property to the consignee This doctrine
would be well founded, if the goods had been sent to the
Claimant upon his account and risk, except in th'e caso
of insolvency. But when good. are sent upon the account and risk of the shipper, the delivery to the master
is a delivery to him as agent of the hipper, not of the
consignee; and it is competent to the consignor, at any
time before actual delivery to the consignee, to countermand it, and thus to prevent his lien from attaching.
Upon the whole, the Court is of opinion that, upon the
reason of the case, as well as upon authority, this claim
cannot be supported, and that the sentence Of the Court
below must be affirmed with costs.
LIvINGsToN, J. I differ in opinion from the majority of the Court. Iivin had a lien on the goods, apparent on the face of the papers. I have no difficulty in
condemning the property subject to that lien; but I cannot assent to an unqrualified condemnation.

