WHITE v. UNITED STATES

Per Curiam

WHITE, EXECUTOR OF THE ESTATE OF SMITH v.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 88-928.

Argued October 3, 1989-Decided October 16, 1989

Certiorari dismissed.

Reported below: 853 F. 2d 107.

Kenneth A. Payment argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs was James M. White, pro se.
Alan I. Horowitz argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Starr,Assistant Attorney General Peterson, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace,
Charles E. Brookhart, and Joan I. Oppenheimer.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
JUSTICE WHITE

dissents.

*Waller H. Horsley, Louis A. Craco, Charles E. Heming, Jonathan G.
Blattmachr,Arthur M. Sherwood, Alexander C. Cordes, Sanford J. Schlesinger, Jules J. Haskel, Albert Kalter, Thomas P. Sweeney, and Geraldine
S. Hemmerling filed a brief for the New York State Bar Association et al.
as amici curiae urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1989
Syllabus

493 U. S.

NORTHBROOK NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. v.
BREWER
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 88-995.

Argued October 4, 1989-Decided November 7, 1989

Texas law provides that any party dissatisfied with a State Industrial Accident Board workers' compensation ruling may bring a civil suit to set the
decision aside. The court determines such cases de novo, and the party
seeking compensation bears the burden of proof regardless of which
party prevailed before the board. Pursuant to Texas law, respondent
Brewer, a Texas citizen employed by a Texas corporation, filed a workers' compensation claim with the board against the employer's insurer,
petitioner here, an Illinois corporation with its principal place of business
in that State. After the board awarded Brewer compensation, petitioner filed an action in Federal District Court, invoking the court's
diversity jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. ยง 1332. The court dismissed
for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. Holding that Fifth Circuit
precedent, Campbell v. Insurance Co. of North America, 552 F. 2d 604,
required it to apply the direct action proviso of ยง 1332(c)-which states
that "in any direct action against the insurer of a policy ... of liability
insurance ....
such insurer shall be deemed a citizen of the State of
which the insured is a citizen . . ."-the
court attributed the employer's
Texas citizenship to petitioner, thus eliminating diversity between petitioner and Brewer. The Court of Appeals affirmed.
Held: The direct action proviso does not apply to actions brought in federal
court by an insurer. The proviso's language unambiguously applies only
to actions against insurers and does not mention actions by insurers.
This reading is reinforced by the proviso's legislative history. Campbell's analysis -that an action such as petitioner's is an action against an
insurer, since the entire process is initiated by an employee's claim to the
board, since the employee has the burden of proof at the trial, and since
the insurer's action is merely an "appeal" of the board's ruling-is
rejected. Although the employee retains some of the characteristics of
a plaintiff at trial, the action is commenced when the insurer files the
complaint in court, not when the employee files his claim with the board.
Moreover, the board's award is vacated once the court acquires jurisdiction over the suit. The seeming incongruity Congress created by retaining diversity jurisdiction over actions brought by out-of-state insurers while withdrawing removal jurisdiction when it eliminated diversity

