JANUARY TERM 1829.

DAVID HUNT AND OTHER, APPELLAINTs VS. ROBERT'WIGCLIFLU

,

APPELLEE.

An entry was mad.e in the land office of Kentucky, of one-thousand acres, in the
name of "John Floyd's beirs,' without naming the pezsons whowere the
heirs. Upon an objection tp the validity of the entry, ths court said; that
substituting a legal description, which cannot be misunderstood; for {he -more
definite description by the proper names of the persons who are the heirs,
v.as not of'sch substantial i.mportance as to vitiate te'transaction. [208]
An entry was made "so as to join the iettlements on the north east and south
sides thereof, sb as not orun-info the old military p.rveys which are legal.0
The old military surveys formed together a aiallelogram, and adjoined the lands
intended to be described by the entry. It was objected that the'limitation-on.
the entry," so as not to run into the" old military surveys which ard legal,"
rendered the whole entry so uncertain as to make it void. The rules which are settled in Kentucky, would requiri thait this entry, had the
restrintion respecting the military surveys been omitted, should be sdrveyed
equally on the north east and south side of the settlement, the whole land to
be included by rectangular lines. The old militarysurvey must, therefore, be
so.contiguous to the settlement, as to stop one or two 6f those lines. A'subsequent locator knows where to look for them,and-the testimony in the cause
informs us thathe would encounter no difficulty in finding them." We condide
the last words I which are legal,' merely as an affirmance that they are So, dot
as leaving it'doubtful ; and consequently that they make no change in.the
entry." [209)
It Is ivell settled, both in the court of Kentucky and in this Court, that a possession ivhich will bar an ejectment, is also a bar in-equity. "[212]
Each of the parties held in possession distinct parts of the land in co.ptroversy.
Ii ths state of things it is well settled, that'the party having the better right,
is in constructive possessioh of all the lad not occupied, in fact, by his adversary. [212]
The law of Kentucky authorises their courts of chancery to make decrees against
absent defendants, on the publication of an order for two mo.nths'successively
in-some paper authorised to make the publication, and on fixing it up at ceitin public places, piescribed by the act. This publication is considered. as a
constructive service of the process. The supreme court of'Kentcky has de-7
cided that the publicatiQn must be continued tor twq calendar months. [214]
As the plaintiffs in the circuit court claimed under a conveyance. made in pur-susrce of a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, the bill ojughtnQt to
• have' been dismissed for want-of parties. The circuit couit ought to-havegiien
.leave to make'new parties, and on their failing to bring the proper parties before the court, the dismission shoul. have been without prejudice. (2185]

THIS was an appeal fromr the circuit court of Kenttick'y,
in .which court the appellants had filed a bill against'the
ap'pellee, claiming from him a conveyance of the legal title
VOL. II.--2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunt and others vs. Wickliffe.]

to certain lands in the state of Kentucky, to which the ap.pellee had the legal title; but by-the" appellants it was alleged, that they had a prior equitable title, derived under
certain entries made in the land office of"that state. The
bill was dismissed by the circuit .vithout costs, and from the
decree of dismissal an appeal was entered to this Court.
The defendant, Robert Wickliffe, claimed the land under
patents to John Craig for 2000 acres, dated 2d of December
17"5, and to A. Fox and John Craig for- 1000 acres, dated
on jhe same day. He also asserted a possession, protected
by the statute of limitations. The title under these patents
interferes with the entries-under which the appellants claimed; and the appellants in the circuit court sought to obtain
a conveyance of all the interference, and also other portions
of the grahts to Floyd, not included within the boundaries
of Craig's, and Craig and Fox's patents.
The entries -under which the heirs of John Floyd and
those
who hold under them claim the land, were as follows:
" 1779,
October 29. John Floyd this .day appeared and
claimed a right to a settlement and pre-emption to a tract
of land, lying on Four Mile creek, eight miles north west
from Boonsboro, including a plantation, claimed by the
said Floyd, called Woodstock, raising corn on the premises
-1776, satisfactory proof being made to the court, that
said Floyd has a right to *a settlement of 400 acres, including said improvement, and a pre-emption of 1,000 acres
adjoining, and that a certificate issue, &c."
Under this certificate for a settlement and pre-emption
the entries were made.
" November 3d, 1779. John Floyd enters 400 acres of
land by virtue of a certificate,. &c ., on Four Mile creek,
.about eight miles north west from Boonsboro, including '
plantatiqn called Woodstock."
" .170,April 28. Sohn Floyd, assignee of James Taylor,
assignee of George Muse, enters 800 acr'es; .as assignee of.
ance, 100 acres, upon military warrants, between the lines
of David Robinson-and John.Cartei, Andrew Boyd, Thomas
Barns and Jonathan'Martin, on Four. Mile creek."
This entry appears to have been, located iii -two surveys,.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Hunt and others vs. Wickliffe.]

and is designated on the 'plat 245 acres and 240 -acres.
The latter interferes with the land heldby the appellee.
"April 19,'1778. John Floyd, assignee, enters 1,600.
acres upon a m'ilitary warrant, on. Boon's cre'ek, adjoining
David Robinson's west line, extending along said line,, and
westwardly for quantity. A part of this appears to be surveyed in. a survey of 246 acres, as represeihted on the plat."
"May 31, 1783. John Floyd's heirs enter 1000 acres on
a pre-emption warrant No. 1054, j6ining the-.settlement at
Woodstock on the north east and noith sides thereof, so as
-?Tot to run into the old military surveys which are legal."
The so surveys all adjoin, and were patented in January
1789 to Mourning,-Geo'ge, John Floyd, and Jane Brecken'ridge, wife of Alexander Breckenridge, formerly JaneFlbyd,
widow of said John: Floyd..
The appellants had, under a decree of the Fayette circuit
*cu.rt of Kentucky, obtained a conveyance from the patentee
-of 694 acres, part-of the land embraced in these surveys.
The appellee had made no effort to establish the'entries
under which he.claimed, relying upon his elder. leaal title,
and an asserted- possession.
Mr Buckner, ior -me appellants, insisted: 1. That the
entries of Floyd were valid, as supported by the testimony-in.
the caus.

-

2. That.by the deposition of J. W. Hunt, a- witness in
the cause, it wds proved that they and those from whom
they derive title have had the possession of the land sineb
1800.,

-

3. The greater part of the survey of.200 acres.of-the defendant, made in the name of Craig; and Fox, is within the
claim of the appellants.

-

-

4-. The 'bill of th6e complainants ought not to have beeA
dismissed, but if all who are interested in. the claim were
not before the court leave 'should have been given to make
new parties.
He argued that the objects called- for in the- entrieg of
Floyd, were -notorious at the, time- they were respeetively
made; -and he referred to the- evidence contained, in the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Hudt and others ts. Wickliffe.]

positions ofthe witnesses*to support the position. To show
that the call to exclude " old military surveys which are
legal,"did not vitiate the entry, he cited the following cases.
DWake .vs. Ramsey & Logan, Hardin'sRep..34. 383. 386.
2 ,TMlarsha's."Rep. -305. -Jackson vs. Johnson's Heirs, 1
Bibb,. 61.. Oferton & Reed vs, Roberts,'4-Bibb, 156.
As to ite question of possession, relied upon by the appellee; it was insisted, that the deposition of Hunt, in relation to.the'p6ssession of the appellants, was contradfleted but
by one witness,- and was entitled, to belief; There. was- no
satisfactory evidence of any"possession in the appellee. He
also. uiged, that to enable a party.-to protect himself under
the statute of Iimitatibns, upon which the appellee relied,
proof of a:.codntinued, uninterrupted 'possession for twenty
years should be established, by-.clear and satisfactory testimony, and this had not been-done.
A~right of entry is. not taken away.by a possession ..without claim of title; and therefoie 'if the'-possession of the appeliee. existed before the date of his, patents, it will not
avail.- The time intended -by the, statute, never commences
,until the.possession'is adverse;
; however,. it -we're conceded that the evidence of the
-Wtneps exanmine.on.the tart of the-appellee, pv6ved thathe
todk poscession -of'any part of. the land in.-controversy prior
to .bQ ppussegsion of the.appellants,-no .benefit co'ld result 'to
-the appellee for the same, beyond the boundary- of the'portion of the land, wiieh the person. taking,possession of the
land ihLtende'd to adopt. . The quo 'animo.in which an .entiy
on,lands is -made, Will ,determine .othe extent of the possession acquired by the entry. He cited- Clark vs; Lynn's
.Heirs, i .Marshall'sRep. 347.t
'Admitting the- proof of the appellee tq be conclusive-as'to
sua-h'portion of 'the lan. as. is within the boundary intended,
When ihe possegsioh was taken ; there remained for the appel~ants a considerable part to which the. statute or limita. tions could not aliply.
While he,freely.conceded that all- who. should have been
made parUes to the complainant's bill .were: not' be"fore the
riiUit'cburi, yet, as the entries 'under, which the' complain-

.JANUARY. TERM 1829.
[Hunt and others vs. Wickliffe.]

ants in, the bill claimed were valid, and their- title had been
sanctioned by the de'cre.e of the Fayette citc.1it cort; .and asit was manifest that the "appellants'had t.hesuperior equit,;.
he contended that -this Court would reierseIthe- decision' of
the court below, and remand the cause, with.leave to amend
ihe bill, and make -all'persons parties wh. were iequirvd by.
the rules of chancery ;in order for a final decisiofi upon-the
real merits.of the ease
Mr C. A. Wickliffe, for the-appellee,c'ntended:
1. That the presumptive entry of .1000 acres of Floyd was
void, upon the principle well settled by the courts of Ken..tucky,: that.every call 6f an entry which might give.it shape
or locality,. and which" are, in"the 'adjudicdtions of those
courts, denominated "locative ca.lls," must be proven-; and
the objects called, for should havebeen.notorious at the. date
of the entry.
2,The entry is bad on the face of it. It is vaguein the callto adjoin the settlement on the north and south-sides,"'Pio
as not to run into the old-military surveys which are legal.".
3. The location, or piesumptivie entry is void upon the
ground thattlhe land law of Virginia and Kentudky never
did authorise an entry:to be made in any other. way,. than by
the proper names of the'person 'locating.
He argded, tlai the requisition "to adjoin' the settlement
on the north and south sides,.so as not to run into the old'
military surveysi" was indefinite. 'The lafid might adjoin on
all sides ivith equal'pfopriety. 'A subse4uept locator-would'
in v.aih look for the precise position of such lands. 'The in,junction "so as not to runinto old surveys," would give no"
information of any.certain character.- What surveys were
they 1.: Howcould any, one know,- without the partidular
s'urvey had- been stated,- whili of -the old survey§ .we're
good, and -which'were bad q and yet, this knowledge was
essenitial.- 'He cited "insupport of.his argunents, on these
.points, I Bibb, 10." Williams vs. T.a'yloi," . Bibb, 4. &.
1 Bibb, 35. 127. 135,1 6. 138. 29, 30. -'Cox vs. Smith; ildrWalke'r vs.
din 's fes . 411. Grubbs vs. Rice, 2.Bib., 1G101
Moutgomery, 2 Bibb, 269.: Kincard vs..Blythe, 2 Ab. 479.

SUPREME COURT.
,[Hunt and others vs. Wickliffe.]

476.. Thomas vs. Bowman, 3 Bibb, 128. 132. Also 3 Bibb,
162. 543. - 4 Bibb, 132. Howard vs. Todd'and others, in
I.Marshall'sReports.
He also urged that the entry in the name of "the heirs
of John F-Ioyd" was indefizite, and therefore void; as those
terms did notsdesignate the persons to take; the same having
been made in 1.783, before the law abolishing primogeniture..
The land therefore descended to the heirs at law, and it is not
shown who is such heir. The complainants in the circuit
court did not show any, title to the, land claimed by them,
derived. from the persons who are alleged to have been the
proprietors,.as heirs of John Floyd.
The appellants must not only, show an equitable title. out
-ofthe appellees, but they must connect -themselves with it.
Upon theevidence on the record,-tiere are parties who have
Ior'had an interest in the land as heirs or under
the hirs of
John Fjoyd; and tho.se persons were not :before the court, or
the prop.er course 'pursued to authorize a decree against
them-in their.absence. Breckenridge's heirs were not legal-:
ly,called upon, ;nd the circuit court rightfully dismissed the

bill.
It was also contended, that the appellants are not entitled
1ta'elief uppn the further grounds, that the patents to Craig,
and to Fox and Craig, were more than thirty years old, before
the commencement of the suii. That there is proved an
actual adverse.possessiof of more thah twenty years beface
the commencement of the suit by the appellee, and those
undei whom he claims; and that the evidence upon the record fully Pstablished these positions; and the 'counsel to
prove the same went fully into an ekfiinination of the depositions of the witnesses.
He also- said, that the appellee had the first legal posses-.
sion within the interference. And althobgh that possession
was. by a tenant and purchaser, it extended itself to the
limits of !he elder' title of the appellee, .unless it can be
shown to have been restricted by limits.. Kendall et al. vs.
Slaughter, I .Alarshall,376.
* In Miller vs. Humphries, 2 .Marshall,.448, it was held
that if thiere was an entry "f an elder patentee, on an inter-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
.[Hunt and others s. Wicklifle.]

ference before the .entry of his adversary, the elder patentee
is in possession to the extent of the claim, and the subsequent entry of the junibr patentee, is an ouster only to the
extent of the claim of the junioi grantee. Also cited Green
vs. Liter et al. 8"Cranch,229. 2 Wlheaton, 229.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court,
This is a suit in chancery, brought by the plaintiffs in...
court of the United State.s for the seventh circuit ant. district of Kentucky, to obtain .a conveyance of lands, to which
the defendant has a legal title, but to which the plaintiffs
claim the equitable title, under prior entries which they aljege to be valid. At the hearing, the bill was dismissed with
costs. From this decree the plaintiffs have appealed to this
Court.
The plaintiffs derive their title from John Floyd;'deceased.
As the patent of the defendant is anterior to' that under
which the plaintiffs claim, their equitable title cannot be
spstained, -unless it be founded- on prior valid entries. These
entries, therefore, must be examined.
I 1779, John Floyd obtained a certificate for a settlement right of 400 acres, and a pre-emption right to '1000
acres to.adjoin his settlement. 'On the 3d of November 1779,
he made an entry- of this 400 acres, to include a-plantation
called -Woodstock. The validity of this entry is not controverted, nor is it otherwise important than as it may serve -to
establish the entry of the pre-6mption warrant, so far as that
entry depends upon .the settlement.
On- the 31st of May 1783, John Floyd's pre-emption Warrant was entered in the following words:
' John Floyd's heirs enter 1000 acres of land on a pre-emption warrant, No. 1654, joining the settlement at Woodstock,
on the north, east, and south-sides thereof, so as not to run
into the old military surveys, which are legal.
Two objections have been made to this entry; the first is,
that it is made in the name of the heirs of John Floyd, without naming them.
That there is less precisicn and certainty in this descrip-

SUPRkEME COURT.
[Hunt and others vis.'Vickliffie.]

tion-than if fhe heirs were named, must be admitted, but the
Court is not prepared to say that the entry is on that account
a nulliti-. No ease has been adduced, in which the courts
of Kentucky have so decided; and as the description is sufficiently, certain to identify-the persons efititled tinder it, we
sh6uld feel great difficulty in declaring it to be void.
In considering this questiop, the peculiar situation of Kentucky at the time cannot. be overlooked ; warrants had been
issued for moreland; perhaps, than was to be found in: the
country; certainly for more than was valuable. These warrants'had been most generally placed in the hands of locators by the proprietors, wh6 resided in the atlantic states.
The communication between the principal and agent was
.tedious and pncertain. The holder of the warrant- might
often-hear.of the death of its proprietor, ata critical morment;
when its imfnediate location was very interesting to the family of the deceased'; and when he was not informed of the
names of the persons entitled to the warrant. ' To delay in
making the entry until this- information could be gained,
might, and' probably would be very injurious' to the family
,of-the deceased; and no injury could result to any, from
making it in the. name of the heirs generally. If they were
.not all entitled,othey would all be -trustees for'those who
were.- The entry is 'an incipient step towards obtaining a
title. Its object, is at the same time to appropriate the land
it covers, and.to give notice to others that the land is appropilated. 'We do -not. think the technical objection to substituting a legal description, which can'not be misunderstood,
for the more definite description b''the pro.per names of the
*Persons'who'are heirs',is-of such substantial importance as
to vitiate the transaction. We are confirmed in this opinion,
by the 'fact -that the.. survey., was made in pursuance.-of the
-entry-in the name of the heirs of John Floyd generally, and
that the -patent was issued on-this survey.-.Several other
entries-and surveys were made for the heirs, without specifying their names, and patents-issued on them all. The objection was certainly not deemed valid by the officer who'
vis. entrusted with the power of granting titles to land.
A, second, and more gerious .bjection has beep taken to
-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Hunt and others vs. Wickliff'e.'.

the language of the entry. *It is, to join the settlement on
the north, east, and south sides thereof, 8o'as not to run into
the old military surveys, which are legal.
The .old military surveys, forming together a par Llelogram, adjoined Floyd's settlement on the north west, mak'ing an acute angle with its northern 'line;'so that the portion
ofhis pre-emption warrant which adjoined his settlement, on
the north, could not be- extended the whole -length of the
northern line without-interfering with them. It is contended,
that this limitation on the entry, "so . as. not -to run into: the
old military surveys, which are legal,", renders the whole 's
uncertain as to make it void.
"We do not think so. .The rules which are settled.in Kentocky would-teqtiire-that this ebtry,'had the restriction respedting the military surveys been omitted, should be-sur-.
reyed qually on the 'north, east, and south sides of the.
settlement; the whole land to be included' by rectangular
lines. The "oldmilitary surveys, therefore, must be so-contiguous to.the-settlement'as to stop one. or two of these lines..
A subsequent locator knew where to look for them, and the
testimony in the .cause informs us, that hewould encounter
no diffieulty.in finding them. The evidenceis, that they were
well known 'and that the lines were, plainly- marked, so.as
to be -traced.without difficulty.
We con~ider the last words of the entry, "which are Jegal,"
merely as an- affirmance 'that -they are so, not as leaying it
doubtful; and consequently, that they make no change in the
entry. Understanding- them in. this sense, we perceive no
suffidient objectioi to 'the entiy. We' cannot perceive any
reason, why the lines.might notbe-stopped by anold-milit*r
survey which is.-well known, as well as by any:other well
nwn'objeat. The shape and form of the land, inde6en-'
dont of'this reference, being given by the settled -rules-in.
Kentucky, the position of the old military surveys must .be
such. as to vary that shape,
" subsequent locatof .couldfind-'no real difficulty in fixing the -form of the.entry. But if'
this 'restriction be entirely discarded, and the entry be surveyed without regard to the old military surveys, it will make
very little differende in the degree of interference between
VOL. II.-2 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunt and others bs. Wickliffe.]

the claims of the parties, and no difference in the dedree
which will be made by this Court. It will therefore not be
necessary to decide at this time, in what manner this entry
ought to be construed.
The lands held by the defendant also interfere with another entry made by Floyd.
- On the 29th of A-pril' 780, John Floyd.entered 1600 acres
upon a military warrant, on Boon's creek, adjoining David
Robinson's west line, extending along said line, and westwardly for quantity.
David Robinson had a survey made in 1776,.on h military
warrant. He afterwards entered a.settlement and pre-emption wairant to adjoin this military.survey; and surveyed them
,in September 1780. The counsel for the defendant objects
to the legality'of this entry, because it does not designate
the tract for the west line of which it calls; and because David Robinson's survey had not sufficient notoriety to inform
a subsequent locator, on what part of Boon's creek he was
to search for.it.
The first objection is certainly-not well founded. Floyd's
ehitry was made before David.Robinson's settlement and preemption were surveyed; possibly, before they were entered.
But, were it otherwise, this settlement and pre-emption form
one tract with his military survey so as to have the same
west lirie.
There is more weight in the second objection. The testimony to establish, the notoriety of Robinson's survey is fat
froni being conclusive. John Bradford deposes that he was
conversant in the quarter in which these lands lie ih Novem.ber 1779; that be-had no knowledge of the military survey
of David:Robinson, but from .the records, except from common conversation, but does not know at what time he first
'heard it spoken of. He knows that Robinson and Hickmai
have military surveys in that neighbourhood, but never understood their precise situation. He believes the M'Gees, at
M'Gee's station, knew, and could show the lands of David
*Robinson, but of this he-is not certain.
Robert Boggs deposes, that he was, at the making of David
Robinson's military survey, and that he has been conversant

JANUARY. TERM 1829.
[Hunt and others vs. Wicldiffe.]

in the neighbourhood from the year 1775. to the time of giving
his deposition. To the question, "from your first knowledge of
those surveys (Robinson's and others') were they known and
familiarly spoken of by the names of their proprietors, as aforesaid ?3" he answers, "he thinks they were, shortly.after." He
says, "he thinks the lines of Robinson's and Martin's surveys
could have been found by reasonable inquiiy, at any time
after they were made; for.they-were plainly marked." He
left Kentucky, and returned in the year 1779. He. left it
again in the fall of 1780, and returned in 1783. He is not
certain that any person was acquainted with .thelines of David Robinson's military-survey on the 29th day of April 17.80,
.except David -and William Robinson, David M'Gee, John
Haye, and Jacob Boughman. The Robinsons and Boughman lived in Vi-ginia,.M'Gee at. his station, about one and
a half, or two miles *fromthe survey. The body of the land
-was spoken of, and he believes, was known by man:
In estimating the weight of this testimony, it must be recollected that-the depositions were -taken more than forty
years after Floyd's entry was made Few persons who
.were.alive and in the neighbourhood at the time, now survive. A fact resting mainly in memory, which might have
been established with ease in 1780, would be ascertained
'with difficulty in 1825.- Examining the testimony under this
aspect of circumstances, we think, although it may not be
conclusive, itis sufficient to sustairi the entry. John Bradford had. no personal knowledge of Robinson's 'survey, but
intimates that, he was acquainted with it from the xecords
and from common conversation.' His deposition is not explicit as. io time. His deposition, however, appears rather
to refer to-.a remote time. The people at that time were in
stations, and the nearest, certainly one within tw6 miles of
the place, was M'Gee's. He believes, but is not certain, that
the M'Gees knew and could have shown the land. Robert
Boggi was present at the survey. , It was known and spoken
of as Robinson's shortly afterwards. Though lie mentions
only five persons who; in addition to himself knew the lines,
three of whom resided in Virginia; still; he says the body of
the land was.spokeil of, andhe believes, was knowni by many.

SUPREME. COURT.
[Hqtmand others vs. Wickliffe.]

A military survey, made.before-the land office was opened,
must have attracted the general attention of those in the
neighbourhood; and after the-office was o.ened, must have
excited general inquiry.. Those surveys were established
by law; and it was consequently an object with locators, to
obtain eiact information. respecting them, in order to avoid
them.: Robinson's survey was spoken of at M'Gee's, the very
place where inquiry would be made. Other witnesses whose
knowledge of that part of the country commenced five or
six years afterwards, speak of Robins bdn's survey as havingthen acquired general notoriety. Thei is then strong zeason
to believe'that a subsequent locator, having Floyd's entry in
his hands, could, witlh reasonable inquiry, have found the
west line of Robinson's entry.
The defendant also relies on an adversary possession in
himself and those under whom he claims, for more than
twenty years. , His proof of this fact is sufficient; and it is
well Settled both in the courts of Kentucky and in"this Court,
that a possession which will bar an ejectment, is also a bar
in equity. But in this case, the plaintiffs also have been in
.possession.. "*ohnW. Hunt deposes that he took possession
of the tract of land in controversy, for the plaintiffs, leased
it out for a number of years, and accounted with them for
the rent. He exhibits the copy of an agreement made with
Isaac Johnson and Thomas Coleman, on the 12th day of
August 1800, for three years; and says that other tenants'
succeeded theta, who continued to pay him the rent for the
plaintiffs, until the' year 1815. The rent he received-in that
year. was; he believes, for the year 1814. Each of the parties then has held possession of distinct parts of the land in
controversy.. In this state of things, it is well settled(a), that
the party having the better right, is in constructive possession of all the land not occupied in fact by his adversary.
If then the plaintiffs in this case have ,the better title.,that
title is barred by the possession of-the defendant, so far as'that possession was actual, but. not fartler;
No question can-arise in this case; under the -act which
(a) Green vs. Liter, 8.Cranch, 229.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
.(Hunt and others vs. Wickiffe.)

makes the possession of seven years a.bar,* because the
plaintiffs were in actual. possession of part.of the land until
the year 1815, and this suit was instituted in April 1820.
If then, the~title of John Floyd is regularly vested'in the
.plainiiffs, we perceive no sufficient-obstacle to their reco'vering at least a part of the.land in controversy.. "
The plaintiffs claim 694 acres of land, part of the entries
•which have been considered; and charge generally in their
bill, that they have regularly obtained a conveyance, for the
same from the heirs of the said Floyd, by metes and bounds,
* without specifying the persons through whom the title is
derived.
The will of John Floyd, proved and admitted to record in
Jeffersoni county, in March 1794, is among the exhibits in
the cause. In that will he devised his, tract of land called
Woodstock (which. includes-the land in: controversy) to his'
-daughter Mourning Floyd, and to his son George- Floyd.
Patents issued on the, entries and sur'ueys for the lands in
dispute, to Mourning Floyd, John Floyd, George Floydj and
Jane Floyd, widow of the said'John Floyd, as. tenants in
c6ommon.
It appears from another exhibit in the* cause, that in the
year 1815 the .plintiffs with others iled their.billin the cir.cuit .court of Fayet.te county, in the state of Kentuckyi sitting in chancdry, against 'the heirs and devisees of- Thomas
Turpin and of John Floyd deceased, praying for a conveyance.of 699 acres of land, pari. f the Woodstock-tract.
The bill. states that in January 1798, Th6mas Tu.rpin sold
to John W;.Hunt and Abijah Hunt 699 acres.-nf .land,.part
of- ohn.Floyd's survey, called aid-known by the name of
Woodstock tract; and on the same day executed his bond to
them in the penalty of $4000, with a con.dition for the -conyeyance thereof,, on or before the first day.of. March thereafter. The said Abijah Hunt and Thomas Turpin both de'pirted this life, no -conveyance of.the land- being made.
Abijah Hunt by his lastwill,.devised his interest in the land
to -the,plaintiffs; and the legal estate of Thomas Turpin dekcendecT to his heirs
The bill farther States that Johfi Floyd devised his tract of

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunt and others vs. Wickliffe.]

land called Woodstock consisting of 4000 acres, of which
the land sold by Thomas Turpin was part, to hig. daughter
Mourning Floyd, since intermarried with John Stewart, and
his son George Floyd, to be equally divided between them;
that the said'Stewart and wife did -execute a deed for the
said 669 acres of land to Thomas Turpin in his life time;
but they are informed that the same was burnt in the office
of the county court of Fayette, when the same was. destroyed by-fire.
A subpcena issued on this bill, which was not executed on
several of the defendants, among whom were included John
Stewart and Mourning his wife, they being no inhabitants
of the country.
In February 1815, the court ordered that unless the nonresident defendants shall appear and answer on or before the
first day of the next June term, the bill should be taken for
confessed against them; and that a copy of the order be inserted in some authorised newspaper of the commonwealth,
for eight weeks in succession, agreeably to l4w.
It appearing that this order was published, and that process was served on the resident defendants, the:court, in
June term 1816, decreed that the bill should be taken-for
confessed, and that a commissioner appointed by the court
should convey the title of the defendants to the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs in this suit claim title to the lands in controversy under the conveyance executed in pursuance of this
decree. The defendant insists that no title passes by it, because Floyd's heirs were not parties to -the suit.
The laws of Kentucky authorise their courts in chancery
to make decrees against absent defendants, on the publication of an order, such as was made in this cause by the circuit court of Fayette county, for two months successively,
in,
some paper authorised.to make the publication, and on
fixing it up at certain public places prescribed by the act.
This publication is considered'as a.constructive ser:ice of
-the process. -The court. of Fayette county obviously supposed a publication fbr eight Weeks to be a cbmpliance with
this law; but we under*stand- that the supreme court of the
.state has determined otherwise. -That tribinal habdocided

•ARAL-EMAW

215

that- the. publi*ation must be eottinted: fo two 'clendar
months. Under this cOtsttuction" of the:idt, the heiks-of
John -Floyd wete tiber before the dourt,tnd the .decree
was made'agaitst-per"on who:..6te not prties .thi tlit"
It cannot. affect them(a). Thb eburt thetefore. hai no evIdence. that the. 1gal ot -equitable fight of FPloydlg d&419et
has-been qequiieid byth' lait'iffs, ho -a6tobe allowed
t6 -assert-the equity of those devigees against the defendalt,
without making them pattids to the stIt.
I gut dsthm ptaintis taltiednundef a. eonleyance made i
pursuanqe of a d et'e -of a court of comnpetedit juAgidItlion;
we do not thitik theii bill ought to hate been diosmissed.
Th0c ircuit court oiight.to have given' leave to make new
parties.; and on thlerfAiling t&bring the prop4r:paties before -the.court-thedlsk.mssion sioluld be without prejudii.
'The decree of the. cit
livis.
tevatsdd, and the catise re&
marided, with dirte'etiois tht 'th-[pdlintift's-have-lea~re.-to.
tniend their bill) and make new parties.
*

h is
dal O.Oime "oil to be hbeardi on the transcript of theotit of the Uited'States roi the
distridt of Kedtfieky, and W.as argued by counsot; oa iaqsideration Whro., it its con bd ied, odeed and" dectded by
this coattjtr that,.1he &qree 'f ihe said circuft courtin'thi* .6aus e; anid the:*-ee "is heieby- reversed, and ennuflid ;-.
ad-'thit "thid-cause be,.a-.d he Mime is-hereb.yremanded to
lie said lroiltl coltf with 'dirertions, th'at.the plaintifs-liave.
-lea'toame-hemr bill" apdmakenew parties.
record-r ohi the -iriVe

(n~Pr~t.

M

mi..
c~

a. 'Chitt. 48. .Un.D. tik. £wnceryI.

. S.

