SUPREMfE COURT..

jDAvWD

CANTERt, APELLANT avs.- TnmAxERicA- AN" OcR
sUR4XCE Coxwtv or NEw YoRi, A1'FPniAE.

k

IN-,

A motion to, dismiss a suit for wa~t of jtirisdiction, applies solely to cases where
this Court has not jurisdiction of the cause; and not wh@re the circuit court
has exceeded itsproperjurisdiction in the particular case.

THIS case was heard, and decided upon the, preliminary
question which it involyed, in Janudry term.1828.. ee 1Peters,
.511. On,the .hearing, the !Supreme Court decided-in favour
of the claimant, anc decreed restitution of -thecotton, which
was the subject" of controversy. "By~themandate, directed
to thb circuit court, it.
was crdered, " that, such. execution
and proceedings be had as, according to right and jqstice,
and according to.the laws of the United States,.ought to be
had." The mandate 'being .filed in the circuit court, it.was
ordered that. the sme7 be recorded, ",that, the.-caie -be put
on the docket; .and it be referred to the officer of this court
to examine" nto, the(: dainages:, sustained- by. the. claimhant,
David Canter, in consequence of the proceedins of the
lihellants; and repoit :thereon at as early a day as possible
to the. court."
Upon this-order of court being made, Mr Canter filed astatement of his claim, .and the case went before.ihe'register.
The counsel for the defendants filed with the regis-ter the
following protest.:
And now, on' this sixteenth day. of.July, one, tholisand
eight hundred and -twenty-eight, the saiq libellanis, by Petegru and Cruger, their proctors, object to. tiaeordoe of reference made by the honourable he circuit court of theUnited States, for the sixth circuit, to ascertain-the damages.
alleged to have been sustained, by the respondent, in this
case, and they.article and protest against all acts and, proCeedings. undei the same .for thesereasbns, to wit: 1st, That
the mandate of the Supreme Coirt of the United States.
gives -no atithority-or. instructions to the circuit dourt, to
inquire into. darnages. :2d, That the decrees 6f the district,

-JANUARY TERM 1829.

555

[Canter vs. The Amencan and Ocean Insurance Company of New Yark.]

.circuit and Supreme courts-do not award damages to- the
xespondent. 3d, That the.libellants are not in any manner
liable for damages. 4tfi, That at all events the inquiry.as
fo 'damages, cannot extend beyond the amount of libellants'
stipulations, by which alone they are before -the Court.
PTEGU & CRuoGER, Proctors for Libellant.
,These .objections were disallowed, and the register. proceeded. to take evidence subject to the protest, and to examine into the claim of damages; and afterwards made a eport upon the claim to the. circuit court.
.The circuit court haying .by their decree disallowed, the.
claims of the appellant to damages, with the exception of a.
small amount, an appeal was entered to this. Cburt.
--Mr Cruger, for the appellees, moved to dismiss the appeal,
on the ground that the mandate of -this'Court did not authorise alny- proceedings in ihe circuit court for the assessment
of dafnages.
The motion waA supported by Mr Cruger for the appellees,
and 9ppgsed by Mr. Coxe and Mr Webster for the appellant.
Mr Chief Justice- Mm.sHxr. delivered -the opinion of the.
Court.
-The motion made is, to dismiss this case for-want of juris-"
diction. But a motion. to dismiss a'suit, for want of jurisdiction; applies solely to cases where this Court has- not
jurisdiction, of the cause, and not to cases where the ciriuit
-court hal exceeded its proper powers in the particular case.
In the present 'case, this Court has, certaihly, jurisdiction to
revise the decree complained of in the. circuit court. -Whether, that decree Wavs proper or not, after the maudate'of
this Court, is matter for discussion upon an argiment upon
the merits of that decree; -but not on' a motion. like ihe pre
sent. .. The motion is, therefore, overruled.

