JANUARY TERM 1829.

Jonx T.

RrTCHIE,

APFiELLANT: V.

PHILIP MAU:RO AND JOSEPR

*FoRREsT, APPELLEES.

The value of the interest a guardian has ia the miiior's estate, is not the value.
of the estate, but that of the office of guardian. This is of no value, ex-'
cept io far as it affords a compensation for labours and-services; and in a controversy-between persons claiming adversely as guardians, having.no distinct
interest of their own, it cannot be considered'as amounting to a sufficient sum
to authorise an appeal to this Court, from a circuit -court of the district of Col]umbia.

THIS was an appeal from the*circuit court of the county
of Washington; in which court the proceedings of the orphans' court of that county, appointing a -guardian to the
-estate of a minor, had been reversed on appeal, and the
court had pr*ceeded-to pass such a decree as it adjudged
the orphans' court should have, passed. ' From this decree
of the circuit" court, the appellant came before this Court,
and he sought to sustain the decision 'of the orphans' tourt.
The appellhnt, under an order of the orphans' court; had
been appointed the- guardian of'John W. Ott; and had, in
pursuance of the same. rder, entered into a: bond, as'guardian of the sai& John W. Ott, in th'. pftal sum of$10,000,

with sureties.
* The case was argued upon the -whole of the matter contained in the decree,. by Mr C. C.. Lee and Mr Chambers, for the appellant; and by Mi.- Bradley for the, appellees. Aq
the Court did not decide but ul"On one of the points in the
cae .presented: by. the counsel, the 'rguments upon the
others' are omitted.
.An objection was.made by the counsel of the- appellees,
that the amount in c'ontroversy was not. sufficient to authorise an appeal *from the circuit court of Washington
county io this . ourt. I The whole 'question to be decided
on this appeal was, whether the appellant of the -appellees
wqre legally entitled to the guardianship of the person- and
estate of -John W,.Ott, a minor;- whose estate,. it was admitted, was -of considdrable value. It was also admitted,'

SUPPREME COURT.
[Ritchie vs. Mfauro & Forrest.]

that neither the appellant nor the appellees had'any interest
in the estate, except that which would be obtained froim the
compensation they might derive for their labours and responsibilities, as guardians of the minor.
The counsel for the appellant contended, that the right
of appeal was complete, as ihe propdrty which would come
,into the hands of the guardian exceeded two tli)usand dolars; and the bond given by him, .by order of the orphans'
Court, was in the sum of ten thousand dollars.
The law is -well settled, that a trustee may appeaI when
the property under his charge is of sufficlent amount, although he has no interest whatever in the truht estate. A
guaTdian is a trustee, and should be considered in thie same
relations to the property of his ward.
Mr Bradley, for the appellees, submitted the question of
the right of appeal to the Court, preseniing onlythe suggestion 'that the pecuniary benefit of the appellant'from the
6§tate, could not, under any'circumstances, amount to.one
thousand dollars. Whatever claims on the estate of his ward
the appellant might have, for services to be rendered hereafter; in the state of things at the time of the 'appeal, as he
had never acted as guardian, he had no pecuniary claims
whatsoever.

Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion' of the

Court.
Inthe piesent case, amajority of the Court are of opinion
that this Court has no jurisdiction in the case; the value in
controversy not being sufficient to entitle the.party by law
to claim, an appeal. .. The value is not the value of the minor's'estate, buit the value of the office of guardian. The
presefit.is a controversy merely"between persons. claiming
adversely as guardians, hacving no distinct interest of their
own. ' The office of guardian is of no value; except so far
as it affords a compensation for labo'ur and services thereafter to be earned.

