'UPREME COURT.

JOSEPH ,MANDEVILLE

AND

OTHEUS,

APPELLANTS

V8. ROMULUS

RIGGS, APPELLEE.

Where a'bill was filed against the stockholders of a voluntary association for the
purposes of banking, and the process was xeturned" served" upon some of the
p.irtics named in the bill, and as to others, who were not within the reach of
the process, "not found;." the Court stated, that it was not meant to say, that
in casesof this nature it is necessary to bring all the stockholders before the
Court, lefore any decree can be made. It is well known, that there are cases
in which a court of equity dispenses with such a proceeding, when the parties are very nurfierous and unknown; and the adoption of the rule would
evidently impede, if not defeat the purposes of justice., [487
Upon the death of some-of the parties to the bill who'had been served with
process, the bill'ought to have been revived against their personal representa-.
tives,'if'they could be brought before the Court; unless some good reason,
such as absolute Insolvency, could be assigned to justify the decision. [487]
One of the great principles upon which courts of equity generally require all
parties who are known and within the reach of its jurisdiction to be made
parties, is to prevent future litigation and to take away multiplicity of suits.
There are exceptions, it is true, to the rule, but they are founded upon special
considerations. [487]
We know of no instances where ajiAt liability has been asserted before a court
of chancery, on which the decree has not been made against all the parties
before it whb did not establish some personal discharge. [488"
In a bill filed in the circuit court of Alexandria county, in the listrict of
Columbia, against the stockholders of an association for banking purposes, the
bill was dismissed as to those stockholders who were. named in the bill, but
were not served with 'process; and it was held to be error. As non-residents,
the act of congress oftthe 3d of May 1803 allows proceedin'gs to be had against
them by 'publication in the newspapers in the district. [489]
Where an appeal from the circuit court to this Court was prayed by a number of
the defendants, and one only executed the proper appeal bond, the objection
to the proceeding ought to have beetb taken by way of preliminary motion to
dismiss the appeal for irregularity, on account of the failure to give the proper
appeal bond. [490]

THIS was'an appeal from the decree of the circuit court
of the United States for the county of Alexandria,- in thd
district of Columbia..
In that court in July 1818, a bill was filed by -the appellee
against certain individuals named.in the subpoena, charging
them with having entered into a certain association or copaitners'hip, called "the Merchants' Baik of Alexandria."
That the partnership, for a considerable time, issued notes

JANUARY 'TERM 1829.
[Mandevife and others vs. Riggs.]

and bills, and in 'other respects prosecuted their trading or
business as a bank, until about the month of May 1816,at
which time they became so embarrassed as entirely to put a
stop fo.their proceedings. The bill then'alleges, that sundry notes or bills of various denominations and amounts,issued and sent into circulation by the bank during its operations, amounting in the whole to $20.000, regularly catne
into the pbspession of the complainant, and that no part of
them-has been paid. The bill proceeds to present other
fauts and proceedings upon which the complainant claimed
relief,.and concludes with a demand for general relief.
The process was served on%twenty-two of the stockholders and defendants,, the whole number being sixty-one.
An alias subpoena having issued, the marshal returned, as to
'the others, "not found; non-residents in the county of Alexandria." On .the 13th of August 1818, a pluries subpoena
was- issued, on which the marshal returned, " executed on
John M'Pherson; the other defendants not found."
In November.1 818, ihe bill was taken for confessed, as to.
those defendants on whom process had been served, ani
who had not answered; and continued as to the-others..
At May rules, 1820, and at November term, 1820, the suit
was abated as tosuch of the deceased defendants upon whom
the process waz executed; and no proceedings were instituted
to'bring in their legal representatives. The answers of some
of the defendaits who were served with process having been
filed, depositions taken, reports of the auditor made, and the
arguments of co.insel heard,. the court went on to decree
the payment of certain. siums to the complainant by the parties thus before the court; apportioning the same pccording
to the time theybecame stockholders in the bank, and the
periods of issuing the notes. held by the complainant. The
bill was dismissed aq to the other defendants who did not
answer; and also as to all those who were either not servedwith process to appear in the cause, or who were served
with process, and not charged by any evidence on the pairt
of the complainant.
The defendants against whom the decree was rendered,
prayed an appeal to this Court.-which was allowed on their

SUPR EME COURT.
[Mandeville and others vs. Riggs.]

giving bond and security, &c. Joseph Mandeville alone, of
all the defendants, gave bond'to prosecute the appeal.
It is not considered necessary to state in this report any
of the points presented by counsel, upon which rio opinion
was expressed by the.Court; andtherefore those proceedings in the case, and matters set forth in the bill, answers,
and evidence, which are not connected with, 4r required. to
exhiibit the only' question decided by the Court, and, the
ariiments of the counsel upon them are omitted.
The case was argued upon all the questions presented by
the record, .by'Mr Jones.and Mr E. J. Lee for the appellant;
and by MrAVyirt and Mr Coxe for the appellee. -The only
points upon which the Court gave an opinion were, 1. The
dismission of the bill. as to the absent defendants who were
not served with process. 9,_ The omission to make the legal
representatives of thos6 defendants who had died after they
were served with process, parties to the, proceedings, And
S. The regularity of the appeal to this Court, Mandeville
only having given bond.
Mr Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the.0ourt.
This is an appeal 'from a decree rendered in-the circuit
co4urt of the district 0f -Columbia, sitting in Alexandria, in
a suit in chancery, in which the appellants were original
defendants. -The appellants are stoqkholders in an unincorporatd association, which was formed in 1815, for the pur-,
pose of carrying on the business nf banking, under the
name of the Merchants' Baik-of Alexandria; the'nature and
extent of which association is dvidenced by ce'rtain 'articles
of agreement,. which were at the-time published'in thb newspapers in the district, and Jre set forth in the case. The"
first article provides, that the capital stock may consist of
one 'million, of dollars, divided into shares of one hundred
dollars each,'which were to be payable by calls, provided for
therein. In the other articleg provision is made for the management of the business of thebank by'diredtors,. and for
the issuing of bank notes, &c, to be signed by the president
and countersigned by the cashier of the bank. 'The ,15th

JANUARY oTERM t4829.
[Mandeville.and others vs.Riggs.]

,article .declares -the-object of the stoclkholders to be, that
thejoint.,stock of the company "shall alone ,le responsible
for the, debts and engagements of ,this company ; "and"that
no person who may deal with.the'company, &c. shall on any
pretence whatsoever, have recourse against the separate
property of' any present or future member of this company,
or against their persons,- farthei' thad may be necessary to
secure the faithful application-of the fun4s thereof- to the
purposds to whiich, .by these presents, they are liable. But
-all persons accepting any bond, .bill or note,'-&c. of- the
company,.&c. tNreby'giye credit to the 9aid joint-stock-p.
property -ofsgid company, and thereby respectively disaIifS
having recourse, on any pretence whatever, to the persons,
or separate property of any present- or future member of this
company, except as above mentioned."
.The whole stock of-one million of dollars was subscribed,
and calls to an amount of. about one hundred. and eighty
three thousand do1I~as'were paid in, with ,money or by stock
dlbtes discounted, fbr that -purpose. The bank went into
operation, and ciicuiated its notes to a large amount-; and
finally, after about a year, the bank failed, leaving its note's"
-to an amount,, as it issaid, of about ninety thousand dollars
inrcirculation.'and&.unpaid; andhaving a~signed all- its pro-

perty to certain aisignees,. (who were not Darties to the bill)

-

for,the, payment of ceitain preferred debt, and then.for; the
benefit of the credit~rS generally. These assignees- have
now no property in - their -.bands for-distribution. ;The ori-.
'gimfl plaintiff is-the holder. of-the" bank notes of the bank to
the amount of '$20,bO0 and upwards., wliili rertain unpaid'
The form :of the notes issued by the bank was-'as follows',
:'GCdpital,.one million of dollars..-' The Merchahts' Bank .of
Alexandria promises' to pay to'C., M'Knight Dr order; on ded611ars." These.notes were sigried, by the
.mand, president' and countersigned'by,-James S. 'Scottiwho was
cashier, 'and indorsed by C.,.M"Knight, in' blank, without
consideration.; andlsolely to enable the notes to circulate .as
currendy., -as notes payable to the bearer.
The-bill seeks'payment out ofIhe'separate property of the'
stockholders, to the amount of $20,000, the' notes so held
-

-

486

SUPREME COURT.
[Mandeville and others vs. Riggs.]

by the plaintiff. It states the articles of copartnership, and
charges that the notes were issued by the bank, und that it
prosecuted business until May 1816, at which time its affairs,
either by mismanagement or by a fraudulent issue ofpaper
beyond its known means, became embarrassed and stopped
payment.- But it contains no direct charge of fraud or
fraudulent misappli6ation of the funds, by the directors or
stockholders in distinct terms. It states the assignment of
the. property of the bank after the failure; and charges thd
'preferences. therein provided for' to be fraudulent; but if
not fraudulent, -then that the trust fund is insufficient to
pay the creditors of the bank, without resort to *theseparate
property of the stockholders. It further charges, that *the
plaintiff does not know whether there are other stockholders
or not, than those sued, and that he has no means 6f ascertaining them, and calls upon the defendants for a discovery.
And the prayer of the bill is, that the assignment may be
decreed nfill and void, that the plaintiff.s demAnd may be
-paid out of the joint'funds as far as they will go, and then,
out of the separate funds of the stockholders; and also for
general relief.
In the progress of the cause some-of the original defendants died, and the bill was not revived against their representatives. Some of the defendants put in their several
answers, to which the general replication was filed, and
against others the bill was taken pro confesso; and after
several intermediate proceedings, refereaces to, and reports by a master in order to ascertain certain facts, &c.
&c. the cause was finally set down for a hearing against
the defendants who had answered, and those against whom
it was taken pro confesso, and a decree rendered for- the
plaintiff; from which the parties against whom it was made,
have appealed to this Court. The decree, in'substance, declares that there are no funds in the.hands of the assignee
to -pay the debt; that certain defendants (naming tbem) who
had answered, do pay.the debt to the plaintiff with interest
from the first of January 1818 with costs; that this decree
be discharged as to two of the persons so charged, by their
paying a less sum, equal to the amount of the notes issued

JANUARY TE&R1 829.

48.7

[Modeville and others vs. Rigg's]

'by,the bank', while they'were stockholders; and as to the
other. defendants, ,the decree is that the bill be dismissed,'
"it-appearing, to. the cout, that they. are'either not served,
.,vith process to -appear. in the. said cause, -or where s.drved
with piocess,. not charged by any evidence on the part' of
the plaintiff."
Such is a very summary statement of the case. Several
questions have been elaborately argued atthe bar, respectilig
the form and sufficicncy of thdebill, us well as the merit§ of
the case. Upon,some of these-questions much diversity of
opinion.at.present exists amnong ,the.judges. But as we are
aIl.-6fop inin'that: there must be a reversal upon tw points,ye deem it unnecessary to eiamine any others.. Those poifits
are the defect of.:partie., and the erronegus dismissal of ihe
bill as to any of -the defendanfs properly-before the court,
against whom a decree might have been made.
In. the first place, is to the dtfect of parties; we.do not
menu 'to say that in cases of this nature it is nedessary to
bring'all the stockholdr§ before-the 'ourt, before any decree can, be made. It is well known, that there are cases
in which a court of equity dispenses with 'such a proc.edinF
when the parties are very numerious- or unknown,'and the
adoption of the rule would .esseitially iinpede, if not. defeat the purposes of justice. ,But. in the present casewe
are of opinqion' that upon the death of the, parties who were
before the courtithe bill ought to have been revived against
their personal represeniativep, if they cduld be brought befoie the court, unless some. good reason, -such as absolute
insolvency, could be assigned'to justify the omission. The
reason is obvious. Supposing the decree against the parties
jointly -to be good, those who shall.pay, are entitled to contribution from the other stockholders and their personal representativeps. If they are not before the- court they are not
1ound by the.decree; and consequently in a subsequent suit
for contribution, they may controvert every material fact
upon which the decree was founded, and put the party seek.ing contribution to the fall proofs of them, as well as of the
responsibility over the party made. One of the great principles upon. which courts, of equity geherally require all

SUPREME COURT.
[Mandeville and others vs. ,Riggs.]

parties who. are known, and witlin -the reach of its jurisdiction, to be made patties, is to prevent future litigatioh, and
to take away multiplicity of suits. • It is a matter of justice,
as3Vell as of convenience, that all the parties who are ultimately liable to contribution, should, when practicable, be
brought-before the court, so that the equities between them
may be adjusted, as well as the right of the plaintiff. There
are exceptions it. is true, to the rule, but they are founded
upon special considerations; such, as where a decree of contribution would be useless, or where the proceeding would
defeat fhe jurisdiction of the court, and the parties are not
indispensble to a decree, or where the convenient administration of justice forbids it in the particular case.
This reasoning applies with far more.force to the dismissal of the-bill as to the defendants, who were before the
court, and who were liable to a decree as stockholders. It
is- a positive injury to the defendants, who are charged by
the'decree, not only
to their immediate responsibility,
-t
but. as to the means and proofs of contribution. The decree
of dismissal;- so far from, aiding. the other defendants, puts
ther to the absolute necessity of instituting a new suit for
contributiob, 'and to establish every Atep in its pyogress by
plenary evidence We know of no instance, where a joint
liability has been assefted before a court of chancery, in
which the decree has not been made against all the parties
before it who did not establish some personal discharge.
If the bill had been dismissed against those persons only,
who appeared and answered, and whose liability was not
proved by the evidence, there would have been no difficulty. But it is dismissed as to all the defendants who did
not answer the bill, and dgainst whom the bill was taken
as confessed, and set'for a dociree. Now, if these persons
were duly brought before the-court, and if due proceedings
were afterwards had .against ihem, they certainly were
jointly chargeabl with the other defendants, upon their own
default, as in cases of confession.
It is no answer to this objection, 'ihat no exception was
taken at the hearing for the want oF proper parties. The
objection we are now considering is not merely, that the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Manaevifle and(o{i~rs vs. Riggs.]

proper parties were not before' the court, but that the bill,
being.set down for a hearing, as to those who had answered,
and also as to those against whom it had -been -taken as
confessed, the court has decreed against a part only-; when
it ought to have decreed- against the whole, who' were.
chargeable as stockholders. The proper parties for such a
decree were before the court, and the error was in dismissing the bill as to any. of them. It has been also said, that
the decree of dismissal, if an error, is only to the prejudice
of the plaintiff. But this is not.admitted. It was prejudicial to the rights of all the defendants, who were charged
by the decree.
We are also of opinion, that, assuming that the cause might
be properly brought to a hearing as to the parties before the
court, the decree was erroneous in dismissing the bill as to
any ofthe defendants named in the bill as stockholders,
upon whom process was not served; if, by any proceedings,
they could have been brought before thb court before a final
decree. They were known to the plaintiff when he brought
his bill, and were named therein; and the other defendants,
inproceeding to a hearing, cannot be understood to waive
any further proceedings against them. If they were nonresidents, still the act of congress of. the 3d of May 1802,
allows proceedings to be had 'against non-residents by
publication- in the newspapers in the district; -and no
reason is assigned why such a' proceeding might not have
been effectual to bring them before the court in the present
case. We give no opinion what would have been. the case,
if they had not been named in the bill, nr had not appeared
by 'the bill to have been known to the piaintiff at the tithe
of filing it. But as they were known and named, the-same
reasons apply to them as to the other defendants before the
court and their personal representatives.
It was asserted at the argument, that the bill had also
been dismissed as to some of the defendants, who had -answered and admitted themselves liable as stockholders. Upon
examining their answers, it is manifest that they were nomi-nil stockholders only, their names having been used without
their consent, or under circumstances which demonstrate
VOL. 11.-3 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Mandsevill *adothers vs. Riggs.]

that they never meant to become stockholders. And no
attempt was made at the hearing to charge them with any
otherproofs. As to-them, therefore, the dismissal was pro,perly decreed.
AA objection was taken at the argument, as to the fegularity of the appeal, it'having been claimed by all the defendants against whom the decree was made; and the appeal
bond having been given by Mandevilie only. The objection,
if it had been inaterial in this case, ought to have been taken
by way of preliminary motion to dismissthe appeal for irregularity, on account of the failure to give the proper appeal
bond. But it is not material in this case, since,'if Mande-ville be considered the only appellant, the error'ofthe'decree
is equally fatal, and consequentially reinstates the -cause,
discharged of that decree, as to all his' co-defendants.
'Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the decree must
be reveised, and the cause remanded to the circuit court
with directidns to have'the cause reinstated, as to all the
defendants as' to whom the bill was taken as cbnfessed, and
dismissed at the hearing; and with directions also that the
personal representatives of the parties to the bill, who died
during the pendncy of the suit, if they are known, can be
brought before the court 'to be also made parties; and
also with directions, that all the other defendants named in
the bill, who were not served with process, but against whom
further proceedings may'be -had to bring' them before the
court, (as to whom the bill was dismissed at the hearing) be
.brought before the c6urt, if practicable, as. parties; and
that'thereupon such farther procebdings be had. as to justice
may appertain.
-Uidtequity

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United- States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of'Alexandrid, and was argued by coubsel on 'onsideration wheiebf,
it is the opinion -of this Court, that there is error it the de4ree of the said circuit court in dismissing the bill against
the defendants upon whom process was not served, and also

JANUARY TERM 1820.
[Mandevile and others vs. Riggs.]

against the defendaEnts against whom the bill Was takeu pro
confesso, and set down for .ahearing; and also error in the
said court in not requiring the said suit to have been revived
before said decree against the personal representatives of
the parties thereto, who were served with-process, and died
during the pendency of the said suit, who were known', .nd
might have been brought beffre the court, - It is therefore
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this.Court, that the. de-.
"cree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby reversed and annulled, and .that.the cause be, and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with
directions' to cause the same to be reinstated as to-the defendants aforesaid sgainit whom the bill was taken, pro confeiso and set down for a hearing, and by the decree dismissed. And' also with directions- that the personal representatives of the defendants;-who died pending the suit, who
are known and may be brought before the said circuit court,
be made parties thereto, and the bill Je revived as to them.

