JANUARY.-T.ERM 1829.

.AiTZONY TAuraI CrnnIAc ANb -OTHI.RS," PLAITIFS "1N ERROR
z ERROR.
GEORGE REINEQKF.R, DFt..i~rT'1
-After the piaintiff&had proved, by-a surveyor, that most"of the-lines and streets'
in "Howard.s. late addition to Baltimore towfi'" had ben run by..hhhias the
same ;vere marked in 'a -particular plot, upon wh'ich was'the lot of ground
for which ihe ejectment was brought; they gdve the plot so authenticaed in
evidence. This was contained in .avolume in which were. also other plots.
The defe.ndant then offered .in 'evidence another plot, in the same volumCe, but
gave no eiidence, to aluthenticate it, claiming'to uce the some in evidence; as
it sfs autbeiticated in the same volume in which- was that exhibited by
the pla.idtiffs. -ILvas held, that the-whole volune was not in, evidence,; ahd'if
the defendant rneantto use any plot in the same, if w-shi duty to eslablishit by competent proof of its particular authenticity. .[619]
Evidence to establish heirship and pedigfee, had been obtained under a com.
mission isstied fdr.that purpose-to Frnc, in an action of ejectimcint, in which
the psin-tfls had recovered the lots of ground for which this suit was instituted.
in the courte of thAt trial, &hill o(exceptions was tenderbd by the plaintiffs and
*-eired by the-codrt, in which the evidence cdntained in the commilssion was
inserted.- The commriission and the tqstimony abtained under it iv'6re afterwards
Tost. In an aciibn for msneprofits'brought by the plaintiffs in the ejectmant,
• against the latdlord, of the defendant in the-suit, ?ho iad-emlqyed counsel to
'oppose the-claims.of theplaintiffs, but who -a..ot
I party to the suit on the
"record;"t
was held, that the testimony, as copi-edint the bidt ot? exceptions,
.was'kgaland
ompetent'evidenc b-of pedigroe. '[620]
It is well known, that in cases of pedigree, the rules of law hav rel.xed in rd'pect to eviidence, to an extent fir beyondwbat has been applied to.other caseA.
- This relaxation is founddd nn pirinciples, of public convenience and, necessity. 621]
Where A. W'ag
the eal landlord ofthb premisek in tnttroveisyin.an bjcfment,
and employed counsel to defend the suit, but was not a party. defendant on the
record; the record of the recovdiy in the ejectrent, whenaoffered'in evidence in'
it iction of trspass "form.esne-profits against B., is not concluslv6 evidence of
tijtlin the plaintiffs;' bfit isprim'afcie evidence thereof; ard is-evidene of-the
pitintils? possession'; but B. inay cbntroiert thh title. of the plaintiffs. As to
third persons, sirangers to tlie suit, the fecord is eyidence to show possession of
- the property in the plaintiff.
r622]When the court was askedt6 instruct -the jury upon a particular point, if they
believed frouii the evidence certain facts; and there was.not the slightest evidenrde from'which the jury had a-right t.o beieve the existence of any such faqt.,
the court ought not tor have given such instructiouii , since they were calculated
to mislead them, and raise a mere.specutative'quesion. [625]
By the law of aiscerit'ofMaryland, a person claiming as heir must prole himself
"Jeirofthe'person last seised of the estateS and if a
testate
. leaves-a brother of the whole blood who survive bid aina*'tdied without issue, and without having dyer been fictually seised of-fe estate, the .estate wili descehd to
the halfblood of the pdrsQn so seised. [625]
"
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Chimc and others v-. Reinecker.]

ERROR to' the circuit court of Maryland..
An action of trespass, for mesne profits, was instituted by
the plaintiffi- in error in-.the circuit court of the United.
States for the 'Maryland. district, Anthony Taurin ',Chirae.
and otters, 'against the defendant'in error ; upon the recovery of. certain real estate in the city of Baltimore, by th&.
judgment of this court at February term 181.7. 2 Wfze'alon,
259. The' grourd' lies in .a section of Baltimore, .called
"Howard.s late addition t6Baltimore town," nndis part of
the. lot designated in that addition b the number 802, 'Thai
parties, 'plaintiffs in.this actioh, werpe the same with those.
of Maria
in the ejectment, with the.addition of the h-isband
Bonfils Desportes, 6 of the plaintiffs, with Whbm.-he..hps.
since 'intermarried.
The defendant in the ejedtment was John Charles Francis
chirac. "This action was.brbught against' the defefidantt'in..
error on.- the ground that, he' was, in, fa-et, ,the real d-7
fendant in. that suit.; he having' taken. on, himself the de-.
fence, enployedcoufisel,' and being the.' ieal pirty inJ.i; -.
terest; as he had been the receiver of. the rents a'id'pofits
of the estate, during'the'whole period* for which they.were
claimed by tje plaintiffs in this .aeri'n.
"Aftera trial of this case in ihe circuit',qouft of Maryland
it -was refnoved by.. the plaintiffif by writ of :erroir -to this
.COiri; and' at-February terni 1826, Ihe Court- decided,.
.among other points 'Whch'wei'e "presented' -by the .,record," That the action for mesne profits' .ay'.be
naintajned
agaitst him wh5o was the landlord in 'act, who received the
rents and profits,. and resistel the recovery in the ejectmeat
suit; although he.was not a :party to -that suit, ahd .did not
.not take upon -himself the de'fence thereof'upon th rP,.
but another did as 'landlord.' Also,, that '.a 'recovery in
ejectrnint is conclusive evidence.' in. an actin-. for mesne
'proits" against-the tenant in p6ssession, but; not-in relafi6i
to third persohs. 'But when the aCtion is .rought .against.thp
'is A-ejectme'nt'-suit,
landlord' in- fact, 'the record in'the
miggible to Show th6 possession-o'f T.he -plaintiffzcounected'
with his title although it' is not'bonclusive upon 'the d .
fpndant,'in the same manner as jf .hehAd, beqn a. "partv.4n
.the 'record

JANUARY TERM 'f829.

:615
!

[Chirac and others vs, Reinecker.]

-At -the trial of'this case in the circuit court,- ihDecembei

1827,after the saie had been returined to thafrortuhder the
mandate of thisCourt, 'the plaintiffs gave evid'ence to.show,
that the defendant in error wras, 'before the institution of the
ejeetment, the claimaqt-'ahi actual landhrd of the opety,
'and had continueal such until the recovery 4 the same; and
that h6 had employed counsel, and had sustained the defence
by his funds exclusively. Te ''also provedithat the property
had bhen.conveyed to him- by the defendant- in the ejectment. The evidence of title' exhibited' by,.the 'lamitiff'
showed 'the property to be'ii'S'ohn Baptist'Chirac, as whose
heirs the plaintiffs claimed. and' recovered the same iii the
ejetment -"and,in order to show the- l cation of.thdgrbiiid.,
the plaintiffs exhibited -in evidence to the 'jury',the.'piblic
plot. of-" Howard's late aiddition. to Baltimore tot~bm;" by
which 'it appeared, that -the lot 'embraced part'Kof a street
called Walnut street, which, the pla.iitiffs firther pro'ved by
the .city recoids, had been shut up, and the grbund' included
in it'divided betweenthe .owners of lots bouiiding upon it!\
':he'lOainfiffs then-4efred -inevidence ihe record. of the.
proceedings, judgment, dnd Wvrit 'of possession, .in the djee-,
"ment; bit. the- defendant-objected to -the.:reading of !he
sdme, except to show;4he possession" of the property-of' the.
piaintiffs -menibtiied'in -the -record.- The, court admitted
the parts of the record as -primafctci evidence 'of'title.in
the plaintiffs, and permitted them to be'read -in evidence'as
such proof df title.
The'defendant then off-.red. to ex'hibit in eyidence, a plot
from. the volume of .plots;. in which. v.'as that-'already
itierftioned, of "'Howard's late addition;','- to show that the
whole of Walnut street was out of the limits of.1Howard's'
late. addition .;"
-arid -that-'he .parties under .whori iJhn' B.
'Chirac clainied, and John B. Chirac; had no'title to a certaii portion of the groudd recovered- in', the: etment'" The
plaintiffs objected" .to the use'of the plot in evidence, and
'for'that purpohe. . The court.'allowed the testim~ony, and the
.plaintiffs 'excepted.
The plaintiffs' tben, read -in .evidence certain. depositions,
taken-under a.commissioq issued in -this.cause'to Prance,
'

616

SUPREME COTRT.[Chirac and othero vs.'Reinecker.]

showing the kindred of John Baltiq,.Chirac, and the marriage of Maria Bonfils; and. also offered. evidence by Mrs
Lafolloniere, of the death, before John B. Chirav, of Gabriel Chirac, the onlykbrother, or-relatioh in ihat .degree of
the vh6le blood,;of Johm Baptist Chirac. . And they thenproved, that the original depQsitions taken in the ejectment
cause were' lost; and- therefore, inorder to show ihe pedigree of the pliintiWs' family, offered to read in evidence
-the -bill of. exceptions,. which embodies these depositions,
contained.in.the record:and proceedings 6f the recovery in
ejectment.; but the court, upon' the defendant objecting,
refused to allow it totbe so read in 6videncey and the plaintiffs exep.ted.
After this evidepice was given, and the testiim.ony was
clbsell on: both sides, -(hhe having been offered on the part
of. ihe defendant,- except that stated in the first exceptiont
on the poiht of location,) the plaintiffs qffkred in evidence
the record-of recovery-in the ejectment,. a -eonclvs-ive evidence of the riglht and title .of the plaintiffs to the premi8es,
against -Johni Charles :Francis Chirac; dnd against the 4efendant'holding.under,that title.-but. the court refused to
admit the- evidence so offered,.' The plaintiffs excepted.
- The-paintiffstlfin prayed'-the court io instruct the jury,
that if the jury believed- the evidence given, the,,plaintiffs
.had shown a sufficient title to the preinises in the declaration to entitle them at law to maintaiq this action agaiu'st
the defendant. 'The .court refused to 'give.this instruction
-and the plaiatiffs took a further-ekcelticn.
The -defendant then prayed the"court as'follows:
1. That if from. the 'evidence the- jury believed that John
Chirac,-who died seised of the premises in the declaration mentioned, had.any brother oi brother$,-.sister of sisters,
of the whole blood, or their descendanfs, who-'survied the
said John B. .Chbirac the -younger; then -the- plaintiffs ate
not-entitled, to recover.
2. That -if t-he,.jury believe that the said John B..Chirac,
the' elder,- had by his second wife another son be'ide the
*said John B. Chirac the intestate, then it i§ incumlient 6pon-the plaintiffs to show, before they. can-entitle -themselvek to
-B.

JANUARY. TERM i829.
[Chimc and others vs. Reinecker.]

recover, that-such son died before- the said. ohn B. Chirac
the intestate, without-lawful issue.
3.-that if the jury believe that the said John B. Chime,
the elder, -had by his first wife a daughter who mariied acertain Samuel Bonfils by whom she had a son named John
Baptist Bonfils, who married Ann Cotpn, who had a daughter
named Maria Bonfils, who' married Desportes, one of the
plaintiffs; then it is incumbent -upon the plaintiffs, before
they~can entitle .themselves to recover, to show the- death -of
the great grandfather, grandmother, and father, before 'the
impetration of the original writ in this cause; -and that the
plaintiffs have offered no evidence of these facts.
All these prayers of the defendant were granted by the
Court,- and the plaintiffs excepted to all Of them.; and they
prosecuted this Writ of-error.
The case was argued for the p!aintiffs in error,- -by Mr
Hoffman- and Mr Mayer ; and for thedefendant, by Mr Wirt,
attorney general.
Mr Justice SToity delivered. the opinion of the .urt.
This is a writ of-error fromn the circuit court ofthe district,
of Maryland. The original suit 'was. an attion -for mesne.
profits, brought by-the plaintiffs inierror against Reinecker;
and is the same cause which cdme before this Court, and-is
reported in" 11 Wheatot's- Repbrts, -280. -The 6ause'nowcomes again before this Court, upo.n certain, bills of exceptions, taken by the plaintiffs in.error,- at the new 'trial had
under the mandate issubd upon the former: judgment of re-,
versal.
Without going at large into the -facts.as. they came formerly before us, it is sufficient to state, that the actioh 'is
for taking the mesne:profits of a'certain'pareel of-land lying
in a part of Baltitrore, called Howard's late addition.to Baltimore town; and. is -designated as lot No. 80 in that add-.
tion. Before the corhmencement of this suit, a" recovery
of the same premises was had-in -ejectment by the.same
-plaintiffs, (the husband.'of one of them Being now. added-as
VOL. II.-4 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Chirac and others ts. einicker.]

a party,) aslessors, against-one YohnC. F. Chifac,.who Was
admitted upon his prayer As landlord. to defend the premises.
.Th'e-record-of that 'iecovery was offered in"evidence at the.
r'ormer triAl against Reineckr; and rejected by the. court;
and.that rejection constitutei 'one of the grounds of the reversal,.
.At -the -ne* trial after'thd, introduction of certain-evidence,-which will be hereafter ktbted, the ptairntifis 'ffe'red
the same tecbrd'in, evidence, including the exeeution of the
writ of possessiorn, and other prceedihxgs inthe same cause;
to the
idmissibility. of!hich,-- as evideice of the -plaintiffs
possessiah, the defendant's couhseJ did .n ot-object f but did
object to it as evidencce' f the ":plaifhtiffs' :-titI. to. the property. The. 'cgurt, 'however, 'admitted the record as. prime
fa e evidence ofth~ plaintiffs.tfe, and thei.euport. the defefidant filed an exception, .whfich-'hoepr,e is.not :now be-.
fore-this Court.
The evidence alluded" t consist.d of the" 'estimony of'Witnesses to'establish the.fabts, that:-I neeker hLd:received,
at landlord, the rents of the preiisea du'ring the peiqd sued
for; -that he e-ibreised' the- rights fof ownership 'over- the
sajie; that e Wa§, at the, time of- the e'jctolent brought,
thee real .landl6rd, and" hdd notice of the suit; employedct, asel.t6 defend 'it, :and- *,isr,- in fact, .the substantial.-'litigaptb party'; and that he derived/ his 'iitle to the prtniises
undexr-te defendant in ejctment;. John 'C. F. 'Chirac, by.
ivtermrdiatb conveyIaes exetutod' beforo -the ejectment.
Th¢vidence furtheiestablished 'a strict 'deducfion of title,
'by i
e:cinvdeyances, bf :thezI t in' question, down' to John
Baptist Ch'irac, (the intestate,) under -whoim the plaintiffs
claimei the same as heirs,
The plaintiffs 0hen proved by a surveyor, that he 'bad s'r.yeyed most of. the lines aid streets'in Howard's tate addition
to Baltimore tow, .in 17.82, according: to the official plot
and l',cation thereon:ii the nayors office (wbie h plot was
also then given in- bvidened by' the plaintiffs . io the jury) ;
-that h6 had - run the lines of' Lun's lot, according', to the
pitent or certificate. thereof,. and that the premises described

-JANUARY .TERM f829.

619

[Chirac and others vs. Reinejeker.]

in the" plaintiffs' declaration and in thewrit'of posssson
were in- Lun's lMt, and also within the- said addition, and
.were' known. as lot .802, &'.
The plaintiffs,, after having, given iii evidence' the plot
afbre~aid, upon which Was l6cated lot No. 802; and-Walwit
street, then. gave in evidence, from, the original book of
entry and: record in the mayor's office,, certainproceedings,
condemning W..alnut street to be sh.ut up, and.ordgringthht
each person interested by having .lots in the street, be entitled to 9nedhalf of such street on-each side, &c.
The defendant then offered-in evidehce another plotin th-e
same volume of city plots, being a plot of Ho.waid.'s addition
to Baltimore, in: 1766, in order 'to, show that the whole of
Walnut-street was contained hithin such last mentioned additioni already read in evidence, to. the adrssion of w:hich..
the plaintiffs objected, but the court overruledilie objection
*and,permitted the ploI to'go to the juryThe admission of this evidence constitutes the first exception of the plaintiffs.- Itis in the first'place. said, 'that it.was
not proper eviddnc6 against -the plaintiffs, afte' the recovery
in ejoectment, even if the-plot in'question ha.-ieen duly authenticated. But, at all eventsy it is contended that it is'not
per se evidence, merely-from the fafct that" it: is-faund in a votune of city plots, which contained the general plot alheady
in evidence, and which had been specially authenticated b'yhe
surveyor. We ar6 of opinion that-this last objection:-well.
founded.- The book itself had not- been 'authenticated as a'
book of public plots regularly made; but a single plot ornJ
in the volume hed been awutenticated. The whole volume
therefore was not in. evidence; and if the 'defehdant meant
to use any other plot, it was.his'duty'to establish it: as evidence, by.conipetent proofs of its particular"authienticity.
The other- objecti6n assigned foi rejectiofi of' it admits
,of more. doubt. It is. said that -the effect of thisevidence.
'would be td establish thatiJqhn B. Chirac (the intestate,) hhd
no title to a ceriain portion of the land, recovered .in the"
ejebtimen" Unless.the defendant Was.absolutejy'concluded by
the judgment in that'suit, he was certainly atjiberty to diqpute
any'part of that title.' -And, if it 'were materiai for the plain-

SUPREME COURT.
[hic

am othbrsvs. Reinecker.]

tiffs.to pr6ve- the a&tual location of the lot .802, and Walnut
street, in Howard's late addition. in 1782, no .reason. occurs
to us, why the .defendant was not .at liberty to disprove the
fact, by showing that Walnut street was in H6oward's former
addition, in 1766.. It-is merely-evidence to rebut other parol
evidence of the plaintiffs, as to the'ocation,
The6,plaintiffs then further.reid in evidence-the depositions of;certain witnesses-iin Francev taken under a commission.to establish their pedigree. The testimony was to this
effect.: 'that J..B.-Chirac, the father of the ,iitestate, had
three wives ;. that-by, his second wife he had two stns; the
intestate, and one Gabriel B. R. Chirac; that the intestate
dled-in 1799; that his brother Gabriel-left France, and went
to the island's..- One of the witnesses said he died -in the
islands., Another witness stated, hat before 1797, she resided in St Domingo, and lived on a plantation near that of
J.B. Chirac (the intestate); that she heard in St Domingo,
that his brother came:to thointestate's residence there; and
it was publicly reported in ihe i .ighbourhood, that the said
brother'had 'died; thatshe hdara this at the house of afriend
where the intesiate visited, and heard itvery often, and that
it was kenerally btated as a fact; that she never saw the
broiher, and never heard that he wag married, and never
heard -of him as" being - alive sinice the report of his death;
.that she 'is. no relation of the family, and. never- was at the
intestate's house while he was at St Domingo; and. did ,not
know or believe that there were any ladies living therewhen
thebrother died.
The plaintiffs then offered to -prove that the original commission'for taking the testimony issued in the said ejectment
cause, with the depositions taken under-the.same, were lost;
and then offered to read to -the, jury the bill of exceptions,
"contained in the record aforesaid, in order to
show the pedigree of the plaintiffs' family. But the court refused- to allow the same to be read'in evidence-to the .jury This refusal.constitutes the second.exception of the plaintiffs. The
bill of'exceptioiis so rejected was taken by the plaintiffs, and
did not refer to any depositions; but it stated that the plaintiffs.gave in-*evidence to the jury, that the intestate was a
-

JANUARY. TEIOM "1829
tChirac ad others vs. Reinecrer..

a native of France ;: that the ldssors of the. Plaifitiffs -(,nining

them). were the brothers and sisters,.and grand niece, &e.'of
the intestate, &e..; "and thnt.neithe -thefather ior 'mother,
nor any .brbther or.sister of the Whboe blood.:of..the aid'intestate,, nor their issue".or- descendants, were living- at. the.
time of his death. ' Upon'consideration w6 are of opinion that unde- thecire~umstaneds,'ofrthiscase,.the -evidence was admissi~le -forthe
puriose -ofestablishing the pedigree of the plaintiffs' family;
the-"onlyjview in which it was preente& to the
aid this: -is
court, .,
It.is Wellknown'that iri.ases of pedigree, the.rules
of law have ben relax : in.kispect,to evidence', to an exte.it
far beyondwlhai -has'be-en applied to other -cases. .This.relaxation is fouinded upon principles*-gf public convenioanee
and. necessity, 'Ina cas'e-betweeh the parties. to the suit, in'
which. this bill .of.ex.cptions-was.'taken, ihe-videnale.wofild
hive been 'onclusive,
Although Reineckerwas not the
defendanin at, suit, ydt he-was the real f ndlordarid party
ininteresti and "conducted .the iuit; and the evidence of the
fabts sot proved as to pedigree,.ougit under. such.irufcuigtance6, we think, to be adnitted as prima "facie evidenae
against-hin:. He had'the means. of'c6ntesting those facts,
and if.he did not avail'himself of th6semeans, it may'fdiily
be presumed.1hat fie yiblded tothe sufticieheiy or the proofs.
This was.the whole: evidence in.the cause; and'it being
closed-on both. sides,'tie plaintiffs.offered.thd- same record
of th rceovery inthe ejectment cause,, gs .conclusive evidence of their right dnd. title to the .premises, against J. C.
]'. :Chihe, (the defendaht therein) and'against the defendant
Reinecker holding under that'titlei which the court refti4ed
to admit. This refusal. constitutes the third exception of the
plaintiffs.' Thd:plaintiffs theh o prayed the court to. instrjuct
the jury thai if they believe the evidence, the plaintiffs have
shoW'n"a sufficient title to the premises in the declaratiQ nito
'entitle them in law to maintain ,thbir action "againsi the defendant,, which the court 'refused- to. give. . And-this, refusal
constitutes the fourth exception ofthe plaintiffs. -There.was
al'fifth :exception, but:it is unfiecessary.to refer to it, because
it is a mere:repettion(appareitly by mistake).of thq: feurt-.

. SUPREME COURT.
[Chirac and others vs.' Relnecker.]

Before proceeding- to consider these eiceptions, it may he
proper to say: a few words explanatory, bf -that pbtrt-'of -the
for-ber' decision of..this Court as itj'stands ,reported in 11
"WhFeaton's Reports, 9.$., et seq. Th& -record, of -the eject-ment suit had been iejeeted by tle court below as any evi-'
denee against'Reinecker-, although 'it -was offered, in con-nection 'ith .other evidence, to 'establislr -that Reinecker,
although not-a party. on..the record, was the 'real landlord"
and had receiVed-the rents'and profits,. and had notice of the
suit. and had empl6yedcounsel to-.dfend, it, and resisted the
recovery, 'i-tie opinion of the-Court upon-thisppint, it was
stated that, in- general; a -recovery in ejectment, like. other
judgments, binds'only parties and' privies.- It is conclusive'
evidence in an action for.mepne, profits against the tenant in
ipassession,or other 'defetdant on-record. But in relationto
thir7d persoms the 'judgment is -not conelusive; and if they ate
'sued in-an action for mesne profits, ihey may controvert the
'plaintiff's title at large. In such, a suit (that-is'tO say, against
thirdpeIsons) the record of theejeciment is not evidence to
establish the plaintiff's titlM, but is admissible to show the pos188onio of the plaintiff. Thisproposition has beensupposed
at 'the bar-to indicate an opinibn that. in the case then before 'he Court, with reference to all' the circumstances of
notice and rating of the rents, & . bY Reinecker-the recoid
was only evidenee of-the possession arid-not of the title of
the plaintiffs, 'Sjuch was not 'the understanding of the Court,
The proposition was assertid as to third persons generally,
who were strangers to the suit. -Evert as to 'such persons,
it vas asserted that-.the record was admissible t9 show the
possesion of the plaintiff. Thr"particular 'circumstances
df Reineeker's case, as cbnnecting him wi'th the parties, wbre
xnbt, in that part of the opinion, in the view of the Court. -In
the subsequent commentary of thi Cotqrt on the case. qf
HEntef vs.,Britts, 3 Campbell's Rep. 455,, a doubt was intimated, -whether'a mere notice, ina pais, to the landlord, who
Was not a party to the record, Was conclusive upon 'him; but
not the slightest doubt was intimated that it was prima facie
eiidence of title, as'well as of possession, against him, under
such citcumstances- The .point -wheher.the record in the

JANUARY.TERM 1829.

62.

[Chirae andi'others vs. Reinecker.j

ejeetfhent suit was not %primafacie evidence'of, title in-the
plintiffs, as against a person stafidifig in the predicament of
Reiiecdker, was not-decided at that tirr-,, and was-not necessary to.the decision.
- Jpon consideration of-the cuestion presented by..the third.
exception. above mentioned, we retain the opinion, that the
record in-'the 'ejectmefit suit was,'fiot conclusive'evidene
upon persons not'-partie§ to the record; but we are als6 of
opiniori that it was prim&facie7eviden-ee of the plaintiffs'.
tite and -possession against Reinecker, under the circumstances. adduced in evidence.. He had full notice Of the.suit,
and had thefullest means todefend it.- The parties-upon Ahe:
rec.ord wete his agents or tenants, and he, in effect,.though
-not in form,, took upon'hifmself the defence of the suit., The
case is. stronger than that of Hunter v8. Britts- and fairlywithin the teach .of the principle decided, by it. There was.
then, no error in the court.in refising to give this instruction.
can be susiained only upon.. ttie
The fourth exception -g.oiind that'there was no-fact in tIhe cause'upon .which there
was any-doubtful or. contradictory evidence. If there was
any. such evidence, it. would -have'been improper for the
court to.withdra.4- the, question of -its .'credibility from- the
jury. And if the-evidence was,morely of.a presumlitive na-.
tirie, it Was not for the courfAoecide as a-point 9f.law how
was properly their
much it ought to-weigh with the jury- Ii,
province,to-drawthe conclusions of fact htising fronm sueh'
presumptions., -They might h&aVe believed' the evidence,
but at the same time not have been satisfied'that it justified
them in inferring from it other facts not posit.iv'ely proved.'
The real difficulty in-the case arises from the peculiar:
-structure ofthe prayer of the plaintiffs, and the.introduction
of parol evidence at the -trial by them,-to" foriiy Wiat. had
been already declared by the-'court.to be prim' facie evi---dence, record evidence-of title."
If the court ,ha~d been asked to instruct the jury'that the
evidence, of the plaintiffs, if-believed -bythe jury, was com-

petent in point of law, -rromwhich, they might infer all -the
necessary facts tp mainiain the action, unlessit was rebutted
on--the part of the defendant, it would, have been uno.jec-

-

SUPREME COURT.
(Chjirc and others vs. Reinecker.j

It would gave left the matters 6f fact for the just
ciideration of the jury, upon the prima facie evidence of the
plaintiffs., But thb difficulty is, that a matter of fact, of vital
consequece to the plaintiffs was, whether..Gabriel.B. A. Chirac, the brother of the whole blood of the. iiitestate, was
dead without leaving lawful issue, upon the .death of the -intesiate. . The plaintiffs very .1innecessarily introduced. parol
evidence on this subject, after the court had-ruled that there
the ejectment was-prima facie evidence of their title. The
.pakc4 .eyiden6Q did not. parfic'ularly establish the death of
Gabriel. (for.the bill of exceptios -had been rejected as evideuce), although it was exceedingly, st dng, :as pr..sumptive
-proof; add .as ,sucbt was the'province of the.jury to pass
upon it. The court was right therefore in refusiing the prayer
of the plaintiffs, .because.it trenched upoi the proper province of the: jury, by requirifig the court to assume a fact,
.which was'npt absolutely Provpd, but was matter of inference'
andl presumption up6n the whQle'testimony.
-urt
to instruct
The defendant afterward prayed the
the. jury .as*follows: "1.. That if from the i6idence the jury.
,believed that J.B..Chirac,' who died seised of the premises
inthe declaration mentioned,. had any brother or broth'&,
sister or sisters of the. whole blood or their descendants,
wh.o survived the said J.-B.Chirac the- younger, then the
plaintiffs, are not entitled .to recover. 2. That if the jury
believe .that the said John B.. Chirae the elder, had by his
second wife anothei son besides the said',on J. B. Chirac
the, intestate, then it is incumbent upon, the plaintiffs to
show, befoi e they can entitle themselves to xecover, that such
sondied before, thesaid. intestatq, without lawful issue. 3."
That. if the jury believed that .the shid. John B. Chirac the
ele'r had by his' first wife a daughtpr,.whb marxied a certain'
Samuel- Bonfils, by whom she 'had-a son named. Sohn Baptist Bo6fils, who marriea Ann Coton, who had a daughter
.named Maria. Bonfils, who married Desortes, one of the
plaintiffs; it is incumbent upon't he plaintiffs before they can
-entitle themselves to recover, to show ie death of-thegreat
grandfather,; grandmother and father, before the, impetration f the *rig .al writ in this cause; and that the plaintiffs

tioflable.

have offered no evidence of these facts. The court gave the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Chirac and. others vs. Reinecker.]

instructions, so prayed for, and the plainitiffs filed their ex-ception thereto,
The first instruction is open. to two objections. It asks
'the court to iristruct the jury, that if froffi the evidence they
believed, (among other things). that*the intestate had any
-sister,or sisters of the whole blood or .their descendants,
who sur;ived-lim, &c. the plaintiffs -Were not entitled~to
recover. -Now there was not the slightest evidence from
which the jury had a right to believe the existence of any
such sister or si4ters; and without .shch evidence the court
ought not to have givon the instruction, -sin.e it was'calculated to mislead them, and to raise-a me.re spedulative qu'estion.
But a still, mor:- decisive, reason against it -is, that by.the
law of-descent of Maryland, a person claiming as heir, must
prove-himself heir of the person last actually seised of the
estate ; and if the intestate had left a brother of the whole
blood, who survived hirn and died without issue, and without ever having been' actually seised of the estate, the
Ilaintiffs would still have been entitled to recover, as heirs
of-the halfblqod*of the person last seised.
The seconl instrqction was -rightly given. It -vas not
.sufficient for. the plaintiffs to .how that. Gabriel was dead;
but 'that he died. without lawful issue; for btherwise such
issue were entitled to recover. The 'onus.. probandi was
upon them, to establish every fact necessary to their .own
heirship;. and it cannot admit of doubt that this was necessary. The same'rule is laid down in 3 "Starkieon Evidence,
1099, and is supported by the case-of Richards vs 'Richards,
there cited from Mr Ford's MSS. and also by Doe vs. Griffin, 15 East's Rep. 293.
The third. instruction assumes-to decide a question of fat,upon -vhich we think there -was evidence before the jury.
The record of the-recovery in 'the ejectment suit was prima
facie evidence of the plaintiffs' title; and the depositiohs in
the cause,. and the structure of the interrogatfies and answers, presupposed the death of the great grandfather,
grandmoth er and -father of the intestate. There was error
then in the court -in giving this instruction.
VOL. IL-4 D

626

:SUPREME- COURT.
[Chirac and oihers'vs. Reinecker.]

Upon the whole the judgment must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to award a venire facias
de novo.

This cause came 'on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the Uhifed States, for thd
district of Maryland, and was argued By cobnsel.;, on-consideration whereof, this Cburt is of opinion, that the said
cirduit court erred in~admittinig the plot offered inevidence
by the defendanft"'sc4unsel' asstatedin, the' plaintiffs' first
bill of exceptions. And also erred, in refusing to admit as
evidence the bill of exceptions stated .inthe plaintiffs'second bill of exceptions. And the saidcircuit court also
erred, in grantin'g the instructions firsily and thirdly Prayed
for by the defendants, as stated in the. plaintiffs' sixth bill
of exceptions. Wherieupon, it is considered, ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that, for the errors aforesaid, the
judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and- th'e
same is,. hereby reversed, and annulled; and that the. said
cause be, and the same is, hereby.remanded to the said
circuit, court, with -directions 'to award a venire faci.as de
novo.

