SUPREME COQURT.

SUNDRY. GooDs, WAREs AND MEtCHANDISeS, THE AMERICA,
COMPANY, CLA MAN1TS, PLAINT?FS IN EmoR -vs. THE UNrEis
STATES, DEFENDANTS I

RREOR.

Whatever an-agent dois or says in reference to the.business inwhich he is at
.the mti°m~employed, and within the scope of his- authority, is done or sad by
the principal', and may be proed, as well in a criminal as a civil cdse, in likd
manner as if the evidence applied personally tothe principal. [364]
Where tw&dr more personsare associated together for the same.illegal purpose,
any act or, declaration of one-of the parties.in referenee to ie conpon object,
and forming a part of the resgesta, may be given in evidence against the.
otheK.'. t365]
'The act' of 30th of Maroi'1802;-having d~scribed what should be considered as
the Indian country at that time, as well as at any future time Vh'en puichases
of territory should be -made,of the Indians; the -carrying of spirituous liquors
*into a territory'so purchased after March.1802, although the same sbould be at
the time frequented and inhabited exclusively by Indians, would not'be an
o!jece within the. meaning of the before mentioned ac'is of'congress, so as to.
sulject thegoods-of the traderfound in coifipany with those li;tiors, to seizure
and forfeiture. - ,[368]

--WRIT of error from the district court of the United
States.for the district of.Ohio.
In the district court of Ohio, 'the district attorney filed, ?n
behalf of the United Stafes, a libel or ihformation, stating
that ointhe twenty-thirddayof. Septdmber, in the year of
6ur lord one thousand eight hundred- and.t%;enty-foui, at
antd within the district of Indian.a: aforesaid,.one William H.
Watace,'a citizen of thd United States, and having alicense
and legal authority to trade with Indian tribes within -the
territoiy of the"United State§, did take and carry into the'

Indian country, to wit,.the country lying, on the north or
west side'of the-ryer Tippecanoe; for the purpose of trading
vith. the'tribes of 'Indians,- sundry go'odsi wares, and merchandises, " enumerating the -same; that the. said Wallace
did, among the goods, wares and merchandises, carry into
the said Indian country a large quantity pf ardent spirits, to
wit, seven liegs of A'hiskey, and one *keg of shrub, for the
purpose of vending or distributing the same among the Indian tribe.s, contrary to the stature in such cases made ild

JANUARY T'ERMi.

1829"

[American Fr C6npiny 's: The United Staes.1

provided, and against the"peace and dignity of the saidUnited States.
The libel further alleged that John Tipton, Indian agent,
at fort Wayne within' said 'district, duly appointed to,.-iid
qualified for that'office;, and b'eing..duly authorised and instructed t6 search the stores and packages of traders among
Indian tribes, upon suspicion that' aydnlbt spirils had been
by'the said Wallace carried into tlisaid Indian country,
-foi the purpose of. leing vefided -6r distribiited:among th
Indian tri'bes therein, caused the said goods, wares an4'mer--l
cliandi'es to be searched; and-upon such search, the sevmn.
kegs of' whiskey, .and the keg -of s.liub, were found so
carridd' by the said- Wallace into thd said Indian, country,
.for the purpose 'of being sold or-distributed among the Indian tribes therein, contrary to the statutes aforesaid ii such
case-xmade'and providdd;-and against th .peace 'ind dignity
qf.the said United States,; the said goods, waresr: and merchanaises were, on the day and year af6resaia,' seizied by thd
sai'd"John Tipton, and now by him'held to be disposed of as
the court.directs.
Thejibel tlien. "proceeds tb pray that *the goos, &c. soseized may-be deemed'to be forfeited and be disposed. of
according to law.A 1aim 'and-answer were filed byWilliam H. Wallace,
nattorney-in fact and ngent for the plaintiffs in eitor, in:which
the allegatiois of the libel were denied ;" and tendered 'an
issue, upon which ihe eause was tried by'a jury, who found
. verdict for. the United Stat6s,- On the trial three hlls of
exce tionf were. taken by the clainiants' counsel to the opi-'

nion of the"court:
' The -first 6xception stated, as ground of error, that on the
trial of 'thi's cause, the' district attorney offered 'to give Jnevidence to the jury; the transactions and declarations of
one John JDavisa with. a view 'to prove the. purpose of -the
d6fendant; to whicfi th'edefendant by.his counsel-objected,.
and the court permitted the district attorney to give in evidehce'to the jury,'.the 'onduct and declartions of Davis, so
faf'as, he acted' a the-agent of thesaid defendant, or in con-

SUPREME COURT.
[American Fur Company vs. The United States.]

-

-

junction with him, in relation to the clarge made against
the defendant in the information.
The second exception stated,--that, on' the trial of this
cause, thedistriQt attorney. moved the court to instruct the
jury,' that if they should believe from the evidence that had
b'e iy adduced, that the defendailt, as an Indian trader, did
carry ardent spirits into the Indian' country, and that the
same werefound therein among. any part-of his goods, that
it is prima facie' evidence of his having violated the. acts of
congressjon which this prbsecution is founded, so. as to
throw -the'burden 'of Proof, upon the defeidait; which instruction, the- court did give the jury; also instructing them
that an Indian trader might-lawfully carry ardent spirits into
an.Indian country for some purposes; as for .instance, for
medical use.
The third exception. was, -that at the trial of this. cause,
the.defendant, by his counsel, prayed the opinion and direction of the court to the jury, that'unless they are of opinion
from the evidence of the cause, that'the ardent spirits mentioned in the libel of information, were mingled-with the
bales of merchandise at the time of seizure, and.'carried into
the India6 territory in violation of the act of 1820i entitled
*"an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian
tribes,- and to preserve peace- on- the: frontiers," and- whilst
said spiris and goods were remaining in the Indian territory, weie seized upon. by the officers of government, their
verdict must be for the defendant: whjibh opinion and instruction the court refused to give tO the jury- but did -inktruct.'the jury that if they should be of opinion, from the
evidence, that the defendant, as an Indian. trader, did carry
ardent.spirits into the-.Indian country, which were found
with a part of his goods therein, with the purpose of being
vended 'ordistributed -amongst the Indian tribes, that all the
goods of said trader designed for sale under his-hcense to
trade with Indian tribes, and seized in the Indian country,
whether all or only a part of them were found with the
spirits, are forfeited; and that the seizure- thereof in a territory purchased by the United States of the Indians, but
frequented- and iftbabited, exclusively by Indian tribes, is

JANUARY TERM 1829.

31

FAmerlean Fmr Company vs. The United States.]

legal; to which refusal of the court to instruct as requested,
and to. the instruction given, the defendant by his counsel
excepied, .&c.
I The case.was argued for the plaintiffs in error by Mr Ogden;
and by 'Mr Wirt, attorney general, for the United States.
Mr Ogden, for the .plaintiffs, stated, that as tothe first ez-.
ception,, no othir remark would be made upon it,.but that if.
the declarations-of Davis were made at the time of the seizure,.
the. evidence was -legal; but if at any other time; the testimony -was-irregular.
On.the seeniaexception. he argued, that the stattite of the
United States being highly penal in its i~rovisions, shoiud be
construed .with great strictness. It was incumbent on.he
government to show, not only that'the spirits were carried
into the Ifidian country, but that the same was *donewith an
inteit to sell them. 'The jury were-to judge of the intention.;
but this vias taken from them,'by the instructions given.by.
the court.
*The .power to search must. only be exercised*within the
Indian territory. The goods .Whichmay be seized must be
in the territory; but the instruction given to the-jury is in
its terms so general, as to authorise a seizure of goods bdlodging, to Indian traders in any part of the Unfted States,.
He argued that tiis w as not the. sound interpretfttion of the
law.. In support' of'the third exception,.he said that the
act of congress applied onlyto-tho~e territories, in which theIndian title had not been extinguished. Those were exelisively the indian country. 'Indian country," ex vi termini,
means the country belonging to the Indians;and it was not
shown that the place of seizure was of this description.
The provisions of the law relative Jo licenses to trade with
the Iridians, sustain and illustrate this cbn'struction.,
Mr Wirt, attorney general, considered the instructions
given by the court, right in: elery particular. A-reference
to the act of congress would show, that it was- the -Indian
courJ,and. not. the- Indian territories,from which it was
intended"to exclude the.sale of spirituous liquors- --Their
VOL. II.-2 V

SUPREME -COURT.

"621

[Amqflan Fur Company vs. The Urnited Bttes.]

sale among the ignorant natives of the forest, led'to war and
bloodshed; and the evils .were -the same, on whichever side
of the Indianline they'were sold.
Such too is plainly the purpose, from the 4aTngliage of the
act of-1802. The descriptive words are indian "Iountr,'
and not "territory."
The act- looks -to all places where
'goods may'be carried with the'intent io vend them to'the
Indians, and the penalty is restricted to suclfoffences. _t
also tAkes away the license to the trader.
Iii. reference to the third. instructionhe said, that the tase
stated that the -ardent spirits were mingled. with the mer*chandise, which is n6t the' language of the lawl the residue
of the.ins'tructfori .is'in accordance with the Jaw. That language ir " all the goods desiged..for sale under his license
tW trade with the Indians,' and , vhich are 'seized in- the
inidian country," It cannot be a question, whether a country,
although ceded'td the United States, while inhabited by In-.
d-as -continues an Indian country, wjkhin the view of the
law. The license granted to trade is "with the Indians,"
and not in the Indian country.

Mr 'Justice
Court.

-WASHINGTON

delivered' the opinion of, the

This was an information filed' in' the district court-of Indiana, by the United'States, against sundry goods-and merchandise,. seized as forfeited under the provisions. of two
acts-of cotgress, bearing date the 30th 6f Marci. 1802, ch.
273, and the 6th -ofMay '1822, ch. 58, for regulating. trade
and iitexcourse with the Indian tribes.
'The information sets forth, in substance, that oi the 24th
'f September -1824, William H. Wallace, a citizen of the
United States, and having a license to trade, with Indian,
tribes within the-tdrritory of the United States, did~take and
qarry into the Indian country lying on the north or west
i6l of the -Tippecanoe river, for the purpose of trading with
We tribes of Indians, certain goods, which are particularly
described, amongst which.were seven kegs of whiskey and one
lieg-of shrub, for the. purpose of vending or. distributing the
sane among:the Indian tribes ;. contary tothe statute, &e.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
-[American Fur Company vs.•The United States.]

"That upon sdspicion that ardent spirits had been carried by
the said Wallace into the said Indian country, for the purpose aforesaid, the said goods, &c. were searched by order
of an ..fidian agent, "duiyapp ointed to, and qualified for that
office ;,-upon which search the said kegs of whiskey'and
shrubwere found so carried, for The purpose aforesaid-. and
were, together with the said goods, &o. seized by-the' said
Indian agent. The information concludes with a prayer,
that the goods sb seized may be declared to be forfeited;
and .to be disposed of according to law.
To this information, Wallace, as attorney in fact for the
American Fur Company, interposed a claim. and answer,.
.which, after protesting against the sufficiency of the infor-..
mation, denies, by way of plea, that he did, among the"
goods, &c. in the -information mentioned; carry into the
Indian country, lying on the north. or west of the Tippecanoe river, seven kegs of whiskey and one of shrub, for
"the purpose of trading;. or distributing the same, among'the
Indian tribes, as in, the information mentioned.
The issue was tried by a. jury, who, found' a verdict in
favour of the United States.
Upon the trial.of the cause, three bills of ekceptions, to
'the following effect, were taken.
The first is to the opinion of the-court,.which permitted
the district attorney to give in. evidence the conduct and,
declarations of John Davis, so faras he acted as the agent
ofWallace, or in c6njunction with him, in relation to the
charge laid -in the information, with a view to prove the purpose of the said Wallace.
The second bill states that, upon the motion..f the district' attorney, the court- instructed the jury, that if they
should believe, from, the evidence, that Wallace, as an Indian trader, did carry-ardent spirits into the Indian country,
and that, the same were found therein, among any part of
his goods, it is prima facie.evidence of his having violated
the. acts of congress, on-which'this prosecution, is founded,
so. as to throw the burden of proof upon the deendant.
The. defendant then -moved the court to instruct the jury,
that,- unless. they should be of opinion, upon the evidence,

SUPREME COURT,
[American Fur Company v#. The "UnitedStates.]

that the ardent spirits mentibned in the information were
mingled with the bales of merchahdize at the time of seizure,
and carried into.the Indian 'territory, in violation of the act
of 1802, and, whilst the said.spirits and goods were remainin .inthe Indian territory, were seized by-the officers of
government, their -verdict should be for the defendant.
This instruction the court refused to give; and directed the
jury, that if they sho Id be of opinion, f'rom the evidence,
that the defendant, as an Indian trader, did carry ardent
spirits into the .Indian'country, which were found with a
part of his goods therein, with, the purpose of being vended
or-distributed amongst Indian tribes; all, the goods of theiaid trader,-designed for sale under his license, and seized
iLn
the, Indian couptry, whether -all or only a part of them
were .found'with 'the spirits, .are forfeited; and that- the
s6izure thereof in a territory purchased by the United States
of the Indians, but frequented andihhabited exclusively by
Indian tribes, is legal. This refusal, and instruction, form
the subjects of thq third bill of exceptions.
The objection to the evidence of Davis is so fully answered and repelled by this Court in the case of the United
States .va. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 468, that it seems. necessary
only to refer. to that decision. That was a criininal prosecution against the owner of a vessel,, under the slave trade
act of congress; and an objection was taken by his counsel
to. evidence of the acts and declarations of the master of the
vessel, who was proved to have been. appointed to that.office
by the defendadt, with an authority to make the fitments for
the vessel.
The principle asserted in the decision of-that point, and
applied to the case Was, that whatever an agent does, or
says, in reference to the business. in- which he is at the time
efmployed, and within the scope of his authority; is done or
said by the, principal ; and may -be. proved, as- well in a -criminal as a civil case; in.like manner as if the evidenci applied personally to the.pripcipal.
The opinion of the court in the present case is not.less
correct, whether Davis was: considered by the jury as having
acted in. cMoruncti6a,with. Wallace, 6r strictly gi his. agent.

JANUARY TERM -1829.
EArnerlcan Fur Company vs. The United States.]

For we hold the law to be, that where tv'o or more persons
are associated together for the same illegal purpose, any act
or declaration of one of the parties, in referehce to the common objectand forming apart of the res.gesta, may be given
in evidence against the others; and this we understand, upon
a fair interpretation of the opinion before us, to be the principle which was communicated to the jury.
The instruction to-which the second exception was taken,
having been-passed over without.objection'by the 'counselfor
the plaintiff in error, it becomes unnecessary for the Court to
notice it otherwise than t"say that-itmeets our entire approbation.
In order clearly -to comprehend the subjects embraced by
the third. bill of exceptions, it wkIl. be -proper to examine
with attention a few of the sections of the acts on which this
prosecition is founded.
-The first clommences-in the 1st section, by declaring that
a certain boundary line, .therein.described in general terms,
as established'by treaty between the United States and various Indian tribes, shall be clearly ascertained, and distinctly marked in such places as the President of the United
States should deem necessary, and in the manner'he should
'direct; with a provisothat if the boundary line between the
said Indian tribes and*the United States should at any.time
thereafter-be varied, by any treaty which should he made
between the -said Indian-tribes and the United Statesthen
all- the provisions contained in that act should be construed
to apply'to' the said line, so to: be varied in the same mahner as the said p'rovisions apply, by force of that act, to the
boundaty: line therein before recited.
The act then, p.irceeds to prohibit citizens of, or residents
within the United States, from crossing over the-said boun.dary.line' to 'hunt, &c. and inflicts punishments of various
degrees upon persons who should be. convicted of certain.
other acts of aggression. within the.I.ndian country. - -By the
1.6th section, it is made lawful for the miilitar force of -the
United States to apprehend every person who may be found
'in the Indian country, over and beyond the said boundary
lin~ betweerr.the United-States and the Indian tribes, in vio-

366

SUPREME COURT.
[4merican Fur Company vs. The United States.]

lation of any df the provisions of this act; and to convey
them to the civil authority. of the United States, in some one
of the three adjoining states or diitrictsto be proceeded
against in due course of. law. We then come to the 21st
section of this act, to which the act of the 6th of May 1822
is-an amendment ; which authorises the President .of the
United States to take such measures, from time to time, as'
to. him might appear expedient, to, prevent or restrain the
venciig or distributing*.of spirituous liquors among all or any
of the Indian tribes'
"The 2d section of the latter act; in execution of the power
vested in the President'of the United. States by the preceding
21st section, authorises him .to direct Indian'agents, go vernors of-territories, acting as superintendants of Ihdiandffairs,
end-military officers; to cause the stores and packages of
.goods of all traders to be searched, upon suspicion or information that ardent spirits are -carried into the Indian countries- by the said traders,.in violation of the aforesaid 21st
section; and declares, that if any ardent spirits should be-so
found, all the goods of the particular-trader should be-forfeited, one half to the use of the informer, the other to..the
use of the government; and that his -license should be cancelled, and his bond put in suit.
'The difference 6etween the- instruction asked for by ihe
defendant's counsel, which the court refused to-give, and that
which -was giver in the first part of this exception, consists
in, this ; that the former would seem to -insist,(for this branch
of the exception is very ambiguously expressedand is on
that ground -objectionable), that to produce a. forfeiture cf
the trader's goods, the ard.ent spirits must be -founa mingled .
.with the bales of goods at the time of-seizure in the Indian.
country; and that no part of the goods -but that-with which
the -spirits were found so ningled, Were liable to seizure.
It
is very apparent from The manner in which the instruction
which
Was given is expressed, that that hsked for by the
defendant's counsel was understood by the court- bedo afehave interpreftd it.
But the instruction which was given asserts the law to be,
that if the ardent spirits were found with a part -onlyof the

JANUARY TERM. 1829.

367

[American Fur Company vs. The United States.-

goods carried into the Indian country, for the illegal purpose
stated in the informati6n; all-the goods of such trader designed for sale under his license, and, seized in the Indian
country, were liable io forfeiture.
This construction of the acts of congress which have been
referred-to, is, in the judgment of this Court, well warrafited
by the words. of those acts; as well as by the obvious policy
which dictated them.- The .expiessions " all thb goods of
the said traders" in the 2d section of, the last: act,.althoug"
general enough, if they stood alone, unexplained by thd
context, to*erfibrace all the goods belonging to the trader

-

wherever the) might be found; are clearly restrained b'the
provision which immediately precedes them, so as to mean
those goods only which might be found in ompany; though
not in contact with the interdicted article.
The notion that those" goods alone are liable to seizure
-and forfeiture, amongst which the ardefnt spirits are found
iningled, can receive.no countenance from any fair construction of this section. That which is contended f6r would
enable the trader, by the most simple cohtrivance, to pritect
the whole of his other goods from forfeiture. To effect this,
he would only have- to keep the -spirits separate frdm his
other goods during'their transportation- to, and after their
arrival in the Indian country, so.as not to iontaminafe'those
goods by placing them in immediate contact with -the offending article. A con'struction which would sanction so glaring
an evasion of the whole policy of the lawv, ought in no case
to be adopted, unless the -natural meaning of the words of
the act require it. Even penal "laws,which, it is said, should
be strictly construed, ought not tp be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature.. This was
laid down as a rule by this Court, in the case of the United
States vs. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 56.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the instruction asked
for. by the defeudant's counsel was properly refused, qd"thatthat which was given,.so far as it has been examined, is un-,
exceptionable.
The latter part of this instruction remains now
to be considered. After stating to the jury, that if they should be of

SUPREME COULRT.
[American Fur Company vs. The United States.]

opinion, that the defendant, as an Indian trader, did carry
ardent spirits' into the Indian country, which were found
with a part of his goods therein, with the purpose of beingvended or distributed amongst Indiah tribes; all-.the goods of
the said trader designed for sale under his license, and seized in the Indian country, were forfeited; the instruction
proceeds as follows; "and that the seizuie thereof,.in a territory.purchased by the United States of the Indians, but
frequented and inhabited exclusively by Indian tribes, is legal."
We have found no little' difficulty in. understanding the
real meaning of the'court, from the language, in which this
latter proposition is expressed ; whether it was intended to
state, that after the goods with the ardent spirits had been
carried into the Indian- country With the unlawful purpose,
they might be seized in a country purchased of the Indians
by the United States, under the circumstances referred to;
or that being carried into this latter district of country,' and
there seized, such seizure, wo'uid be legal.
We rather incline to the opinion that the latter. interpretation was the one iniendea by the court, and that that pqrt
of the sentence was merely added as explanatory of the terms
Indiancountry, which had previously been used. For if it
was merely meant to affirmy that, after the forfeiture had attached in the Indian country,'the goods might be seized any
where out of that-country; no reason is perceived why the
place of seizure should be confined to a territory purhased
by the United States of the Indians, and inhabited exclusively by them,-rather -than to a territory not so purchased and
inhabited. Besides, the proposition asserted in the preceding part of the instruction, being, that ardent spirits cirried
int6 the Indian country, with the unlawful pu.rpose, and
*found with a part bf the trader's goods, -and seized in the Indian country, subjected all his goods' found with spirits to
forfeitijre; it would seem something like a contradiction, to
lay it dpwn as a distinct proposition, that the seizure spoken
of might be made out of the Indian territory. As explanatory of the expressions before noticed, it was entirely appropriate.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Anieican -F Company ts. The 'United States.

If we hovw rightly interpreted this 'part oftheinnsdtuctin,
we feel no hesitation -in saying, that.we cannot accede to
the correctness of -the instruction thus qualified ;'since it
would subject to seizure.and forfeiture,*all the goods of the
trader Earried 'into, a country, not 'only belonging to.the
United- States, -but ]ing without ,the bcundaries of the Indidn country,' as t-hey are described by the 1st sectioul of the
act.of 1802 ; -towhicr all 'the provisions contained in that
act, and,' consequently. those contained in -the emendatoryact of 1822,. are by that s:ection xpxessly confined. If the
coflhtiy referred-to in this instruction was plirchased of the
iad!ans subsequept to the 30th of MarOh 1802, so as that the
boundary'line -thereby*b came'varied.; -then-the above section declares 'that Al' the provisi.ns'of that act, shall be construed, to Apply.to the boundary line so to be varied, in the
same -inanner as they apply'-by 'force ofthat act f6 the botindary line therein :recited*
SIf we misunderstand the meaning of this instruction, it -is
so probable that it might hive been misundersto6d by the
jury, that justice demands a- re-,trial of the ci.use.
The judgment of the court below is to be reversed, and
the cause, remanded to' that court, with instruction to award
a venirede novo.

This cause came on to, be heard on a-transcript-of the record from the district court of the United'States for the district of Indiana,. and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is considered, 'ordered, and adjudged by this
Court, that the judgment- of the said- district -court in thiscause be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled, ahd
that the cause be, and. the Same is hereby remanded to'the
said district court, with directions to award. a venire fhcias
de"novo.

V'. 41

