JANUARY TERM 1829.

L S EE ov WnmiAx

A.

POWELL, AND OTHERS

vS. JoHN

HA.MA.

Un'der the statute of limitatiofis of Tennessee, ofoseventeen hundred aid ninetyseven, a possession of seven. years is a protection only 3kben held under a
grant, or under valid mesme conveyances, or a paper title, which are legally or
equitably connected with a grant; *anda void deed is not such-'a conveyance
as that a possession under it will be protected by the statute of limitations.

THIS case came before the'Court from the circuit court
of western Tennessee, on acertificate'obf division from the
judges of that court.

'In the court below, the lessor"of thelplaintiff showed a
regular title to the lands in question, under a grant from
the state of North Carolina; and proved that the defendant
was in possession of the land indispute
"
The defendant proved; that he had been in peaceable

possession of the land for more than seven years, holding
adversely to the plaintiff, undei a'deed from the sheriff of
Montgomery .county, dated the 14th of April 180, fou nded
uipon a sal for taxes;' but which sale was admitted to e
void, because the requisites of the'lawin regard to "the sale
of lands for taxes, had not been complied with.
Upon the trial'of this dause, it occurred as a questibn,
whether, under the statute of limitations of Tbnnessee of
1791, a possession of seven years is a protection olnly Wh~n
held unde'r a grant or under valid mesne conveyances, or a
paper title, which are legally or equitably connected with a
.grant; or whether a possessio under a void deed * sudh a'
conveyance, a.s
that a possession under it will be protected
by the statute of limitations. The judges being opposed
upon this question, it W'as referred-'to,' this Court for their
opinion..

Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The question n6w. referted to this -Court differs from that
which ,was decided in Patton's" lessee vs. Easton, 1 Wheat.
VOL. IL-2-F.

SUPREME COURT.
[Powell vs. Harman.]

476, in this, that the-defendant who sets up a possession of
seven years in bar of the plaintiff's title, endeavours to conneef himself with a grant.. The sale and conveyance however, by which this connexion is to be for/ned, are admitted
to be vbid. The conveyance" being xiade by a person having no authority to make it, is of no validity, and cannot
connect the purchaser with the original grant. We are therefore of opinion that the law is for the plaintifti and that this
be certified as the opinion of this Court.
This cause cameon to be heard on a certificate of division
of opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the district-of west Tennessee, and on the questions and points on which the said judges of that court were
divided in opinion, and which have been certified to this
Court; and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof,
this Court is of opinion, that under the statute of limitations
of Tennessee, of seventeen hundred and ninety seven, a possession of seven years is a protection only when held under a
grant or under valid rhesne conveyances; or a paper title,
which are legally or equitably connected with a grnt;
and that a void deed is not such a conveyance, as that a possession onder it will be protected-under the statute .oflimitations.; all which is directed and ordered to be certified, to
the said circuit court of the United States, for the seventh
circuit and district of west Tennessee.

