JANUARY TERN 1820.

THE

PRESMENT, DIRcTORS AND CoxpANy OF THE, Bmix -OFTHE

COH361iwEALTH

OF

KENTUCKY, PLAINTIFFS nC ERROR V8. JOHN

ASHLy AND JoHN ELLA, DEFENDANTS.

'The

declaration purported to count upon sixty.eight bills-of the bank of the commonwealth of Kentucky, and it appeared that one of the bills hadbeen omitted
to be. described, so'that the declaration made out a less sum than the writ
claimed or 'the judgment gave." The detendants in error, plaintiffs below,
moved for leav to cure-the defect by entering a remittitur of the amount of
the bill so omitted and damages pro tanto.
This Court thinks itself authorised to make a precedent in furtherance ofjustice,
whereby a more convenient practice may be introduced, and to allow the party
to enter his'remittitur; but onpaymnent of the costs of the writ, if error is prosecuted no further after such amendment made. [329]

ERROR -to the circuit court of Kentucky.
This action was, in all respects similar to that of the pre.sident, directors and company of the bink
of the commonwealth of Kentucky vs.- Wister, Prince and Wister, ante
page 318, with the exception only, that it was founded, on
the notes of the bank piyable to bearer, and.usually deno•minated bank notes. The declaration contained counts in
debt oft simple contract, averring that the plaintiffs in the
case-were the holders of the notes, and that they became
their property by delivery, and that payment had been.demanded and had been refused.
The defendants entered the same plea as in the case re-.
ferred to, which was adjudged against themi and a trial washad and a verdict -of judgment rendered for the plaintiffs
below'for the whole debt, with damages for the detention.
from .the commencement of the'suit.
The-bilrof exeeptions presented the same points to the
Court as in the former case, and the 'nly.question which
was argued before this Court was upon the effect of an omis.sion to describe one of the sixty-eight bank notes ip the de-'
* clarition, the verdict and judgment. having been given for a
sum including the note, as if the same had beenso described.
The counsel for _he defendants in error, Mr Caswell,
stated that a remittitur would be entered for theamount of

SUPREME COURT.
[Batk of Kentucky vs. Ashley & Ella.]

'the note. which had hot been set out in the declaration, if
this Court would peknmit the same. The debet and detinet
-in the' declaration, stated correctly the amount of the plaintiffs' claim, and the verdict and jidgment were in conformity
theiewith.
-:Mr Nicholas, for the, plaintiffs in error, replied that this
Court cannot amend the declaration, and that the plaintiffs
here 'have a right to avail themselves of the:error. 'Amendments may be made in the courts from which the case is
brought, while the record is in the possession of those courti but this writ.of error has brought up the whole record, and
the power to amend in the circuit court no lohgbr exists.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion, of the Court.
This was an action of-debt instituted up6il the bank notbs
of the commonwealth bank,- in'which the defendants haie
.,recovered judgmenit for $6350 with interest.
The bank filed. the same plea to the jurisdicti6n of the
court below,' as was' filed in-the case of Wister,' Pride and
Wister. The decision therefore delivered, in.that case,
renders it unnecessary to remark upon this part 'of the pre-:
sent cause. No other plea having been -filed, judgment
went by default for the sum claimed by the writ. But upon
examining the declaration whichspurports to count severally
upon sixty-eight bills, it appears that one of the sixty-eight
has been omitted. Of consequence, the declaratiqii makes
out a less sum, and one debt less in iumber than the writ
claims or the judgment gives. This is error: but th plaintiffs now move for lpave to care it, by entering a remittitur
of the debt so omitted, and damaages pro tanto. And this
Court has' taken- time to consider the motion.
That the party would- .h;v'e *had a right to remit in the
court'below cannot be questioned: it is every dny's practice
sustained by the gravest precedents. Anil the right extends,
not 'only to the amount of damages, but to several causes of
aption,'distinct 'debts, distinct acres of land, and distinct
Oleas. Cro. Jac. 146; 'Hob. 178; Ratym. 395; 3 D. -k.
659. And- the right is recognised as existing after error

JANUARY TERM- 1829.

329

[Bank of Kentucky vs. Ashley,& Ella.]

brought, and while the cause is .depending in th- court
above,' and the court of error will suspend 'its judgment to
give time for the defendant in error to amend iri
the court
below. 3 . S,-E. 349. 659. 749, &c.
But the difficulty consists 'in this, that the writ of,etror
here d'es not 'bring up the origin al record, but only 'a

transcript, as in'the case of error to the house of lords. In
error to the king's bench,.that coiri will permit a rpmittitur,,.
because it-gets possession df the 'record (&D.. E.
,
but-in.error to -tbe -house.of.lords it is otherwise,' and ihe
entry must be made below for the reasofi as'sigued. 3 D.'.4

B, 59.
After, such amendment made in our circtit courts, the
party.would have-to, avail hims'Jf of it by suggesting diini-

nution, and b.ringing up ihe amended record, by certiorari.
This Court. therefore thinks 'itself -authorised to make -a
preoedent in furtheran'ce of justice, whereby a more convenient 'practice shall be introduced. And to allow the party
to-enter'his remittitur fiere; but on payment -of the costs,, if'
the 'writ of error is prosercuted, no farther after such amendment made.
'Such seems to be the. rule in the British courts, (Barnes,
17,)'and we think it reasonable.
The defendants here .will. b6 permi'ted to enter the remittitur, and upon such entry the judgment.will be aftir~med,
without.'costs.in err6r.

This cause came on to be heard'on a transcript of the.re 7
cord from the circuit court of ihe United States for the district of Kentucky, and-w4s argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,. it appearing to this Court that the judgment.
of the said 'circuit court.is for a larger, suntan that claimed
ard-countedI.upon in the" declaration-- in. s~id cause in said.
'courti.the said defendants .in:error .filqd here in'open curt
a remittitur in the.followipg words, to wit:
"Suprem6"Court of the United States of January term,'
in the year of 'our lord eighteen ;hundred and twenty-nine.
Be it remembered,' that.on the trial of this cause bef6re the
V0L.'II.--2 IV

330

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank ot Kentucky vs. Ashley & Ella.3

Supreme Court of the United States on a writ of error to the
circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, on the fourteepth day of February in the year aforesaid, it appeared that one of the sixty-eight bills upon which
theLdeclaration purported to count severally, to wit, a bill
for the amount of fifty dollars, had been omitted in said declaratiop; the declaration mraking out a less sum, and one
debt lass in number, than the writ claimed or the judgment
gave. And. herepon the said John Ashley and John Ella,
'.Junior,,defendants in error, by Daniel S. Caswell their attorney and counsel in this Court, freely here in court remit
to the said president and directors of the Bank of the Comnonwealth of Kentucky, plaintiffs in error s aforesaid in:
this oause, as well the said debt of fifty dollars so omitted
as aforesaid, .the residue of the debt aforesaid, together with
interest- onthe said fifty dollars at the rate of six per centum
.per annum from the -twenty-second day of September in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twenty-five, as also
damages pro tanto. As witness our hands this tourteenth
day of Febru*ary in the year of our lord eighteen hundred
and twenty-nine. John Ashley and John Ella, Junior, by
Daniel J. Caswell, their attorney-and counsel in this Court."
Whereuporit is considered, ordered and adjudged by this
Court; thatthe -judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be; and -the samd -is hereby affirmed without costs,
deducting. from tli6 said judgment of the said circuit court,
the amount so deducted as aforesaid.

