SUPREME COURT.-

THok-s F. TowNSLzy,

PLiNwTrv iN zRROR vs. JOsEPH K. SUN-

RALL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Bills pf exchange, payable at a given'time after date, need not be presented for
acceptance at all; and payment may at once be demanded at their maturity.
[178]
.It is admitted, thlit in respect to foreign bills of exchange, the notarial certificate
of protest is, of itself, sufficient proof of the dishonour of a bill, without any
auxiliary evidence. [179]
Itis not disputed, that by. the general custom of merchants in theUnited States,
bills bf exchange, drawn in one state on another state, are, if disbonoured, pr&-.
tested by a notary; and the production of such protest is the customary document 6f dishonour. '[180]
If a person'undertake to accept a bill, in consideration that an'other will purchase
one already drawn, or to' be thereafter drawn, and as 'an inducement to the
purchaser to take-it; and the bill is purchased upon the credit of such promise
for asufficiefitconsideration; such promise to accept is binding upon the party.
It is an original promise to the'purchaser, not merely a promise for the debt of
another; and having a sufficient consideration to support.it, In reason and justice as well as in law, it ought to bind him. [181]_
If A. says, to B., pay so much money to C. and I will repay it. to. you, it is
an original independent promise; and if the money is paid up6a the faith of
It, it has been 'always deemed' an obligatory contract, even though it be by
parol; because there is an original consideration moving between the immediate parties to the contract. [182]
Damage to the promissee constitutes as good a consideration as benefit to the
promissor. [182]
In cases not ablsolutely closed by authority, this Court har always expressed a
strong inclination not to extend the operation Pf the statute of frauds-so as to
embrace original and distinct promises, made by different persons at the same
time upon the same general consideration. '[1821
It"'can make'no difference' in law, whether the debt far which a bill of exchange is taken is a pre-existing debt, or money then paid for the bill. In
each case there is a substantial credit'given ly The party to the drawer upon
the bill, and the party parts with his piesent rights at the instance of the promissee, whose.promise is substantially a new and independent one, ind nota
mere guarantee of the existing promise of the drawer. Under spch circumstances, there is no substantial distinction, whether the bill be then in,existence,
or be drawfi afterwards. in each case, the object of the promise is to induce
the party to take the bill upon the-credit of the promise. . [182]
If the holder of a bill of.exchange, at the time of taking the bill, knew that the
dyawee had not funds in his hands belonging to the drawer, and took the bill
on the promise of the drawee to accept it, expecting to receive funds from the
drawer'; the promise of the dr'awee to accept the bill, constitutes a valid contract bet*een the parties, notwithstanding the failhre of the drayver to place
funds in his hands. The acceptance of the drawee of a bill, binds himsalthough
it is known to the holder, that he has no funds in his hands. It is sufficient
that the holder trusts to such acceptance., [183]

JANUARY TERM 1829'
tTownsley vs. SumraU.]

THIS suit was originally instituted by Joseph K. Sumrall,
in a state court of Kentucky, and afterwards, on the petition of Thoma§ F. Townsley the defendant below, removed
into the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky, where the same was tried before a jury, and
a verdict rendered for the plaintiff.
The. action was upon-an. alleged verbal promise made by
the defendant, as one of the partners of Townsley.and Co.,
that they would accept a certaiq- draft or drafts, to be drawn
on them at New Orleans by one Richard S. Waters, in favour- of Joseph K. Sunrall; and the -cause of acti6n alleged
was a failure to comply with -the promise. The bill was
drawn and reinitted to New Orleans, and not being paid,
'was'returned uhder protest to Kentucky, and this suit-was,
brought.
On the trial in the circuit court, various -billsof.exceptiobs
were taken by the defendant, all of which are stated in the
opinion of this Court; and in which opinion is also stated, the
points on which -the plaintiff in error sought'to obtain a reversal ,ofthe judgment of the circuit court.
Mr Coxe, for the plaintiff. in ,error, contended:,
1. ThAt-a parol promise to accept a non-existing bill does
not constitute a contract, for the breach of which an action
may be maintained.
" He admitted that the acceptance of an existing bill might
be by parol;,but the-allowance-of such a principle 'of law
had been regretted by judges.- A' written agreement to accept a bill not yet drawn, is valid; but there has been no
decision which affirmed that a parol acceptance of such a-bill.
is binding; and the leaning of court" has-been against-it;
Cited, 2 Wheat. 66., 1 East, 98. 4 East, 57. 5 East,414.
I Atk. 611." 3-MMass. -10.
The general principle of our law is, that a verbal promise
of this kind will not sustain an, action. The provisions of
the statute -of frauds are infringed, by making it otheiwise.
The admission of such a-parol contract will lead to-difficulties and uncertaintieg; and the danger of such a course
is shown in this case, as- nd one of the witnesses, of three
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Townsley *vs.Sumrall.]

4,ho. were examined, -represent the agreement to accept to
the -same extent.
2. The court were requested to instruct the jury, that if
they believed the bill was drawn by Waters topay a partnership debt, "assthted by Waters, they should, find for the defendant.
This was accommodation paper, the benefit of which was
to enure to the. drawer and the ,payee, to, enable them to
pay a-joint debt. No consideration, in fact, passed for it
from, the plaintiff to either the drawer or the dra~wee. He
stands in the same situation he would have been in if it had
never been drawn:
This prayer, and. this view of the case, are put hypotheti,cally to the jury. The facts upon which they are based are
'detailed in the testimony of -Wateis, and the jury was to
judge of his. credit; 'There was therefore enough- to warrant
the*prayer,"and it should have been allowed. So also, he.
contended, the next instruction should not have been refusdd;
as it leaves to the jury the decision upon the testimonyof
Waters.
Upon the question, ivhether, if a bill be drawn in Kentucky, on a person in New Orleans,- the protest is, in itself,
evidence of demand and refusal :- in Nicholas. vs. Webb, 8
Wheaton, 326, it was held, that the protest of a foreign bill
is s'ufficient; but a distinction is takeni between' foreign bills',
and those instruments in Which a protest is not necessary,
and therefore not the official act of the officers. In cases.
of inland bills 'the protest cannot be, read. Chesmer. vs.
Noy6s, 4 Camp. 129. 2 Barn. &-41d. 696.
The supreme court of New York have held such bills.-as
this to be inland bills. Miller vs, Hackley, 5 Johns. 175.
Also cited 2 Tucker's Blackst. 467.. 5 Coweny 363.
Under the English statutes, provision is made to protect
inland -bills; but the same statutes prescribe that the acceptance shall be in writing.
At common law no protest of an inland bill of exchange
was ever made. It was introduced by statute.. By the law
of Louisiana, an inland bill cannot, be protested for nonpayment. unless it has been-accepted in'.writing; and the

JANUARY TERM 1829..
[Townsley vs. Sumrail.]

holder of an inland bill need not protest it. 1Avir gq:s
Crim. Code, p. 55, art. 318; p. 73, art. 487; p. 99, art.
717. The form of protest-is to be conformable to the custom of the place where it is made, p. 100, art. 727.
Although the contract was made in Kentucky, yet it was'
to be executed in Louisiana, and the law of that place must
be the law of the contract. I Gallis. Rep. 371, 372. Robinson vs..Bland, 2 Burr. 1077, 1079. 1 Bl. Rep. 256.
Uiider the French law, which prevails in Louisiana, noacceptance is valid unless it is in writing.
Mr Nicholas, for the defendant in error, stated .that 'the
principal question iswh~ther an agreement to accept a bill
to be 'drawn was binding.
Originally, at common law, a verbal acceptance of a bill
was as good as if it had.beep written; and courts have since
gone further, and have made circumstances equivalent to an
acceptance.
.In Coolidge vs. Payson; 2 Wheaton,*66, this Court decided,
that a verbal acceptance was as good as one which is written; and whatever may be the law'of England, this is now
settled law inthe United States. All: the the cases go uponthe question whether the promise to accept wa$ the inducpSment.to take the bill.
If a verbal acceptance is as valid as one which is in wri-.
ting, where is the authority to show that a parol agreeoientt
to'accept a bill to be drawn is not binding. The objection
to such an acceptance, on the ground of inconvenience,
would prevail equally-against all'parol acceptances.
* A verbal promise for a-good consideration is binding, and
the policy of extending the rul4 to bills to be drawn, to :the
same extent as it operates to bird the verbal acceptor of a
bill drawn, is equal. In K6ntucky, if A. says to B: "let C.
have four thousand dollars in goods, and I will pay the*,
amount ;" .the promise is good. Notwithstanding the stattIte
of.frauds, this is-law in that state.
Before the statute of frauds any 1parol promise was gpod,
even for the conveyance of a freehold;.and until it shall be
shown, that in the statute of fraud8 there is a pr6vision'"

SUPREME COURT.
[Townskey vs. Sumrall.J

against the contract upon which this suit is brought, it will
operate.
The lex loci will sustain this contract. It was made in
Kentucky, and was'to be performed- at New Orleans; and
the remedy for the breach is to be obtained by the laws of
Kentucky. A demand was necessary at New Orleans, but
this did not transfer the contract to that pldce..
The law of Kdntucky requires that a bill-drawn on a person out of the state shall be protested. 2 Littell's Law8, 103,
105. It not only authorizes a. Protest, but upon its being
made, creates an additional liability for damages. Thus,
therefore, the protest is by a statute, by provision, made necessary, and it becomes of course prima facie evidence -of
demand and refusal to pay.. Upon principles frequently recognized, this Court have decided, that the law of Kentuey
upon this matter will be respected and enforced here.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a writ of error to the -circuit court of the district
of Kentucky. *The original action was brought by the defendant in error against the plaintiff in error, as one of the
firm of Thomas F. Townsley & Co., to recover the amount
of a bill of exchange, drawn, at Maysville in Kentucky, on
the 27th of November 1827, bY one Richard S. Waters, on

Messrs Townsley & Co. at -New Orleans, at 120 days after
date for $2000, payable to Sumrall or order, Which had
been dishonobred by ihe drawees.
The declaration contained various counts: some of whidh
alleged an actual acceptance of the bill and non-payment.
thereof at maturity; others, a promise by the drawees to accept and pay the'bill when drawn, if the original- plaintiff
would piqrchase the same from.the drawer. The cause was
tried upon the general issue, and a verdict was f6und for
the original plaintiffjor $2860, upon which he obtained
judgment. A bill of exceptions was taken at the trial, upon
which the questions are presented, which have been argued
at the bar.
The bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff offered in
evidence the bill of exchange and theprotest of the notary

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Townsley vs. Sumrall.]

public at New Orleans, to which evidence the defendant
objected, but the court admitted the testimony.
Evidence was then given, by the testimony of John Sumrall, the plaintiff's brother, to show that in a conversation
between the plaintiff and the defendant relative to some
shipments which Richard S. Waters proposed to make to
the firm of. Thomas F. Townsley & Co. and bills, to
be drawn against them; when the plaintiff said he feared
the bills would not be honoured and paid; Thomas F.
Townsley told the plaintiff, that the firm would accept the
bills of Waters, for $4000, and pay them at maturity. The
plaintiff stated he. wished to pay a debt in Philadelphia with
the bills, and the produce to be shipped by Waters might
not arrive in time to provide for them; to which Twnsley
replied, that if Waters would draw a bill or bills to the
amount not exceeding $4000, such bill or bills should be
accepted and paid, whether the produce arrived or not.
Waters and the plaintiff had been in partnership before the
conversation, but the partnership at the time it took place
had been dissolved. Richard S. Waters testified, that he
had drawn the -bill for. $2000 upon which the suit was
brought, and anothe, for the same amount. That in a
conversation with the plaintiff before the bills were drawn,
the plaintiff wished him to draw for $4000: he said he was
afraid to draw for $4000, and the plaintiff told him, Townsley had said he would pay one draft for $2000, whether the
produce to be shipped arrived in time or not; and he agreed
to draw for $2000, and after some "hesitation he drew the
other bill for $2000; both bills being drawn'in favour of
Sumrall: and it was perfectly understood between them that
he had no funds in the hands of the drawees, and that thin
bills were to be sent to Philadelphia tp discharge debts due
by the plaintiff and himself as partners, to Toland &Rockhill
anu to others : and the plaintiff agreed to help him to meet
one of the bills, if he should be unable to pay both. He
gave the plaintiff, the bills for $4000 of partnership goods
taken by him at the dissolution of the partnership. That.the
partnership accounts were not settled ; and he received no
other consideration for the bills than the receipt of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Townsley vs. Sumrall:]

4000 of partnership goods. He furnished Thomas F.
Townsley & Co. with' produce 'enough t6 pay one of
the drafts, and they paid one of them. Townsley & Co. had
no funds or effects in their hands belonging to him. On the
dissolution of the partnership, he understood the plaintiff
was to wind up the concern and pay the debts.
The defendant then offered in evidence the record of a
suit ofToland & Rockhill against Sumrall & Waters; which
was objected to, and the objection sustained by the court.
The deposition of Langhorne was then read, stating that
that in 1819, he heard Waters say, his credit was better
abroad than at home, for Townsley had promised to accept
for him for $4000 for Sumrall, whether his producegot down
in time or not.
Evidence was also given to show, that-shortly after the
bills of exchange were drawn, Waters became totally insolvent.
The deposition of Samuel D. -Lucas was read on the part
of the plaintiff. He stated that he heard Townsley assure
the plaintiff that the drafts of. Waters to the amount of
$4000, which Waters. proposed- to let the plaintiff have, to
be drawn by Waters on-the house of Thomas F. Townsley
& Co. of New Orleans, at 120 days after date, -should
be paid. The plaintiff consented to take the drafts with
considerable reluctance) for fear of accident; upon which
Townsley. assured him the drafts' should 'be honoured,
whether the produce to be shipped by Waters arrived or
not.' Upon the faith of Townsley's accepting for Waters,
the bills were received, and the plaintiff advanced large
quantities of merchandise and other articles.
The.plaintiff prayed-the following instruction to the jury,.
which was given, and to which the defendant excepted: That
if they shall .believe from-the evidence in this case that the
defendant Townsley promised for himself and company, to
Sumrall, that they would honour, accept, or pay bills drawn
on them by Waters to the amount of $4000; and that Sumrall
did immediately-thereafter, or within a reasonable time, upon
the credit of said promise, purchase bills drawn by Waters,
accordingly, to the amount of $4000, and that the bill in the

J'ANUARY TERM. '1829.
LTownsley vs. Stimrall.]

declaratign mentioned, is- one of the bills so purchased; then
that the'plaintiff upon the evidence, is entitled to recover;
whether the purchase was made before or after the-drawing
of said bills, or whether they were drawn for a pre-existing"
debt, or drawn'and sold for any other good-and valuable consideration.
f The defendant then asked the court to instruct the jury':
1. That if they believe from the evidence,that the defendant by
parol stated that he would-accept.a bill or bills to the amount
of $4000, before the bills were drawn, and before the defendant had received the amount or any par't of it, under
the expectation and belief that the'drawer Richard S:'Waters would put funds into his hands to take up the bills at
maturity.; and that the plaintiff knew that the'said Richard
had'no funds, but made the promise in anticipation of such
funds, and that no funds to take up the'bill were placed in
'the hands of the defendants or either of them, to take up the
bill, nor had the drawer any funds in the hands of the drawee
to draw upon; that they should find for the defendant; provided the jury further find that the plaintiff and R. S. Waters
the drawer, were partners in trade, and as such were indebted
on their partnership account to Toland & Rockhill ; and that
the bill was drawn by the said Waters in favour of the plaintiff, with a view to raise funds, or to 'be passed in direct pay"ment of a joint debt due as aforesaid; aiid that the said bill,
with this object and view, and in pursuance of an agreement
between drawer a~nd plaintiff, was passed 'to the credit of the
drawer and plaiptiff to Toland & Roe-khill.
2. That if they believe the said bill was drawn to pay a
partnership debt as stated by R. S. Waters, they ought tofind for the defendants.
3. Thatifthey believe the bill was drawn by Watersgin favour
of Sumrall, -Mbe assigned-tS-Toland & Rockhill, in payment
of a partnership debt due by Waters & .Sumrall to Toland
& Rockhill, an d that said bill was thus assigned to Toland &
Rockhill; and if they also believe that said Waters & Sumrall have not settled their partnership; that then they should
find for the defendant.
4. That if they believe from the evidence, that the drawer,
VOL. II.--X

SUPREME COURT.
[Townsleyow. Sumrall.]

Richard S. Waters, was informed by Townsley, before he
drew the bills offered in evidence, that he might draw for
$4000, and that he would accept and take up $2000, whether he, the said Waters, got on in time to take it up or not;
aid that he would accept and take up the other bill if funds
were placed or forwarded to the house in New Orleans to
take it up with, and that when the said Richard S. .Waters
drew the bills, that he hesitatted for fear he could not get to
New Orleans in time with the means to take up both bills,
until it was agreed between Sumrall and him, that they
would risk both bills; and if Waters was not able to take
up both at maturity, that as to the onaa Townsley would
not accept, he, Sumrall, would assist the said Waters with
ffunds to take it up. with 'at naturity; and that Sumrall did,
at the time of driwing the bills as aforesaid, state.to Waters that Townsley promised .him that. he would accept
one of the bills unconditionally, and the other if in ftnds; and
that Townsley & Co. did accept, ancf pay at maturity one
of the bills, and had not funds of Waters or of the plaintiff
to pay the. other 'at maturity ; that they ought to find for the
defendant.
5. That a demand of the amount of said bill at New Orleans
was necessary to enable the plaintiff to maintain the suit,
and that the protest of tle notary is not evidence of such demand.,
6. That a.parol promise to pay a non-existing bill, since the
statute of frauds, is not obligatory and binding.
To all which opinions of the, court-I. In permitting plaintin to ruad said-protest; 2. In refusing defendant leave to
read said record; '3. In giving the instructions asked by
plaintiff; 4. In refusing the instructions asked by defendant
-the defendant excepted.
'The first question that arises is upon the admissibility of
the protest of the notary public at-New Orleans, as proof of
the dishonour ;f the bill. The protest -is for non-payment
for want of funds; and it does not appear that there had
been any prior-protest for'non-acceptance. Bills of exchange
payable at a given time after date, need not be presented

JANUARY 'TERM 1829.
[Townsley vs. Sumrall.]

for acceptance at all; and paypent inay at once be derfianded at their maturity.' The objection now made does
not tdirn upon this point, but upon the point; that the pre-.
sent is not a foreigni but an inland bill bf exchange; being
drawn in Kentucky, and payable at New Orleans in, Louisiana; and that a notarial protest is not in such cases evidence
of a demand and refusal of payment. We do not .think it
necessary in this case to decide, whether a bill drawy in one
state upon persons reiident in another state, within the union,
is to be deemed a foieign, or an inland bill of exchange.
Foreign it certainly is not, if by such .appellation is understood a bill drawn upon a country under a totally distinct
and independent soveieign'ty and allegiance.. Inland it is
not, if by that appellation. is understood a bill drawn in one
part of a territory, on another-part, exclusively under the
same municipal laws, and exclusively governed by the same
sovereign power. It-would seem to constitute an intermediate case. Different tribunals in the United States, of great
respectability, have, howev.er, differed upon the question ;
and it may all be left.for a final decision, until it congtitutes
the very turning point of the judgment(a).
It is admitted, that in. respect to foreign bills of exchange
the notarial certificate of protest is of its'elf suffidient proof
of the dishonour of- a bill without any auxiliary evidence.
It has been long adopted into the jurisprudence of the common law, upon the ground. that such protests are required
by the custom of merchants; and being founded in public
convenience, they -ought, every where, to be allowed as evidence of the facts ivhich they purport to state. . The negotiability of such bills, and the facility as-well as certainty of
the proof of dishonour, Would be materially affected by a
different course ;- a foreign merch'ant might .otnerwise be
compelled to rely on mere parol proof of presepitmeni and
dishonour,:and be subjected to many chances of delay, and
(a) 8 Kent's Comm. 63..
In the case of Buckner vs. Finlay, post, this quei'tion is settled ; anq a bill df
exchange, drawn in one state of the United States, on a person residing in andther
state, is held to'be a foreign bill, so far asto mak2 the protest'of non.acceptance
and non-pynient 9vidence of the same..

SUPREME COURT.
[Townsley vs. SumraiJ

sometimes to absoluteloss, from the.want'of sufficienit-means
to obtain the necessary and satisfactory proofs. -The rule,
therefore, being founded in public conveiience, has been
.ratified -by courts of law as a binding usage. Bt where
partie' reside in the same kingdom or country,.there is not
the same-necbssity for giving entire verity-and credit to the
nptarial] protest. - The parties may produce the witnesses
upon -the stand,. or compel them .to give their depositions.
And accordingly, even in cases of fQreign bills, drawn upon,
and protested in another country, if the protest has been
made in'-the country. where the suit is brought; courts of
justice sitting under the comm~on law, require that.the-notary himself ghould be produced if w'thin the Teach of process,. and hi' certificate is- not per se evidence. This was
so held by lord Elldnborough, in Chesmer vs. Noyes,
2 Campbell's R. 129.
-It is Dot -disputerd, that by the general custqm of merchants in-the United States, bills of exchange dr'awn in one
state on another state, -are, if dishonoured, .protested by a
notary; and the production of suchprotest is the customary
document of the dishonour. It is a. practice founded in
general convenience, and has been adopted for the same
reasons which apply to foreign bills in -the strictest sense.
The distance between some of these states,, and the difficulty of obtaining other evidence, is far greater than between
Englandand France, or between the continental nations of
Europe, where the general rule prevails.' We think .upoh
this ground alone, the-reason for admitting foreign. protests
would apply to cases like the present, and Tfrnish a just
analogy to govern it. There is as little doubt, that vuch is
the custom in relation to bills drawn on New Orleans, where
-the- jurisprudence "of the'civil law mainly prevails, -and
under which acts of this sort are generally verified by notaries. The act of Kentucky of 1798, ch. 57, 2 Littell'3
Statutes, 101, also recognizes the propriety, if not the indispensable necessity of a protest, not only in the cases of
foreign bills generally, but of all bills drawn on any persons
out'of the state, or within any other of the United States;
providing "that the same being returned back unpaid with

JANUARY ITRM 1829.

181

[Townsley vs. Sumrall.]

a legal protest, the'drawer and all others concerned shall pay,
the contents, &c. with legal interest from tbe-time the said
bill or bills were protested, the charges of protest, and-ten
per cent. advance for the damage, &c." The contract for
the acceptance and honour of the present bill, was, if made
at all, made in Kentucky and was to be governed by its
laws; even supposing that the question-whether it amounted
to an acceptance, or not, was to be governed' by the lagi -of
Louisiana, -where the contract was to-be executed. So that
ifn
either view of the matter; upon, the general custom of
merchants, or the lex loci contractus; we think the protest
was rightly admitted in evidence. Wherever a protest- isrequired to fix the title 'of the parties; or by the -custom of
merchants is used to establish a presentment or dishonour
of.a bill; it is competent evidence between the parties, who
cofitract with 'reference to the presentment and dishonour. of'
such bill. And there.is no doubt, that it was material for
this purpose under some of the counts in the declaration.
The next objection is to the rejection of the record of the.
action of Toland. & Rockhill vs. Sumrall & Waters. That
was a suit between other parties, and falls within the general rule ofres infer alios acta; and on that account was in our
judgment rightly rejected.
The remaining objections arise from the instruction given
'by the court to the jury, on the prayer of the plaintiff, and
to the refusal of the court to give the instructions prayed
for by the defendant.
The instruction given by the court upon the :plaintiff's
prayer, is nof understood to involve any other difficulty than,
that it states, that the plaintiff would-be entitled to iecover,
cc "vhetberthe purchase was made before or after drawing of
said bills, or whether they weie drawn for a pre-ekisting
debt, or drawn and' sold for any other good and-valuable
consideration."- We cannot perceive any sound legal-objection to this -instruction. If a person undertake, in- consideration that another will purchase a bill already drawn,
or to be thereafter drawn, and as an-inducement to thd purchase to accept it, and-the bill is drawn'and purchased uponthe credit of such promise, for a sufficient consideration;

-SUPREME COURT.
(Townsley vs. Sumrall.]

such promise -to accept is binding upon the party. It is an
original promise to the purchaser, not merely a promise for
the debt of another; and-having a sufficient consideration to
support it, in reason and justice, as'well as in law, it ought
to bind him. It is of no consequence that the direct consideration moves to a third person, as in this case to tei
drawer of the bill ; for it moves from the purchaser; and is
his inducement for taking the bill. He pays his money upon
the faith of it, and is entitled to claim a fulfilment.of it., It
is not a case falling within the objects or the mischiefs of the
statute of frauds. If -A. sayk. to B. pay so much money to!
C. and I will repayr it to .you, it is an original independent
promise; and if the money is paid upon the faith of it, it has
:been always deemed an obligatory contrret, even .though it
be by parol ; because there is an origihal consideration
moving between'. the immediate patties to the contract.
Damage to the promissee, constitutes as good a consideration
as benefit to the promissor. In cases not abs.olitely .losed
by authority, this court has already expressed a strong incliriation not to eitend the operation.of the statute of frauds,
so as to emb'race- original and, distinct promises, made by
different persons at the same time upon the-same general
consideration(a). Then; again, as to the consideration, it
can make no difference in' law, whether the debt for which
the bill is taken is a 'pre-existing debt, or money then paid
for the bill. In each case there is a substantial 'creditf given
by the party to the drawer, upon the bill, and .the party, pdrts"
with his present rights at the instance of the promissee ;
whose promise is substantially a fnew and independent one,
and not a'mere guarantee of the existing, promise of the
drawer. '.Under such circumstances, there is no substantial
distinction, whether the bill be then in existence, or be
dfawn afterwards.. In each case the object of the promise
is to in duce the. party to take the' bill upon the credit of
the promise; and if he does so. take it, it binds the. promissor. The question, whether a parol promise to accept-a
non-.existing bifl, amounts to an 'acceptance of the bill when
. I (a) D'Wolf vs. Rabaud, 1 P eters, 476.

JANUARY TERM Jl829.
[Townsley vs. SumraU.]

drawn, is quite. a different question,.and does not arise in
this -case. If the promise'to accept were binding, the plaintiff would be entitled torecover, althbugh-it' should not be.
deemed a. virtual- acceptince; and the point "Whethet-it was
aik acceptande or not, does not appear to' have been mal.
in the court below.
The instructions prayed for on behalf of, the. defeadant
.and refused by the" court, present several'objections to the
plaintiff's right 'of recoi6ery.
The first is, that the plaintiff.is not:entitled to recoyer,!iir
.he knew.that the defendant at the t-ime of taking the bill,
had iot-funds -of the drawer in 'his hands, and if the defendant's promise was under the'expectation' of. receiviog funds,
and he did not, in fact, receiie them. at the maturity'6f.'the
bill. We are of opinion that thi fobe*6tion-is uniifounded in
point of law.. If the drawee'have no funds in..his hands, and
the .fact iskhown to. the other party, and yet ihe inducerfment"
to*.take the bill- is the promise of te-draweq to acceptit:it
constitutes avalid confract between the parties; if there-isa
purchase df"the bill Upon the credit of such promise.' The
acceptance of the drawee of a bill binds -him, although it is
known to the holder that he has no funds in his- hands. It
is'sufficient -that the holder trusts to such'acceptanbe.
. Another objection is, 'tfat the- object of taking.the"bill.
was to pay the. partnership debt of the ',plaintiff and -the
drawer (who had been partners. in trade) and 'it was passed'
in*pursuance of'an agreement between them, to a creditor'of
the firm,. who' subsequently returned, it for the dishonou'.In what respect'this c'hanges the rights of the plaintiff as'to
the defendant',,it is somewhat diffcult to percelve. There
was.evidence in the case, to sl.ow that the plaintiff was upoh
thp dissolution to discharge the partnership debts*; and also
that upon the faith of this very promise of the defendant, he
allowed partnership property to tih'e full amount of-the-bill,
to pass' into the drawer's hands for his own excrusive. use.
But independently of this evidence, the bill jtself was not a
-partnership bill, though -the *drawer and -the plai.ntiff had
been partners. On the contrary, it was to be drawn -on the
sole account and credit -of the draw'er, and was to be ac-'

SUPREME COURT;
[Townsley vs. Sumrafl.]

cepted ,on that. account; and if the 'plaintiff took thie bill as
the sble bill of the drawer, on the credit of the defendant's.
promise, to -accept it, .f&r a valuable consideration, the use
to which he should apply it, whether in payment of joint
debts- orotherwise, was nothing to the defendant. It in no
respect changed the'hature of his own undertaking. The
receivibg of such a billf, with th6 intent to apply the same
-tothe payment of-a partnership debt, might materially affect
the plaintiff; and.w see that by the subsequent insolvency
of tho drawer, and his parting with the partnership effects,
it did seriously affect his remedy in- respect to his partner.
The question is not put, 'whether, if no loss had been sustained in any way, the plaintiff would have been entitled to
recover against the defendant., By beconing an indorser
upon the bill, he incurred 'a iesponsibility to those to whom
lhe indorsed it, very different from that which he incurred"
to them as creditors of the partnership. 'This alone was a
.sufficient consideration to support the promise to accept. It
should be added, that the application of the bill to the payment of debts constituted no part of the ground of the promise of the defendant.
Another objection'is, that the partnership accounts remain
unsettled, and therefore the plaintiff'ought not to recover.
Surely this alone is not sufficient to- deprive the -plaintiff of
his right of action. . It is perfectly consistent with this state
of facls, that the plaintiff should be a creditor of the firm to
an- extent far beyond the amount of $4000. There is evidence in'the record from which the jury might fairly presume, that 'stch was the case. But the circumstunce, that
the--accounts of the. partnership were 'unsettled, is -ut as
of itself sufifient to defeat the plaintiff's recovery; which it
cannot'be admitted tb- be, if in any possible case, consiste ntly.with thdt factj he 'might have sustained, any loss by
taking the bill upon the faith of the deferidant's promise.
Another objection, aising out of the fourth igstruction
prayed' for by the defendam, which is very complicated and
embarrassing in its presentation; isthe effect of-the agreement therein supposed betweeilihe'plaintiff and the drawer
to risk both' the 'bills; and -if the defefidaat shbuld not ac-

JANUARY TERM 1829;
[Towmley v..- Sunral.J]

cept both, then that the plaintiff would assi'stthe drawer
with funds to take up the non-accepted bill at maturity.- This
agredment wasnot in the slightest degree prejudicial to any
rights of the defendant. Itsobject was to provide funds in
the event of a fion-flfilhent of the promise of the defendant
to accept either of the' bills. It did-not waive or vary the
defendant's Contract;- and, at most, 'could be considered
only'as a collateral agreement of the parties, forming additibnal private inducements for the drawing of the. bill.
The same instrtiction includes another objection, which
is, that, if from the evidence the jury should believethat the
plaintyff did,.at the:'1ime of drawing the, bills state' to :the
drawer, that defendant promised him.ihat he' would accept
one of'the bills unconditionally, and the other, if in funds-,
and that the drawee did not accept'and p 'at maturity one
of the bills, and had *not funds of the drawer, or of the
plaintiff to pay the other at maturity,;: that they ought to
find for the defendant. This part of the instruction pro.ceeds altogether upon the ground that the mere statement
of the plaintiff to the drawer, that the promise-of the defendant was conditional, was a.bar to the 'ecovery.. It does
not affect to state, that if in point of fact.the promise was
conditional, such would and ought to be the result; but,
that it was sufficient that the plaintiff so told the defendant,
whether the fact. were so or not. In our judgment the rights
of the plaintiff are to be. decided by ti fact, whether' the
promime was conditional or bot-; and notby the niere assertion of the plaintiff. His assertion might properly be weighed by the jury hs part of the evidence, to control or explain
it; but their verdict ought to. be governed by their belief
-ofthe facts, and not their belief that a paiticufar assertion
.was made.
These are all -the objections, which have.been urged at the
bar; and we are of opinion, that the court was right in rejecting the instructions prayed for by the defendant:
The judgment is therefore to be affirmed with costs,
VOL. 1I.-Y

