442

SUPREME COURT.

SOLO NOX SOUTEWICH, SPENCER. STAFFORD, AND JOHN VAN NEss
GATrns, PLAINTIs ixN EROR vs. TRE POSTMASTER GENERAL
6P THE UNITED STATES.
A district courtof the United States;performing the appropriate duty of a district
court, is not-sitting as a circuit court, because it possesses the powers of a
c-rcudt court also.

WRIT of error to the circuit court of the southern dis-

trict of New York.
This suit was commenced, originally, by thb postmaster
general, in the district court of the northern district of New
York, in May 1822, against Solomon Southwick an1 his
co-defendants, who were, his sureties; torecover six thousand
dollars, the penalty of a bond given by them for the faithful
discharge of his duties as postmaster of the city of Albany.
JInT1824; judgment was rendered in favour of the postmaster
general, -and a writ of error was thereippon brought, and the
record certified to the circuit court of the southern district
of New York. The judges of the circuit court divided in
opinion upon several points which arose in the case, and the
same were certified to this Court; ivhere they were considered and decided at January term 1827. The decision of
this Court having been certified to the cirquit court, the
judgment of the district court was affirmed by the circuit,
in May term 1828.
Upon.this judgment this writ of error was prosecuted, and

now Mr. Wirt, the attorney general of the United States,,
moved to dismiss the same.
He contended that the phrase in the act of congress,
passed April 29, 1812, 1 Sess. 12 Congress,ch. 71, "sitting
as a circuit court," is c6nfined.to such causes as are exclusively of circuit-court jurisdiction; - and does not embrace
causes of which district courts as suth, and circuit.courts
as. such, have a .cncurrent jurisdiction.
He argued, that this*is the correct construction of the -act
of congress, and is consistent with the judicial system; be-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

443

[Southfvck and others vs. The Postmaster General.]

cause, in no casehas a writ. of error been given to reverse
thie judgment of a circuit court, in a cause brought up from:
a district court; provided sugh cause was within the ordinary.
jurisdiction of a district court. In such cases, the judgment
6f the circuit court has been uniformly'final and conclugiv.e.
If the act in question has introduced a different rule, in ieference to causes decided in the northern district court of
New York, it is an animaly in our judicial legislation.
The district courts 'have jurisdiction of post office bonds.
12 Wleaton, 136. Dox et al vs. The. Postmaster General,
1 Peters, 318.
He submitted that the' act of i826 does iiot reach cases
within the..ordinary jurisdiction of the district courts. If it
be otherwise, it must be. shown that, in fact, the district.
court sat as a circuit court; and this cannot be establishIed
in the case'before the Court.
He inquired if the judgment of the district court in this
supreme
cause, could have been removed directly to the
court, under the act of 1826'? Certainly not,
The act creating the northern disirict court, was designed
to extend to that district the benefit of a circuit court jurisdiction; not tQ confer circuit court powers, concurrent with
-those which it possessed in its- appropriate character. :It
would have been idle and u'seless to'have intended ptherwise,
and therefore cannot be presumed.
Mr Taylor,, fof the plaintiffs in eiror, in opposition to the
motion, urged, that the appropriate, original jurisdiction of
the district court, in its general features, relates to admiralty.
and maritime causes, to seizures under the reve~pe laws, to
petty offences, and to civil suits when the United States is
-plaintiff, and- the sum in coptroversy does not exceed five
hundred 'dollars. It is the" inferior court- of the 'United
States.
The appropriate original civil juripdiction of the -circuit
court, extends to all civil §uits'where .the United States is
plaintiff, and the matter in controversy exceeds five hundred
dollars; or when an alien is a party; or the suit is between a

.444

SUPREME COUR-T,
[Southwick and-others t,8. The Pos'tmaster General.]

citizen of the state where the action isbrought, and a citizen of another state.
The district' court may, ihdeed, exercise- jurisdiction of
civil causes in behalf of the United States, where the matter
in controversy exceeds five ht ndred dollars4 but in all such
cases the juriodiction of the d&trlct-and circuit courts is concurxent. It is to be presumed that-the court sits in its su-"
perior character, whenever the matter- in controversy will
authorise this to be done.
I This prestimption is strengthened by the consideration,
that the parties have a right in the one, case to have the proceedings reversed, and the errors which may happen corrected by this Court; which is of common right; and which
is denied to them upon the pirinciples claimed for the- postmaster general.
The propriety of a liberal construc.ion of the act of congross, for the purposes of allowing a ,;evi6w of the district
court fir the tiorthern district, will .be apparent, when the
hibtory of thatcourt'for several years subsequent to 1811,
shall be considered
In 18i2,.the judke of the New York district court became
incapable of discharging the duties of his office. Hence the
act of April 29, 1812, which authorised the appointment of
an additional judge of the district, court, for, the district of
New York. The act of April 9, 1814, 2 Session of 13th
Congress, ch. 108, divided the original,New York district
into two districts, -and assigned a district judge to each.
It provides "that the district court in the §aid northern
district of New York, shall,'besidea the ordinaryjurisdiction
of a district couri, have jurisdiction of all causes except of
appeals and writs 'of error, cdgnizable by law in a circuit
court ;"'and writs of-error shall liefrom de isions thereon, to
the circuit court of the souther.n district o New York, in the
same manner as from other district coun , to- -their respective circuit courts.
Writs of error would lie equally in all cases, whether the
court was- exercising its ordiniry -r ektraordinary jurisdiction,In the northern district, until -the act of the 3d of March

JANUARY TERM- 1829.

445-

[Southwick and others vs. The Postmaster General.]

1815, there 'Was but one attorney general, and the marshal
was appointed and commissioned for both courts, until the
act ofMarch 3d, 1825.
Mr Taylor considered'that "the act of the 3d of March
1817,'revived and.continued the suits and proceedings which
had been discontinued in the northern district of New York,
and that it authorised the judges of the 'southern district to
hold the courts.therein, either singly .or jointly, with thd
judge of the northern district.
Under this act the same difficulties arose' in conducting
the business of the northern district, which had been for•merly experienced in the southern district. To remedy these
evils, at the first sessioh of'the 15th dongress, the act of
April 3d, 1818 was passed. That act required the judge 6f
the northern district to hold-his courts, unless he gave timely.
notice of his inability to the. judge of.the southern district;
in which case the latter was required to act as his substitute.
Suits and proceedings were again, revived; actions commenped in the former district of New' York were transferied;
and actions thereafter to be commenced were limited to the
district where they might or did arise; and the original jurisdiction of the circuit court of 'the southern district .was
-confined to actions arising there.
No further legislation took place relative to these edurts
uitil the 92d of May f826, when the act-was passed allow-'
.ing appeals and writs of error to 'this Court; from decisions
of the northern district 'court; "'when exercising the power
of a'circuit court:; ' ' and from-decisions thereafter to be made
by the circuit court for the'southern district, in causes re"moved to the circuit court froin the district court of the
northern district 'sitting as a circuit court."
At the time the'.former writ of error was brought to remove ihis. cause from the northern district court to the circuit court of the southern' district, it was not legal to prosecute. it to this Court. Similar causes may now be removed,
and here reviewed. This,' he. argued, furnished a reason
.for the second clause of'the act of 1826;
These acts afford an aniwer to the inquiry 'whether the
northern 'district court, in deciding this cause;" was sitting'

SUPREME COURT.
[Southwick and others vs. The Postmaster General.]

as a:circuit court.", The expression in the act of 1814, is
causes cognizable by law in a circuit cofirt,'! and in that
of May"1826, it is, " wheziexercising the powers of a circuit court."
Was not this -cause cognizable by law in a circuit -court 9
Would'not such a-court in entertaining jurisdiction over it,
be. in the exercise of - its appropriate powers . If s6, the
district court was " sitting as a circuit court.",
The parties were proper for the circuit coart; the natdre
of the action'was one involving a large sum, and questions
were presented of deep 'interest, both as to their responsibility as suretie's, and the character of the principal in the
bond. The allegations m-ade by the defendants were supported by the finding of the jury, and, they went/to show
that the sureties ,were exonerated, and in judgm6nt of law
were discharged-from the -bond. The doubts and difficulties of the case were *anfested by-the division ,of opinion
of the judges of the southern circuit court. These- matters
are sufficient to give the district court of the northern dis-"
irict jurisdiction as 9 6ircuit. court. -The act of 1826'allows
writs-of, error from the district court o41y ." when exeri'sing the .powers of a circuit c6urt,"'. and this is done on
"the- presumption that these powers were exercised on-subjects proper for them.
Hefurther contended, that the act of 1826 was a reme- dial statute, and-was entitled'to be viewed most favourably
to'iaties, to whom it was intended to give relief.- If its
provisions do not embrace this case, it will stand almost
wholly inoperative on the statute book.
Had the' circuit court, when the,chse ivas first before it,
decided that the facts f6und by the jury. discharged the
parties to the bond, '.the United7 States would, by their law
"officer, have 'considered it altogether reasonable, that the
opinion should have been reviewed by this Court. The
plaintiffs in error claim no more 'than the application of the
same just principle to 'their case.

-

Mr: Chief Justice
Cbourt.

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

JANUARY TERM 1829.

447

[Southwick and . others vs. The Postmaster General.]

This is a motion to dismiss a writ of error to ajudgment
rendered in the court of the United States, for. the seventh
"circuit and southern district of New York in-favour of the
post-master general. The .foundation of the motion is, that
this Court has no jurisdiction of the cause.
The original judgment was rendered in the court for the
northern district of New York, lon which congress had conferred jurisdiction as- a circuit court. alsb. That judgment
was removed into the circuit court sitting in the southern
district by writ of error, and was affirmed in that court.In May 1826, congress enacted "-that appeals a'd writs
,of error shall lie from decisions in the district, court for the
northern district of New York, when exercising the powers
of'a circuit' court and from decisions which may be-made
by the circuit court forl the southern district of said state, in
causes heretofore removed to said circuit-court from thie said
district court sitting as a circuit court, to the Supreme Court
of the United States, in the same manner as from 'circuit
courts."
The doubt respecting the jurisdiction of the Court is produced by this act.
'By the judicial act the district courts have cognizance
coi'current with the circuit cQurt of all cases where the.
United States sue. By the act of- the 3d of March '815,Vol. IV. p. 855, it is enacted that the'district courts of the
United States shall have cognizance, concurrent, &c. of all
suits at common'law where the United States or any officer
thereof under the ithority of any act of congress, shall sue,.
.&c. This act gave the district court jurisdiction of all suits
brought by the postmaster general. It has been construed
by this Court to give the circuit courts cognizance of the
same causes.
The district courts which exercise. circuit court jurisdiction, do not distinguish -in .their proceedings -whether they
sit as a circuit or a district court. That is determined-by
the subject matter of their judgments. Their records are
all kept as-the records of a district court. If the court for
the northern district of New York .sat as a circuit court
when the briginal judgment was rendered against the plain-

448

SUPREME COURT.
-[Southwiekand others vs. The Postmaster General]

tiff in error, this Court can take jurisdiction of the judgment
affirming it, which was rendered in th'e. circuit court; if the
o iginal judgment was rendered b a district court, no writ
of error lies to the judgment of affirmance pronounced in
the circuit court.
had the court for the northern district of New York possessed no circuit court powers, it could sAil have taken cognizance of this cause. By conferring on it the powers of a
circuit court, congress has added nothing to its jurisdiction
in this:case. In taking c~gnizance of it, a district court has
exercised the ordinary jurisdiction assigned to that class of
courts. "No extraordinary powers were brought into opera-'
tion. We cannot say that a district court, performing the
appropriate duty of a district court, is sitting as a circuit
court, because it possesses the powers of a circuit court also.
The writ of error must be dismissed, this Court having no
jurisdiction in the case.
This cause came-on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from-the, circuit court of the United St'ates for the
southern district of New York, and on the motion of the attorney general made in this cause at a prior day of this*term,
to wit, February 7th, 1829, to dismiss this causie for want of
jurisdiction, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this Court,
thatthe writ of error in .this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

