SUPREME COURT.

Wmwix

CAtrP.LL's ExE.cuTolS,APPELX.ANTs V8. PRATT, FA.cCX
AN OTHEIRS, APPELLEES.

The Court refused to reversethe decree- of the circuit court of.the county of
Washington, although an error-had been committeal in proceeding under the
mandate from this Court; 'as no benefit woulti result to the appellant from a
reversal.

APPEAL from the circuit court of Washington county.
The matters in. controversy in this case arose out of proceedings in the circuit court, under the miandate of this Court
issued at February term 1815, in the case of Pratt and others
vs. Campbell and others; reported 9 Cranch, 456.
Jn. the circuit court,tthe app'llant.s in this case filed their
bill hllegingthat they had been injured by the proceedings
under., the mandate, 9 Cran1&,'58,-and that the court gave a
deqree against their. claims, as set forth in the bill; Fr'om
this decree they appealed.
The counsel' for-the appellants contended, that .by the
decree. pdssed bythe circuit court in the original cause, the
appellants had sustained injury in the following particulars.
1. Of the thirty-six:squares no.rtgaged to Law, thirty-two
were attached and purehased by the appellant; and four
squares therefore remained affected *onlyby Law's mortgage.
Campbell was p.ermitte.d.to redeem his thirty-two, by paying their -prop- tion of the 'whole of Law's .debt thereby
making the four remaining squares bear also their proportion
of Law's debte
AXdmiiting this-to be right, it should have been decreed,
upon the same principl.; that if the Olarties did not redeem,
the sale should be made soas to produce the -same restltthat is, the fdur. squares- not. purchased by the app6llant
should have been sold first, and his thirty-two squares should
only have been sold to..make up the deficiency of.Law's
debt,
The court below put on these four squares. only the sum
of $2806.29, (much less thantheir proportion) and decreed

.JAN UA¥o TERM 1829.

355"

[Campbell's Executors os. Pratt and other]

theni to be sold last; tlereby saving ihem to Pratt and.
others, if the other'-squares .prodi'ed exough to. pay Law,
and thus giving them a preference over the appellant, denied
by this court in the 'original cause.
2. Of the eighteen squares mortgaged to Duncansori, thirteen only were attached and purchased-by the appellantconsequently five remained ;'and these five the-appellant contends,, on, the same principle, should- have beeri sold -first,.
and the appellant's thirteen only resorted to, t6 imake go d
the deficiency under that mortgage.
It was contended that these errors can be corrected, by
this Court's ordering that such of the said squares as have- not'
been sold) shall be sold'for the benefit of the ,appellant-and
that the money received for such a- have been sold, shall be
decreed to him, or. the -sales rescinded.
3.. The c6urt below also erred.in requiring the appellant
to 'edeein from both mbrtgages, and-.decreeing that in case
hb did. not redeem from both, the squares-should be sold to
satisfy both.
The, case was submitted to the'Courf on-the writtep Rruments of counsel. -Mr SRwann' and Mr"Key;'for the. appoi]ants. Mr Jones for -the -appellees.
Mr Justice JOHIs6N deliv eiethe opinion of the Miurt.
This cause has its origin in the gret case -of 1raftt, Fran-.
cis et al., which appeared' in this Court some yeats ago with
the formidable bulk o -'nine hundred foliok4 -The rights-of
the parties hlad become exceedingly perplexed in the progress of large and multifarious transactions, originating in
the speculaions of Morris, Nicholson & Greenle'af, in the
land of this city. Thomas. Law held a mortgage of thirtysix. squares from. Morris, Nicholson &-Greenleaf, and fourteen of the same squares were mortgaged by 'thema to one
Duneanson. Campbell a'eqfired'th equity of redemption-of
Morris, Nicholson &. Greenleaf,,in - thii ty-two of the ihirtysix squares, the four others-not being inchded, in.Duneanson's mortgage. The equity 'of redemption' in, these four
sqqares has passed by assighment'to 'pre .ent appeblees, in
light of Morris, Nicholson & Greenleaf. - Thirteen of the

35'6

SUPREM

ICOURT.

[Campbel's Executors ts.. Pratt and other.]

squares included in Duncanson's mortgage were among
the thirty-two in which, Campbell had possessed himself of
Morris, Nicholson.& Greeneaf's eqtiity of redemption; and
his constant efforts have been to reduce the sum due.on Law's
mortgage., to put aside that of Dunicanson, as a satisfied incuimbrancie, and to obtain a precedence to Morris, Nicholson
& Greenleafs-equity, in the four remaining squares.
This Court:established "he principles on which the sum
to be raised td'satisfy Law's mortgage should be asicertained;
decided against any precedence in Campbell, as a joint holder"
of the equity of redemption'; and sustaindd 'Duncanson's
mortgage, in favour of a.prior equity whidh Greenleaf held
in it. So that in effect, the cause wen't down to the circuit
court for -the s'ole purpose of having a sale of the 'squarhs
effected; 'the proceeds applied, first to pay off La'w's
mortgage,. then .Greenleaf s interest iii Duncanson's, mortgage, and the balance only, if any, to go to the equity of
redemhption.- Substantially, this has, not. been "one; for we
now find the two squares,'which form the subject of the present controversy, in the hands of Pratt et a]. the appellees,
which could only be in the right of Morris,:Nicholson '&
Greenleaf's equity of redemption; whereas 'Duncanson's
mortgage; to a larg4 amount, remains unsatisfied; and Campbell, with eight-ninths 6fthe equiiy of redemption, in him, has
received nothing.
If then the appellees should be confirmed in the possession of those squares, it.is obvious that Campbell would have
much.to complain of, since his equity of redemption in the
.-other thirty-tw6 squares had been, in eftct, applied to the
extinction of a common incumbrance. This-would serve
him at equity in-eight-ninths of these'two squares.
But this is a mere-delusion,' since the'holders of the equity
of redemption could rightfully receive. nothing until the
,mortgages were both paid off. This was pertainly the case
with -Morris, Nicholson', & Greenleaf; and thiis Court has
been constantly inculcating that Campbell --stood precisely
in'their shoes, and was entitled to no higher equity;
.All the obscurity in which the case is involved, and which
has seemed so long to keep b6th parties from approaching

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Campbell's Executors vs. Pratt and others.]

it, arises-from an error committed below, probably by the
commissioner, in selling the doubly ificumbered squares before those singly incumbered were disposed of; the consequence of which is, that these squares, which were not in
Duncanson'i mortgage, remain unsold, because the sale of
the thirty-four satisfied Law's mortgage; whereas, by beginning with the sale of those singly incumbered, two squares
(supposing the value to be the sarge) would haye remained,
to be applied to the payment. of Greenleaf's interest in
Duncanson's mortgage.
But there is nothing in this for .ampbell to complain of;
since afqer applying-the proceeds of thesesquares to the payment ofthe'second mortgage, it still remain unsatisfied t
a great, amount, and leaves Campbell nothing to receive in
right
his equity of redemption.
.Theofdecree
of th court below, as'.against this appellant,
will be affirmed.

.This cause came on to be heard 6n the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of.Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington; and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereofi
it is considered' ordered, and-decreed by this Court, that the
'decree of the said circuit court in this .cause be; and'the
bame is hereby affirnied with costs.

